We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperGainesville Place residents sound off
More than 250 incidents reported to police over nine 
months,  pg. 10
Rawlings Hall Horror Bathroom
Students experience cold-like symptoms from mold,  pg. 5First since #15
Emory Jones has first 200/100 game for 
a Florida quarterback since Tim Tebow. 
Find this story on pg. 15
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 6
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Prince Merid Tafesse of Ethiopia, 47, draws a live sketch of Haile Selassie, a former Ethiopian 
emperor, with pastels at the A. Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural Center on Saturday, Sept. 25, 2021. 
His exhibition is on display inside of the historic home-turned-museum. Find this story on pg. 8
FORMER HEAD COACH CAM 
NEWBAUER LED FLORIDA 
FROM 2017-2021
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
Editor’s Note: This story 
contains mentions of abuse and 
attempted suicide.
Tears swelled in Dana Joubert’s 
eyes when she saw her daughter, 
Mikayla Hayes, at a 2017 basketball 
invitational during Thanksgiving.
It was the first time Joubert had 
seen her daughter since she start -
ed playing basketball at UF. She 
anticipated minor changes typical 
in many college freshmen: a little 
weight gain, a new hairstyle and an 
updated fashion sense.
Instead, Hayes’ face was dot -
ted with acne. She had put on an 
amount of weight that looked un -
usual on her skinnier frame. She 
was almost unrecognizable.
Every time Hayes returned to 
their Minnesota home, Joubert 
noticed she appeared less and less 
like herself. Around Christmas, she 
told her mother that her head coach 
hated her and the other freshmen 
players. 
As a former basketball coach, 
Joubert said it’s normal for the 
coach to pick on freshmen. But as a 
Black woman, she said Hayes knew 
it wasn’t just tough love. 
At the end of the season, the 
coaching staff called Hayes into a 
room with a table that hogged most 
of the space, Joubert said. All the 
coaches, strength and condition -
ing staff, athletic training staff and 
video coordinators crammed across 
where Hayes sat. 
The head coach said if she chose 
to stay at UF, Hayes wouldn’t play, 
Joubert said. He slid a small sheet 
of paper across the table and made 
her sign it. 
Hayes trudged out, called her 
mother and choked up as she told 
her what happened. She lost her 
scholarship. 
“You know how you hear about 
people in abusive relationships and 
how they’re broken and they’re 
almost a shell,” Joubert said. “He 
broke my child. She was truly bro -
ken, and he beat her down. And 
she didn’t want me to say anything 
because she thought it would get 
worse.”
Hayes isn’t the only former 
Gator who endured a toxic envi -
ronment in the women’s basket -
ball program. The head coach is accused of making racist remarks, 
throwing basketballs at players dur -
ing practices and verbally abusing 
the team, assistant coaches and 
trainers. 
That coach was Cameron New -
bauer. He resigned July 16, citing 
personal reasons. His resignation 
didn’t address any abuse allega -
tions.
Steve McClain, a University Ath -
letic Association spokesperson, said 
the UAA had no comment on New -
bauer’s abuse allegations. He point -
ed The Alligator toward Athletic 
Director Scott Stricklin’s statement 
following the coach’s resignation.
“We wish all the best to Cam 
and Sarah and their family,” Strick -
lin said in a release. “We appreciate 
their efforts during their time here, 
and we know Cam worked incredi -
bly hard for the Gators and brought 
a high level of energy to the job.”
The Alligator attempted to 
contact Newbauer several times 
through phone calls, text messages 
and voicemails. He never respond -
ed. 
Newbauer had signed a contract 
extension in June that would’ve 
left him as head coach until 2025. 
His contract detailed that he earned 
$500,000 annually. After his resig -
nation, the Gators appointed asso -
ciate head coach Kelly Rae Finley as 
interim head coach. 
Stricklin hired the former Bel -
mont University head coach in 
March 2017. Newbauer replaced 
Amanda Butler, who held the posi -
tion from 2007-2017 with a 190-137 
record, .581 winning percentage 
and four NCAA Tournament ap -
pearances.
Newbauer’s Gators, however, 
went 46-71 for a .393 winning per -
centage, the worst winning percent -
age for any head coach in Gators 
history during their first four sea -
sons. The team also never made it 
to the NCAA Tournament once in 
his four seasons. 
When Newbauer first came to 
UF, Sydney Morang and her team -
mates called a former Belmont play -
er to ask about their new coach. The 
former player shared something far 
from a glowing review. 
But Morang, then a sophomore, 
and the rest of the team decided 
to give the coach a chance. They 
didn’t want to judge him based on 
what one person said. 
And then, they saw it for them -
selves. 
Practices under Newbauer 
evolved into a toxic environment 
as Florida struggled to win games. Former Florida women’s basketball players 
detail abuse under Coach Newbauer
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: This story contains 
depictions of gun violence
The moment Alicia Thompkins 
picked up the phone, she knew 
something was wrong.
Mom, please come get me.  
Her 15-year-old daughter hid in 
the bathroom at a birthday party, 
terrified of the sounds that filled 
the American Legion Post. Her 
brother wasn’t with her. 
He was close. The bullets in the 
nearby party room were closer.Hurry up, mom. I’m scared.
At 13, Thompkins’ son knows 
the breeze of a bullet near his 
cheek, the sound of lead as it pierc -
es flesh and the grief that follows 
after witnessing a friend get shot.
Where are you?
The Gainesville American Le -
gion shooting June 24 left five 
teenagers shot and one dead. The 
incident was just one of the 53 re -
ported gun violence cases resulting 
in injury or death this year, as of 
Sept. 17. Gun violence ranges from 
homicides to suicides, assaults to 
robberies.
But the shooting wasn’t an iso -lated event. Gainesville has seen 
a 26% increase in gun-related 
crimes that resulted in injury or 
death since 2019, according to 
a Gainesville Police Department 
spreadsheet. 
The city reported 53 cases in 
2020, a number it already reached 
with three months left in 2021. Re -
ported gun violence cases result -
ing in injury or death from 2017 to 
2019 fluctuated between 23 and 42 
— but never reached numbers as 
high as today.  
Despite the pandemic spike, 
GPD Chief Tony Jones has tried ‘We’re going to lose a generation:’ Pandem -
ic gun violence spike leaves many in anguish
SEE GUN VIOLENCE,  PAGE 6 SEE NEWBAUER,  PAGE 7Gainesville has seen a 26% increase in gun-related 
crimes that resulted in injury or death since 2019T oday’s Weather
STUDENTS CAN VOTE 
SEPT. 28 AND 29 AT ONE OF 
SEVEN POLLING LOCATIONS 
BETWEEN 8:30 A.M. 
AND 8:30 P.M.
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
Three parties are set to face 
off in the Fall 2021 election: 
Change Party, Gator Party and 
Communist Party, with 35, 50 
and 11 candidates on the ballot 
respectively. 
Students can vote Sept. 28 and 
29 at one of seven polling locations 
between 8:30 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. 
Candidates are elected in Spring 
according to their residence. 
Each party’s platform differs 
from one another. Here is a 
summary of each group’s goals 
this year.
Change Party
Change Party’s platform is 
focused on two pillars: community 
and justice.
It consists of 14 issues split into 
four categories: equal opportunity, 
a return on investment, inclusion 
and freedom of speech.
Change candidates plan to 
advocate for equal opportunity 
by funding several programs, 
such as building ramps at the 
O’Connell Center and Marston 
Library as well as implementing 
unisex bathrooms on campus. 
The party also wants to put more 
funding into UF’s Counselling and 
Wellness program.
The party also plans to rebuild 
the Gator Connect portal, which 
currently does not provide direct 
access to SG officers’ contacts and 
dissuades involvement, according 
to the platform. 
As part of the freedom of 
speech section, its platform states 
it will try to extend the Title 
IX statute of limitations in the 
Student Handbook from one to 
four years so “survivors of sexual 
assault are not silenced.” Change 
carried on this goal from their 
Spring platform when they also 
campaigned to extend the statute. 
The party also promised to 
appoint student officers without 
the use of bribery, extortion or 
quid-pro-quo, and make online 
voting for elections available on 
ONE.UF. Change did not comment 
on how bribery, extortion or 
quid-pro-quo is currently used 
by student officers from other 
parties.
Change Party candidates 
also plan on working with 
Transportation and Parking 
Services to provide more parking 
spots and lower Student Nighttime 
Auxiliary Patrol wait times. 
Additionally, Change wants to 
increase job fairs along with 
opportunities for first-generation 
and international students. 
Change Party did not provide 
further comment on its platform outside of what was posted online.
Gator Party
Gator Party has remained the 
majority in Senate since Spring 
2020. Its platform focuses on 
enhancing and streamlining the 
student experience in several 
ways.
Gator Party separated its 
platform into four sections: 
student health and well- being, 
on-campus experience, Gator-aid 
and Gator accessibility.
The party plans on adding 
links to ONE.UF for mental 
health resources, putting up mask 
dispensers around campus and 
expanding workout equipment by 
partnering with RecSports. 
This added workout equipment 
includes pickleball courts at the 
Southwest Recreation Center and 
punching bags in the Student 
Recreation and Fitness Center. 
“We will be partnering with 
Rec Sports to bring exciting new 
opportunities for students to 
maintain healthy lifestyles,” Gator 
Party campaign manager Noah 
Fineberg wrote. 
To enhance the on-campus 
student experience, Gator plans 
to add Gator 1 cards to mobile 
wallets, showcase students’ art 
pieces on campus and install 
power outlets at popular outdoor 
study spaces. 
To help disadvantaged 
students, Gator Party plans to 
implement a program allowing 
students to donate school supplies 
for other students to reuse. They 
also want to permit students to 
donate their unused flex bucks to 
other students in need and provide 
study service scholarships. 
“For many of our students, 
study services are an essential 
part of their learning experience,” 
Fineberg wrote. “Gator Party 
wants to increase academic equity 
for all of our students by providing 
as many opportunities as possible 
for students to engage with these 
services.”
Gator Party did not elaborate 
on what specific study services it 
would provide. 
To solve parking issues on 
campus, Gator Party plans to 
advocate for temporary parking 
spots in lots on campus during 
periods of construction, and 
re-establish parking ticket 
forgiveness.
Gator Party currently holds the 
majority in the Senate with more 
than 60 senators.  
“Gator Party is the party 
students have trusted and will 
continue to trust to lead our 
campus,” Fineberg wrote.
Communist Party
Communist Party, also 
known as Socialist Party, aims 
to amplify marginalized voices 
and participate in activist causes. 
It participated last Fall as the 
Progressive Party. Its platform included eight 
points on ways it wants to change 
campus.
Communist Party candidates 
plan to establish two Senate 
committees: one consisting of SG-
salaried employees responsible 
for deciding their work conditions 
and wages, and a second 
committee to protect leftist and 
LGBTQ+ students from the state 
government.
Student workers would vote 
to appoint the first committee’s 
members, Communist Party 
president Alfredo Ortiz said. The 
second committee would consist 
of students who identify as 
members of those communities 
and would be appointed in a 
special election.
The committee to protect 
leftist and LGBTQ+ people 
would be formed to rectify the 
damage committed by the Johns 
Committee, a committee that 
operated at UF from 1958-1965. 
The group’s goal was to find and 
purge left-leaning students and 
gay people from the university.
“Senators have a duty to 
respond to the needs of the 
student body,” Ortiz wrote in an 
email. “Our ideas are supported 
by a growing number of students 
who are currently not represented 
in the Senate.”
Communist Party also plans 
to host seminars on Critical 
Race Theory with SG community 
organizations like Students Taking 
Action Against Racism. Critical 
Race Theory has been banned in 
Florida public school classrooms 
since June 10.
“It is incredibly important to 
challenge the ban on Critical Race 
Theory and provide access to its 
teachings to those willing to use 
it to create solutions for issues 
regarding race so that we may 
continue moving towards a just 
society,” Ortiz wrote.
The Communist Party wants 
to put the University Police 
Department’s budget in the hands 
of the students. By doing this, 
UPD is held accountable by the 
people it’s meant to protect, said 
Ortiz said. 
“Therefore, our intention is not 
to abolish the university police, 
but rather reinvent it so that it is 
more responsive to the students,” 
he wrote.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 6
 Party platforms for the Fall SG election
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.orgMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
A dozen apartment complexes in 
Gainesville are located less than a five-
minute drive from campus. Rent near 
campus is steep as multiple apartments 
charge more than $1000 per month.
The proximity to campus entices 
students who may not have a car, want to 
walk to campus or are enthralled by “luxury 
student living.” However, many residents 
claim the luxury they were promised may 
not be as advertised. Despite the chronic 
issues, new apartments continue to be 
built surrounding UF’s campus.
Three new apartments are being 
built in the same area: Stadium House, 
Evolve and an addition to The Standard 
called Legacy. Evolve, located at 931 W 
University Ave., declined to comment on 
how the complex would promote luxury 
student living.
Stadium House will be located in 
Midtown and managed by Asset Living.  
“[We] pride ourselves with years in 
the industry, currently as the largest 
third-party operator. With that comes 
experience and a care for each and every 
resident,” Jessica Mancuso, Director of 
New Development Marketing for Asset 
Living, wrote in an email.
The Standard did not respond to several 
requests for comment.
Hub Third Ave
One May morning Chelsea Mata was 
deciding whether to wear jeans or leggings 
when her closet door at Hub Third Ave 
collapsed on her foot. 
She was home alone when she passed 
out.
“I literally felt like I had gotten 
stabbed,” Mata, a 20-year-old UF public 
relations junior, said. “And then I passed 
out from the pain for two hours ...”
She woke up bleeding. The floor was 
covered in blood. Her foot throbbed. She 
noticed a 2 inch wide, and about 1 inch 
deep gash.
The next day, Mata complained 
to management, not only about the 
collapsing door, but also about her washer 
and dryer, which had not worked for most 
of her time spent living there.
“Our washing machine has worked a 
solid week out of the entire year which 
normally we’re used to,” Mata wrote in 
her email to management. “But now my 
sheets are bloody because of my foot 
and I can’t even do laundry in my own 
apartment.” 
Hub on Campus, a chain of student 
housing in 11 states, has two buildings 
within one mile of UF campus: Hub on 
University and Hub Third Ave. These 
complexes have a 4.2 and 3.8 star rating 
on Google Reviews, respectively. They 
both have a one star rating on Yelp.
Rent for Hub Third Ave. ranges from 
$660 to $1,710 a month. Mata’s layout 
costs $660.
The property manager did not respond 
to her several emails or phone calls, Mata said. Instead, she received empty promises 
for help and a reminder for overdue rent.
When her roommates got involved, 
one of them received an email from the 
property manager stating that they could 
set up a time to talk, Mata said. But before 
they could, a new property manager was 
hired.
As a result of her injury, Mata had 
accrued a $2,500 medical bill and a 
tote bag containing Hub on Campus, 
the national chain, merchandise as an 
apology. 
The collapsing closet door was the 
largest problem she had, but far from her 
only one while living there. 
Mata’s room had no windows in her 
room, a complaint other residents shared. 
“My room was the one that was 
basically just like a hole,” she said.
Mata also lacked a full wall separating 
her room from her roommate’s room. 
Where a normal wall stretches from floor 
to ceiling, hers left an approximately 
2 foot gap from the top of her closet to 
the ceiling. Even though she had signed 
a lease to share a room, she found the 
layout odd.
Her room and bathroom had no vent 
for AC or ventilation, so she relied on 
the vent in her roommate’s room and the 
ceiling gap for air circulation, Mata said. 
Though in her first two weeks living there, 
the AC didn’t work at all. 
Hub Third Ave did not respond for a 
comment as of Sept. 26. 
Social28
Zach Tyson cleaned every inch in 
his apartment before he left for a trip to 
Atlanta.
He lived in a four bedroom unit in the 
North Building of Social28 with a friend 
from high school and two empty rooms. 
When he came back from winter break, the 
apartment was a mess. Dishes overflowed 
in the sink and week-old crumbs scattered 
the floor. His roommate hadn’t cleaned 
anything. 
“I was like, ‘Dude, can’t you clean up 
after yourself?’ And he looked at me, and 
then just walked to his room. I was like 
‘What the hell?,’” Tyson, a 19-year-old 
UF computer science sophomore said. “I 
think I went to bed. And when I woke up, 
every single piece of dish and silverware 
was just outside my door and I couldn’t 
open my door. He was like ‘You asked me 
to clean so I cleaned.’”
Tyson reported calling and emailing a 
total of six times to try and get a roommate 
switch. 
He reported his roommate would lash 
out — even get physical — when asked 
to clean up. He reached out in January 
to switch units and did not receive a 
response until May. They never followed 
up with any official process to switch.
Social28 doesn’t boast a “luxury” living 
experience like The Standard or Stadium 
House. But its rent hovers around the 
same price. 
Rent begins at $829 a month for a four 
bedroom and two bathroom apartment. The most expensive apartment caps at 
$1,049 a month for two bedrooms and one 
bathroom. 
Mario Bennetti, a UF alumnus who 
graduated in May 2021, lived in Social28 
from 2019-2020. He and his roommate 
lived in a two bedroom terrace apartment 
in the North Building of Social28, a $969 
per month unit. 
Bennetti describes construction 
workers banging on the border of his 
sliding glass door for two weeks straight 
between the hours of 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. 
Although the apartment let him know that 
they would be working on the balconies, 
they didn’t mention the time. 
“We are cognizant of the school 
schedule and our management team has 
even gone as far to postpone during finals 
week and in some cases has requested 
the team begin their work later in the 
afternoon during major study weeks prior 
to exams,” wrote Janet Stierwalt, regional 
manager for CA Ventures, in an email.
Construction workers wanted to 
remove the sliding glass door, Bennetti 
said. They also wanted to remove his 
roommate’s door.
Once they removed the door, however, 
they didn’t replace it for approximately 
5-7 days. 
Tarps were placed over the gap where 
the door once was, and the construction 
workers went as far as rearranging his 
personal belongings to the point where his 
roommate’s room became uninhabitable, 
Bennetti said. This left him sleeping in the 
living room for the next few days.
Stierwalt did not comment on Bennetti’s 
roommate’s moved belongings.
Social28 has a 3.3 star rating, with 238 
reviews on Google and a 1.5 star rating 
on Yelp with 35 reviews. While many 
residents have left glowing reviews of 
their living experiences, many tenants 
claimed to have seen a different, less 
functional side of Social28.
About 44 Google reviews complained 
about the construction of Social28, 
ranging from issues about the stream of 
construction projects making noise at 
early hours of the morning or claiming 
that the building itself is “on the verge of 
collapsing.”
“We are currently in the process 
of finishing up some preventative 
maintenance on the balconies and flat 
surface areas,” Stierwalt wrote. 
Lea Koppermann, who gave the 
apartment one star on Google reviews, 
claimed Social28 was possibly the worst 
place to live in Gainesville. She wrote 
walls had also been leaking for more 
than six months, exacerbated by Tropical 
Storm Elsa that swept through Gainesville 
in July.
“These past few days I have been up all 
hours of the night switching out buckets 
... to make sure the place doesn’t flood,” 
she wrote in her Google review two 
months ago. 
Stierwalt said any issues stemming 
from high winds and rains are being addressed through construction on the 
balconies. 
On top of everything, Kopperman wrote 
that management had asked her to move 
out two weeks earlier so they could fix it 
for the next tenants. 
“Absolute disgrace,” Koppermann 
wrote. 
Kopperman did not respond for 
comment as of Sept. 26.
The Standard
When Emily Nannini, a resident at The 
Standard, went to use the pool with her 
friends at the end of August she noticed 
algae growing in it.
“This is one of the main amenities 
that you advertise [but] you can’t keep it 
clean?” she said.
In her 2-year tenure at The Standard, 
Nannini, a 21-year-old biology senior, 
has dealt with the elevators regularly 
breaking, her garbage disposal breaking, 
overflowing trash shuts on move-in days 
and delayed maintenance responses. 
When she first moved in her sophomore 
year, she noticed a rusty nail sticking out 
of her carpet. She put in a maintenance 
request for it and they didn’t show up 
until her mother called, about six months 
later. 
“If any [maintenance issue] happens, 
even if it’s not an emergency, you have to 
put it down as an emergency or they just 
like won’t come for months,” she said.
She is now going on her third year 
living there. 
“It’s just been easier to stay put instead 
of packing up everything and going 
through the moving process,” she said.
The Standard claims luxury student 
living, reflected by plenty of positive 
Google reviews, where it currently enjoys 
a 4.2 rating. But many do not have a 
positive experience, evident by its 1.5 star 
rating on Yelp.
Yelp reviews from Sept. 12 and 14 state 
the building did not have WiFi or AC. One 
review stated they had no WiFi for as long 
as a month. It is unclear if this is still the 
case.
“I have to leave my apartment every 
time I need to do more than write an email 
and it’s really annoying,” Yelp user Emma 
W. wrote in a review Sept. 12. “Especially 
when they don’t allow you to have your 
own routers and have no answer as to 
when the issue will be fixed.”
Nannini pays around $900 a month to 
live at The Standard. 
When Lauren Vonhof, a UF student, 
moved into The Standard this year, she 
claimed in a Google review a month ago 
that when she moved into The Standard 
she began getting itchy giant welts all over 
her feet and ankles. The culprit? Fleas. 
She said she doesn’t know where the 
fleas came from, but they infested her 
carpet. Soon, her sheets and clothes were 
contaminated as well. Along with that, 
her review states that she also found 
cockroaches. 
“I do not pay well over 1,000 dollars a 
month for this misery,” she wrote. 
Vonhof and The Standard did not 
respond for comment Sept. 26.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgFleas, leaks and gashes: The off-campus luxury student living experience
Student apartments with high rent crowd the 
perimeter of UF but offer headaches for some tenantsMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
STUDENTS EXPERIENCE 
COLD-LIKE SYMPTOMS FROM 
POOR AIR QUALITY
By Max T aylor
Alligator Staff Writer
Maria Valdez worried she had 
COVID-19 when she first started 
coughing. With a negative result, she 
thought it was a common cold.
But two weeks ago, the 18-year-
old UF microbiology freshman found 
black mold in her AC unit.
Multiple students in Rawlings Hall, 
including Valdez, have complained 
about cold-like symptoms over the 
past month. She herself experienced 
coughing, clogged sinuses and a sore 
throat, and took a month to recover.
Rawlings Hall is a traditional 
on-campus dorm that opened 
in 1958. Renovations in the late 
1980s included window-unit air 
conditioners, which are different 
from central AC units used by most 
modern dorms.
On Valdez’s floor, some of the 
older window units started growing 
mold, creating poor air quality and 
ultimately causing sickness, she 
said. Even small-scale exposure had 
results; Valdez’s friend visited for a 
few hours and said he left feeling 
sick.
“I thought I had COVID but no 
one else around me was getting 
sick,” Nduka Mbadugha, an 18-year-
old UF finance freshman, said. 
Mbadugha, who has cold-induced 
asthma, felt weak and had trouble 
breathing while playing basketball 
days later. He believes Rawlings’ poor air quality is to blame.
RAs instruct students who 
live in dorms to set their AC units 
permanently at the coldest setting, 
otherwise mold creeps in. It is not 
just a Rawlings problem — almost 
every residence hall has this rule, 
Juliana Talamo, a 23-year-old UF 
psychology junior, said.
Talamo experienced the same 
mold problems in 2019 when she 
lived in Mallory Hall. After turning 
her AC warmer than the coldest 
setting, her room started growing 
mold everywhere from plastic 
containers to her shoes.
“[My shoes] grew brown spots on 
them, “and I remember I would try 
to clean them but it wouldn’t come 
off because it [was] inside the shoe,” 
Talamo said. 
Talamo bought a dehumidifier to 
remedy the issue and soon realized 
that humidity levels were at 68%, 
which is above the Environmental 
Protection Agencies’ recommended 
range. Her dehumidifier collected so 
much water that she had to empty it 
twice a day.
Now living in an off-campus 
apartment, Talamo noticed improved 
humidity levels, and empties her 
dehumidifier a couple of times per 
week.
Sara Tanner, UF’s director of the 
Division of Student Affairs, described 
the issue as statewide, common for 
areas with rain, humidity and high 
temperatures. She said students are 
partially responsible for keeping their 
rooms mold-free.
“Protecting against mold is a 
shared responsibility,” Tanner said. 
“To maintain ideal function of our systems, setting the AC on high 
allows for the compressor to run 
longer and remove more humidity.”
Tanner also said dorm residents 
should keep windows closed 
and latched to help the AC stay 
consistent, even during changes 
in weather. Any issues should be 
reported to maintenance staff and 
normally are addressed before the 
end of the next day.
When Valdez reported her case 
to maintenance, they replaced her 
AC unit within the hour. Even after it 
was replaced, she spent around $100 
on a dehumidifier.
Even students who did not 
directly experience mold had 
concerns. Avery Flint, an 18-year-
old UF animal science freshman, 
dreaded telling her parents about the 
situation.
“When I first told my parents 
about it, they were worried because 
obviously you can get sick if there is 
mold, but I mean we keep it cold to 
try and prevent that,” Flint said.
Mold, though seemingly 
pervasive, is not the only issue 
students have with Rawlings. What 
residents sometimes refer to as 
the ‘horror bathroom’ went viral 
on TikTok after Tabi Higgins, an 
18-year-old UF digital television and 
film production freshman, posted the 
TikTok video. 
In the TikTok, the bathroom is 
covered in dirt and rust. A hole in the 
wall sits above a corroded bathtub, 
complete with a rusted sink.
“My first instinct was to take 
pictures inside the bathroom,” 
Higgins said. “I was mostly surprised 
that it was left unlocked. Apparently, that was an accident though, because 
after my TikTok gained attention, 
they locked the bathroom.”
The bathroom remains 
inaccessible, behind a locked door 
on the second floor of the girls’ 
communal bathroom in Rawlings 
Hall.
According to Tanner, rooms 
like the Rawlings bathroom are 
designated offline spaces, since 
redesigned to accommodate new 
plumbing.
Higgins, like most other Rawlings 
residents, has mold growing in her 
windows from the constant water 
dripping out of the window AC unit.
“It’s kinda hard to miss — there’s just green stuff everywhere,” Higgins 
said. “I think it does affect the air 
quality and because of that I bought 
an air purifier.”
To resolve any issues, Tanner says 
residents should alert maintenance 
as soon as possible.
“UF Housing has a robust and 
expert maintenance and facilities 
team as well as a service request 
program,” Tanner said. 
For any residence hall room or 
common area that needs service, 
students can submit an iService 
request for laundry, pest control, 
building services, maintenance or 
furniture issues. Residents can also 
request emergency maintenance 
through the form.
@MTaylor_Journ
mtaylor@alligator.org
COMMISSIONERS AND CITY EXPERTS 
DISCUSS UPDATES TO THE PROPOSED 
SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
A city initiative could push Gainesville one 
step closer toward achieving its zero waste 
and climate change goals.
The City of Gainesville Zero Waste Sub -
committee, a leg of the city commission, ad -
dressed the city’s zero waste goal and updates 
to its solid waste ordinance at a meeting Aug. 
31. The initiative follows the principle of elim -
inating all discharges to land, water or air that 
are a threat to planetary, human, animal or 
plant health.
The city commissioners discussed food 
waste diversion, recycling and reusing, gar -
bage collection, special event waste and sin -
gle-use plastics following a year of subcom -
mittee work.
In 2018, the city commission passed its 
goal to divert 90% of city waste by 2040, sus -
tainability manager Michael Heimbach, said.
Alachua County ranked No. 27 for recy -
cling out of the 67 Florida counties in 2019. 
The county added more than 252,000 tons of 
solid waste to landfills, about the equivalent 
to the fan weight of 42 full Ben Hill Griffin Sta -
diums.
Meanwhile, the county recycled about 
33,000 tons less than it dumped into landfills, 
according to the Florida Department of Envi -
ronmental Protection.
The city aims to make recycling as conve -
nient as garbage with a goal for a food waste 
diversion program by 2024 for multifamily residences. To achieve accessible recycling, 
the city would require property owners to pro -
vide adequate recycling services and indoor 
recycling and food waste containers, Heim -
bach said. 
As the ordinances and meetings have 
moved forward, the private and nonprofit sec -
tors have reached out to work with the city, 
Heimbach said.
Styrofoam containers on city property and 
outdoor balloon releases could be among the 
items prohibited if the ordinance reaches ap -
proval in the full committee. The proposal 
would require businesses to provide recycling 
for single-use plastic bags and styrofoam con -
tainers, he said.
Restaurants, grocery stores and other orga -
nizations that generate at least one cubic yard 
of food waste per week would have to develop 
a food diversion program, Heimbach said.
“We’ll make the city of Gainesville cutting 
edge for the state of Florida when it comes to 
handling food waste and organics,” Heimbach 
said.
The program would have to follow the 
Food Recovery Hierarchy set by the U.S. Envi -
ronmental Protection Agency, Heimbach said, 
which prioritizes actions that prevent and di -
vert wasted food. Using a six-tiered pyramid, 
the EPA’s most preferred method is reducing 
surplus food generated to prevent food waste 
in the first place. 
The next step is to feed hungry people by 
donating extra food to food banks, soup kitch -
ens and shelters. Then, organizations should 
divert food scraps to feeding animals. Beyond 
this, industrial uses can produce biofuels from 
food waste. If these methods fail, the EPA rec -
ommends composting.
Landfills and incineration are the last re -sort for disposal. The city proposal could man -
date all relevant businesses to compost by the 
start of 2025, moving beyond food waste to 
include items like paper towels, according to 
ordinance updates. 
Grocery stores would be mandated to fol -
low the Food Recovery Hierarchy at the start 
of 2023, City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-
Santos said. The stores would be banned from 
destroying any unsold food waste still fit for 
human consumption and required to set up a 
charity partnership for food donations.
About 30% of food from U.S. grocery 
stores, retailers and consumers is trashed, ac -
cording to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
Publix ranked last among the country’s 10 big -
gest grocery chains on food waste reduction 
efforts, failing to be transparent about food 
waste data, according to a report by the Center 
for Biological Diversity.
Amanda Waddle, Zero Waste Gainesville 
co-chair, said she hopes the ordinance will in -
clude more about directing food businesses to 
divert edible food.
“Feeding hungry people is the number one 
thing to do with edible food,” Waddle said.
Waddle suggested the name be broadened 
to Universal Zero Waste Ordinance to prop -
erly reflect its components and the message 
portrayed to the community. She emphasized 
the importance of reuse and suggested it even 
have its own ordinance, focusing especially on 
furniture discarded on curbsides during apart -
ment moving.
“We want durable goods to not go to the 
landfill but stay in the local reuse economy,” 
said Waddle, director of zero waste at The Re -
purpose Project.
Although grocery stores would be required 
to follow the food waste hierarchy, Nina Bhat -tacharyya, Zero Waste Gainesville co-chair, 
asked the ordinance to expand the require -
ment to other outlets with sellable food, such 
as bakeries.
“Other operations that aren’t considered 
necessarily grocery stores have edible food 
that should make their way to people who 
need it,” Bhattacharyya said, although she 
feels the ordinance is mostly wide-reaching.
Solid waste in landfills is one of the great -
est contributors to the creation of methane — 
one of the most prominent greenhouse gases, 
Hayes-Santos said.
Landfill gas forms from the decomposi -
tion of organic material in landfills. The gas 
is roughly equal parts methane and carbon 
dioxide.
Methane is 28 to 36 times more effective 
than carbon dioxide at trapping heat in the 
atmosphere over the period of a century, ac -
cording to the International Panel on Climate 
Change.
Municipal solid waste landfills are the 
third-largest source of human-related methane 
emissions in the U.S., accounting for about 
15% of these emissions in 2019. The methane 
emissions were equivalent to the greenhouse 
gas emissions from more than 21 million pas -
senger vehicles driven for a year, according to 
the EPA.
“I’m excited about this ordinance,” Hayes-
Santos said. “This will not only help reduce 
the amount of waste we’re creating, but also 
help address our climate change goals.”
The staff will bring an updated ordinance 
back to the committee later this month.
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgRawlings Hall: Mold-related sickness and viral ‘horror bathroom’
Gainesville tackles climate change and zero waste goal through green policy pursuitPhoto courtesy of Tabi Higgins
On the second floor of Rawlings Hall, a bathroom with a corroded tub 
and sink was discovered by Tabi Higgins, an 18-year-old UF digital 
television and film production freshman. Higgins posted a video of 
the bathroom, along with Rawlings’ “pasta ceilings” and a dead-end 
staircase, in a TikTok that later went viral.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
to address gun violence in the city 
through his prevention, interven -
tion and suppression initiative. His 
plan, One Community, includes 
more community engagement and 
an anonymous gun buyback pro -
gram with gift certificates as an 
incentive. It also reminds residents 
to avoid leaving guns in cars and 
doors unlocked.
“We sat down with neighbors … 
and we wanted to hear what their 
thoughts were in regards to crime 
in Gainesville and particularly gun 
violence,” Jones said. “Every group 
that we listened to all were asking 
for an end or a reduction in the 
amount of violence.”
GPD is recruiting a group of resi -
dents to review the plan’s progress 
and find the root causes for gun 
violence in the area, Jones said. He 
hopes the committee will be estab -
lished sometime in October. 
“We, as a community, under -
stand that this is not just a police 
problem,” he said. “This is a com -
munity problem. That’s why we 
named [the effort] One Commu -
nity.”
The department, Jones said, has 
received fewer calls of shots fired 
as of Sept. 17. Despite what looks 
like a drop, gun violence trauma re -
mains. 
“Any person that dies as a result 
of gun violence rather than natu -
ral causes … is a tragedy within 
any community,” Jones said. “We, 
therefore, want to make sure that 
they have the right counseling ser -
vices that would be available for 
them because you don’t want them 
to carry this trauma around unad -
dressed.” 
When Thompkins picked up her 
children from the American Legion 
Post, she noticed trauma’s effects 
firsthand. 
They trudged to their rooms, but 
their lights never turned off. 
That morning, she noticed her 
son’s eyes were bright red. She 
found her daughter in tears. 
“I knew that he didn’t sleep at 
all,” she said. “My daughter said everytime she closed her eyes 
she could see [the victim] on the 
ground.”
The trauma extended to Thomp -
kins, too. 
Since the incident, she has be -
come overprotective of her children. 
She drops them off at the bus stop, 
picks them up from school when 
she can and sits in the parking 
lot whenever they attend football 
games.
She used to drop them off and let 
them have a good time. Now, her 
fearful tone whenever she speaks to 
them is a constant reminder of that 
June day. 
I need to be here. When this 
game is over, I need you to get in 
the car.
“They can’t even hang out and 
be kids and talk with their friends 
because I’m afraid something is go -
ing to happen,” she said.
Thompkins’ children each deal 
with the shooting differently. Her 
daughter has breakdowns often. 
Her son asks a lot of questions.
“He feels that it wasn’t [the vic -
tim’s] time, and he was too young,” 
Thompkins said. “I would say he is 
doing a little bit better. He just has 
those days where he’s kind of like 
my daughter but just not as emo -
tional.”
Thompkins, too, is no stranger 
to loss.
When she was 13, she lost her 
mother to AIDS. In 2016, she lost a 
cousin to gun violence. She never 
wanted to go to therapy and wor -
ried her children wouldn’t want to 
either.
“When my kids lost their friend, 
they wanted counseling,” she said. 
“They didn’t ask no questions. They 
didn’t ask what it was. They didn’t 
ask what they were going to be do -
ing. All they knew was that they 
didn’t like the way they felt.”
If there was something positive 
to come out of this tragedy, it was 
that her children’s courage inspired 
her to start therapy this year.
Mental health services could 
curb gun violence incidents, said 
Tiffany Jenson, a UF criminology 
professor. She wishes more 
people would seek therapy and other treatments.
“Unfortunately, there is a lack 
of mental health solutions out there 
for people,” she said. “Often, gun 
violence and violence of any kind 
can happen in these very passionate 
moments where people felt the loss 
of control.” 
Gun violence is often spontane -
ous. It’s interpersonal conflict that 
escalates into something deadly. 
And that’s something experts 
feared during the pandemic. Stay-at-
home orders and lockdowns forced 
people to be together for long peri -
ods of time, which could be linked 
to a spike in violence, Jenson said. 
College towns like Gainesville 
also suffered deeper economic 
blows than bigger cities because of 
temporary and part-time jobs relat -
ed to UF and UF Health. The pan -
demic increased unemployment, 
which Jenson believes could con -
tribute to gun violence.
Alachua County’s Crisis Inter -
vention Team received special train -
ing to de-escalate situations with 
mental illness crises. Bystanders, 
Jenson said, should report when 
they suspect instances of gun vio -
lence may occur. The CIT can also 
connect survivors to relevant men -
tal health services.
Tonya Edwards, a certified ad -
vanced grief recovery specialist in 
Gainesville, listens to almost all of 
her clients ask three questions. 
What could’ve I done differently? 
Done more of? Done better?  
“Grief is definitely the normal 
and natural reaction to any kind 
of significant emotional loss,” Ed -
wards said. 
Adults process grief logically. 
Children don’t. They don’t under -
stand what happened but feel a dif -
ferent atmosphere in their home.
“Grief is not logical,” Edwards 
said. “It’s emotional. So when you 
try to process this logically, it’s nev -
er going to make sense.”
Children in the community ex -
posed to these tragedies, Edwards 
said, are dealing with unresolved 
grief. Parents should sit down and 
talk through the trauma with their 
kids, she said.
Edwards is concerned for Gaines -
ville’s youth. Several gun violence 
victims have been minors. 
“Starting today, we’re going to 
lose a generation of people,” she said. “We’re going to lose a genera -
tion to something so senseless.”
Trauma related to gun violence 
never really goes away.
In the center of the pink-and-yel -
low dogwood blossoms that were 
tattooed on Sarah Browder’s right 
arm laid a bullet hole. 
Her ex-husband shot her twice 
on the shoulder and through her 
spine before he pulled the trigger 
on himself Sept. 23, 2012. Follow -
ing Sarah’s death, her mother Susan 
Browder became an activist against 
gun violence.
Last fall, Browder moved from 
North Carolina to Gainesville to be 
near her other daughter and grand -
children. The retired teacher spends 
her free time organizing to prevent 
this from happening to anyone 
else’s children.
“She was funny and beautiful, 
smart and artistic, and she was sto -
len from us,’’ Browder said. “She 
was stolen from us by a violent man 
who was able to get a gun without 
submitting to a background check.”
At 29, her daughter fought for 
her life in the intensive care unit for 
four days. Now, Sarah’s branch of 
the Browder’s family tree is forever 
cut off. 
“We will always grapple with 
the reality of all the years ahead,” 
Browder said. “Her chair will be 
empty and all those other empty 
spots because it wasn’t just Sarah. 
It was her future loves, her future 
children, her grandchildren. It re -
ally changed the arc of the future 
for generations to come.”
Gun and domestic violence inter -twine, Browder said. About 1 mil -
lion women in the U.S. have been 
reported shot by a significant other, 
according to The Educational Fund 
to Stop Gun Violence. The pandem -
ic pushed people to buy firearms, 
which could be deadly for their 
partner.
As an advocate, Browder deals 
with her grief through her work 
with domestic violence victims. She 
also teaches teenagers about signs 
to watch out for in abusive relation -
ships.
“I finally realized that I can 
maybe help more people by using 
my voice to raise awareness and 
by trying to take steps to get easy 
access to guns limited for violent 
people who shouldn’t have them,” 
Browder said. 
Browder and her organization, 
Everytown for Gun Safety, are 
pushing to end gun violence trag -
edies and require universal back -
ground checks for those purchasing 
a firearm. 
“It’s especially traumatic know -
ing that it was just needless,” 
Browder said. “It did not have to 
happen, and it could have been 
prevented if some things had been 
different.”
Thompkins and her children 
share this feeling. The young boy’s 
death that night at the American 
Legion was just needless. It didn’t 
have to happen. But it did, and their 
lives are forever altered because of 
it.
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgGUN VIOLENCE,  from pg. 1Lasting trauma
Melanie Peña / / Alligator StaffManna Robertson / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
Morang noticed his tone changed, how he 
screamed in players’ faces and yelled at as -
sistant coaches from across the court.
“For him, I felt very, ‘You’re only useful 
to me on the court,’” she said. “‘I don’t really 
care about anything about you or how I treat 
you other than that.’”
Eِveryone tiptoed around Newbauer, 
Morang said. They dreaded mistakes and 
couldn’t predict his reaction. 
Players wouldn’t even dare ask the pur -
pose of a drill, said Sydney Searcy, who 
transferred to Morgan State after her first sea -
son under the coach. He became defensive, 
as if they had criticized his character.
Morang’s brother, Jordan, who worked 
as a practice player during her two years at 
Florida, quit his job shortly after Newbauer’s 
arrival. He couldn’t handle watching New -
bauer scream at the athletes and coaching 
staff. Morang also left the hostile environ -
ment later that season. She had to medically 
retire due to multiple concussions she sus -
tained throughout her basketball career.
Newbauer often went nose-to-nose with 
players to jab at them until they reacted, and 
he hungered for a reason to kick players out 
of practice, Searcy said. 
The ejected players were welcomed back 
to practice the next day, but Newbauer re -
hashed the issue in a team huddle and told 
them they needed to respect him.
He didn’t have the social awareness of 
when to stop harassing players — or he just 
didn’t care, said Cydnee Kinslow, a graduate 
transfer on the 2020-2021 team. Newbauer 
made players like Kinslow feel worthless. 
“He would make them cry,” Kinslow said. 
“Push until they cried, whatever it was, like, 
he tried. There’s a breaking point for people 
and pushing them through a wall to make 
them stronger. And then there’s what Cam -
eron Newbauer did.”
Coaches yell because teams can be frus -
trating at times, said Haley Lorenzen, captain 
of the 2017-2018 squad. But Newbauer’s be -
havior couldn’t compare to ordinary coach -
ing frustration. 
Athletes felt strained playing under him. 
Lorenzen and the team were always doing 
damage control — if they weren’t the ones 
being damaged. 
“If you came into our locker room, some -
times, you could feel the tension,” she said. 
“And you could just feel people were afraid. 
People just weren’t themselves.”
Newbauer even degraded the team in 
front of Gator Boosters as they watched a 
preseason practice. Morang remembers New -
bauer stopped the practice after the team 
messed up a drill and addressed the boosters.
He apologized for his players’ perfor -
mance and called them “embarrassing.” The 
boosters later told Morang and other players 
not to listen to him. One even said his behav -
ior was out of line. 
But his actions didn’t faze his family. Mo -
rang remembers how one of his daughters 
— instead of crying — stood at his ankles 
and tried to get his attention as he yelled at a 
player during practice.
His conduct extended beyond screaming 
at practices, however. 
Newbauer ordered his assistant coaches to 
take two Black freshmen, Jalaysha Thomas 
and Tameria Johnson, shopping during the 
2017-2018 season. He thought the “wife beat -
ers” and long shorts they wore to run errands 
were inappropriate, and the assistant coaches 
used UAA funds to pay for Newbauer-ap -
proved clothing.
Kinslow and Johnson, a fifth-year who 
now plays for Delaware, remember how 
Newbauer told them to change their clothes 
and cover up their tattoos. He asked players 
to do so because he didn’t want his three daughters to mimic their style. 
Newbauer also made microaggressive 
comments, or subtle discriminatory state -
ments, to Black players, Kinslow said. 
He once told them he liked their hair but 
wouldn’t touch it because he knew he wasn’t 
supposed to do so.
The coach pushed Thomas, Johnson and 
Hayes off the team at the end of his first sea -
son — Morang said — because they weren’t 
his recruits. They committed and signed to 
play under Butler. 
Lorenzen recalled when Newbauer forced 
the three freshmen to clean out their lockers.
“I remember them going to the locker 
room with garbage bags to take their stuff 
out,” she said. “No one was there to help 
them … It was so disgusting to see that and 
to see human beings being treated that way.”
Morang accompanied Thomas and John -
son to a meeting with executive associate 
athletic director Lynda Tealer, in which they 
complained about how they were shoved out 
of the program. 
Tealer took notes as the players spoke 
about how Newbauer belittled them. She told 
them the UAA was investigating the accusa -
tions, but Morang never heard anything after 
that.
His belligerent behavior extended to assis -
tant coaches, too. He spoke over Finley and 
treated her like she had no idea what she was 
talking about. 
“It was what he said goes, and it was ba -
sically like he didn’t need assistant coaches 
because no one else’s word mattered,” Mo -
rang said.
Some assistant coaches cried because of 
the way Newbauer spoke to them. Searcy re -
members when an assistant coach addressed 
the team during practice, Newbauer cut her 
off and told her to shut up. 
“I don’t know if they were afraid of los -
ing their job,” Searcy said. “But it wasn’t 
too much that they would say either, just 
because everybody was pretty much in the 
same boat.” 
Coaches understood what the players suf -
fered, Thomas said, but never spoke up out 
of fear of retaliation. It was like if anyone 
stood up to him, he would kick them off the 
team or fire them. 
Newbauer also disparaged strength and 
conditioning coaches and athletic trainers. 
Lorenzen remembered when Newbauer told 
their weightlifting coach that the team wasn’t 
in shape because he wasn’t doing his job. 
Even though he had no expertise in their 
field, he chastised trainers. The team branded 
Newbauer “Dr. Google” and quipped he re -
ceived his medical degree from Wikipedia.
“There wasn’t somebody’s business he 
wasn’t putting himself in,” Kinslow said.
Many of Thomas’ teammates went to 
therapy at the recommendation of assistant 
coaches. It gave them a space to talk about 
what they went through. They also provided 
therapy to each other and cried together, Kin -
slow said.
Many of Newbauer’s athletes severely 
struggled with mental health. They had to 
take weeks off during the middle of the sea -
son because they couldn’t handle what New -
bauer put them through. 
“We had a girl that just quit, like she just 
physically couldn’t handle it anymore,” Kin -
slow said. “She worked her a— off to get 
where she was and decided quitting was 
more beneficial to her mental health than it 
was for her to play something she used 19 
years of her life to get to.”
A former Florida player even attempted 
suicide, Kinslow said. The former player 
eventually quit the team and went back 
home. 
Newbauer offered no sympathy, even for 
injured athletes.
Kinslow broke her nose, suffered a severe 
concussion and even developed a speech is -sue that led her to miss six to seven weeks of 
the season. Newbauer didn’t check up on her 
once that entire time. 
He got in players’ faces in the training 
room and taunted them after injuries. He told 
a player who tore her ACL that her condition 
wasn’t “that bad.” 
No matter how much time passed, New -
bauer’s outbursts at players continued. He 
constantly told his athletes, including Kin -
slow, they weren’t good enough to play for 
Florida.
Newbauer was mentally abusive toward 
Thomas, a junior who now plays for LSU, 
and made her lose some of her passion for 
basketball. 
He complained she and the team were 
“always b—ing,” Thomas said. He said she 
didn’t deserve to play SEC basketball.
Thomas chose the Tigers after she entered 
her name into the NCAA transfer portal. She 
wanted to prove him wrong. 
Newbauer also targeted Johnson, Searcy 
said. It seemed like he was bullying her. 
He threatened to pull her scholarship and 
said she wasn’t smart enough to go to UF. He 
even told her she didn’t belong in Division I 
basketball. 
One time, Newbauer told Hayes at a prac -
tice before an away game that he would 
leave her there. He also instructed Johnson to 
stand by the wall during practice and perform 
a wall sit with her hands above her head.
He then hurled basketballs toward her 
head. It wasn’t the first time. Newbauer also 
threw a ball at a junior teammate and hit her 
injured leg for not paying attention in prac -
tice, Lorenzen said. The player was sitting 
out with a torn ACL. 
Another time, he threw a ball at a redshirt 
junior because she didn’t understand a drill, 
Morang witnessed it as she sat on the sideline 
due to an injury.
Newbauer hollered as the teammate 
walked out. 
You won’t disrespect me by leaving this 
practice.
Her teammate hollered back.
You will not disrespect me by throwing a 
ball at me.
That was one of the few times an athlete 
defended herself, but the atmosphere thwart -
ed any resistance and pushed athletes into 
silence.
“It was so toxic and unsafe,” she said. 
“Everyone was so scared that no one wanted 
to speak up.” 
Some parents tried to take action to end their daughters’ mistreatment.
Morang’s parents, Lynn and Frank Mo -
rang Jr., sent a letter to Stricklin and UF presi -
dent Kent Fuchs in 2018 that detailed their 
concerns about Newbauer. Stricklin emailed 
the Morangs back three hours later. 
“Thank you for taking the time to write to 
me,” he wrote. “It is truly important to me 
and everyone on our staff that Gator student-
athletes have a valuable experience, and we 
are always open to learning how we can im -
prove … Lynda Tealer met with Sydney and 
two other members of the women’s basket -
ball team. We will consider all the informa -
tion we have received and work to make en -
hancements that improves the experience for 
our students.”
While Newbauer is guilty of lashing out 
at players, Kinslow believes associate head 
coach Finley is just as complicit.
“Kelly did everything she could to sweep 
it under the rug,” Kinslow said. “She covered 
for him, and she did damage control.”
Finley opted to bury Newbauer’s behav -
ior instead of holding him accountable. She 
called players late at night and told them 
Newbauer didn’t mean what he said and did.
And all these conversations, for Kinslow, 
were a way to manipulate the team.
That’s why Kinslow took to TikTok to ex -
pose Newbauer’s behavior and the Florida 
women’s basketball program’s toxicity. 
Francesca Joubran, a former Belmont 
player under Newbauer from 2014-2017, 
commented on one of Kinslow’s TikTok. 
“I got the wrath too!” she wrote. “About 
time someone takes action & believes us.”
Some parents took to the internet to share 
their frustration as well.
When the Gators tweeted about New -
bauer’s resignation, Autry Johnson, a father 
of former player Ariel Johnson, voiced his 
thoughts on the coach. His daughter played 
for Florida from 2018-2020 but transferred to 
Loyola Marymount.
“Please please stop lying for him he was 
not a good coach,” he wrote. “The program 
is better off without him we know that for a 
fact.”
Kinslow and former players agree: The 
program is better off without Newbauer. 
They may no longer be at UF, but they feel a 
sense of peace. 
There are no more players he can break.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgNEWBAUER,  from pg. 1Belligerent behavior
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Former Florida coach Cam Newbauer in the huddle with his team in a game 
against Alabama on Feb. 18, 2021.
PRINCE MERID TAFESSE DISPLAYED SELECT PIECES 
AT THE A. QUINN JONES MUSEUM 
& CULTURAL CENTER ON SEPT. 25
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A collection of Ethiopian artist Prince Merid Tafesse’s work 
was presented at the A. Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural Center Sept. 25.
The museum, located at 1013 NW Seventh Ave., hosted the 
47-year-old’s exhibition, “Living and Linking: African Lega -
cies.” 
Tafesse’s artistic journey began several decades ago, when 
he decided to try his hand with art as a young child in Ethiopia. 
Following the spark from his mother, an amateur artist, he be -
gan his venture into the artistic universe drawing a portrait of 
an Ethiopian Atse, an Emperor. 
Tafesse’s recalls watching his mother attempt a drawing of 
the Ethiopian Emperor Tewodros II, who killed himself after an 
onslaught by the British in the 19th century. On the back of the 
paper his mother was using, the young Tafesse tried to mimic 
his mother’s work and included a macabre detail: a drawing 
of a gun to indicate the emperor’s suicide. Tafesse remembers 
misidentifying the leader and instead writing Menelik, another 
Ethiopian leader.
Tafesse laughs softly as he recalls the episode from his child -
hood. On Saturday, Tafesse completed a live sketch of Haile 
Selassie, a former Ethiopian emperor, in approximately 10 min -
utes.                                    
The purpose of Tafesse’s exhibition was to showcase con -
nections across continents and undermine the narrative of a 
fundamental divergence of cultures. The exhibition aims to 
show how art from the continent of Africa can speak to uni -
versal aspects of the human condition and should not be mar -
ginalized.
The goal is to raise a sense of consciousness and curiosity, 
said Desta Meghoo, Tafesse’s wife and an artistic curator. 
“When we think of African art, we get certain images,” she 
said. “But, in my theory as a curator, I always say we don’t call 
Picasso’s art Spanish art. We’re talking about a contemporary 
style artist [Tafesse] who is connected to the world, whose vi -
sual vocabulary is one that transcends nationality, gender, etc 
and his art speaks to that.”  One of the links Meghoo said she was most compelled by 
was the connection she found between the legacies of A. Quinn 
Jones, the museum’s namesake, and Haile Selassie. The two 
held firm commitments to education.  
Tafesse’s artistic inspirations range from writers, such as 
Kahlil Gibran and Oscar Wilde, to musical inspirations such as 
Bob Marley and trap music, Meghoo said.
One piece included in the exhibition served as Tafesse’s 
recounting of COVID-19’s effects on Ethiopia. The piece fea -
tures tick marks used to indicate the passage of days; after the 
murder of George Floyd, the tick marks were converted into 
matches to represent the emergence of social unrest as a result 
of his death.  
Tefesse’s family legacy is important to him. He traces his an -
cestry to the Ethiopian king Sahle Selassie through his mother. 
He said his father informed him of his regal heritage when he 
was younger but did not give him specifics. Tafesse said his fa -
ther used to refer to his mother by the term Le’elt, which means 
princess, in acknowledgement of her heritage.    
“My father told me you’re from the royal family, but when 
you grow up, when you’re ready, find it,” Tafesse said. “He 
didn’t want to show me exactly.”
In recent years, Tafesse was able to identify his mother’s 
place in the family tree and discover his exact standing in the 
regal line.
Tafesse said he may go months at a time without producing 
artistic works until he feels ready to start creating.
“I just don’t work physically and gather things wherever I 
go. I don’t know what I gather even; it’s almost subconscious,” 
Tafesse said. 
Some of Tafesse’s works were also displayed at the Rosa B. 
Williams Center on 524 NW First St.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
After an attempted murder trial, Julius 
Irving uses his life experiences to set goals 
for himself.
His checklist: grow his wealth. Be there 
for his family. Change people’s perception of 
those who look like him.
The 34-year-old East Gainesville resident 
was homeless, addicted to drugs and 
unemployed after he was charged. He had 
nothing to guide him but his faith.
He and his family were caught in between 
months of postponed jury selections and 
trials. Almost half of his jury selections and 
trial status appointments were canceled at 
least once due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Irving, who was accused of stabbing a 
coworker at Krispy Kreme in 2019, couldn’t 
apply for jobs without employers knowing 
about his pending charges.
Now, seven months after his trial, he still 
can’t find employment. This pushed Irving 
to start Never Work Again, a brand for his 
multiple businesses. He gets most of his 
income from reselling Amazon products but 
also does some commissioned tattoos and 
artwork.
“On the surface, I’ve been doing good,” 
Irving said. “I’ve started my own business. 
I’m no longer homeless. I have my own place 
now. I have a car now.”
But he lives paycheck-to-paycheck and 
barely has enough money for anything aside 
from his bills. Since he heard the words “not 
guilty,” he considers every obstacle a life 
lesson.“I use that to encourage myself,” Irving 
said. “I don’t care what situation I’m in — 
depressing or whatever. I can’t let myself, I 
can’t allow myself [to be upset] because I’m 
so blessed.”
Irving struggles to accept that others face 
the same situation he was in months before.
“The fact that I could be at work, in my 
uniform on the clock in an employee-only 
area, and then still viewed as the perpetrator 
... that always bothered me,” Irving said.
As a Black man taller than 6 feet, he 
knows some may view him as a threat. 
He believes this is why he was accused of 
attempted murder when he used a knife to 
defend himself in a fight. 
Irving and his coworker, Olivia Zavalza, 
got into an argument at work and she 
called him racial slurs. She then called her 
boyfriend, Anthony James Jr., and a fight 
ensued between the two.
James Jr. had four stab wounds when 
police found him, and Irving had a 4 inch 
blade in his possession, according to the 
police report.
The defense applied the state’s Stand Your 
Ground law, which means that a person who 
is attacked in a place where they have a right 
to be, such as their work, has the right to 
“meet force with force.”
He believes other people can see the 
injustice surrounding his case, too. After the 
case ended, some jurors created a private 
Facebook group to connect with Irving.
“Everybody couldn’t believe that [the 
case] even made it to trial,” Irving said. 
“They saw how unfair the court system is.”
The trial wasn’t the only thing that took a mental toll on him. He’s also mourning the 
death of loved ones.
His father died following a positive 
COVID-19 test — a day after his trial. His 
best friend was hit by a car and killed while 
on a moped. Several of his cousins died from 
COVID-19-related complications.
It added a lot of pressure on him. But it 
didn’t entirely push him away from activism.
Irving was recently chosen as one of the 
six 2021-2022 Community Spring fellows, a 
group of low-income activists who work on 
eliminating structural poverty.  
“For this fellowship, our focus point is 
affordable housing,” Irving said. “We’re 
trying to protect affordable housing here 
in Alachua County and, hopefully, build 
a model or plan... [that] could be possibly 
useful to other people.”
No one ever talks about what happens 
to defendants after their trials, said Jhody 
Douglas, Irving’s 37-year-old sister and 
founder of Legal Empowerment & Advocacy 
Hub. Irving is doing just that for his 
community.
“When Julius won, it was almost like 
we won,” Douglas said. “He was David that 
went up against the giant.”
The whole process took a toll on Douglas 
as well, however.
After the trial, people started reaching out 
to her for legal help. She’s no longer active on 
social media because of the anxiety that pairs 
with the surge of messages.
“People reach out to me for legal support, 
but then it always, undoubtedly, is tied to 
emotional support,” Douglas said. “I don’t 
have the capacity to support people in the 
holistic, full approach way that they need. 
It’s a community issue, so I’m really hoping 
that that’s something we can move towards really soon.”
Tequila McKnight grew up in East 
Gainesville with Irving. As the participant 
coordinator of Community Spring, she was 
involved in selecting him for the fellowship.
“He has been an activist in the 
community, and he’s been a mentor to kids 
in the community,” she said. “He has a lot of 
knowledge of what’s going on. People in the 
community can trust him.”
The 45-year-old hopes to see Irving 
rebound after the trial.
“I’m really happy for him because he 
could have went a different direction, and 
that would not have been good for anybody,” 
McKnight said.
Irving is moving forward with his life — 
ready to accomplish his goals and free himself 
from the shackles of a traumatizing case that 
hung over his head for two years. However, 
he can’t help but think about what could’ve 
been if the jury’s ruling omitted “not.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgJulius Irving: Life after a ‘not guilty’ verdict
Photo courtesy of Julius Irving
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
A pastel drawing of Haile Selassie is seen outside 
of the A. Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural Center 
on Saturday, Sept. 25, 2021. Ethiopian artist Prince 
Merid Tafesse drew the portrait in front of a live 
audience on the museum’s patio.
Exhibition by Ethiopian artist seeks to bridge cultural and continental divideIrving still struggles to find workMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville residents gathered to celebrate the life of A. 
Quinn Jones Sr., the first Black principal at Lincoln High 
School. He turned the school, now A. Quinn Jones Center, 
into the first accredited all-Black school in Gainesville and 
the second in the state.
In 2017, Jones’ old home became the A. Quinn Jones 
Museum & Cultural Center, a historic landmark available 
to the public.
The museum, alongside the Matheson History Museum, 
hosted more than 30 in-person and 20 online attendees on 
Sept. 23. Speakers reflected on the legacy of Gainesville 
schools’ desegregation and their experiences at Histori -
cally Black Colleges and Universities.
The museum hosted the event for people to learn about 
the history of Jones and Black education in Gainesville, 
said Kaitlyn Hof-Mahoney, curator of collections and act -
ing administrator at the Matheson History Museum.
”We are celebrating the life of A. Quinn Jones, who was 
an educator in Gainesville, and the impact that HBCUs 
have on our state and communities,” she said.
Carol Richardson, Jones museum’s interim program di -
rector, used her connections to find passionate speakers 
for the event.
“We always want to honor the reason why the museum 
exists,” Richardson said. “As long as I am there, I want to 
always keep the legacy of the Jones family alive.”
“Prof” Jones, as he was known within the community, 
aimed to push his students to go into higher education. He 
even invested in some of them by paying for tuition to a 
Florida HBCU.
Many of the speakers grew up in Gainesville and were 
Jones’ students. Some also went to Florida’s four HBCUs 
and spoke about their education and personal experiences 
at those schools.
Wayne Fields’ parents, Geraldine Farrar Youngblood 
Fields Miller and Jerry C. Miller, were influential educa -tors in Gainesville.
His parents founded the music department at Lincoln 
High. The family lived nearby, and Fields would often 
watch the school’s band rehearsals and sporting events.
In the school’s final year, his parents put on the first 
musical, “Bye Bye Birdie,” at Lincoln High. It was the Mill -
ers’ greatest achievement. The star-studded cast included 
their son, Fields, and former City Commissioner Scherwin 
Henry.
Henry said his experience in the chorus of “Bye Bye 
Birdie” was eye-opening.
“Mrs. Miller, in her teaching, informed us that it wasn’t 
all about singing,” Henry said. “But it was about posture. 
It was about breathing. It was about diction. It was about 
intonation. She wanted to make sure that as we present 
ourselves as a chorus, not only will people hear great mu -
sic, but they will also leave with the image of a very well-
taught, well-trained chorus, as well.”
John Dukes III, a 65-year-old Gainesville resident and 
son to longtime Gainesville educator John Dukes Jr., spoke 
about his father’s influence on his education. His father 
was the last principal at Lincoln High. He was also the 
first principal of Eastside High School and the first Black 
Alachua County Public Schools deputy superintendent.
Dukes said his father was offered higher-paying jobs in 
Arkansas and South Florida, but decided to keep working 
in the city because Jones needed him to. 
His father tried to keep Lincoln High open for as long 
as he could. But after the Fifth Judicial Circuit Court ruled 
that all segregated schools integrate or close, the school 
eventually had to close in November 1969.
Dukes went to J.J. Finley Elementary School, now re -
named Carolyn Beatrice Parker Elementary, when he and 
his sister were the only Black students at the school. He 
graduated from the school in 1967, but he described his 
experience as “traumatic.”
However, he would go to the Jones’ house for piano 
lessons from Jones’ wife, Frederica Jones. While he hated 
playing piano, he grew fond of the family.“Those folks supported me in a way that helped me to 
overcome all of my objections to being in school,” Dukes 
said.
Dukes remembers Jones as someone he could reach out 
to for reassurance.
He said Jones said, “Boy, all I need you to do is do your 
best wherever you are. You always make sure that you 
give more than you have to. And never be afraid to let 
anybody know how good you are.”
Desta Meghoo, a 62-year-old UF Levin College of Law 
doctoral graduate currently working in Ethiopia, spoke 
about the connection between HBCUs and African culture.
Meghoo has 10 children, many of whom went to vari -
ous HBCUs around the country, including Bethune-Cook -
man University and Florida A&M University.
“It was very important for them to have an HBCU ex -
perience in order to be prepared to continue the legacy,” 
Meghoo said. “‘I’m really, really thrilled that they not only 
got that education but were able to pull great skills and 
reined in a sense of self and purpose through the process.”
The link between Africa and the diaspora of people of 
African descent across continents is very important, Meg -
hoo said.
“We are the same people regardless of land and sea that 
may separate us,” she said. “This is DNA.”
Lizzie Jenkins, an 82-year-old Archer resident, re -
members a time where Black grade-school education in 
Gainesville felt like a tight-knit family. Even though the 
schools were segregated and Black schools had to fight 
for state-recognized accreditation, the students and fami -
lies involved in the schools had each other to get through 
those difficult times.
Jenkins graduated from Lincoln High in 1957 and went 
to Florida Memorial College before it became a university.
“Going to a Black school was the best thing that ever 
happened to me,” Jenkins said. “All of us that attended 
these Black institutions were [treated as] first-class citi -
zens. And I still support my college.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org
VOTES ARE CAST BASED ON 
RESIDENTIAL INFORMATION
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students have seven options of 
polling locations to cast their votes to 
decide who will fill the 50 available 
Student Government Senate seats. 
Voting will take place Sept. 28 and 29 
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
The three parties participating 
in this election are Change, Gator 
and Communist. Three independent 
candidates will also appear on the 
ballot.
Gator Party holds a majority in the 
Senate with more than 60 senators. 
It has held the majority since Spring 
2020. Change Party ran for the first 
time in the Spring, when it merged with 
Union Party. Communist Party ran last 
Fall as the Progressive Party before 
rebranding. All parties have released 
their platforms.
To cast a vote, students need to show 
their Gator 1 card or photo ID, as long 
as they know their UF ID number, so 
poll workers can verify each student is 
cleared to vote. Supervisor of Elections 
Alexandra Stedman did not clarify what 
clears a student to vote. 
All voting aside from absentee ballots 
will take place in person, as SG does not 
allow online voting in its codes, said 
Stedman. Online voting has been illegal in SG since 2006 after the UF Supreme 
Court ruled it unconstitutional.
Absentee ballots must have been 
postmarked by Sept. 24, Stedman 
said. Included in absentee ballots is a 
stamped return envelope that students 
could use to send it.
Students will vote on 50 senators 
elected for one-year terms to represent 
their respective districts. There are no 
petitions set to appear on the ballot, 
and there is no early voting, Stedman 
said.
Votes are cast based on each 
student’s residential information, 
on or off campus. Students living in 
residential halls vote by their hall, 
while those off campus vote by zip 
code.
The polling locations include the 
Reitz Union Computer Printing Lab, 
the Health Science Center Library, the 
Norman Hall Educational Library, the 
Southwest Recreation Center Social 
Lounge, the Springs Library and 
Recreation Room and Stuzin Hall room 
200. 
There were originally 11 polling 
locations, an increase from the six 
polling locations for the Spring election. 
But due to scheduling issues, the 
number of polling locations decreased 
from 11 to seven, Stedman said. She 
didn’t clarify what the issues were.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgU.S. SECRETARY OF 
EDUCATION MIGUEL 
CARDONA CALLED ACPS 
SUPERINTENDENT CARLEE 
SIMON ON SEPT. 23
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
When Alachua County 
Public Schools was slapped 
with salary cuts due to 
masking politics, Education 
Secretary Miguel Cardona 
gave the superintendent a 
call.
“The president said it and 
I said it before: We’ve got 
your back and we wanted 
to deliver on that,” Cardona 
told ACPS superintendent 
Carlee Simon on a Sept. 23 
video call. “You’re doing 
the right thing … I’m proud 
of your leadership and your 
students are fortunate to 
have you as their leader.”
The district announced 
Sept. 23 it will receive 
a $148,000 federal 
reimbursement to account 
for school board member 
salaries withheld by the 
Florida Department of 
Education. The state 
withheld the salaries due 
to the district’s mask 
requirement, which it claims 
violated Gov. Ron DeSantis’ 
executive order 21-175.
ACPS is the first school district in the U.S. to 
receive a grant from the 
federal government as 
a part of Project SAFE, 
a grant program that 
reimburses school districts 
for funding withheld by a 
state government because of 
mask requirements and other 
COVID-related protocols.
ACPS spokesperson Jackie 
Johnson said the federal 
grant will directly pay for the 
board members’ salaries for 
a year. So far, the FDOE has 
withheld two months-worth 
of salaries about $27,000 per 
each of the four School Board 
members who voted for the 
mask mandates: Leanetta 
McNealy, Tina Certain, Rob 
Hyatt and Gunnar Paulson.
“Frankly, we were not 
planning on cutting the board 
members salaries anyway,” 
Johnson said. “We had some 
other options.”
Johnson said the Alachua 
County Commission was 
more than willing to provide 
money out of the county’s 
COVID-19 budget to make up 
for the withheld salaries.
However, with the federal 
government’s help, the board 
never needed to follow up on 
the County Commission’s 
offer.
“Now we don’t have 
to use any of those other 
options,” Johnson said. “We 
can now just go ahead and do what we normally do.” 
Secretary Cardona wrote 
in a release this is an initial 
step to show school districts 
the federal government 
supports those that have 
imposed mask mandates 
to the dismay of their state 
governments. 
“I commend Alachua 
for protecting its students 
and educators, and I look 
forward to working with 
them to provide students 
their best year yet,” Cardona 
wrote. “Every student across 
the country deserves the 
opportunity to return to 
school in-person safely this 
fall, and every family should 
be confident that their school 
is implementing policies that 
keep their children safe.” 
Simon wrote in a 
statement she is grateful 
the president is siding with 
school districts like Alachua 
County.
“I’m very grateful to Mr. 
Cardona, President Biden 
and the federal government 
for the funding,” Simon said. 
“But I’m even more grateful 
for their continued support 
and encouragement of our 
efforts to protect students 
and staff and to keep our 
schools open for in-person 
learning.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgA. Quinn Jones Museum & Cultural Center and Matheson History Museum celebrate Black education
Voter guide for the Fall UF 
Student Government electionAlachua County Public Schools is the first district nationwide to 
receive federal funding amid state masking-related penaltiesGainesville residents remember critical Black educators who influenced the communityLUNES, 27 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 2021
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Heartwood Soundstage on island time
The venue hosted the Gainesville Reggae Festival Sept. 25,  pg. 14El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
HA HABIDO MÁS DE 250 
INCIDENTES DENUNCIADOS 
A LA POLICÍA DURANTE 
NUEVE MESES
Escrito por Troy Myers
Escritor de El Caimán
Traducido por Melissa 
Hernandez De La Cruz
Escritora de El Caimán
En Gainesville Place Apartments, 
una mujer fue apartada de la puerta 
de su casa, arrastrada por las escal -
eras y violada en un área boscosa en 
las primeras horas de la mañana del 
10 de septiembre.
Ahora, los residentes hacen 
malabares para afrontar el trauma 
y al mismo tiempo abogan por me -
joras en la seguridad del complejo. 
Los residentes dicen que la admin -
istración ha tardado en abordar el 
problema.
Gainesville Place Apartments, 
ubicado en 2800 SW 35th Place, 
tuvo 258 incidentes llamados a la 
policía en los últimos nueve meses, 
según un informe de la Oficina del 
Sheriff del Condado de Alachua. 
Durante el verano, los residentes 
presenciaron casos de masturbación pública, intentos de robo y compor -
tamiento alarmante de extraños que 
no pertenecían al complejo. Los resi -
dentes describieron sus experiencias 
como peligrosas y aterradoras.
La víctima del ataque del 10 de 
septiembre fue dada de alta rápidam -
ente del hospital y Antwine Johnson, 
un residente de Gainesville de 32 
años, fue acusado de agresión sexual 
y secuestro el mismo día.
Corinne Griffin, una residente 
de Gainesville Place de 19 años y 
estudiante de segundo año de UF 
con doble especialización en crimi -
nología y neurociencia cognitiva y 
conductual, dijo que ha expresado 
sus preocupaciones en la oficina 
principal muchas veces.
Griffin llamó a la policía dos vec -
es desde que se mudó a Gainesville 
Place Apartments en agosto. Ella se 
preocupa por su seguridad y quiere 
que la gerencia realice mejoras en la 
seguridad.
"No me siento seguro aquí en ab -
soluto", dijo Griffin. "No están haci -
endo nada, así que no sabemos qué 
más hacer".
Griffin argumentó que si un com -
plejo de apartamentos puede ofrecer 
mantenimiento las 24 horas, enton -
ces debería poder hacer lo mismo 
por la seguridad. Ella sugirió que la 
gerencia proporcionará llaveros a los conductores de autobuses, pero la 
oficina principal le dijo que no era 
una opción y su solución fue des -
cartada sin ninguna explicación.
Griffin le pidió a la oficina que 
agregara cámaras alrededor del com -
plejo, pero la gerencia le dijo que no 
disuadía el crimen. Pidió un servicio 
de seguridad privada y le dijeron que 
se había considerado, pero supone 
que no saldrá nada de eso.
Pero para la víctima del asalto y 
el resto de la comunidad, regresar 
al complejo de apartamentos donde 
ocurrió el ataque es un desafío.
Después del ataque, el complejo 
de apartamentos, propiedad de The 
Collier Companies, emitió un comu -
nicado a sus residentes para infor -
marles de una agresión sexual que 
ocurrió "cerca o alrededor de la co -
munidad de Gainesville Place".
La declaración describió recorda -
torios generales de seguridad para 
los residentes: cerrar sus puertas y 
ventanas, estacionarse en áreas bien 
iluminadas, asegurar sus pertenen -
cias personales y no caminar solos 
por la noche. El informe también in -
dicó que el complejo solicitó patrul -
las adicionales del Departamento de 
Policía de Gainesville.
Collier Companies no respondió a 
varios correos electrónicos y llama -
das telefónicas para hacer comentar -ios hasta el 26 de septiembre.
Los residentes creen que 
Gainesville Place podría hacer más 
para mejorar la seguridad. Desde el 
ataque, los residentes han pedido a 
la oficina principal que instale cáma -
ras, mantenga las puertas de entrada 
cerradas o contrate una empresa de 
seguridad.
El 21 de septiembre, el complejo 
anunció a sus residentes que mejo -
rará la iluminación recortando las 
ramas de los árboles alrededor de los 
postes de luz.
Algunos residentes sienten que 
los pequeños cambios no serán su -
ficientes.
Yasmin Figueroa, residente de 
Gainesville Place de 21 años y estu -
diante de último año de UF con es -
pecialización en ciencias de la salud, 
ha vivido allí desde agosto. Dijo que 
su experiencia allí ha sido agradable, 
pero ella y sus compañeros de cuarto 
están preocupados por caminar solos 
por la noche y las puertas de entrada 
siempre están abiertas.
Figueroa dijo que ella y sus com -
pañeras de cuarto han comenzado 
a avisar cuando llegan a casa y se 
mantienen en contacto con frecuen -
cia.
Ángel Ramírez, un residente de 
17 años y estudiante de primer año 
de ciencias políticas de UF, dijo que depende del sistema de autobuses 
para llegar a clase. Dijo que el prob -
lema de que las puertas de entrada 
siempre estén abiertas podría resolv -
erse con algo tan simple como llave -
ros.
Argumentó que dado que las ru -
tas de autobús no están abiertas du -
rante toda la noche, tendría sentido 
cerrar las puertas después de que el 
último autobús salga de la propie -
dad.
Desde el incidente, Figueroa y 
sus compañeras de cuarto han co -
menzado a comunicarse regular -
mente; Griffin siente que la carga de 
la seguridad ha caído en manos de 
los residentes y continúa abogando 
por una mejor seguridad, pero aún 
duda de que se produzca algún cam -
bio; Ramírez, que también anhela un 
cambio, ha sido testigo desde enton -
ces de que otros residentes compran 
gas pimienta para protegerse en caso 
de una emergencia.
Las rutinas diarias de los resi -
dentes han cambiado a medida que 
incorporan nuevas medidas de se -
guridad con la esperanza de que no 
les ocurra otro incidente a ellos ni a 
ninguno de sus seres queridos.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.org
THERE HAVE BEEN MORE THAN 250 
INCIDENTS REPORTED TO POLICE 
OVER NINE MONTHS
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
At Gainesville Place Apartments, a woman 
was pulled away from her front door, dragged 
down the stairs and raped in a wooded area 
in the early morning hours of Sept. 10. 
Now, residents juggle coping with the 
trauma while also advocating for improve -
ments to the complex’s security. Residents 
say management has been slow to address 
the problem.
Gainesville Place Apartments, located at 
2800 SW 35th Place, had 258 incidents called 
in to police within the last nine months, 
based on a report from the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office. During the summer, residents 
witnessed instances of public masturbation, 
attempted break-ins and alarming behavior 
from strangers who didn’t belong to the com -
plex. Residents described their experiences as 
dangerous and scary.
The victim from the Sept. 10 attack was 
promptly released from the hospital and An -
twine Johnson, a 32-year-old Gainesville resi -
dent, was charged with sexual battery and kidnapping the same day.
Corinne Griffin, a 19-year-old Gainesville 
Place resident and UF sophomore double ma -
joring in criminology and behavioral and cog -
nitive neuroscience, said she’s expressed her 
worries to the front office many times. 
Griffin called police twice since moving 
into Gainesville Place Apartments in August. 
She worries for her safety and wants manage -
ment to make security improvements. 
“I don’t feel safe here at all,” Griffin said. 
“They’re not doing anything, so we don’t 
know what else to do.”
She argued if an apartment complex can 
offer around-the-clock maintenance, then it 
should be able to do the same for security. 
She suggested management provide key fobs 
to bus drivers, but was told it’s not an option 
by the front office and her solution was dis -
missed without any explanation.
Griffin asked the office to add cameras 
around the complex but management told 
her it does not deter crime. She asked for a 
private security service and was told it has 
been considered, but she assumes nothing 
will come from it. 
But for the assault victim and the rest of 
the community, going back to their apart -
ment complex where the attack occurred is 
a challenge. 
After the attack, the apartment complex, owned by The Collier Companies, released a 
statement to its residents to inform them of a 
sexual assault that happened “near or around 
the Gainesville Place community.” 
The statement outlined general safety re -
minders for residents: locking their doors and 
windows, parking in well-lit areas, securing 
personal belongings and not walking alone at 
night. The report also stated the complex re -
quested extra Gainesville Police Department 
patrols. 
The Collier Companies didn’t respond to 
multiple emails and phone calls for comment 
as of Sept. 26.
Residents believe Gainesville Place could 
do more to improve security. Since the at -
tack, residents have asked the front office to 
install cameras, keep the front gates closed or 
hire a security company. 
On Sept. 21, the complex released an an -
nouncement to its residents that it will im -
prove lighting by trimming tree limbs around 
light poles. 
Some residents feel small changes won’t 
be enough.
Yasmin Figueroa, a 21-year-old Gainesville 
Place resident and UF health sciences senior, 
has lived there since August. She said her 
experience there has been enjoyable, but she 
and her roommates are worried about walk -
ing alone at night and the front gates that are always left open. 
Figueroa said she and her roommates 
have begun letting each other know right 
when they get home and frequently staying 
in touch. 
Angel Ramirez, a 17-year-old resident and 
UF political science freshman, said he relies 
on the bus system to get to class. He said the 
issue of the front gates always being open 
could be resolved with something as simple 
as key fobs.
He argued that since bus routes are not 
open throughout the night, it would make 
sense to close the gates after the last bus 
leaves the property.
Since the incident, Figueroa and her room -
mates have started checking in with each 
other regularly; Griffin feels the burden of 
security has fallen into resident’s’ hands and 
continues to advocate for better safety but is 
still doubtful any change will come; Ramirez, 
also longing for change, has since witnessed 
other residents purchase pepper spray to pro -
tect themselves in case of an emergency. 
Residents' daily routines have changed as 
they incorporate new safety measures, hop -
ing another incident doesn’t happen to them 
or any of their loved ones.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgLas preocupaciones de seguridad aérea de los residentes de 
Gainesville Place Apartments después de una agresión sexual
Gainesville Place Apartments’ residents air safety concerns following sexual assaultMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
If you’re a working musician, 
chances are good you’re anx -
ious or depressed. 
Statistics published by Re -
cord Union show 73 percent of 
surveyed musicians reported expe -
riencing negative emotions such as 
stress, anxiety and/or depression 
because of, not in spite of, their art. 
A 2018 study from the Music In -
dustry Research Association shows 
nearly 12 percent of musicians have suicidal 
thoughts. 
This is four times that of the general popu -
lation. 
These statistics, sadly, predate the pan -
demic, which robbed many artists of opportu -
nities, income and purpose. 
As the pandemic rages on, with new vari -
ants scrambling musicians’ hopes for a return 
to the stage, mental health is a cause that is 
more pertinent than ever. 
That’s why, last year, I started Upbeat 
GNV. 
Upbeat GNV is a crew of volunteers and 
musicians banding together not in pursuit of 
music but in supporting musicians in dealing 
with the stressors of their career. 
I started playing music in Gainesville when 
I was 13 years old. I started the band The Sa -
vants of Soul and earned my current seat play -
ing drums for Rehasher with Roger Lima from 
Less Than Jake, touring the U.S. and Europe 
along the way. Music has always been a deep 
part of my identity. 
Gainesville has long been home to a vi -
brant music scene, powered by a constant 
influx of talented and ambitious artists who study at UF or who have grown up 
here, like myself and our co-found -
er, John Gray Shermyen. 
When the first lockdown issues 
were ordered, I found myself un -
able to adjust to the new normal, 
lost, uninspired and isolated. 
I put my drumsticks down and 
picked up the phone; A series of 
calls that would lay the founda -
tion for our organization. Our vi -
sion quickly coalesced: We aim to harness the 
good nature of the Gainesville community to 
support musicians in facing both the anxiety 
of the pandemic and the more silent mental 
health pandemic. 
I know what you’re thinking: I thought 
playing guitar was supposed to be fun. Music 
is supposed to heal. It is, and it can. But pur -
suing a career in music can have the opposite 
effect.
Musicians can suffer from self-esteem is -
sues related to their performative and eco -
nomic success. We can suffer through people 
not seeing our work as a real job, imposter 
syndrome and substance abuse problems. 
All this while dealing with a highly stressful 
and competitive working environment, where 
your job often intrinsically promotes sub -
stance abuse.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/opinions
Alexander Klausner is the director of 
Upbeat GNV and can be reached at 
help@upbeatgnv.org.Seeing the video of Gabby 
Petito in the backseat of 
a police car absolutely 
broke my heart, and it 
should break yours, too. 
Not just for Gabby’s family, but 
for all the women in America who 
have sat in that exact same seat.
When I was 19 years old, I was 
in a relationship with a man who I 
thought I would later marry. I was 
young and for the first time in my life, feeling 
what it was like to be manipulated by some -
one I cared for.
I went into the relationship with the hope 
I would find a companion, someone to laugh 
with, to have fun with and to go on new ad -
ventures with. I thought one day we would 
hike the entirety of the Appalachian Trail.
For two and a half years, I kept a secret. I 
posted on Instagram that I was “happy.” We 
went on double dates with friends. We even 
adopted a cat together.
It was only a few months after we started 
dating, the night I introduced him to my fam -
ily in Orlando, that we got in a fight in the car, 
and he began screaming at me to the point 
where I told him to pull over. We stopped at 
a rest area on Interstate 75. I got out, and he 
drove away.
He eventually circled back after a few 
hours. I decided to get in the car with him. 
Better my boyfriend than a stranger, I thought.
I refused to speak of the situation to any -
one, especially my family, thinking that if any -one knew what had just happened 
to me, they would think I was an 
idiot for believing this man ever 
really liked me. In all honesty, I 
believed I was an idiot for being in 
this situation at all. I couldn’t pro -
cess how this happened to me, and 
that it happened so fast. I thought 
people would ask me why I got out 
of the car. I didn’t want to explain it 
to them, and frankly, I didn’t know 
how to.
Dating violence is often hidden in plain 
sight and can come in many different forms. 
For years, I wasn’t ready to leave. I wanted 
to learn how to turn my bad relationship into 
a good relationship, without having to suf -
fer through the shame that I couldn’t make 
it work. 
Ideally, something like the rest area inci -
dent would never happen again. Although, it 
was only about a year after that fight that I 
called the police on him for the first time. He 
stole my car keys and refused to let me leave 
his apartment. At the time that this happened, 
we fought about once a week.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/opinions
If you are struggling, you can call the 
Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network 
at 352-377-8255 for help or to set an 
appointment with an advocate.Upbeat GNV wants to tackle musician mental health Gabby Petito’s story is more common than we thinkColumn Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
More than 60,000 people come to Gainesville for the weekend-long festival. 
Tell them where to eat and how to experience Gainesville in the 
Homecoming Souvenir Edition  which is passed out along the parade route.
SOUVENIR EDITION 2021
HOMECOMIN G
DEADLINE
9/29 10/4RUN DATE
352-376-4482  |  advertising@alligator.orgCONTACT YOUR ALLIGATOR AD REP TODAY!
KICKOFFKICKOFF
A SEASONA SEASON
OF GREATOF GREAT
BUSINESS!BUSINESS!BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors 
EARN $500
for 5 donations!*
2315 NW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Bring Valid Student/Military ID to 
qualify for additional BONUSES!
*fees subject to change without notice004IA3
004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 9/2/21   5:27 PM9/2/21   5:27 PM
¿hablas ¿hablas 
español?español?
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
leelee
5001 NW 34th Blvd
352-505-6644   •   africanunique.comGrocery, Beauty, Fashion, Wellness
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsAnonymous
opinions@alligator.orgAlexander Klausner
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
10 For Sale
RECYCLING COPPER Wire Made Quick, 
Easy & Very Profitable, With Zoda’s 
Revolutionary Design. See a Video on How 
Safe, Fast & Easy Recycling Wire Can Be, 
Also Order Online zodatools.com ONLY 
$64.00. MADE IN FLORIDA!!   9-27-1-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
Friends don’t let friends 
catch COVID-19.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 call 727-214-8680       9-27-21-2-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
Home for Sale Near Newnan's Lake
Located near Down-Town Gainesville and 
UF campus & 4 blocks from Newnan’s 
Lake, the boat dock nearby. A straightshot to 
Down-Town & the UF campus. 3 Bedrooms, 
attached garage & carport+an extra build -
ing. Fully Fenced back yard-very private, 
has beautiful Magnolia Trees & Azaleas. The 
HVAC & roof just installed. Has wood lami-
nate and vinyl flooring, no carpet. $154,900. 
Call Helen D. Karsh, RE/MAX Professionals, 
352-222-7720 for additional information and 
to view.     10-4-21-3-5©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    LLiikkee  aa  bbooaatt  oonn  wwaatteerr
11..    RReeaacchh  yyoouurr  ddeessttiinnaattiioonn55..    CCyypprriinniidd  ffoooodd  ffiisshh
22..    ________  jjaacckkeett  66..    CCaarrnniivvoorroouuss  mmaammmmaall  
33..    SSppoorrttss  ccoommppeettiittoorr  77..    UUnnddeerr  ________
44..    ________  ooff  GGiibbrraallttaarr  FFAATTLLOOAA
VVRRAAIIRREECCHHOORRAA
EENNHHAAYY
LLTTAARREEHHEE
HHTTEETTAALLEERRAASSRRTTEE
TTSSAATTIIRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAffllooaatt    55AA--RRooaacchh    66AA--HHyyeennaa    77AA--AArrrreesstt
11DD--AArrrriivvee    22DD--LLeeaatthheerr    33DD--AAtthhlleettee    44DD--SSttrraaiitt    BB--CCoorraall  SSeeaa99--2277--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ________  ________  bboorrddeerrss  aabboouutt  11,,220000  
mmiilleess  ooff  AAuussttrraalliiaann  ccooaassttlliinnee..  
BONUS
NOTICE OF PUBLIC AUCTION
BY THE ORDER OF THE BANK
Grand Yacht Club, Inc.
Hollywood, FL and Pompano Beach, FL
Timed Online Public Auction
Lots begin to close: October 6th, 2021 at 
10 AM
Vessel Auction will consist of: 1991 Inace 
Shipyard 80′ Motor Yacht / Pleasure Yacht 
(vessel name “BLOND”); 1987 Irwin 68′ 
Sailing Yacht (vessel name “ENDLESS 
SUMMER”); 1980 Hatteras 55′ Convertible 
Sport Fisherman Yacht (vessel name 
“CARIBE”) and 2006 Caribe 13.5′ Rib Tender 
with Trailer. Registration, catalog, photos and 
terms available at
www.moeckerauctions.com.
Pick-up/removal: Hollywood, FL and 
Pompano Beach, FL
Preview: by appointment. Call for details 
(954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
 AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin    9-27-1-10
12 Autos
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                       9-27- 4-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-1310 For Sale 6 Furnishings
By Rebecca Goldstein
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/27/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/27/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, September 27, 2021
ACROSS
1 “Like that’s gonna 
happen!”
5 Sleeps under the 
stars
10 Kid-lit author 
Silverstein
14 Clif Bar brand 
marketed to 
women
15 Catherine of 
“Best in Show”
16 Maître d’s 
question
17 Hard-to-please 
dinner guest
19 “Metamorphoses” 
poet
20 Take, as advice
21 “Time for us to 
leave?”
23 Unadorned
25 Did some 
storytelling
27 Poet
28 Honk
29 Handy bag
30 Moderate running 
pace
31 Bit of eye lubricant
32 Prattle
33 With 35-Across, 
anonymous 
voting method, 
and a hint to each 
set of circled 
letters
35 See 33-across
38 “Listen up, Luis!”
39 Google Maps 
alternative
40 Colorful carp
42 Study, with “over”
44 Name on an 
iconic New York 
deli
45 Zeus’ jealous wife
46 Photobomb of a 
sort involving a 
V sign
48 Entrance
49 Periodic table 
item
50 Noble title
51 Land in un lago
52 Early “SNL” star 
who was one 
of the Blues 
Brothers
57 “Oh, brother!”
58 Skating, often
59 Swedish furniture 
chain
60 Advantage
61 Polishes, as a 
floor
62 StitchesDOWN
1 Matterhorn, e.g.
2 Fashion designer 
Anna
3 Calling the shots
4 Spy’s passport, 
say
5 Like Columbia 
University, since 
1983
6 Cry of realization
7 Yoga studio item
8 Like jigsaw 
puzzles
9 Cling wrap  
brand
10 Flying polar 
predator
11 Attack
12 Political fugitive
13 Strung along
18 Hankering
22 Venetian 
Christmas
23 Classic sandwich 
initials
24 Vietnam  
neighbor
25 Chimney  
coating
26 Pal of Snap and 
Crackle
28 Forest grower
31 Visine target
32 Ella Fitzgerald’s 
genre34 Ears you can get 
lost in
35 Baseball clubs
36 “All righty then”
37 Singer __ Amos
39 Card-vs.-card 
game
41 Actor McKellen
42 Throbbed
43 What a  
flamingo often 
stands on
44 Single-edged 
samurai sword45 Biden’s VP 
Kamala
46 Light brown
47 Subsidize
48 Stir-fry pan
50 Caustic  
cleaners
53 Veto
54 Versatile 
blackjack card
55 Archery wood
56 County 
prosecutors, 
briefly
By Chris Sablich
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC09/21/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
09/21/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, September 21, 2021
ACROSS
1 Unit of parsley
6 Gridiron gear
10 Souvenir of a 
ticket
14 2000s first lady 
Bush
15 Sheltered, at sea
16 Overblown 
publicity
17 Perpendicular to 
the keel
18 Travel aimlessly
19 Monopoly token 
replaced by a cat
20 Football-shaped 
gem
23 “The Addams 
Family” cousin
24 Switch positions
25 Winter sports 
footwear
28 Get revenge
35 Author Rand
36 “__ the Falling 
Snow”: Enya 
song
37 Gas up
38 Train making all 
the stops
40 Assist
42 Column-bottom 
number
43 Right away
45 Danson and 
Nugent
47 Hudson Riv. 
engineering 
school
48 Retriever 
retriever, 
perhaps
50 Own (up)
51 Vietnamese  
soup
52 Anti-
discrimination 
initials
54 Estimates, and 
what the last 
parts of 20-, 28- 
and 48-Across 
are, in different 
ways
63 Side squared, for 
a square
64 Zippo
65 By oneself
66 Thailand, once
67 Dealing with the 
issue
68 Pasta wheat
69 Angel’s 
instrument70 After normal 
hours
71 “Austin Powers” 
genre
DOWN
1 Grand __
2 Old sunscreen 
ingredient
3 Remorseful one
4 Baghdad natives
5 Entire spectrum
6 What birdies 
barely beat
7 Skin soother
8 Perfectly 
accurate
9 Business training 
session
10 Leveling wedge
11 Beginner
12 Stratford-__-Avon
13 Curve in the road
21 Checkout 
counter unit
22 Portfolio listings
25 Dish with greens
26 Former capital of 
Japan
27 Undercover, 
informally
29 By way of
30 Archie’s spouse
31 Corp. money 
manager32 Bizarre
33 Brings in at 
harvest time
34 Clothing designer 
Perry
36 Li’l Abner  
creator
39 Mandela’s org.
41 Low grade
44 Fuel additive
46 Eins plus zwei
49 Popular Mexican 
beer
50 Make a mess of53 “Yipes!”
54 Wild party
55 Opera highlight
56 Shakespeare’s 
mad king
57 Genie’s abode
58 Work with 
needles
59 Big bash
60 Golfer McIlroy
61 Sufficient, in  
texts
62 Game before the 
finals
09/20/2021solution on page 9
solution  on page 13
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
 
the 
independent  
florida
we inform. you decide.
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
WANT TO ENJOY COLLEGE LIFE WITH 
REAL PEACE OF MIND? Searching for a 
simple, proven and stress-free approach 
to healthy, cleaner air? Then CLICK HERE 
:https://lp.constantcontactpages.com/cu/
h4i6bD1/personalairpurifier     10-18-21-4-16
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
GET VACCINATED TODAY!
answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the second largest island in the 
Hawaiian Islands?
2. TELEVISION: Which popular 1980s-90s sitcom featured 
characters named Sophia, Dorothy, Rose and Blanche?
3. HISTORY: Which country hosted the first Olympics?
4. MUSIC: How many African-American singer/songwrit -
ers have won a Grammy for Album of the Year?
5. MOVIES: Which 1990s film featured a twist contest at 
a restaurant called Jack Rabbit Slim's?
6. COMICS: What was the name of the Daily Planet editor 
in "Superman" comics?
7. CHEMISTRY: Which English chemist is credited with 
discovering hydrogen?
8. LITERATURE: Hamlet (Shakespeare) was the prince of 
which country?
9. GAMES: How thick is a puck used in the National 
Hockey League?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What kind of animal is used to 
hunt truffles?
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. 
Your donation helps fund the search for miss-
ing children. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & 
RV's too!  Fast Free Pickup-Running or Not 24 
Hour Response-Maximum Tax Donation- 
Call (888) 515-3443
9-27-4-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Mi Apa Latin Cafe Servers & Managers
Mi Apa is hiring servers & managers. Servirs 
can make $18+/hr, MGRs can make $55+/yr. 
Apply @ miapajobs.com or at the Jonesville
location between 10am-12pm.  
10-4-21-6-14
Kitchen and Event Assistant
Local downtown church is looking for week-
end assistance. Sunday mornings, some 
Saturday or evenings. Must be dependable, 
able to move furniture and serve food. Email 
Sarah@holytrinitygnv.org.        10-4-21-2-14
Car Wash Help Wanted
Earn up to $20/hr! Now hiring for general car 
wash labor. Part time/Full time shifts avail-
able. Must have valid FL license. 
Apply online @ parkplacecarwash.com.         
9-27-21-7-14
Enthusiastic companion Female to work with 
developmentally disabled adult. Must have re-
liable, safe transportation. Background check 
required, $15/HR, 2 days/WK & Sat. 9am - 
3pm contact 352-339-6265 by text only please. 
9-27-21-4-14Trivia Test  answers1. Maui
2. "The Golden Girls"
3. Greece, in 1896
4. Ten in the history of the awards. 
Stevie Wonder was the first in 1974.
5. "Pulp Fiction"6. Perry White
7. Henry Cavendish
8. Denmark
9. 1 inch
10. PigsCryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   Contact us:  alligator.org/ classifieds   | classified@alligator.org  |  (352)373- FIND
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for 
injury or loss arising from contacts made through ad-
vertising. We suggest that any reader who responds to 
advertising use caution and investigate the sincerity of 
the advertiser before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.
solution  belowWhen cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
 Now you can easily
submit your classified ad
for print and/or web editions
right thru our website!
 Just go to 
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Visa and Mastercard accepted.
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
-spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - -spolier alert- - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - - - - - - - - - spoiler alert - - - Find something you really care about and mix that 
with something you love doing.
—Kathleen HannaMONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 
1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
An unprecedented loss
Florida volleyball found itself on the other side of a Mississippi 
State game for the first time in program history, pg. 16
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
HEARTWOOD SOUNDSTAGE SPOTLIGHTED 
JAMAICAN MUSIC AND FOOD AT THEIR 
FIRST-EVER REGGAE FESTIVAL
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
More than 100 people set their clocks to island time Sept. 25 
at the Gainesville Reggae Festival — immersing themselves in 
a celebration of Jamaican culture. 
The festival, which took place at Heartwood Soundstage, 
was the first of its kind at the music venue. From 5 p.m. to 
nearly midnight, guests listened to live reggae music, indulged 
in Jamaican cuisine and browsed booths from local vendors. 
“[Reggae] talks about the necessity of equality,” said Victor 
Souza, the producer of the festival. “It talks a lot about peace 
and love and integrating the community toward something that 
is more beneficial to everyone.” 
Souza, 42, has worked with Heartwood in the past to pro -
duce Brazilfest. Though he was born in Brazil, Souza said he 
considers reggae his second culture and an important part of 
his music career. In addition to producing, he is also the lead 
vocalist in Maca Reggae Samba, which was part of the lineup 
that night. 
Through the Gainesville Reggae Festival, Souza said he 
sought to embody the theme of reggae and use the event to 
bring performers and attendees together. This sense of commu -
nity togetherness permeated the festival in more than one way. 
Food and retail vendors outlined the perimeter of the venue, 
representing an array of Gainesville-based artists and eateries. 
The Briand Collective, Kulcha Shok Muzik and SoulSunshine 
Goods sold clothing and jewelry, and Visionary FAM featured 
prints and a live painting session. 
Lines of guests also formed behind Radha’s Kitchen, 
Caribbean Queen and Carella’s throughout the evening, and 
people returned to their seats with Jamaican staples such as jerk chicken, curry goat and oxtail. 
Carella’s accompanied their hot menu with the sale of au -
thentic Jamaican spices and fruit cake — the latter of which 
were all handmade by Carol Coffill, the catering company’s 
owner. 
John Coffill, Carol’s husband, also helps run Carella’s as 
its director of sales and marketing. The duo began catering in 
Gainesville in 2017, and Coffill said he and his wife have since 
become passionate about bringing people together through 
food. 
“Carella’s is the spice of life,” he said. 
At the head of Heartwood, music drew the crowd together. 
Performances by Easy Crew, Propaganjah, De Lions of Jah, 
Maca Reggae Samba and Marauak celebrated Jamaican reggae 
legends through covers and original music. 
Old and young generations danced arm-in-arm to tradition -
al reggae beats. Kids mounted their parent’s shoulders to get a 
better look at the stage. 
Ann Francis-Anderson, 53, and her family made the three-
hour journey from Palm Bay to see her niece, Carissa Law -
rence, perform. Especially for her mother, who was born in 
Jamaica in 1928, Francis-Anderson said the festival was a fun 
celebration of culture for the whole family — and well worth 
the trip. 
Lawrence sang vocals for Maca Reggae Samba — the same 
band Souza founded around eight years ago. 
Back home in Brazil, Souza had a band that played strictly 
reggae music. Upon moving to the United States, he said, peo -
ple often had trouble comprehending his Jamaican music style 
in the context of his Brazilian heritage. That’s when Souza said 
he had the idea to combine the two,   joining reggae with Bra -
zilian samba music. 
Souza said one of his favorite things about reggae music is 
its universality. 
“There are places that are well-known for rock ‘n’ roll,” he 
said. “There are places that are well-known for blues. But reg -
gae music is seen everywhere in the world that you go.”Souza has lived in Gainesville on-and-off since 2007, during 
which he found a reggae community in the city. Over a decade 
ago he used to participate in Reggae Tuesday, a weekly reggae 
show at the Shamrock — an old Irish pub in Gainesville — that 
would attract full crowds. Souza said Gainesville has always 
been open to new music styles. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org/section/the_avenue
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org
AFTER A YEAR INSIDE THE SEAGLE 
BUILDING, THE LOCAL VINTAGE 
MARKET IS HOSTING ITS FINAL BAZAR 
Á LA CARTE MARKET AS IT PLANS TO 
MOVE TO ANOTHER LOCATION
By Luigi Bencosme
Avenue Staff Writer
The How Bazar will host its last Bazar Á La 
Carte market Oct. 2 and Oct. 3 as a farewell to 
the building that housed antheir outlet for local 
curators and vintage clothing items. 
Although it opened in August 2020 at the 
Seagle Building, located at 408 W University 
Ave., the owners of The How Bazar always 
knew their time at the location was going to be 
limited. The historic Gainesville building, which 
was completed in 1936, was recently put up for 
sale.
Although the Seagle Building helped garner 
a community for the shop, Laila Fakhoury, one 
of the five co-owners of The How Bazar, ex -
pressed worries for its future plans. 
“We were just like, ‘We should probably get 
out of here because we don’t know if they’re go -ing to raise our rent if they are going to kick ev -
eryone out. What’s going to happen?’” she said. 
For the past few months, The How Bazar’s 
five owners have been eyeing a specific location 
in downtown Gainesville near the Volta park -
ing garage. But because it’s city-owned and cur -
rently being managed by a real estate company, 
there have been some hardships in securing it, 
Fakhoury said. 
“They just caused us a lot of problems, and 
it’s been a struggle just trying to get in there,” 
she said. “Just them trying to favor big develop -
ers and outside developers and people with a 
ton of money over us, a local business.”
While the Seagle Building served as its first 
physical store in Gainesville, The How Bazar 
was starting to face some difficulties, in both 
size and location, and therefore decided to look 
elsewhere for a home.
The How Bazar, Fakhoury said, didn’t have 
a long-term lease there, but rather, a monthly 
one.
“For us, it was really sentimental and mean -
ingful to get a location,” Fakhoury said. “It was 
basically a dream come true … even though we 
knew it was gonna be temporary.” 
In honor of its farewell, the last The How Bazar Á La Carte event will be different from 
previous ones. As opposed to previous markets, 
which usually hosted 12 to 15 vendors, around 
30 different vendors each day, along with vari -
ous food stops and DJs, will attend the market 
to afford as many people as possible the chance 
to vend. An afterparty will follow the market.
“That’s one thing that’s going to be really 
special,” Fakhoury said. “There’s going to be a 
ton of vendors.”
The How Bazar functions in a worker-
owned environment, where all of the five work -
ers of the store are also part co-owners. Before 
The How Bazar began, the group of five worked 
together on smaller-scale projects.
“We were all doing silent discos together, 
and then we started doing pop-up clothing 
events at the gallery,” said Jose Peruyero, a co-
owner of The How Bazar.
Eventually, Peruyero said they all decided to 
open a store with one main goal: being “radi -
cally ethical.” 
“We wanted to create an ethical, communi -
ty-oriented and sustainable space,” Fakhoury 
said.
In creating such a space for the Gainesville 
community, The How Bazar’s workers have also faced complaints from one of the condo 
owners in the Seagle Building. 
“One of them doesn’t like us because they 
say we bring ‘bad kids’ or ‘bad people’ to the 
space, which is really just like brown and Black 
and queer kids,” Fakhoury said. 
But despite the complaint, Fakhoury said the 
rest of the community, and most of the other 
condo residents, love and embrace their work. 
“I always message those people to check 
in and see if the market is a bother, just to get 
some feedback from them … and they always 
love it,” she said. “They say it brings more life 
to the building and to the area.”
In the past year, this vintage store has 
amassed a large community of local creatives, 
the size of which surpassed the capacity of the 
Seagle Building. As a result, they now need 
more space. 
“If we could have expanded within the 
framework of being in this building, if there was 
more space to us available, we might have actu -
ally stayed,” Peruyero said. 
Despite these issues, The How Bazar re -
mained persistent in its fight to secure a new 
location downtown. Now, the owners are in the 
final stages of obtaining the new downtown lo -
cation on top of plans to create their own cloth -
ing line.
lbecosme@alligator.orgGainesville celebrates Jamaican culture with reggae festival
How Bazar hosts last market at the Seagle Building
MUSICMUSIC
SHOPPINGSHOPPINGAlan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Mario Marauak, a Brazilian reggae singer, performs 
at Heartwood Soundstage during Reggae Fest on 
Saturday, Sept. 25, 2021.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
SWIMMINGAFTER FIVE INTERCEPTIONS 
IN HIS FIRST NINE 
QUARTERS, EMORY JONES 
FLIPPED THE SCRIPT 
THE PAST TWO GAMES
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida quarterback Emory Jones 
stood in an empty pocket, his arms 
at his sides and no defender within 
two yards of him, and watched his 
pass sail helplessly past the extended 
arms of wide receiver Justin Shorter 
and fall incomplete to the grass of 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
 As he stood in the heart of 
the stadium, he heard the 90,887 
Florida faithful in attendance for the 
Gators’ Sept. 18 match with No. 1 
Alabama begin to boo.
Seven days later, the first-year 
starter scrambled and found redshirt senior Rick Wells wide open in the 
flat and delivered. Touchdown. A 
new crowd of 88,478 fans showered 
No. 5 with an entirely new emotion: 
adoration.
Jones silenced fans’ displeasure 
with a complete about-face in 
the past six quarters, including a 
historic performance in Florida’s 38-
14 victory over Tennessee on Sept. 
25, when he became the first Gators 
quarterback to pass for 200 yards 
and rush for 100 more in 12 years. 
When Jones regrouped with 
his offense a week ago after his 
whiffed pass, trailing the top-
ranked Crimson Tide 21-3, he’d had 
a mercurial start to the season at 
best. He’d completed 38 of his first 
63 passes for 340 yards (5.4 yards 
per attempt) and five interceptions. 
He’d only thrown two touchdowns 
the entire season, the most recent of 
which in the second quarter against South Florida the week before, 
and added just one more on the 
ground with 189 rushing yards on 
30 attempts. 
The redshirt junior rebounded to 
complete 11 of his final 14 passes 
for 119 yards and added a late 
rushing touchdown in the near-
comeback against Alabama, but his 
resurgence was truly cemented over 
the weekend against the Volunteers. 
Jones’ first two plays from 
scrimmage against Tennessee set the 
mood for the entire day. He escaped 
a collapsing pocket and dashed for 
12 yards and a first down before he 
found Shorter on a crossing route 
for 16 yards and moved the chains 
again on his debut pass. 
Overall, the Georgia native 
looked more decisive against 
Tennessee than he had the entire 
season. In previous weeks, his 
biggest sin was standing pat in the 
pocket, surveying the field as if he’d 
rather grow roots in the pocket or fit 
a ball through a keyhole than create 
with his legs. When faced with the 
UT defense, however, he found his 
rhythm, moving the offense down 
the field with quick passes and 
fleeing if foes closed around him.
Jones connected on 17 of his first 
19 passes and 21 of 27 for the night, 
a far cry from his 60.3% completion 
percentage prior to his missed 
throw against ‘Bama. 
The fourth-year quarterback 
set two career highs against the 
Volunteers with 209 passing 
yards and 144 rushing yards, 
his first career 200-yard passing 
game or 100-yard rushing game, 
respectively. 
The last Florida quarterback to 
pass both milestones in the same 
game? Heisman winner Tim Tebow during his senior year against 
Florida State.
“I think you see him really 
settling down under center,” 
Mullen said. “I think he did a great 
job making his reads, managing 
the offense, getting us in the right 
checks, into the right plays.”
The obvious does need to be 
voiced. The Volunteers pass defense 
ranks among the worst in the SEC. 
They allowed 213.5 passing yards 
through the first four games of the 
season, including contests against 
Bowling Green and Tennessee 
Tech, and they surrendered six 
touchdowns through the air. They 
finished 11th in the conference 
a season ago with 265.8 yards 
allowed per game at 8.5 yards per 
attempt.
Despite the meager competition, 
however, Jones led five of Florida’s 
10 drives for touchdowns and two 
more into the Tennessee red zone, one resulting in a field goal and 
another lost to a fumble. 
Tracking back to the Alabama 
game, the Gators found pay dirt 
on nine of their 15 full drives after 
fans rained disapproval upon their 
signal-caller. Jones completed 32 of 
his 41 throws for 328 yards and a 
pair of scores since he failed to link 
with Shorter, and he added 187 
yards and another score with his 
legs on 27 attempts.
“I’m definitely just warming up, 
man,” Jones said after the game.
Jones may not have drawn 
the world’s attention against 
Tennessee, but one thing happened 
for sure: When the fourth quarter 
ended under the inky Gainesville 
sky, and Jones trekked back to the 
home locker room, not a single fan 
booed.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.org
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
The Gators swimming and diving program 
announced Wednesday that famed swimmer 
Katie Ledecky would join its coaching staff. 
Ledecky will act as a volunteer swimming 
coach while training with head coach Anthony 
Nesty for the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris. 
Ledecky, a seven-time Olympic gold medalist, spent the last five years training 
and earning her education at Stanford, where 
she won an unprecedented eight NCAA 
championships and broke countless school, 
NCAA and American records. 
“Stanford has been my second home for the 
past five years. It will always have a special 
place in my heart,” Ledecky said on Twitter. 
“Having completed my college career this 
year, I am moving east to be closer to home 
and family,”Nesty tweeted about Ledecky joining his 
staff, saying “We are very excited to have Katie 
here with us! Let's get to work!”
Ledecky, a Washington, D.C., native, 
recently brought home a pair of gold and silver 
medals each from the 2020 Summer Olympics 
in Tokyo. These accolades highlight her long 
list of 10 Olympic medals, the fifth-most in 
history and the second-most of any woman, 
and 15 world championships, four more than 
any other female swimmer and third-most all-time. Ledecky’s many achievements give her 
one of the most impressive resumes in the 
history of the sport. 
Now, the 24-year-old swimming icon will 
continue her career under Nesty and the rest of 
the Gators swimming staff. 
“I’m looking forward to the opportunities 
and challenges that lie ahead in the next 
phase of my swimming career,” Ledecky 
said. Certainly up to the challenge, Ledecky 
will look to make a strong statement at the 
Paris Olympics in 2024, potentially her fourth 
Games.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgTinges of Tebow: Jones hits major milestone in second SEC game
Katie Ledecky eyes 2024 Olympics from GainesvilleSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Emory Jones at the line of scrimmage during 
a game against Tennessee on Sept. 25, 2021.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Emory Jones winds up to throw against Tennessee 
during the Gators’ 38-14 victory on Sept. 25, 2021.
The 10-time Olympic medalist will train at UF while working as a Volunteer Swim Coach16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2021
VOLLEYBALL
THE GATORS FALL SHORT 
TO THE BULLDOGS IN THEIR 
SECOND FIVE-SET MATCH  
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
Florida outside hitter T’ara 
Ceasar had the chance to send 
the fifth set to overtime versus Mississippi State. She received the 
ball from setter Marlie Monserez 
and rocketed it back toward the 
O’Connell Center floor, but it 
failed to make it over the net. 
Match point Bulldogs, and the 
O’Dome fell quiet.
Mississippi State barked as it 
rushed the court to celebrate its 
first-ever win over Florida Friday night 3-2 (17-25, 25-23, 26-24, 21-
25, 15-13).
Outside hitter Sofia Victoria 
posted another team-high in kills 
with 19, but it wasn’t enough to 
knock off the Bulldogs. 
Mississippi State rallied from 
its loss Thursday night from 
the start of the opening set. The 
Bulldogs went on a 5-0 scoring 
run before Florida called its first 
timeout. The Gators reclaimed 
the lead after Victoria recorded 
back-to-back kills, now 10-8. The 
sophomore closed out the first set 
with seven of Florida’s 17 kills 
and a .700 hitting percentage.
“Sofia has been progressing 
every practice and every match 
that we have,” head coach Mary 
Wise said after the match. “She 
has put in the work and is taking 
on a big role in her sophomore 
season.”
The Gators maintained their 
scoring cushion even after 
Mississippi State called its first 
timeout at 18-15. Florida didn’t 
let the Bulldogs even taste early 
victory, instead extending its 
offensive run by three points at 
21-15. Mississippi State went back 
to the bench for a second timeout, 
but the Gators were unstoppable. 
A Ceasar kill sealed the opening 
set, 25-17.  It was a war for set control 
in the second. Mississippi State 
swiftly secured the lead at 15-13 
before the media timeout. A kill 
from Bulldogs’ middle blocker 
Sania Petties and a Victoria ball-
handling error forced Wise to call 
her first timeout, trailing 17-13. 
The Gators played catch-
up the rest of the set. Florida 
found a way to get within one 
of Mississippi State at match 
point after a Victoria kill, her 
13th of the night. However, it 
wasn’t enough to smother the 
Bulldogs’ offensive flame. A kill 
from Mississippi State outside 
hitter Shania Cromartie sealed the 
second set 25-23 for the Bulldogs. 
Despite an early 3-0 Gators 
lead to start the third set, the 
Bulldogs cranked out nine 
consecutive points to surpass 
Florida 10-5. An extended rally 
lifted Florida fans from their seats 
as a block from Monserez, outside 
hitter Merritt Beason, and middle 
blocker Gabrielle Essix stopped 
the Bulldogs’ scoring run. 
The energy in the O’Dome 
shifted when the Gators 
rediscovered their groove. A 
Ceasar kill and back-to-back 
Essix kills forced the Bulldogs to 
call a timeout down 14-13. It was 
seesaw scoring to the end, but Mississippi State persevered. The 
Bulldogs took the third set 26-24, 
a win against the Gators now in 
sight. 
Both teams traded blows with 
one another throughout the fourth 
set. Florida climbed its way to a 
four-point cushion at 14-10 after 
Mississippi State suffered two 
costly attack errors and Victoria 
and Beason each pelted down 
kills. 
The Bulldogs failed to come 
within arms reach of the Gators 
the rest of the set. An Essix and 
Beason block gave Florida its 
ticket to the fifth set, 25-21. 
Gears initially shifted toward 
the Gators in the fifth set. Florida 
was able to keep Mississippi State 
off its tail until a Cromartie kill 
gave the Bulldogs their first lead 
of the set at 13-12. Determination 
fueled Mississippi State in the 
end, and a Ceasar attack error 
granted the Bulldogs its first 
program win against the Gators, 
15-13. 
The Gators will battle another 
set of Bulldogs this week as they 
hit the road to take on Georgia 
Wednesday in Athens at 7 p.m.
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.orgFlorida loses to Mississippi State for the first time in program history
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Florida outside hitter T’ara Ceasar spikes a ball toward the Mississippi 
State defense on Friday night in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
