We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperRamadan
This year’s holiday coincides with finals week at UF,  pg. 3
Dance Marathon
This year’s partially in-person event raised $2.2 millions,  pg. 4
Mohamoud’s influence
Mohamoud Diabate is the only Muslim on the Gators 
football team. Throughout his life, he ha s sought a delicate 
balance between religion and football in a modern world . 
Read more on page 14 .
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 29
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF student is in a medically induced 
coma after being hit by a car early Thursday 
morning.
At about 12:40 a.m., Calhoun Wolverton, 
a 19-year-old UF accounting second-year, 
was crossing the 300 block of Northwest 
13th Street, near Target and Krispy Kreme, 
when a car hit him outside of the crosswalk, 
said Graham Glover, Gainesville Police 
Department spokesperson. 
An ambulance rushed Wolverton to the 
Intensive Care Unit at UF Health Shands 
Hospital. As of Sunday night, no charges have 
been filed against the driver. The crash 
investigation could take months, Glover 
said.
Pedestrian safety in the city, particularly 
along University Avenue — just a couple 
blocks from where Wolverton was hit –– has 
become a concern after the deaths of two 
UF students on the road in December and 
January.
Wolverton will require facial 
reconstructive surgery, CAT scans, MRIs 
and other procedures to recover, according 
to a GoFundMe page created by Wolverton’s 
fraternity, Beta Theta Pi.
The fraternity started the fundraiser Friday to help cover his medical expenses. 
After receiving more than $20,000 in its first 
six hours, the fundraiser has raised more 
than $41,000 of its $70,000 goal as of Sunday 
night.
Wolverton’s family created a Facebook 
page called “Friends of Calhoun” to keep 
the community updated on his recovery. 
According to a post in the group, Wolverton’s 
MRI showed severe brain injuries, and he 
remains in a coma as of Sunday night.
The incident caught the attention 
of Florida Not One More, a student-led 
organization that advocates for safer roads 
in Gainesville. 
Florida Not One More created an Instagram 
post to call attention to Wolverton’s 
condition after its members heard about 
the fundraiser. The post received more than 
1,200 likes within two days.
“This shouldn’t happen to another UF 
student, Gainesville resident — anyone,” 
Kailey Kiss, a 21-year-old UF public relations junior and founder of the organization, said. 
“Everyone should always feel safe crossing 
the street.”
The Florida Department of Transportation, 
the city and UF have come up with short-term 
solutions, Kiss said, including the creation of 
two crosswalks, lowering the speed limit on 
University Avenue and GPD’s traffic safety 
initiative Gator STEP. However, she believes 
more long-term solutions are needed.
After the incident Thursday morning, 
Florida Not One More began planning a “die-
in” protest — where participants simulate 
being dead by lying on the ground with 
signs or drawing chalk outlines around their 
bodies — for April 17 at 5 p.m. 
“It’s a strong form of protest, but I feel it’s 
gotten to that point,” Kiss said. “It shouldn’t 
take another life for action to be taken on 
this issue.”
@LucilleLannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgUF student in coma after being hit by carHOW UNIVERSITY AVENUE BECAME ONE OF THE MOST 
DANGEROUS ROADS IN GAINESVILLE
Alligator Staff Report
On a particularly brisk January night, five students stood on a street corner. On 
one side of the road, UF’s campus sat quiet. On the other, students buzzed at bars and 
restaurants celebrating the first Saturday of the Spring semester.
Then two cars crashed. One barreled toward the five students.
A freshman, Sophia Lambert, was hit and killed. The other four were injured. But, 
this wasn’t the first time.
About a month earlier, Margaret “Maggie” Paxton was killed Dec. 9 in a hit-and-
run just a few blocks west on the same road –– University Avenue. She died nine days 
before the end of her second semester at UF.
In January 2020, Denise Griffiths, another UF student, was hit on the road while 
walking in a crosswalk. She died in the hospital days later.
For college towns like Gainesville, where students roam campus and nearby neighborhoods on foot, bicycles and scooters, safety while crossing the street is among 
the most important issues.
Following the series of crashes, community members decided it was enough. City, 
state and UF officials discussed how to make the road safer. Students and parents 
started organizations to push lawmakers toward structural changes. And police 
increased presence in the area to mitigate risk.
For the past three months, The Alligator reviewed the impact of these crashes, 
programs and enforcement. We found that University Avenue has been riddled with 
safety obstacles since its inception, and the battle over pedestrian safety isn’t a new one. 
We heard from the student leaders behind movements to decrease pedestrian crashes 
and those living with the tragedy of loss everyday.
This is Crossing Gainesville .
Read more on pages 8 -11
Photo by Chasity Maynard // Alligator Staff
Wolverton’ s fraternity started a GoFundMe 
page to raise money for his medical feesT oday’s Weather
THE “DINERS, DRIVE-INS AND 
DIVES”  STAR IS THE FIFTH 
ACCENT SPEAKER THIS SPRING  
By Carolina Ilvento
Alligator Staff Writer
On Thursday night, UF students 
had all their cooking, spice and 
food coma questions answered 
by the one and only Mayor of 
Flavortown.
Accent Speakers Bureau, a 
UF Student Government agency 
funded by student fees, hosted 
the renowned chef, restaurateur, 
author and TV host Guy Fieri to 
speak to students at a free, virtual 
event. 
Fieri won a Daytime Emmy 
Award in 2013 for his show “Guy 
Fieri’s Family Reunion.” He is also 
known for his other Food Network 
shows including the popular long-
running series “Diners, Drive-Ins 
and Dives.”
This was the third day of Accent 
events this semester. On Feb 3, 
the organization hosted YouTube 
stars Cody Ko, Noel Miller and 
David Dobrik in a $120,000 
show, and Tiffany Haddish and 
Tabbitha Brown March 24. Accent 
paid Haddish $75,000 and Brown 
$35,000 for their appearances.
The event was announced 
on Accent’s Facebook page 
Wednesday morning, less than 
48 hours before the show. Nearly 
300 students attended the event, 
according to Accent Chair Steven 
Wolf. He did not answer questions 
about why it was announced last-
minute nor the potential decrease 
in turnout because of the delayed 
announcement.
Wolf also did not answer 
questions regarding how much 
money Fieri was paid. The Alligator 
submitted public records requests 
for Fieri’s contract.  
The show consisted of a 
45-minute conversation moderated by UF’s Department of Journalism 
Chair Ted Spiker followed by a 
15-minute Q&A session.    
Spiker asked Fieri about 
the COVID-19 pandemic, his 
relationship with food and the 
critical New York Times review his 
restaurant received in 2012. 
Fieri, who is known for 
traveling across the country and 
trying all different types of foods, 
revealed the one food he won’t eat: 
beef liver.
"You could hide the keys to a 
new Ferrari under a plate of beef 
liver, and you wouldn't have to 
worry about me driving it," he 
said.
With more than 100,000 
restaurants closed last year due to 
the pandemic, owners and workers 
felt a huge financial impact. Seeing 
so many restaurants shut down, 
Fieri set a personal goal to raise 
$100 million to help, he said.
Although he fell short of this 
goal, Fieri was able to raise more 
than $20 million and helped 
more than 43,000 unemployed 
restaurant workers with a $500 
grant per worker. Fieri garnered 
support from major sponsors, such 
as Pepsi and UberEats.
“No, I didn't hit my $100 million. 
And no, I didn't get everybody 
money,” Fieri said. “But what we 
did do is we set an example that 
we could make an impact.”
Fieri also talked about his time 
and eating habits as a college 
student at University of Nevada 
in Las Vegas. He advised students 
in college to learn how to cook as 
early as they can.
“It is a life skill you need to 
know,” he said. “All of the stuff 
you put in your body has an end 
result on what it does to it.”
Cooking can save people, Fieri 
said. With the money someone 
would spend on a cheap fast food 
burger, they could buy brown rice, 
vegetables and a nice steak, and make themselves a week’s worth 
of diversified meals, he said.
Spiker asked about the 2012 
New York Times review criticizing 
the food and service in Fieri’s 
Times Square restaurant that had 
been recently opened. Fieri said 
even though he doesn’t agree with 
100% of what it said, he learned 
from it.
“It is not what happens to you. 
It is how you choose to handle it," 
Fieri said.
During the Q&A, a student 
asked for a piece of advice he 
would like to give his younger self.
"Keep doing what you're doing, 
you know. Live the way you've 
been living," he said. “Take the 
bumps, take the bruises, take the 
cuts and the scratches and smell 
the roses.”
Kawali Gokool, a 21-year-old 
master student of marketing, asked 
Fieri to give UF his most high-
energy welcome to Flavortown.
While Fieri didn’t do it right 
away, he promised he would 
before the end of the conversation. 
And he kept his word. 
As Spiker concluded the show, 
Fieri bid farewell by giving a final 
send-off: "My brothers and sisters 
of Flavortown: You rock, Gators!" 
he shouted.
 
J.P. Oprison contributed 
to this story
@CarolinaIlvento
cilvento@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 29
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Rodolfor Lauzrdo, Lucas SmithLily Laserna, Lori Sharabani,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Richard Forbes
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Ian Baldwin, 
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Baemnet Abetew
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Online Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Audience Director
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgMorgan Goldwich, mgoldwich@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Alyssa Feliciano, afeliciano@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgChristian Ortega, cortega@alligator.org
Declan Walsh,  dwalsh@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila,  gaguila@alligator.org
Karina Elwood, Kaelyn Cassidy, 
Payton Titus, Makiya SemineraMeghan McGlone, mmcglone@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgAlex DeLuca, adeluca@alligator.orgPayton Titus, ptitus@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.orgKarina Elwood, kelwood@alligator.org
Thomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgGuy Fieri talks food and future 
at virtual event for UF students
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Now recruiting those keeping nightlife  alive 
for a COVID prevention  study near you 
QUALIFIED PARTICIPANTS  MAY  BE COMPENSATED  
You may be eligible if:  
•You socialize without masks
or physical distancing  three
times per week
•You are at least 18 years of
age
CONTACT: 
Timothy Elder, MD
(352) 727-7000
4343 W. Newberry Road  
Gainesville, FL  32607
FINALS WEEK TAKES PLACE 
DURING THE ISLAMIC HOLY 
MONTH OF RAMADAN
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
Mahian Chowbhury joins billions 
of Muslims around the world to fast 
for a month each year in observance 
of Ramadan as a way to focus on hu -
mility, religion and self-control. 
Ramadan is the ninth month of the 
lunar Islamic calendar, in which ev -
ery month begins with a new moon. 
Muslims who observe Ramadan fast 
from dawn to sunset every day of the 
month, eating one meal before dawn 
and another after sunset.
But this year, the 18-year-old UF 
health science freshman is concerned 
about balancing his fast with finals. 
The holiday begins Apr. 12 and ends 
May 12, meaning it overlaps with 
UF’s finals week Apr. 29-30. 
Chowbhury is taking Chemistry 1 
and Biology 1 — both of which hold 
their exams at night, usually after 
sunset. This means he won’t be able 
to break his fast before his exam.  
“It’s going to be tough to balance 
and find the time for both of those 
things,” he said. “We can’t eat be -
cause we have to take our tests, and 
we’ll be starving and dehydrated for 
the entire day.”
Fasting while studying means 
Chowbhury will be drained of en -
ergy during the exam, he said, likely 
leading to poorer performance — 
especially if his exams are at night. 
Because he is a premedical student, 
Chowbhury said there’s no room for 
error when it comes to his academ -
ics, and it’s discouraging that his 
final grade could be jeopardized be -
cause of the conflict with Ramadan.
In a January administrative 
memo, Provost and Senior Vice Pres -
ident for Academic Affairs Joseph 
Glover addressed UF’s religious ob -
servances policies. 
Glover said students and faculty must share the responsibility of re -
ligious observance: students should 
inform their professors of their reli -
gious holidays, and professors must 
accommodate those holidays. This 
includes excused absences from class 
and “a reasonable amount of time” 
to make up missing assignments and 
material.
If a faculty member is aware of a 
religious event that impacts a “sig -
nificant number” of students, they 
shouldn’t schedule major academic 
requirements on those days. Howev -
er, because UF isn’t able to adjust its 
schedule for all religious observanc -
es, Glover said, individual students 
must reach out for accommodations.  
But Muslim students aren’t the 
only ones feeling overlooked by the 
university during their religious holi -
days.
Emma Hicks, an 18-year-old UF 
health science freshman, said she 
also felt let down by UF’s treatment 
of religious holidays when last se -
mester’s finals conflicted with Ha -
nukkah.
When Hicks found out UF’s de -
layed start to the Fall 2020 semester 
shifted finals to occur during Hanuk -
kah, she was extremely disappoint -
ed. 
“I could go to Target and get a 
menorah and feel special and all, but 
that’s not the same as being at home 
with your family and actually being 
able to fully observe the holiday,” 
she said.
Hicks said she wants the univer -
sity to acknowledge religious minori -
ties, even with something as simple 
as sending a message to professors 
informing them of upcoming reli -
gious holidays.
Tasnim Thakur, a 21-year-old UF 
business junior, echoed that senti -
ment.
About 1.8 billion people in the 
world are Muslim, 3.45 million of 
which live in the United States, ac -
cording to Pew Research Center. De -
spite Islam’s status as a major world 
religion, Islamic holidays aren’t rec -ognized with the same significance 
often allotted to religions like Christi -
anity and Judaism, said Thakur.
“Islam is a huge major religion,” 
she said. “So, the fact that our holi -
days aren’t recognized with the 
same significance as those Christian 
holidays is definitely something I’ve 
faced my entire life.”
When she reached out to instruc -
tors about missing classes for reli -
gious holidays in the past, Thakur 
said they were understanding. 
Despite the accommodations, she 
wishes instructors were more aware 
of Islamic holidays — especially Eid 
Al-Fitr, which concludes the month 
of Ramadan, and Eid Al-Adha, which 
marks the conclusion of pilgrimage 
rites, when Muslims from around 
the world travel to Mecca in Saudia 
Arabia. 
Since the Islamic calendar is lu -
nar, the dates shift every year, which 
means Eid Al-Adha can also land 
during the academic year.
“Those are the two most signifi -
cant and celebrated holidays in our religion,” she said. “For us, for Mus -
lims, it’s always us reaching out to 
the professor, not the professor being 
proactive like with major religious 
holidays in other big religions.”
Although she doesn’t strictly fol -
low all of the religious aspects of 
Islam, Thakur said her religion has 
always been a major part of her life 
since childhood, providing security, 
comfort and moral principles. 
“When my mom would read us 
bedtime stories, she would read us 
stories about the Prophet,” she said, 
referring to Islam’s founder, Prophet 
Muhammad. “My religion has been 
my life since the very beginning. 
I never really felt like I needed to 
make time for it because it was al -
ways there.”
When she started fasting for Ra -
madan in elementary school, her 
mother taught her to start by fasting 
half of the day, then the majority of 
the day. Once she became comfort -
able with that, she started fasting full 
days non-consecutively.
Eventually, after she reached middle school, Thakur began fasting 
for the whole month. But once she 
reached high school, Ramadan over -
lapped with the end of the school 
year. 
“It definitely has been an adjust -
ment trying to fast while classes are 
going on,” she said. 
Her concentration usually wanes 
at about 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. during Ra -
madan due to the lack of food and 
water, Thakur said. She worries this 
will be especially difficult this year 
because one of her final exams lasts 
from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. — right 
on the cusp of sunset.
She plans to reach out to her 
professor about changing the exam 
date. If that’s not possible, she would 
abstain from fasting the day of the 
exam.
“I would rather do well on the 
exam than force myself to fast and 
not do well on it,” she said.
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgMuslim UF students balance studies and spirituality during Ramadan
Aubrey Bocalan // Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021STATE LEADERS BELIEVE CONTROVERSIAL SENATE 
BILL 90 WOULD MAKE IT HARDER FOR BLACK 
VOTERS TO CAST BALLOTS
By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
   
Florida lawmakers are looking to make revisions to 
vote-by-mail. But an East Gainesville pastor worries these 
revisions could be restrictive to voters in vulnerable com -
munities.
Senate Bill 90, filed by Sen. Dennis Baxley, R-Ocala, 
would eliminate vote-by-mail drop boxes and make it so 
voters have to re-register for vote-by-mail ballots more 
frequently. 
“We see this past campaign as a stellar one, bringing 
out record numbers of people,” Karl Anderson, a 47-year-
old senior pastor at Upper Room Ministries, said about 
record Black voter turnout in November’s presidential 
election. “Others see it as a threat, unfortunately.”
Senate Bill 90 matches a trend of what many see as 
restrictive voting legislation throughout the United States 
meant to suppress voters of color. So far, 28 states have 
introduced, prefiled or carried more than 100 voting bills 
that restrict voting access this year, according to a Janu -
ary report from the Brennan Center for Justice. This is 
three times the number of bills the center classified as 
restrictive from the previous year.
Anderson’s signature is the third of 13 on a letter sent 
to the Florida Senate March 16, written by Black Florida 
clergymen calling for the bill to be amended. He is the 
area organizer of the Equal Ground Action Fund, a group 
promoting equal access to education about voting and 
empowerment. 
Some Black voters are hesitant to trust vote-by-mail 
because of research suggesting their ballots may be re -
jected at a higher rate. Despite the threat of contracting 
COVID-19, six in 10 Black voters said they voted in per -
son during the 2020 election compared to five in 10 white 
and Latino voters and three in 10 Asian voters, with most 
voting early, according to a report from the Pew Research 
Center.
But for some Black voters, locating a polling place is 
more difficult than it is for their white counterparts on 
election day, according to the American Bar Association. 
Research from the University of Maryland shows areas 
with less access to public transportation may see less 
turnout. 
Some lawmakers have closed polls in historically 
Black neighborhoods, forcing Black voters to travel fur -
ther to cast their vote. 
Vote-by-mail drop boxes can alleviate the stress of 
commuting to a precinct for voters of color, those in low-
income communities, disabled people and those in quar -
antine, the clergymen’s letter read.
If the bill is passed and vote-by-mail drop boxes are 
eliminated, the only alternative to mailing an absentee 
ballot would be for a voter or an immediate family mem -
ber to deliver the ballot to the Supervisor of Elections of -
fice. It also would require voters to request mail-in ballots 
each election cycle, whereas the request was previously 
valid until the end of the year of the following general 
election. For instance, voters who requested a mail-in 
ballot in 2020 would have continued to receive them un -
til 2022, the year of the midterm elections. 
Senate Bill 90 has been compared to a bill passed in 
Georgia March 26 that made it a misdemeanor to give 
voters food and water while they’re in line. Championed 
by Georgia Republicans, the bill also limited drop boxes 
to the inside of early voting locations in the state and 
makes it a requirement to have a photo ID to vote as an 
absentee.
“We find that such a bill will cause undue confusion 
and exacerbate a prevalent narrative of voter suppression 
against certain communities,” the letter read, signed by 
the Florida State Network of African American Clergy Al -
liances in reference to Senate Bill 90.
The group is demanding the legislature amend the 
bill to give voters more time to return their vote-by-mail 
ballots, have more flexible pickup locations, expand the 
number of optional days to vote early and require the 
state to perform capacity tests of voter equipment before 
each election. 
The group would also like the bill to allow same-day 
voter registration and require automatic voter registra -
tion — a measure that would make voting an “opt-out” 
system versus “opt-in,” Orlando Pastor Marcus McCoy, 
33, said.
As the organization’s Florida Faith outreach director, 
McCoy said the letter was meant to reach out to law -makers on behalf of Black state voters while showing the 
group is willing to work with legislators.
“We don’t want to come across as if we’re not able to 
reason,” McCoy said. “But we’re not going to sit quietly 
as they try to take us back to 1965.”
Some Florida Republicans have thrown their support 
behind Senate Bill 90 because of national discourse sur -
rounding vote-by-mail potentially increasing voter fraud. 
In 2016, former President Donald Trump falsely sug -
gested that ballots were being cast by illegal immigrants 
and deceased people and voter fraud was common in the 
United States.
However, a 2017 Brennan Center for Justice report re -
vealed the actual rate of voter fraud in the country was 
less than 0.01%.  
In the 2020 presidential election, vote-by-mail became 
a talking point for Trump as he consistently tried to di -
minish trust in mail votes. Although he tweeted returning 
a ballot through a third party was “rampant with fraud,” 
the former presidential candidate used this method him -
self, NPR reported. 
Baxley said in a Senate Governmental Oversight and 
Accountability Committee meeting on March 10 he wants 
to curb potential voter fraud with Senate Bill 90.
“I am all about staying ahead of whatever problems 
could develop,” he said. “So, it’s not that there was a 
debacle and we have to fix it. Do we have to wait for a 
debacle? Why can’t we take something that is working 
well and put guardrails on it and keep it safe.”
The pastors’ letter prompted responses from members 
of the Rules Committee, including Baxley, who met with 
the group March 23. 
During the meeting, Baxley brought up concerns of 
voter security, though McCoy said Baxley would not an -
swer the group’s question about what data prompted the 
elimination of drop boxes. 
The group of pastors also arranged meetings with four 
other state senators. 
Anderson said he fears what kind of precedent Senate 
Bill 90 could set in Florida policymaking when it comes 
to early voting.
In October, Anderson, whose church is located in East 
Gainesville, encouraged voters in his congregation to vote 
early after a Sunday service in a “Souls to the Polls” rally. 
Voting data shows 15% of Alachua County voters 
were Black in the 2020 presidential election — an in -
crease of less than 1% compared to 2016. Similar events 
to increase Black voter turnout have been held through -
out the country during every major election cycle since 
1962 to bolster voter turnout in communities of color.
“We want to educate and engage our people,” Ander -
son said. “If we don’t vote, we don’t have a voice.”
Anderson worries an amendment may be added to 
close the early voting window before the last Sunday 
before election day because a similar bill introduced 
in Georgia proposed the elimination of all early voting 
on Sundays, sandwiched among other provisions. This 
would be a pointed attack on the voting rights of Black 
Floridians due to the importance of Souls to the Polls 
events on that Sunday to increase turnout, Anderson 
said. 
“I see it as an attempt to take us back to the early 
1900s era of Jim Crow,” he said. “There’s really no other 
way of looking at it.”
However, during his meeting with the clergymen, 
Baxley promised he would oppose any amendments that 
might have this effect.
Former Alachua County Democratic Party Chair Cyn -
thia Chestnut, 71, agrees the bill is unnecessarily restric -
tive. She said in her more than 30 years in Florida poli -
tics, she’s never seen a bill that is as limiting to the state’s 
voters.
Chestnut and her husband used vote-by-mail drop 
boxes in the November election. To her, taking them 
away would dissuade vulnerable voters from dropping 
off their ballots. 
“It appears that the legislation is designed to punish 
people for voting and to curtail their involvement in the 
democratic process,” she said. “It’s a step backwards.”
Anderson’s concern of having an amendment added 
at the last minute excluding the last Sunday before an 
election in the early voting period is not unfounded, 
Chestnut said. 
“Nothing in the legislature has ever been this severe 
in cutting the voting rights of Floridians,” Chestnut said.
The fate of the Florida bill is now in the hands of the 
Senate Rules Committee. The committee will hear the bill 
on Wednesday.
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgEast Gainesville pastor joins Black clergymen to 
lobby against Florida Senate vote-by-mail bill DANCERS PARTICIPATED IN 
SHIFTS OF 13 HOURS AND 
SIX MINUTES  
By Sofia Echeverry
Alligator Staff Writer
Despite aching legs and feet 
after standing for 13 hours and 
six minutes straight — or 13.1 
hours, a nod to the length of a 
half-marathon — Brooke Peck 
knew she had to see the chal -
lenge through to the end. 
The 20-year old UF psychol -
ogy sophomore was a dancer at 
UF’s 27th annual Dance Mara -
thon fundraiser, where she 
helped raise money for children 
at UF Health Shands Children’s 
Hospital. 
However, the event that 
normally packs hundreds of 
students into the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center was physi -
cally distanced and split into 
two parts this year because of 
COVID-19.
Dance Marathon raised $2.27 
million dollars this year, about 
$250,000 less than last year. 
The amount was announced at 
the main event, held both at the 
O’Connell Center and virtually 
April 10 and 11. The 26-hour-
and-12-minute event — meant 
to simulate the 26.2 miles of a 
marathon — was the culmina -
tion of a yearlong effort to col -
lect funds for the Children’s 
Miracle Network Hospitals. 
Dance Marathon recom -
mended anyone attending the 
event to quarantine for at least 
two weeks beforehand. The or -
ganization enforced UF Screen, 
Test and Protect protocols, such 
as physical distancing, face cov -
erings and frequent sanitation. 
UF students were required to 
wear a face covering at all times 
and show a “Cleared” status 
on their ONE.UF portal to par -
ticipate, according to the Dance 
Marathon website.
The event also underwent 
changes to accommodate safety 
precautions. Instead of stay -
ing on their feet for 26.2 hours, 
dancers participated in two 
shifts of 13.1 hours each. The 
first shift was April 10 from 8 
a.m. to 9:06 p.m., and the sec -
ond was April 11 from 6 a.m. to 
7:06 p.m. 
Peck was impressed with 
Dance Marathon officials’ ef -
forts to keep participants social -
ly distanced, including dancer 
relations captains, who work 
throughout the year to commu -
nicate information about Dance 
Marathon’s events to dancers. 
At the O’Connell Center, of -
ficials separated participants 
by dancer groups, and dancers 
stood on spaced-out floor mark -
ers during events, she said. 
The groups were made up of about 20 dancers who stayed 
together while physically dis -
tancing themselves from other 
groups and rotating through dif -
ferent activities at the O’Connell 
Center, according to the Dance 
Marathon website.
“I didn’t feel unsafe at any 
time,” Peck said. 
Participants were allowed to 
drink water inside but had to 
go outside to eat. Some excep -
tions were made due to rainy 
weather, she said. Once out -
side, groups ate together at dis -
tanced tables.
While outside, Peck got a 
chance to play Frisbee with 
a “miracle child,” one of the 
children meant to benefit from 
Dance Marathon’s fundraising. 
Miracle children were only 
able to attend if their medical 
team approved, according to 
the Dance Marathon website. 
Throughout the day, miracle 
families shared their stories, ei -
ther in person — on the stage 
or floor, surrounded by only 
Dance Marathon officials  — or 
virtually. 
“It’s insane to hear some of 
the things that they’re going 
through and how brave and 
strong they’ve been throughout 
it,” Peck said. 
After the two-day marathon, 
participants involved in the 
event reunited in person at the 
O’Connell Center for the “Total 
Reveal” moment, which was 
also live-streamed for those at 
home.
During the total reveal pre -
sentation, Holly Bogart, mother 
of 17-year-old miracle child Kin -
sey Bogart, recounted Kinsey’s 
story of years with kidney fail -
ure and dialysis for the in-per -
son and virtual crowd. 
After a failed kidney trans -
plant, Kinsey started dialysis 
treatments at UF Health Shands 
Hospital, which is an hour-long 
drive from her house. Holly 
teared up while recalling how 
her daughter lost consciousness 
on the way to a dialysis treat -
ment in 2019.
She remembered thinking 
Kinsey would die that day, she 
said.
“But once again, we received 
another miracle,” Holly said.
Since then, the Bogart family 
has been making thrice-weekly 
visits to Shands for four-and-
a-half-hour long dialysis treat -
ments on machines funded by 
Dance Marathon.
“Our story continues, but 
we’re not alone,” Holly said. 
“I’m not saying we don’t strug -
gle, we absolutely do, but we 
focus on tackling the issues at 
hand and we stay positive.”
@sofecheverry
secheverry@alligator.orgDancing “For The Kids” during a pandemic: 
UF’s Dance Marathon raises over $2.2 millionMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
AS OF FRIDAY, MORE THAN 
15,000 PEOPLE RECEIVED A 
VACCINE AT THE STADIUM
By Manny Rea
Alligator Staff Writer
For Merrill Garlington, nor -
malcy waited three escalator rides 
above her at Ben Hill Griffin Sta -
dium. 
The last year has been difficult 
for the 19-year-old UF psychology 
freshman, searching for a nor -
mal college experience with good 
times and new friends. She’s only 
had one in-person class in her 
two semesters here. 
But on April 5, she was able to 
help correct the course of her and 
her classmates’ future by getting 
the COVID-19 vaccine.
“I’m just excited for the world 
to hopefully go back to close to 
normal,” Garlington said.
An area of Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium normally designated for 
Gators football fans on game days 
became the setting for COVID-19 
vaccines Monday, Wednesday, 
Friday and Saturday. Scheduling 
will continue for at least five more 
weeks at the stadium according to 
Vice President of Student Affairs 
D’Andra Mull.
The same day Florida opened 
vaccine eligibility to people ages 
16 and up, UF opened its land -
mark stadium to students, staff 
and faculty to receive the Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. Stu -
dents and student-athletes were 
among the first in line to get the 
shot in the Champions Club at 
9 a.m. Appointments ran until 9 
p.m. 
While the excitement may not 
have matched the energy that 
normally filled The Swamp on 
game day, the foot-tap fidget -
ing and phone browsing in line showed students were ready to 
walk away with protection from 
the virus. 
Prepping upper arms and 
watching for allergic reactions 
made up Rohan Johnson’s first 
day of vaccinating against CO -
VID-19. The contributions of the 
26-year-old UF PharmD senior 
candidate are a slice of what vol -
unteers, students and organiza -
tion leaders do to make the vac -
cination process work, he said.
“Everyone’s stepping up to the 
plate in terms of trying to get us 
back to a sense of normalcy,” he 
said.
UF sent an email to students, 
faculty and staff March 30 an -
nouncing they could schedule 
an appointment through ONE.UF 
for a first or second dose of the 
Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at the 
Champions Club. 
About 3,000 appointments 
were scheduled within the first 
hour of the portal opening that 
evening, Dr. Michael Lauzardo, 
the director of UF Health’s Screen, 
Test & Protect program, said. 
About 20,000 people sched -
uled vaccine appointments the 
week of April 5. UF Health will 
collaborate with the Florida De -
partment of Health in Alachua 
County to accommodate about 
20,000 appointments four days a 
week.
The two entities have worked 
together for decades, but the CO -
VID-19 pandemic marked a new 
level of partnership in contact 
tracing and vaccinating people 
on- and off-campus, Paul Myers, 
the administrator for the County 
health department, said. 
About 80% of people 65 and 
older in Alachua County have 
been vaccinated as of April 5, 
Lauzardo said. 
UF plans to start Summer B classes June 28 at regular capac -
ity for in-person classes. As of 
Sunday, it is still unclear whether 
social distancing or masks will be 
required.
“I know people are impatient 
and want to get back to normal,” 
Lauzardo said. “Just hang on for 
a little bit longer.”
It’s unclear what percentage 
of the county population needs to 
be vaccinated to reach herd im -
munity; however, he said eligible 
people should get the shot.
While the university doesn’t 
plan to require vaccines for stu -
dents, UF President Kent Fuchs 
still wants to see members of the 
community get it.
“It’s really up to the voluntary 
decisions of everyone, all the em -
ployees, all the students,” Fuchs 
said. 
As she registered consent 
forms for vaccine recipients, Ga -
brielle Ray, a 19-year-old UF an -
thropology sophomore and event 
volunteer, said she wanted to 
contribute to the greater immuni -
zation effort. 
Having worked the past month 
to help immunize older people, 
she said the recent eligibility ex -
pansion to college-aged students 
is an important moment.
“It’s just really exciting how 
quickly everything changed,” Ray 
said. “Literally last week, I was 
writing birthdays that were in like 
1930 and now it’s 2000.”
Students walked through the 
Champions Club gates and up 
several escalators to get to their 
inoculation destination. It took 
about four months since the first 
dose was given in the U.S. to offi -
cially reach the upper arms of the 
university’s younger population.
“I’ve been anticipating [getting 
the vaccine] since the start of the 
pandemic, but I was more than happy to wait my turn in line,” 
Alexandra Benedit, a 21-year-old 
UF public relations senior, said. 
“It was the most painless shot 
I’ve ever done.”
Some people were able to leave 
as soon as they were vaccinated. 
Administrators will still require 
people with a history of vaccine 
allergic reactions to be observed 
for 30 minutes, Lauzardo said. 
However, the 15-minute obser -
vation for everyone else became 
optional because immediate reac -
tions to the COVID-19 vaccine are 
even less common than the flu 
shot, he said. 
The Centers for Disease Con -
trol and Prevention still recom -mends these intervals for the 
post-vaccine process. 
As students left Ben Hill Grif -
fin Stadium after receiving their 
shots, volunteers offered them 
shirts with just two words printed 
next to a picture of Albert, UF’s 
alligator mascot: “Beat COVID.”
Andrew Girard, a 22-year-old 
UF forestry senior, said getting 
the vaccine protects his peers and 
his grandparents from the virus.
“Hopefully, this is the begin -
ning of returning to normalcy,” 
Girard said. “This is the begin -
ning of the end in a good way.”
@ReaManny
mrea@alligator.orgUF holds mass COVID-19 vaccination effort for campus community at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium  
Julia Cooper // Alligator Staff
Isabel Crist, 19, (left) a UF telecommunication freshman receives her first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech 
COVID-19 vaccine on Monday, April 5, 2021.Julia Cooper // Alligator Staff
Carlos Aleman (left), 25, a graduate pharmacy student fills a syringe 
with a dose of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine on Monday, April 5, 2021.Julia Cooper // Alligator Staff
Albert Gator gets vaccinated alongside students at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium on Monday, April 5, 2021. Monday was the first day 
COVID-19 vaccines were made widely available to UF students.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
LOCALS PLANTED TREES, 
PICKED UP LITTER, PAINTED 
OVER GRAFFITI AND PULLED 
INVASIVE PLANTS
By Katie Delk
Avenue Staff Writer
Alachua County participated 
in the nation’s largest community 
improvement program for the 29th 
year in a row.
Saturday’s Great American 
Cleanup took place from 9 a.m. to 
noon and started at Massey Park, 
located at 1001 NW 34th St. Locals 
planted trees, picked up litter, paint -
ed over graffiti and pulled invasive 
plants with Keep Alachua County 
Beautiful (KACB). 
“The four P’s,” Gina Hawkins, 
executive director of KACB, called 
them. 
Hawkins, who has been involved 
with the event since its start, said it 
began as the “Neighborhood Clean -
up” and “Great Florida Cleanup.” 
Six years later, the environmental organization Keep America Beauti -
ful adopted it.
“It went national,” Hawkins 
said. “We like to think we had a role 
in that.”
Volunteers were given supplies 
including gloves, grabbers, masks, 
hand sanitizer, trash bags, safety 
vests and first-aid kits. After meet -
ing at the park, volunteers dispersed 
to their service sites.
As a safety precaution, Hawkins 
said she ordered 500 triple-layered 
masks with filters, KACB logos and  
storage bags and 1,000 white cotton 
reusable ones. She said volunteers 
had to remain six feet apart and 
could remove their masks if more 
than 10 feet apart.
The county waived trash-transfer 
fees for the event. 
Hawkins said there were more 
than 300 volunteers at the event. As 
many as 800 people have attended 
in previous years. She attributed 
their consistently large turnout to 
the local organizations KACB part -
ners with.
“I think that’s where our organi -
zation is particularly strong in that we partner with other organiza -
tions,” she said.
Over 100 organizations teamed 
up with KACB for the cleanup. 
The Grow Hub, a nonprofit that 
trains disabled adults for sustainable 
living, gardened with volunteers at 
Saturday’s event. 
Another group plucked invasive 
species, such as Carl Ardisia, which 
has scarlet berries, at Hogtown 
Creek.
“If you’ve ever tried to pull a 
Carl Ardisia plant, you’re probably 
disappointed when the berries fell 
off and crawled under the leaves,” 
Hawkins said. “We instruct people 
how to put a trash bag over the 
plant before they give it a yank.”
She defines invasive species as 
those that aggressively compete 
for space with native and desirable 
plants. In her yard, she corners in -
vasive lantana by mowing around 
it.
Other volunteers collected trash 
where private trucks dropped their 
trash. 
She said KACB relies on the com -
munity to notify her of these sites and graffiti around the city.
A lot of graffiti is on dumpsters, 
she said. So volunteers painted over 
vandalization with buckets of blue 
and green paint to match the color 
of the dumpsters. Hawkins said 
KACB saves walls or fences people 
graffitied for the cleanup.
Unlike public art, graffiti artists 
did not have permission, she said.
“We love murals. We love the 
34th Street wall,” Hawkins said. 
“We just dislike when people don’t 
show a regard for other public and 
private property.”
Brandon Tran, a 19-year-old UF 
business administration sophomore, 
attended the event with his frater -
nity, Delta Sigma Pi. As the frater -
nity’s vice president of community 
service, he helped raise $1,500 for 
KACB through a virtual voting con -
test hosted by Radiant Credit Union.
Tran said he focused on KACB 
because of its lasting sustainability 
impact.
“I see their efforts. I see what 
they do,” he said. “And I see how it 
truly does make an impact through -
out Gainesville.”
Recently he and Delta Sigma Pi 
volunteers planted around 800 trees 
in the Little Orange Creek Preserve 
with KACB. Volunteering with them is a rewarding experience, 
Tran said. 
“I think every person that makes 
an effort counts, and it goes towards 
something,” he said.
Volunteers received T-shirts, wa -
ter bottles, shopping bags and food, 
and all of them were entered for 
various prizes.
“These people work hard. People 
who do the right thing deserve to be 
recognized,” Hawkins said.
@katie_delk
kdelk@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
Dominating the competition
Florida’s men’s tennis team continues finding ways to succeed on 
the court. Sports writer Jesse Richardson breaks down why the 
Gators are doing so well on page 16 . Scan to listen to The Avenue’s podcast on Spotify
Scan to listen to the 
Avenue’s favorite songs 
for spring.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFY
 NATURENATURE
Chasity Maynard // Alligator Staff
Isabella Prieto-Bueno, 7, (left) and Samuel Prieto-Bueno, 8, (right) help their mother Laura Bueno (center) plant at Loblolly Woods Nature Park. The family participated in the 
Great American Cleanup on Saturday, April 10, 2021, hosted by Keep Alachua County Beautiful..
Keep Alachua County Beautiful hosts 29th 
annual Great American CleanupTHE NEW RESTAURANT OFFERS VEGAN 
MENU ITEMS AND 
SOCIALLY DISTANCED SEATING
By Kristin Bausch
Avenue Staff Writer
From burgers to po’boys, nachos to french 
fries, Goldie’s Burgers is bringing another food 
option to Gainesville’s Depot Park.
The new burger joint sits in what looks 
like an old train car, also known as the Depot 
Station, located at 201 SE Depot Ave. 
Goldie’s Burgers opened in late March and 
is owned by Top Hub. The company owns 
several local businesses around Gainesville 
such as Boxcar Beer & Wine Garden, Pop-A-
Top and The Top.
Bailey Bruce, 32, events director for Top 
Hub, said the company has been fortunate 
to lease the historic depot building, which 
includes a bar, an event space and a general 
store.
But according to Bruce, the idea had been 
in the works for a couple of years. 
“We know that there’s such a necessity for 
food while people are in the park,” she said. 
“So although we’ve been talking about it for 
a couple years, we’ve kind of nailed down 
what we think is best down there, and that’s 
where the burger idea came from. It’s easy, it’s 
handheld, people can grab it and go.”
Bruce said in light of the pandemic, Depot Park has become a common place to hang out 
in Gainesville, where people have access to 
a bar, lots of spaced-out seating and multiple 
food options, such as Humble Wood Fire Pizza 
and a rotation of local food trucks.
Josh Palmer, a chef for Top Hub and Goldie’s 
Burgers, said the Depot Station originally had 
snack items like chicken tenders, Tater Tots 
and nachos, which remained on the menu for 
a sense of familiarity.
They also valued the community’s 
feedback, Palmer said.
“People would come into the convenience 
store and ask if we have fries,” he said. “They 
would come to the bar and ask if we had 
burgers, so it’s like ‘Eh, give people what they 
want.’”
Palmer helped develop the menu and said 
a favorite so far has been the patty melt and 
the tofu po’boy, a vegan option with pressed 
tofu marinated in pickle brine and fried in a 
‘blackening mixture.’
Andrew Chadwick, 46, heard about Goldie’s 
via Instagram and ordered the tofu po’boy and 
fries during his visit.
“The po’boy had a great combination of 
flavors and felt fresh and filling,” he wrote 
in a message. “I noticed I was trying to take 
smaller bites to savor the taste. The crinkle-cut 
fries had some sort of spice on them that was 
delicious and addictive.”
With Goldie’s as the newest food addition 
to the area, Chadwick said he’s thankful 
there’s another food option on the east side of Gainesville where “delicious” vegetarian and 
vegan options are available.
Palmer said he hopes people see Goldie’s as 
a quick and easy way to safely enjoy a meal.
“I think right now it’s important to have a 
restaurant that has outdoor seating, and it’s 
just easy and convenient to grab and go to 
the park,” Palmer said. “I think people really 
need that now. It’s good to take a break. I 
mean, even if you’re not at the park, to come eat at Goldie’s and just sit outside, it’s kind of 
therapeutic.”
Goldie’s Burgers is open every day from 
noon to 8 p.m. except Tuesdays. More 
information about the restaurant can be found 
on its Instagram, @goldiesdepot. 
@BauschKristin
kbausch@alligator.orgMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
“FEARLESS (TAYLOR’S VERSION), ”  
THE FIRST OF SIX RERECORDS, 
DROPPED FRIDAY AT MIDNIGHT  
By Veronica Nocera
Avenue Staff Writer
Few artists can boast a range of 
genres diverse enough to represent 
each distinct stage of childhood, 
adolescence and young adulthood. 
Taylor Swift is an exception.
“Fearless (Taylor’s Version)” 
dropped Friday at midnight, 
beginning Swift’s venture to re-
record her first six albums. 
The country-turned-pop-turned-
electropop-turned-folk artist has been 
topping the charts since her self-
titled debut album, “Taylor Swift,” 
premiered in 2006. Since then, Swift 
has accumulated 11 Grammy wins, 
written seven No. 1 hits and released 
nine studio albums — all while 
solidifying her place as one of the 
most influential singer-songwriters of 
all time. 
On Feb. 11, Swift announced 
her plan to re-record the six studio 
albums she released between 2008 
and 2017. The decision followed an 
ongoing conflict between Swift and 
artist manager Scooter Braun, who 
recently sold the master recordings 
for all of Swift’s music prior to 
“Lover,” her 2019 studio album. 
Swift kicked off the re-recording 
process with the new deluxe version 
of “Fearless.” The album includes all 
19 of the original songs, one 2010 
soundtrack single and six previously 
unreleased tracks. 
“Fearless,” Swift’s second studio 
album, was originally released 
in November 2008 and has since been credited as her mainstream 
breakthrough beyond country 
music. For fans new and old, Swift 
rerecording those songs nearly 13 
years later has evoked nostalgia and 
reminiscence. 
Kendall Brockelman, a 19-year-
old UF natural resource conservation 
sophomore, has been listening to 
Swift’s music since the artist’s debut 
album. She said her older sister first 
introduced her to Swift, and almost 
15 years later, she’s still a fan.
“She’s been there for each stage of 
my life,” Brockelman said. “Anything 
I’m going through, there can be a 
Taylor Swift song I can put on.”
Brockelman was only seven years 
old when “Fearless” first dropped, 
but she said she vividly remembers 
watching the “You Belong With Me” 
music video on a loop when it was 
released. Now, she said she’s excited 
to revisit these old favorites and feel 
like a little kid again. 
The album was formative for 
many soon to be mega-fans of Swift, 
or Swifties; now it holds a special 
place in their heart. 
Sydney Pappas, an 18-year-old 
UF business management freshman 
didn’t get into Swift’s music until 
around 2010, but she said she still 
considers “Fearless” a defining 
album in her life. Pappas said she 
always resonated with Swift’s songs, 
especially those that address themes 
of struggling with belonging and 
navigating high school. 
“Everyone has this idea that 
Taylor Swift sings about breakups 
and relationships,” she said. “But she 
really sings about so much more than 
that — she tells stories in her songs.” 
One memory Pappas recollected 
was her 15th birthday, which  she described as far from celebratory. 
The day took a turn for the better, 
she said, when her mom picked 
her up from school — and the song 
“Fifteen” by Swift was playing. 
Over the past decade, Pappas has 
attended eight Swift concerts, even 
traveling to Nashville, where Swift 
kicked off her music career, several 
times with her family to see Swift 
perform. While at her Reputation 
Stadium Tour in Miami, Pappas 
said Swift performed “Breathe” as 
a surprise song. The night added 
another level of nostalgia to the track, 
and Pappas said she’s excited to hear 
it re-recorded. 
Pappas also said she’s astonished 
by the fact that she’s currently the 
same age Swift was when “Fearless” 
was first released. 
“It’s like a full circle moment,” 
she said. “She recorded it when she 
was 18, and now she’s rerecording it 
when I’m 18.” 
For fans of all ages, Swift’s music 
has become a core memory in their 
lives.
Tanya Charan, a 19-year-old UF 
biomedical engineering freshman, 
said she didn’t listen to a Swift album 
all the way through until middle 
school, when Swift’s fifth studio 
album, “1989,” was released. Still, 
she said she remembers many iconic 
images of pop-era Swift, such the 
artist writing 13, her lucky number, 
on her hand during concerts and 
quotes on her arms during the Speak 
Now tour. Charan said the “You 
Belong With Me” music video was 
one of the only videos she and her 
friends would watch on Youtube 
when on playdates. 
Ryan Felton, a 22-year-old UF 
criminology senior, has a similar relationship with Swift’s music 
videos, which marked his first 
introduction to the artist in the 
seventh grade. He said he considers 
“Love Story,” a track from the album 
“Fearless,” one of Swift’s best. 
Toward the climax of the song, the 
music rises to a crescendo — an 
element Felton said is his favorite 
crescendo out of any other song. 
Despite not being a fan when 
“Love Story” first dropped, Felton 
said the song still sparks happy 
memories for him, including a road 
trip where he had control of the 
music. He recalled singing along 
to “Love Story” with his friends as 
they pulled into the airport parking 
lot — building up to the well-loved 
crescendo — when the driver shut 
off the van seconds before the song’s 
climax. 
“Everyone in the van just kind of 
moans in desperation,” Felton said. 
Basel Hussein, a 21-year-old 
UF architecture junior, is also a 
more recent fan of Swift. They said 
they first got into her music after 
“Reputation,” Swift’s sixth studio 
album, was released in 2017. Six 
months later, Hussein said their 
Spotify Wrapped listed Swift as their 
top artist that year — and it’s stayed 
that way ever since. 
Now a self-proclaimed “student 
of Taylor Swift,” Hussein said they 
consider “Fearless” their favorite 
album of hers, as it captures the 
energy of reading from diary entries 
and sets the stage for the rest of 
Swift’s music. 
“As someone who didn’t get to 
experience being an 18-year-old girl 
— the honesty and the complete 
melodrama and unabashedness of it 
— it’s very endearing,” Hussein said. “It’s really an album only somebody 
could write in that era, in that very 
hyper-emotional time in your life.” 
As someone who once fell victim 
to stereotyping Swift’s discography 
as “teenage girl music,” Hussein 
said embracing Swift as an artist 
was monumental in their “journey of 
accepting pop music as a valid music 
form.” 
“Growing up, it’s very much like 
‘pop music is bad,’” they said. “To 
dispel that kind of came hand in 
hand with becoming a Swiftie.” 
As the clock struck midnight 
Friday, fans across campus — and 
across the globe — were united as 
they prepared to stream “Fearless 
(Taylor’s Version)” for the first time. 
Brockelman danced along to the 
album in her room, careful to not 
wake up her roommate. Pappas 
tuned in with her AirPods while 
texting her friends from home. 
Felton listened in his room with his 
headphones, having a nice drink. 
Hussein live-tweeted and treated the 
album like a celebration, like they 
do every Swift song. And Charan 
streamed the album on Spotify, 
awaiting the arrival of the CD she 
preordered. 
“I bought a CD player because 
my laptop doesn’t have one,” Charan 
said. “I didn’t think I’d have to do 
that in 2021 — but here we are.” 
Whether someone is a decadelong 
Swiftie or a more casual listener, 
“Fearless (Taylor’s Version)” offers 
fans the opportunity to revisit the 
soundtracks of their past — and 
maybe add a few new songs to the 
playlist, as well.
@vernocera
vnocera@alligator.org‘Forever & Always’ Swifties: UF students reflect on Taylor Swift’s new releaseGoldie’s Burgers is bringing new flavors to Depot Park
MUSICMUSIC
FOOD & DRINKSFOOD & DRINKS
Photo by Melissa Hernandez De La Cruz 
The new restaurant opened in late March.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
CROSSING GAINESVILLE
By Lianna Hubbard
Alligator Staff Writer
For decades, experts warned 
University Avenue wasn’t safe.
They warned the road was 
too fast and pedestrians were too 
exposed. But the city and state 
ignored their caution. Traffic 
thickened, the road expanded, 
development boomed and foot 
traffic increased.
Then the crashes started. Lives 
were lost, and the warnings came 
too late.
University Avenue, one of the 
main east-west arteries running 
through the city, evolved from a 
dirt road into a four-lane highway 
bordering UF’s campus. It’s now 
the heart of the UF community — 
the north side of the road boasts 
nightlife at Midtown, a complex of 
bars, clubs, late-night restaurants 
and growing student apartments. 
UF campus and Midtown pack the 
road’s sidewalks with pedestrians 
day and night.
Yet, it is one of the most 
dangerous roads for pedestrians in 
Gainesville. Since 2016, it’s seen 
the highest number of the city’s 
pedestrian crashes — 70, according 
to data from the Gainesville Police 
Department. Seven have been 
fatal.
It ties with Waldo Road as 
the deadliest road in Gainesville. 
University Avenue’s crashes 
are also more likely to create 
incapacitating injuries, injuries 
that are non-fatal but prevent the 
injured person from continuing 
normal activity. Crashes on the 
road resulted in 12 incapacitating 
injuries in the past five years — the 
most of any road in Gainesville.
University Avenue’s expansion 
in the 70s and 80s began a decades 
long battle over driver comfort 
versus pedestrian safety. National 
city planners, local pedestrian 
activists and the Gainesville 
government have waged war over 
the road’s design ever since, but 
most attempts to dramatically 
change University Avenue’s design 
failed –– until this year.
The state and city stayed stubborn about the road for 
decades before. Driver-oriented 
politicians and businesses in 
fear of losing customers fought 
city planners to keep the roads 
wide and fast. And even when 
Gainesville made efforts to protect 
pedestrians, Florida state agencies 
shut down redesigns to the state-
controlled road.
Following crashes that killed 
two UF first-year students and 
injured five more within two 
months, along with weeks of 
community outrage, the city and 
state finally started to change the 
road.
What makes University 
Avenue dangerous?
Local politicians, design experts 
and national city planners point 
to the road’s speedy design as the 
culprit behind its danger.
Chris Furlow, the president 
of Gainesville Citizens for Active 
Pedestrian, believes University 
Avenue treats pedestrians as 
obstacles to cars moving across 
town as quickly as possible.
A road’s design can prioritize 
drivers over pedestrians and give 
drivers cues to slow down, speed 
up or pay attention, Furlow said. 
More and wider lanes tell drivers 
it’s okay to go fast. University 
Avenue’s wide 11-foot lanes give 
drivers those cues to speed without 
concern.
A lack of cues to slow down and 
be aware like raised crosswalks, 
roundabouts and speed tables — 
wide, flattop speedbumps — tells 
drivers they don’t have to pay 
attention.
Something as subtle as roadside 
parking and median trees can give 
drivers unconscious cues to slow 
down. The more that is blocking 
drivers’ views, the more likely they 
are to slow for what they can’t see, 
Furlow said.
He described high-speed 
highways like University Avenue 
as “death by design.”
“They assume there won’t be a 
lot of pedestrian traffic or people 
on bikes,” Furlow said. “The state roads are the biggest safety 
problem right now in Gainesville.”
University Avenue began as 
a two-lane, pedestrian-friendly 
road. But by the 1970s, the Florida 
Department of Transportation 
began the decadeslong 
transformation into a four-lane 
highway.
Mark Barrow, a local historian 
and founder of Historic Gainesville, 
has watched University Avenue 
change since he began his degree 
at UF in 1953.
“When I got here, University 
Avenue was lined by big oaks 
on either side of the street,” 
said Barrow, who has lived in 
Gainesville for 68 years. “It was a 
two-lane road, not a four-laner.”
It was once a dirt road called 
Alachua Avenue and Liberty 
Street, Barrow said. The city paved 
the road after Gainesville was 
established as the seat of Alachua 
County in 1854 and renamed the 
street University Avenue in 1911 
after UF was established.
FDOT stripped on-street parking 
and added lanes throughout 
the ’70s and ’80s, according to 
Gainesville Sun archives.
“It was all in the name of 
progress,” Barrow said. “You’ve 
got to build, build, build.”
The justification for 
reconstruction was not unique to 
Gainesville.
Pedestrian safety wasn’t a 
priority when University Avenue 
was expanded, said Victor Dover, 
one of Gainesville’s former city 
planners.
“All over America, streets like 
University Avenue were disfigured 
in the name of happy motoring and 
made faster and faster,” he said.
Engineering attitudes focused 
on cars, businesses and moving 
quickly, Dover said.
Cities and states wanted wide 
and fast-moving roads to keep 
congestion from building up in 
rush hours, Dover said. These 
roads were meant to support the 
economy by getting people to 
places faster.
Gainesville’s roads host 
thousands of students in foot traffic 
from UF. Increasing road widths 
to ease rush hour left pedestrians exposed for the other 23 hours of 
the day, he said.
“When a road is too wide, when 
congestion dies down and you’re 
off-peak, it becomes a road that is 
too fast,” he said.
Ignoring the experts
Experts warned about the 
dangers of University Avenue for 
decades — but city officials didn’t 
listen.
The city hired national planners 
to renovate neighborhoods along 
the road in the ’80s and ’90s. City 
planners cautioned the road was 
dangerous to pedestrians and 
stunted economic growth.
David Coffey, who served as 
a city commissioner from 1986 
to 1993, was appointed mayor in 
1988. During his mayorship, he 
brought in a city planner, Andrés 
Duany, to redesign the College Park 
neighborhood. This neighborhood 
stretches east from 13th Street 
to 20th Street and encompasses 
Midtown and student housing 
complexes.
Despite being hired to plan a 
student housing development, 
Duany took an interest in University 
Avenue. He saw the road as an 
obstacle to the neighborhood’s 
growth.
“His observation was, until you 
do something about the condition 
on University Avenue, you’re 
never going to be very successful 
creating a quality place for people 
along its edge,” Coffey said.
Duany immediately noticed the 
road was hostile for pedestrians 
and lacked cues to slow down, 
Coffey said.
“People will drive as fast as 
the road feels comfortable driving. 
And then some,” Coffey said. “The 
best way to modify that behavior 
is not by issuing tickets and yelling 
at people. It is to modify their 
comfort level.”
Duany recommended on-
street parking, which could have 
shielded pedestrians from traffic, 
cued drivers to slow down and 
bolstered economic development, 
Coffey said.
Allowing University Avenue to 
act as a highway severely hindered 
business development in the area, Coffey said.
“The potential of pedestrian 
activity there is about as high as 
you’ll ever find in a town this size,” 
he said. “The quality of that space 
is still so severely compromised by 
the fact that it really is functioning 
as a highway.”
Duany’s interest in University 
Avenue wasn’t in the scope of 
the plans Gainesville hired him 
to make. The time and money to 
rebuild the road, plus the energy 
to overcome political opposition, 
were too daunting for the city to 
take up, Coffey said.
Duany saw the same problems 
with the road that another city 
planner would point out 10 years 
later.
Gainesville hired Victor Dover, 
a city planner with international 
firm Dover, Kohl & Partners, 
to redesign College Park and 
University Heights neighborhoods 
for Gainesville in 1999.
“Too wide, too fast. All about 
cars,” he said about the road. “As 
for pedestrians, their safety is very 
much an afterthought.”
Dover included a University 
Avenue redesign in his plan that 
would have cut it to two lanes with 
a shared turning lane.
The extra room would have 
been used for bike lanes, pedestrian 
walkways, shop fronts and trees. 
One alternative even reinstated 
slanted, on-street parking.
Dover traced the road’s 
problems back to FDOT, the state 
agency that owned the road, 
and left Gainesville city officials 
relatively powerless in their ability 
to reform it.
University Avenue, which is part 
of State Road 26, was controlled by 
FDOT until the state agency handed 
over responsibility to Gainesville 
in February following community 
outrage over the UF freshmen’s 
deaths. Gainesville now controls 
the stretch of University Avenue 
from 34th Street to 13th Street.
The state agency was responsible 
for the road’s expansion and 
designed the road for fast cars. In 
2019, FDOT classified University 
Avenue as a road for drivers going 
30 to 45 mph. Since the crashes that 
killed UF freshmen in December “Death by Design”: University Avenue’s problems began with its construction
Photo courtesy of the Matheson History Museum
An undated postcard of University Avenue before the 1970s and 1980s 
renovations that eliminated on-street parking along the road.Graphic by Ashley Hicks // Alligator Staff
Data of crashes in Gainesville.
City and state officials ignored 
pleas to prioritize pedestriansMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   9 
and January, the community has 
been calling for a speed reduction 
to 20 mph.
Faster roads make crashes 
deadlier and more dangerous, 
according to the European 
Commission on Mobility and 
Transportation.
“The state has this overarching 
regional responsibility to keep 
things moving for the economy,” 
Dover said. “The cross-town 
mobility needs are more important 
than the close-up experience of life 
lived in the neighborhood.”
Pegeen Hanrahan said 
opposition to University Avenue’s 
redesign also came from a 
local level. She served terms 
as Gainesville’s mayor and 
commissioner from 1999 to 2010 
and hired Dover. University Avenue 
hasn’t changed in Hanrahan’s 55 
years as a Gainesville native.
“It’s been this big wide expanse 
of asphalt with relatively narrow 
sidewalks, not many street trees, 
not many crossing points,” she 
said.
Hanharan saw pedestrians 
stream to the road since the 1999 
plan as students ditched their 
cars in preference for walking and 
public transport.
During the early ’90s, RTS 
annual ridership ranged from 1.3 
to 2.9 million people, according to 
data from Gainesville’s Department 
of Transportation & Mobility. 
Ridership climbed before it peaked 
in 2013 at 10.9 million and dipped 
to 9.2 million in 2019, according to 
the data.
Students pushed to have 
transportation included in tuition 
fees in 2001. Now that students 
can ride anywhere with their Gator 
Card ID, fewer cars are on the road.
More students are living closer 
to campus, too, Hanharan said. 
Several student-housing projects 
have risen on campus’ borders in 
recent years, which means more 
foot traffic on the road.
More than 11 new residential 
construction plans have been 
approved for the neighborhood 
around the intersection of 
University and 13th Street, 
according to Gainesville’s project 
dashboard.
Hanharan said local business 
opposition and inertia of political action froze any plans to redesign 
the road for these pedestrians.
Some University Avenue 
businesses feared losing customers 
with slower roads, and some 
drivers balked at more traffic. 
Redesigning University Avenue 
would have cost upwards of $10 
million, she estimated.
 “There were a lot of people 
who liked to get from point A to 
point B as fast as they possibly can 
and to heck with anyone who gets 
in their way,” she said.
Those people are the majority 
of Gainesville citizens, according 
to Ed Braddy, who served terms 
as commissioner and mayor from 
2002 to 2016.
“There’s a big difference 
between some activists who will 
show up at a planning charrette in 
the middle of the week versus the 
vast majority of people who go to 
their jobs, work hard — they come 
home at night and just try to go 
about their business,” Braddy said.
Braddy opposed many plans 
for improving University Avenue 
during his terms, including 
reducing lanes and creating one-
way pairs. This would have made 
University Avenue a one-way road 
heading west with a new, parallel 
one-way road heading east.
He said the “radical” plans 
weren’t supported by the 
community but concocted by 
bureaucratic city planners in 
Gainesville. Any community 
support for the changes was 
cherry-picked by the planners to 
drown out the silent majority.
Braddy considered city planners 
to be overreaching what’s 
necessary.
“It’s not enough for some to 
simply say, ‘Maybe we should 
reduce the speed limits, and maybe 
we should improve the bicycle 
facilities,’” he said. “Instead, it 
becomes almost anti-automobile 
hostility. ‘How can we make those 
who drive more miserable?’”
He sees these improvements as 
a recipe for more traffic congestion. 
Fewer lanes won’t keep pedestrians 
safe, Braddy said. He wants 
plans that move pedestrians and 
sidewalks away from the roads and 
reduce lane capacity.
He thinks this can be achieved 
by retiming traffic signals and bringing traffic to other east-west 
roads.
The long struggle
Some Gainesville residents 
have resisted University Avenue’s 
expansion since its proposal. 
Over the years, the Gainesville 
government and pedestrian 
advocate groups joined the efforts 
to make it a safer road. Until this 
year, all attempts failed.
Local opposition and FDOT 
inaction have kept University 
Avenue locked in as a fast-moving 
road.
The Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization oversees 
the urban transportation planning 
program used to receive state and 
federal funding for Gainesville’s 
roads.
The organization releases a list 
of traffic projects each year to FDOT 
requesting funding, which ranks 
projects the city wants the state to 
fund in order of importance.
While University Avenue 
projects have been on MTPO’s list 
of priority projects for decades, 
FDOT hasn’t complied, said City 
Commissioner David Arreola, who 
chaired MTPO from 2020 to 2021.
“For years now, this section of 
the roadway has been our number one funding priority given to the 
state of Florida for them to fund. 
And they’ve done nothing with it,” 
Arreola said.
MTPO requested funding for 
projects expanding the road, 
updating infrastructure and making 
the road safer for pedestrians for 
decades. Following a 2015 study 
of University Avenue, pedestrian-
related solutions have remained a 
top priority, according to MTPO 
priority lists from 1995 through 
2020.
The study proposed more 
sidewalks, bike lanes, pedestrian 
crossings, redesigned intersections 
for pedestrians, improved bus 
stops and added raised medians. 
None of the projects were funded 
by FDOT, Arreola said.
FDOT spokesperson Troy 
Roberts could not immediately 
comment on these specific projects.
“FDOT funds projects based 
on the priorities of the MTPO,” he 
wrote in an email.
Arreola believes FDOT sees the 
road in a different way than the 
city.
“We believe that it’s about 
moving people, not about moving 
cars,” he said. “We don’t think 
that local roadways should be built 
like interstate highways.”A safer, slower future ahead
Over the decades, sentiments 
about Gainesville city design have 
changed.
States and cities became 
friendlier to ideas that seemed 
too difficult 20 years ago, such 
as widening sidewalks and 
repurposing lanes, city planner 
Dover said.
University Avenue hasn’t 
updated as fast as Gainesville’s 
other roads — the asphalt has been 
laid, and it can take decades for 
changes to be made again.
“Unlike the software in your 
computer or the programs on 
your streaming service, the built 
environment changes very slowly,” 
Dover said. “It takes a long time to 
build things, have them wear out 
and get around to have them being 
replaced.”
Roads are rebuilt during 
once-in-two-decade repavings or 
subterranean cable replacements, 
Dover said.
“Twenty years is the blink of 
the eye in city-planning times,” 
he said. “For the parents of those 
kids, it seems too late.”
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.orgOne of the most dangerous roads
Photo courtesy of the Matheson History Museum
An undated illustration of Liberty Street before it was paved in 1854 and renamed University 
Avenue in 1911.Photo courtesy of the Matheson History Museum
An undated postcard of University Avenue in Downtown Gainesville.Photo courtesy of the Matheson History Museum
An undated illustration of Alachua Avenue before it was paved in 1854 and renamed University Avenue in 1911.
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
COMMUNITY MEMBERS, STUDENTS AND 
PARENTS SAY THERE IS STILL 
A LONG WAY TO GO
By Anna Wilder and Emil 
Munksgaard Grosen
Alligator Staff Writers
When Fernando Ocon walks or drives to 
UF’s campus, he avoids University Avenue and 
takes another route. It’s an inconvenience, but 
he feels it may save his life.
The 21-year-old information systems soph -
omore believes for pedestrians like him, the 
road between Southwest 34th Street and 13th 
Street is dangerous and confusing after this se -
mester’s fatal crashes.
“The loss of fellow students feels personal 
to all of us,” Ocon said. “I just don’t feel safe 
walking on that road, and I know I am not 
alone.”
After years of student deaths on University 
Avenue — most recently the deaths of UF stu -
dents Sophia Lambert and Maggie Paxton — 
the road may finally see reform after commu -
nity cries caught the attention of city, county, 
UF and state officials.
Following the crashes, organizations like 
Florida Not One More and Gators Against Stu -
dent Pedestrian Deaths quickly made phone 
calls and flooded UF and the Florida Depart -
ment of Transportation with emails asking for 
speed limit reductions, pedestrian barriers and 
clear signage to ensure pedestrian safety.
Residents, activists and students have de -
manded structural changes like speed bumps 
and raised crosswalks. Prompted by the tragic 
loss of life, city commissioners responded to 
the incidents and the city took control of a 
stretch of University Avenue from 34th to 13th 
Street, which was formerly a state road.
The Gainesville Police Department created 
a traffic enforcement initiative called Gator 
STEP, while UF Student Government also pro -
posed to make sections of University Avenue a 
school zone with reduced speed limits to im -
prove on-campus road safety.
Despite these efforts from authorities to im -
prove safety on the road and across the city, 
doubts over pedestrian and cyclist safety per -
sist. Concerned parents, students and citizens 
remain skeptical of the road’s design and con -
stant construction along it, as well as the safety 
of the sidewalks.
Lisa Hammer, mother of a UF sophomore, 
helped start Gators Against Student Pedestrian 
Deaths (GASPD), a parent and student group 
that advocates for traffic safety on University 
Avenue and Gainesville after the car crash that 
killed 18-year-old first-year UF student Sophia 
Lambert.
When Lambert was hit by a car along 
with four other students on the night of Jan. 
16, parents took to Facebook and made posts 
encouraging each other to check in with their 
children, she said.
Hammer, who lives in Chicago, was wor -
ried about her daughter’s safety.
“Fear just instills in you,” she said. “You 
send your kid away for college. Your main 
hope — No. 1 — is that they come back alive.”
Hammer couldn’t stop thinking about 
how horrible the crash was, so she emailed 
Gainesville and UF officials asking them to cre -
ate a safer road.
“You can not be a top 6 university and then 
have two student pedestrian deaths,” she said.
Hammer helped create GASPD after she and 
about 20 parents attended a virtual Gainesville 
Citizens for Active Transportation meeting. She 
and other members realized there needed to be 
a group for students, parents and Gainesville 
citizens to discuss pedestrian safety. Within a 
week, GASPD had over 1,000 members after 
Hammer and others created Facebook posts to 
spread awareness about the dangers of Univer -
sity Avenue.Although the City of Gainesville, UF, the 
state and advocacy groups have made progress 
toward a safer road, Hammer said there is still 
a lot left to be done. GASPD plans to continue 
to pressure UF and FDOT to make necessary 
changes.
Many students cross West University Av -
enue by foot to get to their homes, buy grocer -
ies and visit restaurants and bars. Although the 
road is not part of UF’s campus, it connects the 
College Park, University Park and Palm Ter -
race neighborhoods with the university.
More than two months ago, GPD imple -
mented the Gator STEP traffic safety program, 
which aims to increase high-visibility traffic 
enforcement on busy streets around campus. 
GPD pulled over about 2,951 people between 
the start of the program and March 14, accord -
ing to the GPD Daily Bulletin.
The same bulletin shows there were 191 
law enforcement interactions with drivers on 
University Avenue between March 22 and 
April 5 — slightly under the 131 interactions 
recorded in the first week of March alone. 
Speeding was the most common reason for 
pulling over drivers.
But on the street, pedestrians are unhappy 
with the overwhelming focus on enforcing 
laws already in place.
Kailey Kiss, a 20-year-old UF public rela -
tions junior who advocates for changes to 
University Avenue, believes senseless deaths 
should not be so common at UF.“If my life were lost, I would expect my 
mom to advocate on my behalf, because I’m 
her daughter,” Kiss said. “With UF, if your stu -
dents are dying, you know, that’s your issue. 
That’s your responsibility to advocate on their 
behalf and make sure not one more life is lost.”
Kiss said she was in her car at the stoplight 
of Buckman Drive on the night of Jan. 16 and 
saw the two-car crash that killed Lambert.
“I saw all the moments before, and for 
some reason I took everything in, and I blinked 
my eyes, and it was just like complete chaos 
the next seconds,” Kiss said.
Just over a month before, she mourned 
with her sorority sisters in Kappa Kappa Gam -
ma over the loss of fellow sorority member 
Maggie Paxton, an 18-year-old UF natural re -
source conservation freshman. After these two 
deaths, she said she couldn’t sit around wait -
ing for someone else to take charge.
“That’s not ever going to be anything that 
I’ll erase from my memory, and I wanted from 
that moment on to make a difference,” she 
said. “I knew I was placed in both of those po -
sitions for a reason.”
Kiss led the initiative behind Florida Not 
One More, a student-run advocacy group for 
safety on University Avenue. She said the or -
ganization is pushing for speed bumps, speed 
tables and reducing the speed limit from 30 
mph to 20 mph.
UF sent multiple emails to students and the 
UF community about the actions it would take to protect pedestrians, such as adding lighted 
message boards, permanent signage and re -
painting crosswalks to improve visibility.
Other organizations like GCAT have very 
similar requests, she said. The group she start -
ed is pushing for these changes to happen.
Kristen Young, vice president of GCAT, an 
organization that advocates to expand access 
and create safer paths, especially for bikers, 
said the dangers of University Avenue have 
been problematic for a while. In the 22 years 
she’s lived in Gainesville, she has witnessed 
and heard the community’s pain after yearly 
fatal crashes.
These include when a driver crashed into 
a group of cyclists in 1996 on Paynes Prairie 
killing two people and injuring others. She also 
remembers when a driver hit and killed a GPD 
officer, Lt. Corey Dahlem, after a Gator’s Bas -
ketball Championship game in 2007.
Students are transient, Young said, so it’s 
hard to maintain momentum toward change 
along University Avenue when students pass 
through the university every four years.
“There’s no steel cage around pedestrians 
and bicyclists, so there needs to be special ad -
vocacy for these road users,” Young said.
@anna_wilderr
awilder@alligator.org
@EmilMunkGrosen
emgrosen@alligator.orgGainesville community reflects on changes to traffic safety on University Avenue
Julia Cooper // Alligator Staff
Sydney Kaskin (left), 19, a neuroscience freshman and former roommate of Sophia Lambert holds a sign that says “I should still 
have a roommate!” as she speaks with another member of the Florida Not One More student group during a press conference 
on Wednesday, March 3, 2021. The press conference was held by two attorneys representing the families of Sophia Lambert and 
Maggie Paxton in two wrongful death lawsuits that were recently filed.
CROSSING GAINESVILLEMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   11 
UF STUDENTS AND FAMILIES 
ADVOCATE FOR TRAFFIC SAFETY
By Abigail Hasebroock and 
Juliana Ferrie
Alligator Staff Writer
Harsh ceiling lights illuminated 
a room in a Melbourne 
rehabilitation center. Bryanne 
Parks fought through bleary eyes 
and extreme pain throughout her 
body. It was 4 a.m., but she had 
to stay awake to have her blood 
drawn and receive a shot.
The 20-year-old UF marketing 
sophomore said she was the only 
person in the center under the 
age of 80 and was released early 
because the miserable atmosphere 
inhibited her recovery. Rehab 
was Parks’ third stop after being 
hit by a driver who ran a red light 
at the intersection of Diamond 
Road and Northwest 13th Street 
while she was on her scooter Feb. 
7, 2020.
She spent about a week and a 
half at UF Health Shands Hospital 
and then another week in rehab.
“I was just so unhappy,” she 
said.
Parks suffered a traumatic 
brain injury, two collapsed lungs, 
a broken collar bone and rib, a 
ruptured spleen and a broken 
frontal sinus. She was in her 
freshman year of college at the 
time.
The crash occurred less than a 
year before the deaths of Maggie 
Paxton and Sophia Lambert, two 
UF students killed in pedestrian 
crashes on West University 
Avenue. The frequent pedestrian 
fatalities and injuries around UF 
campus have incited calls for 
legislative action from students 
and faculty. This semester, 
students at the university created 
Florida Not One More, a UF 
student organization advocating 
for safer roads.
Parks serves on Florida Not 
One More’s executive board as a 
part of the state outreach team, 
which is responsible for finding 
the contact information for district 
representatives and assigning the 
information to members for call-
in days. She said she’s grateful 
for the opportunity because it 
allows her to advocate for people 
like Lambert and Paxton, who no 
longer can.
“I wouldn’t change what 
happened to me because I 
wouldn’t be doing this if it 
didn’t,” she said. “It definitely 
changed my outlook on life.”
This year, 24 pedestrian 
crashes have already occurred 
in Alachua County — three of 
which were fatal, according to 
the Florida Highway Safety and 
Motor Vehicles crash dashboard. 
These incidents uproot the lives 
of victims, their families and leave 
lasting impacts on the Gainesville 
community.Parks said she navigated 
through a season of survivor’s 
guilt after hearing about Lambert 
and Paxton’s deaths.
“Why me? Why am I still 
alive, but why did they have to 
lose their lives?” she said. “That’s 
what drives me to want to make a 
difference so this doesn’t happen 
to anyone else.”
Parks said she’s lucky that she 
is still able to walk and function 
normally throughout the day. 
She said the incident no longer 
consumes most of her waking 
moments the way it did for the 
first year after the crash
She still feels its impact, 
though. Focusing on classwork 
and even finding items in the 
grocery store are now more 
strenuous activities because of 
the damage her brain endured, 
she said.
“It was very mentally taxing 
getting back into school and going 
from being a straight-A student 
with not an extreme amount of 
effort to now I have to really try 
to remember things,” she said.
Graylin Skates, Parks’ second 
cousin and roommate at the 
time of the crash, had just said 
goodbye to Parks and was headed 
out of town for a concert when 
she noticed someone lying on the 
ground.
While stopped at a traffic light, 
the 20-year-old UF microbiology 
sophomore couldn’t take her eyes 
off of the crash. She soon realized 
it was Parks and her scooter lying 
in the road.
“You always think that these 
things can’t happen to you, 
and they can’t happen to your 
loved ones, but it definitely is 
something we’re not immune 
from,” Skates said. “You can be 
doing everything right, and these 
tragedies can still happen.”
A member of Maggie Paxton’s 
sorority Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
Skates said her chapter’s loss 
was an emotional time for her 
— especially after her personal 
experience with Parks and 
the proximity of Paxton’s and 
Lambert’s deaths.
“I think that’s kind of why 
we resonated and decided to join 
Florida Not One More,” Skates 
said. “Because we feel so strongly 
that nobody else should have 
to be affected by this and lose 
loved ones and spend weeks in 
hospitals kind of having to deal 
with the aftermath of all these 
traffic issues.”
A little over a week before 
Parks was hit on her scooter, 
Denise Griffiths was hit by a car 
while crossing East University 
Avenue. Unlike Parks, she did not 
live to share her story.
Griffiths, a 21-year-old UF 
English language and literature 
senior, was hit by a car while 
walking onto a crosswalk Jan. 27, 
2020. She died almost two days later. The incident occurred at 
2500 E University Ave. as Griffiths 
made her way home from school.
Griffiths’ grandmother Cynthia 
Gainey said she doesn’t want 
anyone else to feel the pain she 
and her family have endured.
“It’s been hell,” Gainey said.
Gainey said her heart goes out 
to the two young ladies who were 
killed this year. Something has to 
be done, she said. She believes 
every light needs its own camera 
and that if police were visible 
on the road, people would slow 
down.
“I can’t bring Denise back, 
but hopefully we can protect 
somebody else’s babies,” Gainey 
said.
In February, the Florida 
Department of Transportation 
and UF announced plans to 
increase pedestrian safety. After 
installing temporary speed tables, 
FDOT plans to lower University 
Avenue’s speed limit from 30 
mph to 25 mph by Summer 2021 
and collaborate with UF to create 
two new crosswalks on the road.
The Gainesville Police 
Department also began the Gator 
Special Traffic Enforcement 
Program (STEP) in January, 
which increased the presence 
of patrol officers and took other 
measures.
Gainey and her family honor 
Griffiths every day of their lives, 
she said. Following the first 
anniversary of Griffiths’ death, 
Gainey told others to allow her 
granddaughter to live on by being 
kind and picking up others. They 
honor her by doing the right 
thing, she said.
“Denise wouldn’t want me 
sitting here crying,” Gainey said. 
“She’d want me to be rejoicing in her name by doing something 
constructive that she does.”
At the time of her death, 
Griffiths lived with Gainey, she 
said. Her grandmother thinks 
about Griffiths all the time, and 
Gainey’s favorite thing about 
Griffiths was how intelligent she 
was from a young age.
Griffiths was the one who 
helped Gainey use her phone, 
made her tea and sat with her 
when she didn’t feel well. Some 
days, Gainey forgets and still calls 
Griffiths’ phone.
“I think about who [is going 
to] take care of me when I’m too 
old to take care of myself, and it 
was her,” Gainey said. “But she’s 
gone now.”
Gainey would not allow her 
family to mark where Griffiths 
died, and she has moved since 
her granddaughter’s death.
“I cannot stand to go cross 
that spot where my baby laid in 
that road,” Gainey said. “I had to 
move. I couldn’t deal with it.”
Some students are still in 
recovery from recent traffic 
incidents. On March 2, Khoury 
Kennedy was hit by a car while 
biking in a roundabout on Depot 
Avenue.
The 21-year-old UF 
telecommunications junior said 
the collision left her with a 
broken collarbone, which she 
had to get surgery for and is still 
healing from.
Kennedy said she was only 
a block away from completing 
the biking portion of a Dry-Tri, 
an event where people time 
themselves either swimming; 
biking and running or rowing; 
biking and running certain 
distances.
“I’m an active person, and so it’s just frustrating,” she said. 
“It’s a three-month recovery 
before I can start picking up 
things again.”
The injury has impeded 
Kennedy’s ability to grow as a 
telecommunications major, too. 
As a videographer for RecSports, 
she said the job requires holding 
a camera to film, which she 
currently cannot do.
“That’s what I’m studying, 
and that’s what I want to do, so 
it gets rid of all that experience,” 
she said.
Instead, Kennedy will focus 
on video editing, which does not 
require lifting any objects.
Kennedy is glad people appear 
to be more cautious, and cycling 
groups like TriGators and the UF 
cycling club have urged members 
to stay safe by giving out free 
helmets and bike lights. The 
community services division of 
UFPD also gives out free bike 
lights and helmets.
“I have a lot of friends who are 
like ‘Hey, whenever I go through 
that roundabout I look for bikers,’ 
and I’m like ‘Oh good, just that 
one roundabout? Maybe look at 
the other ones, too,’” she joked 
lightly.
Kennedy said the three-month 
recovery process is not long in the 
grand scheme of her life, and she 
is grateful to have survived the 
crash, unlike other students who 
have not.
“I’m the luckiest of the 
unlucky,” she said.
@abbeyhasebroock
ahasebroock@alligator.org
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org“It definitely changed my outlook on life”: The lasting impact of crashes on families and victims
Chasity Maynard // Alligator Staff
A pedestrian jaywalks across West University Avenue on Wednesday, Feb. 17, 2021, nearly a month 
after Sophia Lambert, an 18-year-old UF student, died after being hit by a car along the road.
CROSSING GAINESVILLEBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Great Location 2br 1ba Apts. available im -
mediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 block north of 
UF O'Dome Clean, Modern, Well Maintained 
$700/month total rent. Call K & M Properties 
352-372-1509                             4-19-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            4-19-21-15-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $500/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.   
5-16-21-4-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-19-21-15-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
4-19-15-61For Rent
furnished
Unique artistís studio conversion, available 
April 10. Furnished apartment upstairs, 
sleeping loft, large windows, lots of light. 
$1,050/mo. includes electric and WiFi. 
352-372-5733                            4-12-21-4-1
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-19-15-1
Furnished townhouse in SW neighborhood. 
18 min. from campus. $420/week. Utilities and 
internet included. Quiet, cozy, washer/dryer, 
high ceiling, front garden, back porch, parking 
spaces. No pets. Available from April 4. Email: 
vchow331@yahoo.com. phone:352-256-1211     
4-19-21-6-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Available Immediately. Blocks away from 
UF & shopping. 2BR units. Rent includes 
utilities & wi-fi. Shared W/D on-site. Call 
Brenda 352-672-8657                    5-10-21-6-2
Great house in great location 4br 3ba avail -
able immediately or Fall 2021. 1/2 blk north 
of O'Dome on NW 21st St. Big nice mod -
ern home w/ many amenities. 4 unrelated 
roommates ok as per city code. Call K & M 
Properties 352-372-1509.           4-19-21-13-2
1BR $455/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-19-21-15-2
answer on page 9
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  RRiivveerr
11..    PPuubb55..    RRiigghhtt,,  ggeennuuiinnee
22..    PPrreesseerrvvee  66..    CCllaaww
33..    LLuuxxuurriiaattee  iinn77..    AAccttuuaallllyy
44..    AAuuttooggrraapphheedd  GGRRSSIITTII
RRNNAAVVTTEEDDAAIILLVV
TTOOAANNLL
GGAAEENNIILLTT
UULLIINNGGDDEEEENNIIDDEEDD
DDEEIISSGGNNAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TTiiggrriiss    55AA--VVaalliidd    66AA--TTaalloonn    77AA--IInnddeeeedd
11DD--TTaavveerrnn    22DD--GGeellaattiinn    33DD--IInndduullggee    44DD--SSiiggnneedd    BB--EEvveerrggllaaddeess44--1122--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  NNaattiioonnaall  PPaarrkk  iiss  tthhee  llaarrggeesstt  ttrrooppiiccaall  
wwiillddeerrnneessss  iinn  tthhee  UUnniitteedd  SSttaatteess..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 131. GEOGRAPHY: What is the deepest point 
in Earth's oceans?
2. COMICS: What is the name of the 
newspaper in the "Shoe" comic strip?
3. LITERATURE: Which 19th-century novel 
features the characters Catherine and 
Heathcliff?
4. MOVIES: What was the name of Yoda's 
home planet in the "Star Wars" movie series?
5. BUSINESS: When did the social media 
service Facebook launch?
6. MUSIC: How many strings does a cello have?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What kind of alcohol is 
distilled from juniper berries?
8. HISTORY: In what year did the first 
human heart transplant take place?
9. SCIENCE: Which plant can be processed 
to make linseed oil?
10. LANGUAGE: What is the scientific 
study of diseases and their effects on 
population called?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-19-21-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-19-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
4-19-15-12
★★Cash Today★★
For your unwanted auto running or not.
Call anytime 7 days a week  352-642-5000    
4-19-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-19-15-132For Rent
unfurnished 10 For Sale
By Fred Piscop
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/12/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/12/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, April 12, 2021
ACROSS
1 Soothing 
ointment
5 Criticize harshly
9 Deep-voiced 
singer
14 Great Lake that 
stretches from 
New York to 
Michigan
15 Every 12 mos.
16 Significant __: 
partner
17 Place for junk
19 Genetic twin
20 “Honey, I’m 
Home” singer 
Twain
21 Wagons at 
midday socials
23 B and B’s, e.g.
25 Home of twigs
26 Did a marathon, 
say
28 Relaxation of 
govt. rules
31 Skip, with “out”
34 Turn loose
36 Annoys
38 Oft-stubbed digit
39 In time gone by
40 U.S. Congress, 
informally
42 Enjoyed a meal
43 Web or nanny 
follower
44 Reef makeup
45 Some youth  
ctrs.
47 Cotton gin 
inventor Whitney
48 Defy authority
50 Approves
51 Dimpled facial 
feature, perhaps
54 Game room 
missile
56 From Tokyo, say
60 Overly large
64 Still in the game
65 Increasing, and 
a hint to 17- and 
40-Across and 
11- and 27-Down
67 Distance runner
68 Prescription 
amount
69 “Enchanted” 
movie girl 
played by Anne 
Hathaway70 Arterial implant
71 Seeks answers
72 Doe or stag
DOWN
1 “Porgy and __”
2 Half a 
McDonald’s logo
3 Old Italian money
4 Definition
5 Manually
6 “__ you comfy?”
7 Venetian blind 
piece
8 Promote big-time
9 Italian lawn 
bowling
10 Book of maps
11 Small order of 
pancakes
12 FedExed, say
13 Unrefined 
minerals
18 ATM code
22 __-hair pasta
24 Extremely harsh
26 Fit for a monarch
27 Nuclear reactor
29 Get-well 
program, briefly
30 Banished from 
one’s country
32 Greek i’s33 Golfer’s pegs
34 Doily trim
35 Needing no Rx
37 Like a fox, it’s 
said
41 Lena who sang 
“Stormy Weather”
46 Took a drive
49 Wood-shaping 
machines
52 Place of refuge
53 Chemically 
nonreactive55 Fish eggs
56 Traffic tie-ups
57 Touched down
58 Ginger ale or root 
beer
59 “The Catch” 
actress  
Mireille __
61 Liver secretion
62 Shipwreck site
63 Stick shift  
choice
66 “Shame on you!”
By Gary Larson
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/06/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/06/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, April 6, 2021
ACROSS
1 Shipwreck signal
4 Stan of Marvel 
Comics
7 Catch in a trap
12 Time period
13 Off-roader’s 
purchase, for 
short
14 Quest for intel
15 *Instant in 
which emotional 
decisions are 
made
18 Middle-earth 
menace
19 Female surfer
20 Times to 
remember
21 Got a lift, in a way
23 Popular mints
25 Tea container
27 Gradually come 
to be
31 Wander about
33 Pasture
35 Where one may 
be taken to be 
reprimanded
36 Verb in a recipe
37 Like jobs with 
no future ... and 
what the start of 
each answer to a 
starred clue can 
be?
40 Tennis court 
divider
41 Family gathering 
attendee
43 Pacific Coast st.
44 Loch with a 
legend
45 Ties to a post
48 Rene of “Get 
Shorty”
50 Show flexibility
52 Dampen, as 
sound
55 Help in a bad 
way?
58 Coral named for 
its shape
60 Wheaton who 
played himself on 
“The Big Bang 
Theory”
61 *Defeat soundly
64 More despicable
65 Talk trash to
66 Cork’s country
67 Cowboy singer 
Gene
68 Uneaten morsel
69 Ship in GenesisDOWN
1 *Flaky type
2 Cheerios grain
3 Came down in 
flakes
4 Plastering strip
5 Value system
6 Tied, as a score
7 “Seats all taken” 
sign
8 Archrivals
9 Asian laptop 
brand
10 Barrett of  
gossip
11 Tolkien tree  
race
12 Macedonian 
neighbor
15 MLB’s Astros, on 
scoreboards
16 “Fiddle-__!”
17 Trifling
22 Battering __
24 Spot on the  
tube
26 Vote of support
28 *Employment 
field
29 Keats works
30 Vets’ concerns
31 Rave’s partner
32 Dog in the 
comics
34 Brouhaha37 Owner’s 
document
38 Blunder
39 Mad Magazine 
mascot Alfred 
E. __
42 Idle talk
44 Bounced-check 
letters
46 Reckless
47 Racer’s bathing 
suit
49 Naturally brewed 
beverage51 Animal with a 
snout
53 Vitality
54 Santa helper
55 Palindromic pop 
group
56 Steady guy
57 Toward sunrise
59 Speedy
62 “Do or do not. 
There is no __”: 
Yoda
63 Title for Paul or 
Ringo
04/05/2021attention :
Starting April 5, all 
Floridians age 18 and older 
became eligible to receive 
the COVID-19 vaccine.
Get vaccinated today!
scan  
to find a vaccine 
location near you:HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
4-19-21-15-14
Commercial painting contractor looking for 
help. Work consists of prep work and possible 
painting.  Hours negotiable. Call 386-418-1177.          
5-11-21-3-14
Gwinnett County Schools will host Virtual 
Bilingual Teacher Interviews on April 20, 
21 & 24. Interested? Complete application 
at: www.gcpsk12.org/Page/28008. 
4-19-21-2-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         4-19-21-15-14
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Ginnie Springs Outdoors
Now Hiring Receptionists, Cashiers, Night Gate 
Attendants and Grounds Maintenance Staff
Applicants must be outgoing and enjoy 
working with the public. High energy and 
low drama is a must! Must have your own 
transportation and availability to work 
nights, holidays and weekends. Full or Part-
time positions available. Apply in person 
ONLY 9 am - 4 pm weekdays - NO phone 
calls! ****GPS Address:**** 5000 NE 60th 
Ave. High Springs, FL 32643   
 5-10-21-6-14
15 Services
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
4-19-21-15-15
16 Health Services
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-19-21-15-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-19-21-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid - on-site and virtual 
public meeting via communications media 
technology to which all interested persons 
are invited.
DATE AND TIME:  April 26, 2021 at 3:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12, 
Facebook and the Alachua County Video on 
Demand Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video 
Audio-only - call 301.715.8592, and when 
prompted use code 670 965 3024 and par-
ticipant identification code 2522482
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - Call 
1-800-876-7516
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications me-
dia technology.  Public participation for this 
meeting on-site for this meeting is accommo-
dated, but is limited due to social distancing 
requirements.  On-site public participants 
are required to wear a face-covering mask 
at all times.  For on-site public comment, 
participants will be prompted and should 
follow the direction of the Chair to partici-
pate. The public is encouraged to participate 
in the virtual public meeting.  The public 
may submit comments to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area through email 
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the 
public comment message line when prompt-
ed to call during the meeting.  Public com-
ment will be taken by telephone for all non-
ministerial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area votes.  
Once public comment is opened for an 
item under discussion, please call the pub-
lic comment telephone number. In addition, 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization will open telephone lines for 
a public comment session for the public 
to discuss items not on the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for 
the Gainesville Urbanized Area agenda.  
Virtual Citizens Comment agenda item calls 
should be limited to transportation planning 
issues within the Gainesville Metropolitan 
Area.  Duration of the Citizens Comment 
agenda item may extend as long as calls 
are received.  For all Call-In Comments, 
Callers will be put in a queue, and prompted 
when it is their turn to speak.  TO AVOID 
FEEDBACK, CALLERS TO THE PUBLIC 
COMMENT MESSAGE LINE MUST TURN 
DOWN THEIR MEETING SOUND WHEN 
ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION.  Both 
call-in and on-site participants should state 
their names and limit comments to three 
minutes.  The public is encouraged to submit 
any written or photographic documents prior 
to the meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org.  Any 
questions regarding participation should be 
directed to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area Office at 352.955.2200, ex-
tension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity.  
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.
4-12-21-1-2114 Help Wanted
13 Wanted20 Events/Notices
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil -
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RVs 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                                 4-12-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Sunoco across the GPD is looking for a reliable 
clerk to ring up customers and restock coolers. 
Flexible schedule. Call Nita (352-514-6022) to 
schedule appt.                            4-12-21-4-14
Sun Country Sports is hiring for summer! Camp 
Counselors, Gymnastics, Office, Rockwall. 
Apply today at suncountrysports.com/jobs!   
4-19-21-5-14
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
solution below
MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 
solution below
Trivia Test  answers1. The Mariana Trench in the 
Pacific Ocean
2. The Treetops Tattler
3. "Wuthering Heights"
4. Dagobah5. 2004
6. Four
7. Gin
8. 1967
9. Flax
10. EpidemiologyStickelers answerTruth often suffers more
by the heat of its
defenders than from the
arguments of its opposers 
— William Penn
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
CryptoQuote answer
[Correction For Last Week]
1-c, 2-e, 3-a, 4-f, 5-b, 6-dFollow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
FOOTBALL
THE LINEBACKER IS THE ONLY MUSLIM 
ON THE GATORS FOOTBALL TEAM
By Grethel Aguila
Sports Writer
The roar of masked Florida fans drowned 
out a rather unusual celebration on the 
sidelines on a late November afternoon.
The Gators were in the second half 
against the Kentucky Wildcats when Florida 
linebacker Mohamoud Diabate intercepted the 
ball and rushed it for 14 yards. His teammates 
swarmed him as Diabate darted off the field in 
celebration.
“Mabrouk! Mabrouk! Mabrouk!”
That’s not a word commonly heard on the 
gridiron. It’s Arabic for “congratulations,” and 
ask God to boost the good things in life. But 
that’s what Diabate’s teammates yelled as his 
first-ever collegiate interception resulted in a 
touchdown three plays later and secured the 
Gators’ game against Kentucky 34-10.
The junior is the only Muslim on the Gators 
football team. Throughout his life, he has 
sought a delicate balance between religion and 
football in a modern world.
Linebacker Derek Wingo remembers 
when Diabate sprung up next to 
the coaches and stood before his 
teammates at practices. Like a 
preacher, he repeated the word 
and urged them to shout it after 
good plays.
“Mohamoud is a guy who 
steps on the field, and you really 
notice his presence,” Wingo said. 
“Regardless if 
he’s the one 
making  
the  interception, he’s the guy whose influence 
everyone to be in a positive vibe.”
With every practice and game, the team’s 
Arabic repertoire increased. It embraced 
Diabate’s identity and became a team tradition.
“He brings his culture into the team,” 
Wingo said. “He brings his culture out of the 
team when we’re off the field. That’s a big part 
of his life.”
Diabate grew up like any other child in 
Auburn, Alabama. He played sports, hung out 
with friends and attended a religious Sunday 
school. 
Except he wasn’t like the others. 
His parents immigrated to the U.S. in 
the late ‘80s from the west African nation 
of Mali. His father washed dishes until he 
earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from 
Tuskegee University and a Ph.D. from Auburn 
University. His home heard a mixture of 
languages, including English, French, Arabic 
and Bambara, Mali’s national language. 
But Diabate links his success to an epiphany 
in 10th grade. After he shed 30 pounds in a 
week-long hospital visit to treat an injury, he 
questioned why God snagged 
his sophomore football 
season. 
In that dreaded 
room, he reflected 
and realized he 
wasn’t heading 
down the path 
he wanted. 
He watched 
sermons,  
picked up a 
Quran and 
even a Bible, 
too.
With every 
letter he 
read,  Islam drew him in. He grasped onto it like a 
restraint on a loopy roller coaster. It kept him 
strong and hopeful as he sat out the rest of 
the season. He noticed how his view of Islam 
diverged from what people said about the 
religion; he isn’t the type to blindly follow 
along.
“I stopped listening to what people told me 
here and there,” Diabate said. “You see one 
thing in the media about Muslims and one 
thing that you’re taught. The two things are 
opposite.”
His faith sprouted like a seed in rich soil. 
God will give him what he needs, what’s 
maktuub, or written for him. Now, he instills 
his trust in God, completes the five daily 
prayers and counters people’s misconceptions 
about Islam.
Since that hospital visit, Diabate connects 
the Bible to the Quran and uses every 
opportunity to combat the false, negative 
rhetoric that surrounds Islam. In his view, one 
teammate might share information with three 
more, who, in turn, tell others. And it trickles 
down.
“I feel like it’s my job as Muslim for people 
to understand this is what Islam is,” Diabate 
said. “I’m a face, I’m an advertisement for 
Islam with the way I act, the way I conduct 
myself, the way I compete, the way I do 
things.”
In sixth grade, Diabate heard teases, taunts 
and tales that stereotyped Muslims as terrorists. 
He grew afraid to share his identity. One of his 
friends, Ahmed, blabbed to fellow classmates 
that Diabate was a Muslim. Petrified, he 
stuttered until he reminded Ahmed that he was 
Muslim, too.
Even close friends participated in the 
jeers out of ignorance. After track practice in 
eighth grade, Diabate remembers that one of 
his friends called him a terrorist in between 
laughs. With thick skin developed after years 
of torment, he sternly told the 13-year-old not 
to say that again.
In a moment of reflection, Diabate said these 
experiences may have pushed many children 
away from Islam. But the jabs pulled him in 
because he knew his religion encouraged 
treating others well. 
As time continued, challenges morphed. 
But he reminded himself about an ayah, or 
Quranic verse, in Surah ash-Sharh: surely with 
hardship comes ease. 
Auburn High School never had a Muslim 
on its football team. The coaches didn’t know 
how to deal with Muslim student-athletes’ 
needs. They failed to accommodate his pork-
free diet and ignorance persisted in school.
Diabate’s athletic gift enthralled former 
Auburn High School head coach Adam 
Winegarden. He recalls a game where Diabate 
sprinted to the opposite side of the field to 
catch a SEC-caliber running back.
“His mindset goes beyond the field and 
goes into everything he does,” he said. “He's 
somebody that has high expectations for 
himself.” 
From high school to college, Diabate 
remained a constant in different environments.
“I went from a place like Auburn, Alabama, in the middle of Alabama, to one of the most 
diverse universities,” Diabate said. 
Coaches at Florida understand and respect 
his dietary restrictions, and teammates are 
more open-minded. Staff knows what to do 
during Ramadan, the holiest month in Islam. 
To fast from dusk to dawn, Diabate receives 
a specialized meal plan tailored to keep him 
in shape, and coaches reduce his practice 
workload.
While a lot shifted when Diabate came to 
Florida, his faith stuck.
“His faith is a big part of his life,” 
Winegarden said. “He’s always placed a great 
deal of value in that, and that’s one thing that 
has been a backbone of who he is. And I think 
you see that in other parts of his life.”
Despite the night-and-day difference, 
Diabate feels people have a predisposed 
opinion of him because he’s a 6-foot-3-inch 
Black man with hair twists who uses slang. 
They don’t see the smart, educated introvert 
who enjoys cracking jokes.
But he reminds himself that Allah is the 
best of planners. No matter what someone else 
does to deviate him from the right path, no one 
can overpower God’s plan.
That’s why Diabate greets the purple hues 
of dawn when he wakes up to pray the first 
prayer of the day. When most remain sound 
asleep under their blankets, he fights the urge 
to close his eyes. He then takes his two puppies 
out and rests until he eats breakfast. He gets 
treatments in the afternoon, prays the second 
prayer of the day and heads to spring practice 
in the evening. 
When he returns home, he makes up the 
third and fourth prayers of the day, does 
schoolwork and prays the last prayer of the 
day. As the orange sky darkens, he reflects. 
The light has too many distractions. 
Islam keeps Diabate focused on the game 
rather than the glitz and glam that pairs with 
Gator football — assorted bottles of alcoholic 
drinks, nights out at bars and rowdy behavior.
Memories flood his mind. He carefully 
ponders every moment. He fixates on minor 
details like why his feet pointed a certain way 
at practice. He’s critical of himself but also 
thinks of ways to improve his interactions with 
his team and coaches.
Linebacker coach Christian Robinson 
remembers something Diabate told him early 
on —  he yearns to wear a gold jacket. 
“He’s got just a level of seriousness with 
his craft…. He’s driven,” Robinson said. “He 
knows what he wants. If I know that he wants 
to be one of the best, everything that I say to 
him should be accepted with the right attitude. 
He’s done that from the moment he’s walked 
in.”
At the South Carolina game last season, 
Diabate made a blunder in a play, went up to 
Robinson on the sidelines and reassured him 
he would fix it.
“Obviously, guys are going to make 
mistakes,” Robinson said. “But the desire to 
fix those and to improve and to push yourself 
forward; that’s what he has.”
Read the rest online at alligator.org/sports
@GrethelAguila
gaguila@alligator.orgMohamoud Diabate: More than an athlete
Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorsSports? Stay up to date on our content 
by following our newsletter. Scan the QR Code to 
sign up.
AlligatorSports has a podcast. 
The AlligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other preferred 
streaming platform.
Courtesty to The AlligatorMONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
FIELD HOCKEY
SOFTBALLTEAM WELCOMES NEW MEMBERS 
By Josh Kapke
Contributing Writer 
Britney Bunbanlu packed her bag for the 
two-hour trip to Tampa in late March 2020.
Bunbanlu, a defensive UF club field hockey 
player, looked forward to high-caliber compe -
tition against the University of Tampa.
The game never happened. They never 
drove to Tampa.
The COVID-19 pandemic swept across Flor -
ida and suspended travel for the UF club field 
hockey team. With only four or five games a 
year, the players felt crushed and hoped for a 
short-lived pandemic.  
“It was very disappointing,” Bunbanlu 
said.
They looked forward to the national field 
hockey tournament in Virginia Beach that fall. 
It too fell victim to the pandemic. 
“It is what we work towards for the end of the season every year,” team president Gina 
Allegrini said. 
A year later, the team still waits for autho -
rization to travel outside of the state of Florida 
again. The season ends April 23, and the team 
has yet to travel.  Their last game was Fall 
2019.
Despite the roadblocks the pandemic cre -
ated, they didn’t stop Allegrini from setting up 
an offseason conditioning program. 
Allegrini had the team use an app called 
“Social Steps.” They exercised from home, 
tracking each others’ steps while running and 
doing other workout activities.  
Ashley Memmolo, a 20-year-old UF zool -
ogy junior, competed virtually with her team -
mates as the app tracked their progress.
The remote group workouts kept  every -
one involved with the team, Memmolo said. 
Allegrini even rewarded the winner of the 
weekly challenge with a gift card.
“It was a nice alternative to practice, and 
we could still in essence be connected,” she 
said. A Boston native, Memmolo was hooked 
on the game in high school after trying it out 
a single time. She liked how strong she felt 
when she played.
”I actually had no idea what it was, but 
I just went to the first tryout anyways,” she 
said. “I fell in love with it, so I’m still playing.” 
Field hockey is an endurance sport, and 
Memmolo likes being able to grow and sharp -
en her skills. 
Allegrini and Memmolo both planned to 
continue playing field hockey in college. Bun -
banlu, however, had other plans.
“I never wanted to play in college,” Bun -
banlu said. “I wanted to go to college strictly 
for academics.” 
In middle school, Bunbanlu had to choose 
between two sports: volleyball and field hock -
ey. When she started high school, she moved 
to the field hockey varsity team as a fresh -
man. The team had about 30 players and only 
pulled up three players, the 20-year-old UF 
marketing junior said. 
When Bunbanlu attended the club teams fair in the fall, she signed up on the spot.
In field hockey, a defensive player like 
Bunbalu can score goals.  She clinched four 
over the course of last season.
The sticks are designed so that only one side 
is effective at hitting the ball whereas in ice 
hockey both sides work, Bunbanlu said.  The 
goals are larger than hockey’s or lacrosse’s but 
smaller than soccer’s, even though the sport 
uses the same boundary lines as a soccer field. 
The team, Bunbanlu said, has a real sense 
of camaraderie that stems from their love of 
the sport, eating together and sharing where 
they’re from. The team is populated by play -
ers from the northern U.S., which gave them 
common ground.
One thing they all agree on is that pizza is 
far superior up north. Allegrini and Bunbanlu 
are both from Connecticut.
“We always compare the pizza from up 
there to down here because Florida pizza is, 
like, trash compared to up there,” Bunbanlu 
quipped.
Allegrini’s path to field hockey took longer 
than most. The 20-year-old UF business man -
agement senior spent countless hours train -
ing for competitive gymnastics since she was 
three years old.
She was tired of spending all her time in 
the gym. Then, she discovered the sport when 
practicing with a friend the summer before her 
freshman year of high school.
Eight years later, Allegrini transformed 
from a player to a coach.  During the pandem -
ic, Allegrini scheduled team practices every 
Monday at 6 p.m. for one hour.  
Memmolo believes Allegrini emphasizes 
mental health when she encouraged team 
members to come to practice.
“It’s a good environment,” Memmolo said. 
“It’s a healthy team aspect, so I really do enjoy 
coming to practice because of that.” 
The UF club field hockey team has an as -
sortment of skill levels, with players who 
played in high school and others who never 
played before. Only one player is from Florida. 
The team also claimed upward of 10 interna -
tional players, too, said Allegrini. 
While there are no international players on 
the team now, Allegrini hopes there will be in 
the future. The sport is popular abroad, and 
she enjoyed learning new techniques from in -
ternational players. 
Despite the challenges, the team continues 
to look forward to travel for tournaments once 
the pandemic is behind them.
UF SCHEDULE INCLUDES 
SEVEN FEWER ROAD GAMES 
THAN LAST SEASON
By Rachel Slay
Sports Writer
Players rest their heads on bus 
windows, alone in rows typically 
shared with teammates. Half of 
the team scatters throughout the 
seats as the other half rides a sep -
arate bus. 
The distance between them 
stretches beyond six feet  – it ex -
tends into every aspect of team 
activity. Florida softball modified 
travel routines with COVID-19 
protocols and notes their effect on 
road games’ intangible aspects. 
The team’s 2020 schedule 
featured 25 games outside of Gainesville, including two neutral 
tournaments. The Gators played 
10 before the COVID-19 pandemic 
canceled the season. 
UF plays at Katie Seashole 
Pressly Stadium for the majority 
of the season to minimize health 
risks. This year’s schedule in -
cludes just 18 away games and no 
neutral tournaments except for 
the SEC and NCAA tournaments. 
It played just two game in 
Tampa before a 12-game homes -
tand compared to last year’s first 
five games in Tampa followed by 
an eight-game homestand. 
The No. 5 Gators hold a 30-4 
record, but three of their four 
losses came on the road. 
In their third road game against 
FSU, the Seminoles cracked Flori -
da’s perfect record with a 7-2 win. 
Florida brought 35 people, split between two buses, to Talla -
hassee. Players who live together 
are broken into pods and ride the 
bus with one another. Position 
groups stick together as much as 
possible. 
Staff and players don masks or 
face coverings for the trip’s dura -
tion. Raucous pre-game chatter 
transforms into murmurs of mild 
conversation across aisles. 
“It’s not as great for team 
chemistry or maybe some other 
bonds that you might build on 
the road,” head coach Tim Wal -
ton said. “But I think, overall, the 
things in place are necessary ad -
justments for all of our travel.”
Most precautionary measures 
taken on the road also apply to 
home games, Walton said. Pre-
game meals and congregation 
look different, too. Play-by-play broadcaster Kyle 
Crooks reported to the ESPN ra -
dio broadcast that the two UF 
buses arrived 30 minutes apart 
before the  FSU matchup. 
A correlation between the de -
lay and the loss to FSU appears 
shaky, if it exists at all. But to 
Walton, it remains a possibility. 
“You just don’t have the nor -
mal conversations on the bus 
with people that you don’t know 
or that you’re not as close with,” 
Walton said. 
In normal seasons, senior 
pitcher Natalie Lugo and the staff 
ask each other for feedback. Fifth-
year left fielder Jaimie Hoover 
encourages and challenges un -
derclassmen to handle failure on-
and-off the field. 
This season, those valuable 
exchanges happen outside of bus rides. 
Freshman infielder Avery 
Goelz entered the season with 
foggy expectations, prepared for 
COVID-19 to reshape the typical 
freshman experience. 
“I’d still say that a lot of people 
on the team are really trying to 
make sure that you feel at home 
here,” Goelz said. “So it’s been 
a little different, but I still really 
love it here.”
Despite the challenges health 
protocols pose, socially distanced 
seating can’t contain the Gators’ 
competitive energy. Florida re -
mains steadfast in its mission to 
approach every game, home or 
away, with tenacity
@racheljslay
rslay@alligator.orgUF club field hockey team overcomes pandemic challenges to get ready for next season
Florida softball sees less team chemistry with COVID-19 protocols  Faith Buckley // Alligator Staff
Twenty-year-old UF junior defender Britney Bunbanlu trails behind 21-year-old UF junior Alexis Bernard as the midfielder dashes toward the goal.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 12, 2021
MEN’S TENNIS
NO. 1 FLORIDA RALLIES AROUND 
ELITE SINGLES PLAY TO BUILD A 
CHAMPIONSHIP TEAM
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Last weekend at the Alfred A. 
Ring Tennis Complex, the Florida 
Gators defended their home turf 
successfully and for the cherry on 
top: earned the right to claim the 
SEC regular-season crown. 
When a final serve from senior 
Josh Goodger failed to return, the 
Florida sideline rushed to the court 
to leap and celebrate before dous -
ing head coach Bryan Shelton with 
Cool Blue Gatorade.
But just a few months ago on 
the fourth day of the campaign, 
Florida suffered its only defeat at 
the hands of the Texas Longhorns 
after four of the six Gators singles 
dropped games. 
Since their loss to the Big 12 
foe, the No. 1 Gators annihilated 
14 straight opponents and posted 
an undefeated record against SEC 
adversaries to claim the regular-
season crown.
But how did a one-point loss 
to an out-of-conference opponent 
transform into a monumental win 
streak? 
The sails caught wind when 
coach Bryan Shelton made major 
lineup changes. The Florida dou -
bles shuffled around more than a deck of cards and solo players were 
demoted from their starting courts.
The final score relies upon the 
performances of each matchup that 
transpires throughout a duel. For 
every individual win, the team gets 
a point on the scoreboard to add 
on a possible doubles point advan -
tage.
Week after week, singles per -
formers like junior Duarte Vale, 
freshman Ben Shelton, and senior 
Andy Andrade formulated their 
own ways to beat down the oppo -
sition and widen the final margins.
Before an interconference duel 
with the UCF Knights in Lake 
Nona, Florida, Bryan Shelton sub -
stituted players to complete an elite 
singles squad’s spinal cord. Bryan 
Shelton removed redshirt senior Jo -
hannes Ingildesen from the starting 
lineup and promoted sophomore 
Blaise Bicknell from the sixth court 
to the fourth.
Flashback to last year, Bicknell 
sparked a fire that failed to extin -
guish even during the  COVID-19 
shutdown. When spring sports re -
sumed in January, the sophomore 
returned to the court to finish what 
he started: a perfect season.
Bicknell found himself in trou -
ble while a few of his opponents 
found a way to keep the red-hot 
speedster grounded to a scoreless 
first set. But every obstacle comes 
with a solution, and for the second-
year star, it’s his speed.
“Naturally, people don’t love playing me because they know 
they’re gonna have to run,” Bick -
nell said. 
No matter the placement of his 
opponents’ returns, Bicknell accel -
erates with every ounce of energy 
left in his tank to create even the 
smallest opportunity to stay on top 
of the score.
Teammates like Ben Shelton 
look up to Bicknell’s playstyle.
“He’s on fire,” Ben Shelton said. 
“He has such an explosive game. I 
really try to do the same things he 
does.”
Ben Shelton envies Bicknell’s 
magic touch, his ability to place the 
ball after his forehands and back -
hands. If the opposition is stuck in 
a rut and tries to unravel Bicknell’s 
strategies, the hike uphill gets 
steeper when they overthink their 
steps 
Goodger was the final domino 
to fall in place. He didn’t see the 
court until a Feb. 21 battle with Au -
burn sophomore Spencer Gray. 
The Englishman’s efforts im -
pressed coach Bryan Shelton in 
practice, and the sixth spot was 
up for grabs since sophomore Will 
Grant failed to produce results.
Bryan Shelton’s final decision 
created a new perspective for the 
team and led to a spike in total 
points. Goodger hopped on Bick -
nell’s momentum train to take 
down all of his opponents and 
maintain a perfect 6-0 mark in 
2021. In six matchups this season, the 
Gators singles combined their tal -
ents to compile shut-out wins over 
foes like No. 31 Arkansas, No. 14 
Georgia, and No. 6 Texas Christian. 
In other duels against Alabama and 
Auburn, the solo competitors held 
their SEC rivals to only one point.
The Gators enjoy an extended 
break until their road trip to Fay -etteville, Arkansas, on April 19 for 
the SEC Championship. While they 
claimed the regular-season crown, 
Florida hopes to smash the accel -
erator and keep the energy for the 
NCAA Tournament in May.
@JesseRich352 
jrichardson@alligator.orgGators ride win streak into the SEC Tournament
Grethel Aguila // Alligator Staff
Ben Shelton celebrates during a match against Texas Christian 
University on March 27.
