We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperPeeping Tom
Gainesville man charged with stalking, voyeu rism, pg. 5
Citizens Field
A Gainesville tradition for over 70 years,  pg. 6A complete set of Sheltons
Emma Shelton transferred back to Florida 
ahead of her junior season, rejoi ning her 
father and brother in the Gators’ program . 
Read more on pg. 11.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 9
By Maya Erwin and 
Serra Sowers 
Alligator Staff Writer and 
Contributing Writer
Seventy-five banners that read 
“Top 5” hung at UF. Now, only 35 
remain. 
Forty banners celebrating the 
school’s new national ranking have 
been stolen across the UF campus. 
Since the week of Sept. 13, the 
missing banners amount to a loss 
of almost $3,000, UF spokesperson 
Steve Orlando said. The double-
sided, vinyl hangings are 24 inches 
wide and 72 inches tall. They cost 
about $73 each. 
In just more than a month, the 
banners have disappeared just as 
quickly as they were put up. Within 
six days of the U.S. News and World 
Report ranking announcement, ban -
ners were hung around campus in -
cluding the Reitz Lawn, Plaza of the 
Americas and along Union Road.       
Printed with local vendor, Signs 
by Tomorrow, the banners were pre -
pared and hung as soon as the news 
was released. 
No official complaints have been 
filed with the University Police De -
partment, Orlando said. None of the 
bandits have come forward. 
Orlando attributes these thefts 
to excitement about the university’s 
new ranking.
“We were glad that people are 
excited about the number five rank -
ing,” he said. “We would prefer it if 
they would find another way to ex -
press their excitement.”
Stephen Baradon, a 19-year-
old UF mathematics sophomore, 
watched as a fellow student shim -
mied their way up a light pole on 
Stadium Road at 2 a.m.
Two men stood guard at the base 
of the pole while the third climbed 
up and cut the banner down before 
all three biked off together, he said.
“I think people are stealing the 
banners because of the TikTok trend, 
the most devious lick, and I also just 
think they want it because it’s kind 
of cool to have,” he said. “It’s some -
thing you can just show off.”
Top 7 and top 6 banners were 
stolen in previous years, Orlando 
said. Last year, out of the 67 banners 
originally put up, 38 were stolen. 
Between the Top 5 and Top 6 sto -
len banners, the university lost more 
than $5,600.
To keep the banners attached to 
the light posts, a new locking mecha -
nism was added to the top bracket by UF Facilities and Services, who 
hung the banners, said Jordan Ben -
ton, assistant director of operations. 
But he said this extra effort has not 
made a difference.
UF doesn’t have a plan to replace 
the banners that have disappeared 
nor is it  interested in penalizing stu -
dents, Orlando said. 
Instead, Orlando said the school 
prefers to find ways to stop the ban -
ners from being stolen rather than 
punishing its own students.
A student who chose to remain 
anonymous said she has seen friends 
take banners with garden shears and 
ladders from nearby construction 
sites at night.
“Within the college experience, 
a lot of people look for a thrill,” she 
said. “We are high-strung students 
looking for something fun. Some join 
a frat, some get tattoos. Others steal 
signs.”
She supports stealing the ban -
ners as a point of pride, though she 
acknowledges stealing is wrong. Al -
though she doesn’t have one, she 
wishes she did. 
“If you go to a top 5 school, you 
want the recognition for it,” she said. 
“I want this, as like a trophy, to bring 
with me.” 
In an effort to combat banners 
from being stolen, Orlando said 
Thursday UF is planning on creating 
smaller replicas of the banners that 
can be purchased at the bookstore in 
the J. Wayne Reitz Union. It is un -
clear when the replicas will become 
available for purchase or how much 
they will cost.
 However, a UF junior who has 
stolen two of the top 5 banners, said 
this effort will not stop students from 
taking the banners from campus.
“Nobody is going to stop stealing 
them if they sell overpriced ones that 
are smaller in the bookstore,” they 
said. “You can just get a bigger one, 
and bigger is always better, for free.”
The UF junior, who has asked to 
remain anonymous, stole two ban -
ners from the Plaza of the Americas 
as well as in between the Computer 
Science building and Newell Hall.
They borrowed a yellow lad -
der left on campus by maintenance 
services and cut down the banners 
with scissors at around midnight last 
week.
“It is now the centerpiece of my 
room,” they said. “It is a cool thing to 
have, and all my friends always com -
ment on it. It’s kind of a collectible.”
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgForty UF top 5 banners stolen 
from campus, students suspected
CITY ELECTRIC RATES 
WILL GO UP 15% BY 2027
By Meghan McGlone
Alligator Staff Writer
For more than a year, Estefania 
Torres was paying more than 
$500 for her utility bill — almost 
the cost of her monthly rent. 
Each month, she was brought to 
tears as she helplessly looked at 
her bill.
Then, her landlord replaced 
her AC unit, and her bill dropped 
to $200.
“It was cut by half just with 
getting the new AC unit,” the 
24-year-old Gainesville resident 
said. “That’s what made me so 
angry.” 
Torres is one of many other 
Gainesville residents who 
depend on Gainesville Regional 
Utilities. But living in a low-
income neighborhood makes her disproportionately affected 
by current and future rate 
increases that GRU continues to 
implement.
GRU’s average cost for 
electric, water and wastewater 
went up by 4% in October. The 
average cost for GRU’s electricity 
went up about $6, and the total 
bill rose almost $10. From 2023 
to 2027, electrical rates will go 
up 3% and wastewater will go 
up 5% yearly, according to GRU.
Gainesville’s utility rates were 
the third highest of all utility rates 
in the state in August, according 
to the Florida Municipal Electric 
Association. Williston, which 
is about 20 miles away from 
Gainesville, had the lowest rates 
in Florida. Orlando also had 
lower rates than Gainesville, 
coming in at No. 20 of the cities 
surveyed.
Low-income households tend 
to spend a larger portion of their income on utilities than other 
households, according to the 
U.S. Department of Energy. One 
way to decrease energy costs is 
through efficient appliances and 
proper insulation. 
But as a renter, that’s 
something Torres had no control 
over.
To try to cut back on energy 
costs, Torres kept her house at 
78 degrees throughout the day. 
But because of her inefficient AC 
unit, her GRU bill still came back 
as $500 until she got her unit 
replaced.
“The people who need the 
help most, the people who are 
struggling the most, the most 
disadvantaged people in our 
society, are the ones that are 
really facing the brunt of GRU’s 
mistakes,” Torres said.
Taylor Smith, a 20-year-old 
Gainesville resident, shares a GRU rate increase disproportionately 
affects low- and fixed-income residentsLauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Vivian Anderson, 2, plays in the corn pit during the Farmers Moo-ket at Critter Creek Farm 
Sanctuary on Sunday, Oct. 17, 2021.
SEE GRU,  PAGE 5UF plans to sell replicas in the 
bookstore instead of punishing studentsT oday’s Weather
JOHN JOHNSTON, 67, IS NO 
LONGER LICENSED TO TREAT 
FEMALE PATIENTS
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
The sign at the front of Johnston 
Chiropractic Health Center is inviting.
The purpose of our clinic is to 
support as many people as possible 
in their quest for health & to educate 
them about chiropractic so they may, 
in turn, educate others.
On the sidewalk across the street, 
Rebekkah Williamson, 24, held up 
a sign Oct. 11 that tells a different 
story: “Coercion is not consent.” 
“I felt uncomfortable. I felt 
uneasy. But I trusted his professional 
opinion and I trusted his practice,” 
Williamson said. “I trusted him.”
The chiropractic center, located 
on 1405 NW 13th St., permanently 
closed Oct. 11 following sexual abuse 
allegations made against the 67-year-
old owner John Johnston. 
Between November 2020 and 
January 2021, a female patient 
accused Johnston of sexual assault 
under the guise of medical treatment, 
a report from the Florida Department 
of Health read.
She visited the office about 
nine times under Johnston’s care 
for treatment related to migraines 
and hip pain, the report read. In 
January, the victim went to her last 
appointment where she was taken 
to a private room and told to change 
into boxers in front of Johnston. 
The report read Johnston went 
under the victim's clothes and 
touched her breasts and genitals. 
Johnston would become 
flirtatious during each of the victim’s 
visits, especially the last one, the 
report read.
“What do you think we should 
do about that,” Johnston said in 
a suggestive tone according to the 
report.
The victim changed back into 
her clothes with Johnston present in 
the room. That day she reported the 
sexual misconduct to the Gainesville 
Police Department.
On March 19, Johnston was 
charged with sexual battery of an 
adult. Later, on June 28, the state 
barred Johnston from treating female 
patients. He is still allowed to treat 
male clients.
Johnston was scheduled to 
appear in court on Oct. 26. He did 
not return requests for comment after 
five phone calls between Oct.11 and 
Oct. 14.
As the investigation continues, more patients of Johnston have 
shared their experiences under his 
medical care.
Catherine Music, a 42-year-old UF 
Health employee, went to Johnston’s 
practice for an appointment over 
seven years ago and said she tells 
anyone who is thinking of chiropractic 
treatment to look elsewhere.
Like the victim in the report, 
Music was taken to a private room 
and asked if he could adjust her 
hips. Agreeing, Music didn’t realize 
his hands would be underneath her 
underwear.
She felt violated. When adjusting 
her upper body, his hands cupped 
her breasts. 
“I should have just got up and 
walked away but when you’re in that 
setting, you’re questioning ‘Is this 
right?’” she said. “You know he’s a 
doctor so your brain is going every 
which way.”
She wonders if she had returned, 
if he would have gone further. She 
never gave him a next time.
Music said the victim might have 
gone back because she could have 
paid for multiple sessions at once. If 
she had done that, she might have 
felt more inclined to go back even 
if the chiropractor made her feel 
violated.
Protest organizer Rebekkah 
Williamson remembers walking into 
Johnston’s office for the first time in 
2015 and feeling overwhelmed.
That year, Williamson got into a 
car accident and injured her back. 
After receiving care from Johnston, 
she said she began to question his 
know-it-all demeanor. 
Coming from a medical family, 
she trusted his professional opinion 
and believed it was necessary for him 
to practice under her clothes. With 
new care providers, she realized too 
late that her adjustments could have 
been done above clothing.
Williamson was under Johnston’s 
medical care four times a week for a 
year. In the past two years, she said 
she visited the office less than ten 
times. 
Six years later, Williamson's pain 
has gotten worse.
“I really believed that the pain 
that I was experiencing was just so 
much more than what he could fix,” 
she said. “I put a lot of trust that it 
wasn't working because of my body 
not because of his lack of care.”
On Oct. 11, Williamson, her 
fiance and a fellow protester 
created signs to protest Johnston’s 
continued medical care with three 
goals in mind: to relay to the public 
Johnston’s accused misgivings, to remove his chiropractic license and 
to send Johnston to jail. 
Honks of encouragement made 
them raise their posters higher.
Thirty minutes after the Oct. 11 
protest started, a text was sent out to 
all of Johnston Chiropractic Health 
Center patients alerting them of the 
closing of the office and opening of 
a new chiropractic facility, Florida 
Spine & Injury located at 7545 West 
University Ave. Suite A and owned 
by James Worthington.  
Worthington, who worked with 
Johnson in the same office, said he 
had no knowledge of Johnston’s 
alleged abuse. Worthington said his 
new business has no affiliation with 
Johnston. 
After learning of the allegations 
made against Johnston, Worthington 
left the office.
Worthington thought Johnston 
could be a bit too friendly with clients 
to the point of flirting, but never saw 
it cross into the territory of sexual 
assault. After reading the report, he 
stands by the victim. 
Isabelle Gonzalez, a 19-year-old 
UF biology sophomore, said she had 
a good experience with the office 
staff and Worthington in September 
after her back pain increased this 
year.
“He was very respectful,” 
Gonzalez said. “Always explained 
everything he was doing before he 
did it and asked me how I was feeling 
throughout the entire experience to 
make sure that nothing hurt.”
Gonzalez remembers lying on 
her back and her shirt rolling up. 
Worthington proceeded to push 
her shirt back down and continue 
his chiropractic care. Her positive 
experience continued for her three 
visits where she said every adjustment 
was made above clothing. 
However, Gonzalez can’t imagine 
returning to the office if Johnston 
was somehow involved. She is 
considering going to Worthington’s 
new practice because of her positive 
experience with him. 
Nicole Montgomery, a 40-year-old 
Gainesville resident, was the third 
protester at the office. She has never 
received treatment from Johnston’s 
facility, but after hearing about 
the accusations of sexual assault, 
memories resurfaced of her own.
Words like “felony sexual assault” 
and “sexually abusing patient” 
circled the mugshot of Johnston on 
her sign. 
“It really pisses me off that 
someone thinks that in a position 
of authority and power and with 
trust that they can physically and 
emotionally do harm,” she said. “It 
takes a lot of trust for somebody to 
be able to be that vulnerable with a 
stranger ... they take an oath to do 
no harm.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 9
 Johnston Chiropractic Health Center closes 
doors amid sexual assault claims, protests
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Johnston Chiropractic Health Center is seen on Northwest 13 
Street on Monday, Oct. 11, 2021.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
First half of Fall in photos
Catherine McCarthy / / Alligator Staff
Ryan Wilder, Change Party founder and UF alum, celebrates the party winning 12 seats 
in the Student Government Senate election on Sept. 29, 2021 at the Reitz Union.
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
U.S. Rep. Kat Cammack stands alongside Gov. Ron DeSantis and his state cabinet 
on Sept. 13, 2021 at Clark Plantation Wedding Venue in Newberry, Florida. 
DeSantis was speaking to City of Gainesville employees who filed a lawsuit 
against the city for mandating vaccines for all its employees. The city is no longer 
requiring employees to be vaccinated.
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Karine Dieuvil, 21, GoDDsville Dream Defenders member, leads a chant during 
the Justice for Heaven and Ava protest outside Alachua County Jail on Aug. 21, 
2021. Erica “Heaven” Thompson gave birth inside a jail cell at Alachua County 
Jail. Shortly after, baby Ava died.Eli Nino / / Alligator Staff
Officer Jarell Delancy (left) and Officer Paul White (right) report from a motorcycle 
accident on the corner of 3rd Avenue and West University Avenue in front of 
Krispy Kreme on Oct. 1, 2021.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Quarterback Emory Jones drops back into the end zone searching for an open 
receiver against the Alabama Crimson Tide on Sept. 18.  Despite the battle, the 
offense couldn’t overcome Alabama’s defense and lost 29-31.
As UF enters the second half of the 
semester, The Alligator looks back 
on some key moments so far this Fall4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
A DISAGREEMENT BETWEEN WHO 
SHOULD FUND A 24-HOUR LIBRARY 
LEAVES STUDENTS WITHOUT ONE
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
As UF’s libraries tend to be at the high -
est capacity during midterms and finals, 
students are asking for a 24-hour library on 
campus. But no one wants to provide the 
necessary funding.
Traditionally, Library West was the 24-
hour library from 2012 to 2017 and 2019, 
but UF Libraries more recently changed it 
to Marston Library. However, the 24-hour 
schedule came to a halt once COVID-19 hit, 
and it never came back.
Now, some UF students are upset they do 
not have a 24-hour library option on cam -
pus.
The cost to keep any of the libraries open 
24 hours is about $250,000 each year, said 
Patrick Reakes, UF Libraries Senior Associ -
ate Dean, Scholarly Resources and Services.
UF Libraries is not in control of the fund -
ing needed to keep facilities open for 24 
hours, Reakes said. That responsibility falls 
onto Student Government and UF adminis -
tration.
“I’m always happy to do it as long as 
somebody provides the funding for it,” he 
said.
Newell Hall was renovated in 2017 and 
made to be open 24 hours a day, seven days 
a week. But the building is a social study 
space for students, not a library, so it is 
missing many student resources such as 
study rooms and computers, Reakes said.
“I think the reality of it is, a lot of the 
use is just people want a place to go in and 
study,” he said.
Daniel Antonio Miguel, 28, went to New -ell Hall on a Tuesday night. The history se -
nior, who relies on the libraries to work in a 
quiet space with stable WiFi, was met with 
insufficient seating and no quiet study areas.
“By 1 a.m., once those libraries closed, 
the building was just flooded with students,” 
he said.
Miguel said having a 24-hour library is 
essential, especially with UF now being a 
top-5 public institution and the top univer -
sity in the state, according to U.S. News and 
World Report.
“The fact that other state universities of -
fer some form of 24-hour availability, but the 
University of Florida isn’t, it feels wrong,” 
he said “It feels almost like a betrayal.”
Florida universities like Florida Interna -
tional University, University of South Flor -
ida and Florida State University, each offer 
a 24-hour library open four days a week for 
students.
Miguel said he wants Student Body Presi -
dent Cooper Brown to reconsider offering 
some form of 24-hour library service.
“If student body President Cooper Brown 
and the Student Government determines 
that they cannot offer a 24-hour library, I 
would ask President Fuchs to step in and 
provide that service,” he said.
However, neither SG nor the school’s ad -
ministration want to take on the added costs.
Brown is disappointed in the school’s 
administration for avoiding its responsibil -
ity of supporting academic study space and 
forcing students to shoulder the burden with 
additional fee support, he wrote in an email. 
Student activity fees are used to fund 
RecSports, SG, Student Activities and In -
volvement, the Reitz Union, and Sorority 
and Fraternity Affairs, not academic units, 
he wrote.
Brown encourages students to contact 
Dean of University Libraries Judith Russell 
and the UF Provost Joe Glover directly with their desire to see a 24/7 library. He hopes 
students challenge the administration to do 
the right thing and fund academic spaces us -
ing tuition dollars that are intended to sup -
port academic buildings, he wrote. He be -
lieves that’s how it should have been from 
the start.
Russell and Glover did not respond to 
questions about the reason for termination 
of 24-hour libraries or future plans to restore 
them. Brown also did not provide comment 
on when SG started funding the libraries or 
on plans to fund them in the future.
Minority party leader Gabrielle Adekunle 
(District D, Change) wrote in a text that she, 
along with other Change Party senators, are 
working to set up a committee to advocate 
expanding student resources at UF, includ -
ing making Library West a 24-hour building.UF currently has no plans to restore 
funding for 24-hour library operations, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando wrote in an 
email. He said data collected in 2017 when 
the provost agreed to fund 24-hour access in 
Library West reflected minimal library activ -
ity during those overnight hours.
“The fairly low number of students using 
the libraries during those extended hours did 
not justify the added costs and liabilities,” 
Orlando wrote.
UF leadership is looking into other op -
tions for after-hours study spaces, he said, 
and will provide more information about 
that when the time is appropriate.
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgUF, Student Government have no plans to bring back 24-hour library despite demand
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Newell Hall is seen on Thursday, Oct. 14, 2021.
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
CONTINUE TO LACK 
REPRESENTATION IN THE 
SENATE CHAMBER
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writers
The process of approving 
committee and Senate seats 
caused debate last week after 
a freshman was selected to 
represent sophomores and 
graduate seats remained vacant.
The Replacement and Agenda 
Committee completed more than 
50 interviews to fill 20 vacant 
Senate seats and 21 committee 
seats Oct. 10. After R&A 
recommended candidates to the 
Senate, all 21 committee seats 
and five Senate seats were filled 
Tuesday.
The committee seats included 
chairs and members for the 
Information and Communication, 
Budget and Appropriations, 
Judiciary, and Rules and Ethics 
Committee. Senate approved 
students for the seats Public 
Health and Health Professions, 
Business, Sophomore and two 
Freshman. However, some 
senators were dissatisfied with 
the picks. Minority Party Leader Gabrielle 
Adekunle, a member of the R&A 
Committee, was one of them. 
“There were many who were 
approved that I absolutely agreed 
with and other choices that fell 
more than short to me,” she 
wrote in a text. “Especially the 
decision to keep the graduate 
and graduate family and housing 
seats open.”
The Graduate and Graduate 
Family Housing seats remained 
vacant after fewer than five 
applied to fill the positions. But 
Adekunle wrote she feels as 
though two graduate students 
that applied were more than 
qualified to fill the position. 
“As someone who advocates 
heavily for proper representation, 
leaving these seats open and 
denying graduate students two 
voices that could speak for them 
feels beyond inconsiderate,” she 
wrote. 
There are more than 13,000 
graduate students at UF and nine 
vacant Graduate seats. Many 
graduate students, including 
Reza Esmaeli who applied for a 
Graduate and Family Housing 
seat, are concerned about 40%of 
graduate housing being torn 
down in UF’s student housing 
plan. Concerns like housing are some of the reasons senators 
want to see more graduate 
student representation.
Spencer Gorelick (a District 
D, Change) spoke during last 
Tuesday’s Senate public comment 
to plead for more outreach to 
get graduate students to apply. 
Without proper representation, 
he said, Senate is lacking the 
voice of thousands of students 
with unique issues on campus.
“The adage that you can lead 
a horse to water but you can’t 
make it drink may be true,” he 
said. “But if you lead 13,000 
horses to water, at least nine of 
them will drink.”
Another debated appointment 
was the Sophomore seat. 
Students who wished to apply 
for the seat had to have 30 to 60 
credits to qualify fora sophomore 
standing. The seat is now filled 
by freshman Donald Webster, 
who received the most votes from 
R&A and Senate. 
Webster did not respond to 
requests for comment.
His ideas included building 
roofed storage for bikes on campus 
to prevent weather damage. He 
also mentioned getting more TV 
screens or a digital billboard to 
disseminate information around 
campus. “I was taken aback by him,” 
Majority Party Leader John 
Brinkman (Sophomore, Gator) 
said in the Senate meeting. “I 
thought he was an amazing 
candidate. He really seemed 
to want to help others in a 
meaningful way.” 
Adekunle, however, believed 
his ideas fell short and lacked an 
action plan to get them done. 
“I think that we can all agree 
that bike repairs and having a roof 
over them is great,” Adekunle 
wrote. “But I think that there are 
more important things to focus 
on first.”
Jonathan Stephens, Adekunle’s 
top pick, also applied for the 
sophomore seat. 
Stephens, an 18-year-old UF 
food science and agricultural 
education and communication 
freshman, came prepared with 
five action plans for each piece of 
legislation he hoped to advocate 
for. Although it’s his first 
semester as a full time student, 
he attended UF part-time last 
semester through an internship 
and has 50 credits.
His first proposed initiative 
included allocating money 
through the Budget and 
Appropriations Committee to 
the Field and Fork Pantry or other community organizations 
to combat food insecurity on 
campus. He also planned to 
follow through with Gator Party’s 
platform point to be able to 
transfer unused flex bucks, an 
optional debit amount on Gator 1 
cards, to students in need. 
“I think, overall, it’s not about 
why I didn’t get it. But how can 
I move forward from this to help 
use my influence as a leader 
within UF to really help push 
for change,” he said. “I hope to 
continue that throughout my 
years within this college.”
As someone who has had to 
use the resources at the Field and 
Fork Pantry before, Adekunle 
felt as though his snub from the 
Sophomore seat only exacerbated 
the lack of representation within 
the Senate.
“Every appointment that was 
made placed members of one 
party into power,” she wrote. 
“We should be working to build 
a more fair student government 
instead of playing power politics.”
There are still 15 open 
permanent Senate seats including 
one for District E, Arts, Dentistry, 
Medicine, Veterinary and 
Graduate and Family Housing. 
There are nine open Graduate 
seats.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgCommittee, Senate seat approvals leave some disappointedone bedroom, one bathroom apartment 
with her fiancé. She said her bills have 
recently doubled from $100 to almost $200. 
The couple turns off appliances like 
the AC when they’re at work, and they’ve 
stopped cooking at home. Instead, they use 
a grill to keep their electric bill down.
“Their rates are ridiculous,” Smith said. 
“When we first started using GRU, it was 
pretty reasonable. Now, all of the sudden, 
it’s just outrageous.”
Kinn’zon Hutchinson, GRU’s chief 
customer officer, said the rate increases 
affect everyone, regardless of income. But 
GRU provides assistance for residents who 
have difficulties meeting their monthly 
bills, such as providing payment plans and 
extending deadlines.
“We’re not in the business of 
disconnecting anybody off the utility,” 
Hutchinson said. “We’re here for our 
customers.”
GRU also has a program offering low-
income individuals free upgrades to 
increase the efficiency of their homes 
by installing insulation and replacing 
inefficient appliances. However, residents need to be homeowners to qualify for the 
program, meaning renters don’t qualify.
The rates, Hutchinson said, are 
competitive when things like stormwater 
costs are cut out. However, GRU 
spokesperson Rebecca Allison was unable 
to provide data to support this claim in time 
for publication.
Matt Howland, a candidate for Gainesville 
City Commission’s open at-large seat this 
November, wants to lower GRU’s utility 
rates. Other candidates, including Cynthia 
Chestnut, Patrick Ingle and Scherwin Henry 
have also discussed GRU rates.
While door knocking for his campaign, 
Howland said he has spoken to many fixed-
income families who struggle to pay rate 
increases. People who depend on social 
security or who are single-income parents 
may have to sacrifice paying for other 
things to make up for the rising rates, he 
said.
“I think it’s very easy to get caught up in 
this idea of a couple dollars here, a couple 
dollars there,” Howland said. “Together, 
we can all chip in and we can make this 
happen. We can be cheerleaders and try to 
put a positive spin on it. But that’s not very 
pragmatic.”
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgMONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
Bailey Pittman’s Ring camera 
captured a slender, middle-aged 
white man walking past Pittman’s 
apartment door toward the back 
window around 8:30 p.m. Minutes 
later, Henry walked past Pittman’s 
front door again.  
When she saw the video Sept. 
25, the 23-year-old froze, and 
felt unsafe in her apartment in 
The Polos. Then, she emailed the 
police.“I did think I lived in the 
better part of the apartment 
complexes, and I pay more for 
that opportunity,” Pittman said. 
“It still happened, and I wasn’t 
happy about it.”
Matthew Henry, 56, was 
charged with stalking and three 
charges of voyeurism in the first 
degree after allegedly looking 
through a 19-year-old UF student’s 
window at Windsor Park, 
according to an affidavit filed 
Tuesday. 
As of Sunday evening, no arrest has been made. But these 
incidents are not Henry’s first.
In 2008, Henry took photos of 
women through their windows 
to use for his own sexual 
gratification, according to court 
records. He was arrested but not 
placed on probation for his 2008 
misdemeanors. 
Henry told police in 2008 he 
chose The Polos because it had 
the “prettiest girls,” the affidavit 
report read.
The Polos sent out an email to 
all residents Sept. 30 following the 
peeping Tom incidents. 
“We wanted to take the time to 
remind everyone the staff is here for YOU always!” the email read. 
The current affidavit victim’s 
Ring camera captured three 
separate instances of Henry 
creeping around her bedroom 
window. 
Henry was shown walking to 
the back of the student’s apartment 
Sept. 22 at around 9 p.m. The 
backdoor Ring camera the student 
has covers her bedroom window. 
Henry bent down next to her 
window and appeared to look into 
the window. 
On Sept. 23 at about 9 p.m. 
Henry was again shown looking 
through the victim’s bedroom 
window, according to the affidavit report. 
A day later, on Sept. 24 at 
around 8:30 p.m., the victim was at 
a neighbor’s apartment when she 
received a Ring notification. The 
footage showed Henry walking 
up to her bedroom window once 
more. Two witnesses tried to 
approach Henry, but he quickly 
walked off. 
The Gainesville Police 
Department was unable to 
comment as to why no arrest was 
made as of Sunday.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgGainesville man charged with stalking, voyeurism after being caught on student Ring footage  
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
One night a year, kids get to dress 
up and go door-to-door amassing as 
much free candy as possible — a core 
childhood experience. But for UF Health 
Shands Children’s Hospital patients, Oct. 
31 will look a little different, and teams 
of people are working together to bring 
as much Halloween spirit as possible. 
The hospital’s Child Life Program 
is working with volunteers, student 
organizations and community donors to 
provide the young patients with candy, 
costumes and fall-themed crafts. 
“It’s very important for our children 
and families to have a sense of home, a 
sense of normalization while they’re here 
in the hospital,” Amy Wegner, the Child 
Life Program director said. “We want to 
make any sort of special event for them 
happen while they’re here.”
The program has been organizing 
Halloween and other special events at the 
children’s hospital for the last 33 years. 
This year, the pediatric units will be 
participating in reverse trick-or-treating, 
where kids will have things brought 
to them instead of going door to door, 
Wegner said. Volunteers and staff hand 
out activity items like coloring books, 
pencils, crayons, Play-Doh and some 
candy.
One of Child Life’s biggest sponsors 
is Spirit of Children, a fundraiser 
coordinated by the store Spirit Halloween. 
During the Halloween season, 100% of 
every dollar collected goes directly to the 
Child Life department, Wegner said. 
Since 2011, the program has been 
receiving costume donations through the 
Spirit of Children, she said. A variety of 
themed costumes in all different sizes are 
provided for any kid that does not have a 
costume from home.  
Many days look the same for the long-
term patients, said Bethany Fisackerly, 
a certified Child Life specialist. Holiday 
specials break patients’ routines and are 
important to create memories for them 
within the hospital, she said.  
“One of my favorite events we’ve done in the past is all our therapy dogs 
got dressed up in costume, and we had a 
therapy dog parade,” she said.
Due to COVID-19, some of the events 
and surprises for the kids have changed, 
and the coordinators are focusing on 
planning activities that can be brought to 
the room, Fisackerly said. 
“We had one kid a couple of years 
ago when we had the therapy dog parade 
who kept saying how it was just the best 
Halloween she had ever had,” Fisackerly 
said.  
Additionally, COVID-19 limited who 
was able to interact with the kids, so 
volunteers were not allowed to come into 
the hospital. This year, volunteers and 
student organizations get to participate 
in the festivities and interact with the 
children again. 
Footprints, a UF nonprofit student 
organization, will assist the Child Life 
Program with the Halloween festivities in 
Shands Children’s Hospital Units 41 and 
42. 
Footprints’ main goal is to go to the 
hospital and let the kids be kids during 
treatment and help them feel as normal 
as they can while they are at the hospital, 
which goes hand in hand with Child 
Life’s mission.
Even though they could not be with 
the kids last year, the student volunteers 
made sure to still reach this goal and 
ensure that the children had a special 
Halloween experience by donating goody 
bags, said Madison Burns, the Footprints 
committee chair. 
“Being here this year is really special 
in that we spend time on these projects 
and we actually get to see them spend 
time with it and make their day,” Burns 
said. “It kind of makes a difference when 
you can walk into a room, and it’s really 
decorated, and it doesn’t feel so sterile 
and so much like a hospital.”
Footprints and Child Life welcome any 
donations throughout the year to help 
make each holiday special for the kids.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgHalloween comes to Shands Children’s Hospital patients
GRU,  from pg. 1Ridiculous ratesThe man was arrested in 2008 for similar offenses
Kids at UF Health Shands Children’ s Hospital 
will participate in various Halloween activities
Courtesy to The Alligator
Ernesto Martínez, 72, walks across University Avenue July 2019 while protesting 
tax increases from Gainesville Regional Utilities. About 12 people gathered outside 
of City Hall to peacefully protest the rising energy costs. Protestors waved signs, 
chanted through a megaphone and handed out flyers.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
THE FOOTBALL FIELD HAS BEEN A 
PART OF GAINESVILLE TRADITION 
SINCE 1948
By Noah Ram
Sports Writer 
While many Gainesville residents spend 
their Friday night wining and dining, Fon -
tella Moore makes her way to Citizens Field 
on Eighth Avenue and Waldo Road. 
Upon entering the stadium, Moore scans 
the concrete bleachers for a seat with a clear 
view of the band and cheerleaders. Her eyes 
land on her daughters as they ignite the 
crowd with their cheers. 
The duo attempts to invigorate Eastside 
High School’s fans at Citizens Field, despite 
the Rams’ 30-point deficit against North 
Marion late in the fourth quarter. 
Eastside’s brutal defeat doesn’t deter 
Moore, a 42-year-old alumna, from attend -
ing games at the field. She has frequented 
matchups for years — even before her 
daughters suited up to cheer for the Rams. 
And it doesn’t matter if Eastside or 
other Gainesville high schools play. High 
school football at Citizens Field has been a 
Gainesville tradition for nearly 75 years. 
“This is the thing to do,” she said. “There 
is nothing like Friday night football.”
Residents have shuffled into Citizens 
Field every Thursday and Friday night since 
1948. Eastside, Gainesville High School and 
Buchholz High School all currently coexist 
on the East Gainesville field.
However, Buchholz began its Friday 
night football at Gainesville’s most venerat -
ed stadium: The Swamp. The Gators’ home 
switched to artificial turf when Buchholz 
opened in 1971 —  inviting high school foot -
ball teams to hold games at its facility. The 
GHS Hurricanes bolted for the larger stadium 
and left Citizens Field reserved for Eastside, 
which had been inaugurated in 1970. 
In the early ‘80s, Gainesville City Com -
missioner Harvey Ward donned a Rams foot -
ball jersey. The school spirit enlivened the 
crowd and the local community. 
“Citizens was our thing,” Ward said. “I 
played a little bit, and I take great pride in it. 
I knew I was a link in a chain and part of the 
greater good of the community by embrac -
ing what goes on at Citizens Field.”
Ward’s family claims a special connec -
tion to Citizens Field. His uncle helped lay 
sod on when it was built, according to fam -ily lore.
But Eastside’s reign as the sole tenant 
of Citizens Field ended when Steve Spur -
rier became Florida’s head coach in 1990, 
said Charley Wise, Alachua County Public 
Schools’ athletic director. The celebrated 
coach insisted the facility convert back to 
natural grass. Buchholz and GHS were dis -
pelled to avoid extra wear and tear. 
In 1984, ACPS signed a 40-year lease at 
Citizens Field for $1 per year. The lease as -
serted the school district would handle field 
operations, which include maintenance, up -
grades and staffing.
This setup stresses Wise and his two-
man team, especially when schools schedule 
back-to-back games on Thursday and Friday 
nights.
“Luckily, we don’t have to paint the field 
twice, but it’s tough,” he said. “We got all 
that trash to pick up, bathrooms and press 
boxes to clean.”
This season, which started Aug. 20, 
didn’t have a Thursday game on schedule 
until the Eastside-North Marion game Moore 
attended Sept. 30. Thursday contests con -
tinue through Oct. 21 while Friday battles 
stretch to Nov. 5. 
The game scheduling process starts in 
the spring, Wise said. He gathers all three 
coaches and school athletic directors, and 
they collaborate to slate their home games 
until the regular season ends.
“There are certain weeks when all three 
schools want it, but they can’t,” Wise said. 
“Sometimes we have schools play home 
games elsewhere.”
That alternative materializes Oct. 22, 
when Buchholz battles Jacksonville-based 
Bolles in Starke, a town almost an hour away 
from the Bobcats’ campus. That same day, 
Eastside will host Palatka at Citizens Field. 
Each school will host five home games 
this season. They also earn an extra “home 
game” due to crosstown rivalries: Buchholz 
v. Eastside Sept. 10; GHS v. Buchholz Oct. 7; 
and Eastside v. GHS Nov. 5.
The three schools maintain their own 
fields on campus but elect to play games at 
Citizens Field due to the infrastructure.
“You can fit 5,000 people there,” Wise 
said. “They don’t have the facilities to hold 
games. GHS is tightly packed in off 13th 
Street.”
Buchholz, which is located on the west 
side of Gainesville, considered building its 
own on-campus stadium five years ago. Citi -zens Field is 6.5 miles from Buchholz’s cam -
pus, compared to 4 miles for Eastside and 
2.7 miles for GHS. The proposal never came 
to fruition.
“The deal was on and off, but now it 
seems off,” Wise said. “When you are on 
campus, it’s all yours. You have to deal with 
everything, including cleanup.”
Schools only need to pay for referees and 
police during games, Wise said. They also 
collect all profits from the $10 tickets.
Wise and Commissioner Ward anticipate 
the triad will re-sign when the lease expires. 
However, the possibility of renovations loom 
over the future of the field and nearby areas.
“That’s a really nice piece of land that I 
believe we can do something special with,” 
Ward said. “It needs to be something that 
draws the community to a focal point there. 
We don’t aspire to build something that just 
City Hall wants.”
Due to slowed efforts during the CO -
VID-19 pandemic, no timeline has been set 
on potential projects, but the city intends 
to support a community football stadium, 
Ward said. 
Meanwhile, Wise said the commission 
has failed to consult ACPS on its goals. 
He yearns to bring Citizens Field to the 
21st century by ditching the current LED-
scoreboard for a Jumbotron.
“You need a Jumbotron in today’s age,” 
he said. “Even little Starke has one, but those 
cost $200,000, 10 times more than ours.”
But Moore, like other East Gainesville 
residents, isn’t optimistic about the city’s 
plans to renovate the stadium.
“Every year, they say they are doing 
something to enhance the east side, and then 
they put it off for so long,” she said. “But 
then you go to Archer or Newberry Road, 
and things are being put up in months. It 
makes you wonder where their priorities 
are.” 
Moore believes Citizens Field helps lure 
people to the east side.
“If you don’t have to come to the east 
side, you don’t,” she said. “The fact that 
kids have to play here makes people think, 
‘Wow, the east side isn’t as bad, and it’s a 
melting pot for everyone.’”
In addition to football, Citizens Field also 
hosts soccer and the occasional lacrosse 
game. The site mainly closes during the sum -
mer except for some charity events. Wise’s 
favorite event, however, transpires every 
spring — the fifth-grade Fun Day. More than 
2,000 students from the schools across Ala -
chua County migrate to the stadium.
Football still entices the largest crowds 
to Citizens Field, especially during rivalry 
games.
“The largest crowd ever was probably 
somewhere between 5-6,000 people,” Wise 
said. “The fire department says a max of 
4,000, but more people are usually squeezed 
in.”
Andre London embraces the sense of 
community at Citizens Field when he watch -
es his son, a sophomore defensive end for 
the Rams. The 46-year-old Gainesville resi -
dent began attending matchups seven years 
ago.
“I knew different people in the commu -
nity, and I would come support their kids,” 
he said.
Friday night football, he said, provides a 
safe but energetic experience. Rivalry games 
provide even more of a spirited aura. 
“It is where you want to be on a Friday 
night,” London said.
Commissioner Ward believes Citizens 
Field’s influence extends beyond Thursday 
or Friday night entertainment. It levels the 
playing ground for all three Gainesville high 
schools.
“No matter what part of town you grew 
up in, you have a connection through what 
happens at that stadium,” Ward said.London, however, questions if Citizens 
Field retains that impact.
“Schools like Buchholz and Eastside have 
totally different programs and facilities,” 
he said. “The only thing they share is this 
field.”
Jaquan Lee, a senior wide receiver and 
cornerback at Buchholz, has experienced the 
field through two atmospheres. 
The 17-year-old swapped his Rams jersey 
for a Buchholz one after his first two sea -
sons. And the change came paired with a 
new team dynamic.
 “I feel like it’s more of a brotherhood 
from a Buchholz perspective,” he said. “At 
Eastside, I feel like everyone does their own 
thing.”
Buchholz’s boisterous fans bring an in -
herent advantage. They drown out rivals’ 
cheers during close games and rile up the 
stadium after wins. 
Lee first attended games at Citizens Field 
when his brother, Ralph Webb, played for 
GHS in the early 2010s. Webb suited up for 
Vanderbilt and the NFL.
Webb is one of many legends to forge a 
legacy on the local mecca. A recent Eastside 
graduate now competes at the fabled site 
on the west side of town: Gators freshman 
quarterback Anthony Richardson.
Richardson committed to UF in 2020 as a 
four-star recruit.
He inspires the community, including 
Lee, who played alongside him for two 
years.
“He’s a great character,” he said. “He was 
that big brother role model, and I knew if he 
can do it, so can I. Coming from Eastside, 
not many kids get the opportunity to lead 
the way.”
But Richardson’s success holds a deeper 
meaning to East Gainesville’s community 
and Ward. 
“You got your Tim Tebows, who are 
amazing, and I am a proud Gator alum,”  he 
said. “But it’s even more special when it’s an 
Eastside Ram.”
Citizens Field may be the only place in 
Gainesville where everyone unites. 
“It doesn’t matter what side of town you 
are from,” Moore said. “This is the one place 
where kids and adults can gravitate to and 
have a good time.”
The same faces often scatter the crowd 
on Thursday and Friday nights. Moore en -
courages anyone to escape their usual Friday 
night routine.
All they have to do is make their way to 
Waldo Road and Eighth Avenue. They can 
meet Moore in the stands Fridays at 7 p.m. 
and leave having experienced a different as -
pect of Gainesville culture — all at Citizens 
Field. 
@Noah_ram1
nram@alligator.orgCitizens Field: Home to Gainesville high school football 
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Keenon Johnson (middle), Newberry Panthers running back, runs the ball down 
Citizens Field during a game against the Eastside Rams on Thursday, Oct. 14, 2021.Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Citizens Field is seen during a game 
between the Eastside Rams and Newberry 
Panthers on Thursday, Oct. 14, 2021.
MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
BRING IN THIS VOUCHER 
FOR AN EXTRA 
$10 BONUS!
NEW donors only. Not valid in conjunction 
with any other referral fees or bonuses.
grifolsplasma.comNEW Plasma Donors 
EARN $500
for 5 donations!*
2315 NW 13th Street, Gainesville, FL 32609
(352) 378-9431Bring Valid Student/Military ID to 
qualify for additional BONUSES!
*fees subject to change without notice004IA3
004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1004_SH_4x4_4cMB_BiomatUSA.indd   1 9/2/21   5:27 PM9/2/21   5:27 PM
BOOK SALE
OCTOBER 23 – – 27, 2021
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH, CHECKS & CREDIT CARD
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
Because of high COVID infection levels, FOL will follow safety protocols to protect all 
shoppers and FOL volunteers.  We will monitor and limit the number of people in the 
building.  Everyone in the building must wear a mask over mouth and nose.  We ask 
everyone to practice social distancing and be patient and considerate when near others.
INSPIRED BY HIS TEACHER, THE 
STUDENT WASN’T AFRAID TO 
PURSUE HIS PASSION
By Desiree Anello
Alligator Contributing Writer
 
Craig “Tre’” Smith III, a sixth-grader 
at Oak View Middle School, shot his 
hand up as he sat in his English class. 
His idea would serve and inspire hun -
dreds of families thousands of miles 
away.
His goal of raising $2,500 to provide 
clean water sources to people in Ugan -
da almost doubled within two months. 
Tre’ was inspired by his reading 
teacher, Lori Barber, who introduced 
him to “A Long Walk to Water,” a novel 
that educated him about the lack of ac -
cess to clean water in remote villages 
in Sudan. 
When he realized there were chil -
dren his age who don’t have easy ac -
cess to clean water, he set a firm goal to 
raise funds for those children and began 
Aug. 16. 
“It started with a teacher who 
sparked an idea, a kid that’s super pas -
sionate and then it was a dinner conver -
sation at home with parents that helped 
him get started,” his mother Deanna 
Smith said.
Smith then contacted an organiza -
tion called Ekisinga Ministries, which 
partners with local churches in Uganda 
to provide business training, safe water 
solutions and community outreach. She 
has since worked with Steve and Deb -
bie Nutzmann, the director of the min -
istry and his wife, to assess the needs 
of Ugandans and distribute funds and 
resources where they would make the 
most impact.
Tre’ first put the money he had 
raised into water-purifying devices 
called MadiDrops. The devices are ce -
ramic tablets embedded with silver that 
can be placed into 10 to 20 liters of wa -
ter daily and left to purify for 8 to 24 
hours. MadiDrops can provide an entire family with purified water for up to 12 
months.
“His desire was to help 100 people,” 
Debbie Nutzmann said. “We were able 
to do that instantaneously through the 
use of these MadiDrops, but it’s snow -
balled in a way that I think was bigger 
than anything he could imagine.”
Tre’ sent the first $1,000 to provide 
40 MadiDrops that were distributed by 
local churches.
As the fundraiser gained traction, 
Tre’s next goal was to raise enough 
funds to install a water kiosk that 
would help 300 to 350 people, Smith 
said. The kiosks, which are set up with 
direct power or with solar and filter out 
99.99% of bacteria and 99.1% of virus -
es, would provide clean drinking water 
in a matter of seconds. 
“He’s also really kickstarted some -
thing that’s not just going to last 12 
months, but it’s going to last years in a 
sustainable manner, which is one of our 
key things,” Debbie Nutzmann said. “I 
think that’s kind of a cool legacy that he 
has been able to give people in Ugan -
da.”
Hoping to inspire Ugandans, the 
Nutzmanns shared pictures of Tre’ with 
locals, Debbie Nutzmann said. 
Barber, his English teacher, planted 
the seed of his inspiration that contin -
ues to impact hundreds of people. But 
she said she doesn’t want to take credit 
for his work. 
“He thought of it himself,” Barber 
said. “Of course as a teacher, to inspire 
any child is great, so I was very proud 
of him.” 
Tre’ plans to continue raising money 
for Ekisinga Ministries and pursue more 
hands-on projects in the future. He has 
a heart for children and desires to put 
together care packages for orphanages 
and kids in Africa, Smith said. Tre’ 
looks forward to working on future 
service projects and plans to continue 
making his ideas into realities.
@desiree_anelloSixth grade Alachua County sixth-grader provides 
clean water sources for hundreds in UgandaEL CAIMÁN
LAS TARIFAS ELÉCTRICAS DE LA 
CIUDAD SUBIRÁN UN 15% PARA 2027
Escrito por Meghan McGlone
Escritora de El Caimán
Traducido por Saira Gonzalez 
Escritora de El Caimán
Durante más de un año, Estefanía 
Torres pagó más de $500 por su factura 
de servicios públicos, casi el costo de su 
alquiler mensual. Cada mes, mientras 
miraba impotente su factura, empezaba a 
llorar.
Luego, su arrendador reemplazó su 
unidad de aire acondicionado y su factura 
se redujo a $200.
“Se redujo a la mitad con solo comprar 
la nueva unidad de aire acondicionado, eso 
es lo que me enojó tanto”, dijo la residente 
de Gainesville de 24 años.
Torres es una de los muchos otros 
residentes de Gainesville que dependen de 
Gainesville Regional Utilities, pero vivir en 
un vecindario de bajos ingresos la afecta 
desproporcionadamente por los aumentos 
de tarifas actuales y futuros que GRU 
continúa implementando.
El costo promedio de GRU por 
electricidad, agua y aguas residuales 
aumentó un 4% en octubre. El costo 
promedio de la electricidad de GRU 
aumentó alrededor de $6 y la factura total 
aumentó casi $10. De 2023 a 2027, las 
tarifas eléctricas subirán un 3% y las aguas 
residuales subirán un 5% anual, según 
GRU.
Las tarifas de servicios públicos de 
Gainesville fueron las terceras más altas 
de todas las tarifas de servicios públicos 
del estado en agosto, según la Asociación 
de Electricidad Municipal de Florida. 
Williston, que está a unas 20 millas de 
Gainesville, tuvo las tarifas más bajas de 
Florida. Orlando también tuvo tarifas más 
bajas que Gainesville, ubicándose en el 
puesto 20 de las ciudades encuestadas.Según el Departamento de Energía de 
EE. UU., los hogares de bajos ingresos 
tienden a gastar una mayor parte de sus 
ingresos en servicios públicos que otros 
hogares. Una forma de reducir los costos 
de energía es mediante electrodomésticos 
eficientes e aislamiento adecuado.
Pero como inquilina, eso es algo sobre 
lo que Torres no tenía control.
Para tratar de reducir los costos de 
energía, Torres mantenía su casa a 78 
grados durante todo el día. Pero debido a su 
ineficiente unidad de aire acondicionado, 
su factura de GRU todavía le devolvía $500 
hasta que la unidad de aire acondicionado 
fue reemplazada.
“Las personas que más necesitan ayuda, 
las personas que más están luchando, las 
personas más desfavorecidas de nuestra 
sociedad, son las que realmente están 
enfrentando la peor parte de los errores de 
GRU”, dijo Torres.
Taylor Smith, una residente de 
Gainesville de 20 años, comparte un 
apartamento de una habitación y un baño 
con su prometido. Dijo que sus facturas se 
han duplicado recientemente de $100 a casi 
$200.
La pareja apaga electrodomésticos como 
el aire acondicionado cuando están en el 
trabajo, dejaron de cocinar en casa y en 
su lugar usan una parrilla para reducir la 
factura de la luz.
“Sus tarifas son ridículas”, dijo Smith. 
“Cuando comenzamos a usar GRU, era 
bastante razonable. Ahora, de repente, es 
indignante “.
Kinn’zon Hutchinson, director de 
atención al cliente de GRU, dijo que los 
aumentos de tarifas afectan a todos, 
independientemente de los ingresos. Pero 
GRU brinda asistencia a los residentes que 
tienen dificultades para pagar sus facturas 
mensuales, como proporcionar planes de 
pago y extender los pagos.
@meggmcglone
mmcglone@alligator.orgGRU afecta de manera desproporcionada 
a los residentes de ingresos bajos y fijos8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
ORGANIZERS SAID IT’S AN 
EFFORT TO BEAUTIFY AND 
STRENGTHEN THE HISTORIC 
BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
About 15 volunteers spent 
their Saturday morning painting 
houses for four hours with a goal 
in mind: to beautify the Porters Quarters community. 
Ruby Williams, 85, watched 
from her living room window as 
her house’s outside walls turned 
from light blue to bright yellow — 
a color to represent sunshine.
Williams lives on the corner 
of Southwest Sixth Avenue and 
Southwest Third Street in Porters 
Quarters, a historically Black 
neighborhood established in 
1884.Her 66-year-old daughter, 
Faye Williams, said her mother’s 
house is the perfect place to start 
the beautification because she’s 
one of the oldest residents in their 
neighborhood.
Alachua Habitat for Humanity 
donated brushes and paint to help 
get the volunteers started in their 
mission. The volunteers who 
came to help paint were people 
of all ages and professional backgrounds, working elbow-to-
elbow. There were more people 
than brushes.
City Commissioner David 
Arreola and City Commission 
candidate Scherwin Henry also 
volunteered.
“David came and that was 
great and Scherwin was here 
that’s great, but my position 
is you’re just another person,” 
Williams said. “If you came over 
to paint some houses, there’s a 
brush. Pick up the brush and start 
painting the houses.”
They will probably paint the 
next house sky blue, representing 
going up to the heavens, Williams 
said. She wants the house after 
that to be green, representing the 
grass where everything is born 
together.
“Everybody wants beauty 
around them,” she said. “That’s 
the best part of our culture as 
Black people. We have always 
been about nature and beauty in 
our music, poetry, dancing.”
Jenn Powell, a 47-year-old 
Gainesville resident, has worked 
as a painter since 2017. She has 
worked on both commercial 
and recreational projects in the 
past, but this is her first time 
participating in a community 
volunteer project.
“When Ms. Faye asks you to 
do something, you come,” she 
said.
Powell said she came to 
volunteer as a way to try to protect 
historically Black communities in 
Gainesville.
“If you make things nice, 
people living here can take pride 
in their community,” she said. “When everything’s run down 
and paint’s peeling off, you don’t 
want to necessarily take care of 
it, so improving the look of it just 
brings up people’s morale.”
The Rev. Gerard Duncan, 
now an Ocala resident, lived in 
Gainesville for 30 years.
“This project is about 
revitalization and giving back to 
our seniors,” Duncan said. “Not 
only is the Porters community 
significant to the greater 
Gainesville, but the community 
historically is a major part of the 
culture of Gainesville.”
Many of the seniors and other 
people living in the neighborhood 
cannot afford critical maintenance 
repairs for their houses, Duncan 
said. He has noticed how the 
development at the edges of the 
historically Black neighborhoods 
in Gainesville are negatively 
affecting its residents.
He said neighborhoods like 
Porters Quarters were once 
believed to be suitable only for 
Black people to live in them. But 
once a Black neighborhood has 
been established, others come 
back to gentrify the area that 
they once claimed was not good 
enough for them.
“[It’s] like the quality now of 
the homes and the pleasantry of 
a place that Black people were 
banished to now becomes prime 
real estate,” Duncan said.
By beautifying Porters 
Quarters, Duncan said no one will 
be able to drive them out of the 
place to which they were driven.
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.org
By J.P . Oprison 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Nurses worked 12-hour shifts at the 
height of the pandemic — all without 
lunch breaks. Hesitant of the work hours 
and stress, Claire Sproule almost chose a 
different career path than nursing. 
The 20-year-old UF nursing junior, 
however, decided to stay in the nursing 
program despite the hardships her 
coworkers faced.
“It also just puts into perspective how 
health care workers are heroes,” Sproule 
said. “That inspires me even more.”
COVID-19 cases surged, and patients 
piled up at UF Health Shands Hospital 
throughout the pandemic. But tough 
circumstances haven’t deterred students 
like Sproule from pursuing their dreams.
In July, the Delta variant surge hit 
Shands with dramatic increases in 
hospitalizations with patients facing 
harsher symptoms, said Nicolás Kattán, associate chief for the Division of 
Hospital Medicine at Shands. The hospital 
prioritized beds for COVID-19 patients 
over those not infected.
“It’s been a total of three months of 
craziness,” Kattán said.
When COVID-19 patients arrive, staff 
can’t escape the emotional scars that come 
with seeing the virus’ impacts.
Patients are told they’ll be on oxygen 
when they arrive in the COVID-19 unit, 
Kattán said. 
If patients need more oxygen, they’re 
moved into the Intermediate Care Unit, 
where there are more nurses available. 
In more extreme circumstances, patients 
are moved into the Intensive Care Unit to 
be intubated and hooked to a ventilator. 
If a patient isn’t ready to come off the 
machine, they’re induced into a coma for 
another 24 hours.
Patients can refuse life support, which 
puts them at further risk, Kattán said.
“That conversation really kicks people on the teeth,” Kattán said. “Is this going 
to be the last time I can talk to my family? 
Am I going to be able to come out of the 
hospital?”
With the pandemic’s added challenges, 
staff have had to work past their shifts, 
ICU nurse Shuyun Shi said. 
“You just say, ‘If I can stay in here for 
an extra 10 minutes and do what I can, it 
may make a difference,’” Shi said.
Shi feels frustrated to witness patients 
die when vaccines could’ve curbed the 
severity of their infection. Nurses bonded 
with coworkers to cope with the losses 
amid pressure.
“We had to work long shifts; we had to 
go without water breaks; go without food 
because we were so busy,” Shi said. “And 
we all looked out for each other and got 
through it.”
The pandemic caused Ashley Parrish, 
a 29-year-old Santa Fe College nursing 
student, to reconsider her career. Her 
hesitancy stemmed from what she viewed as unempathetic health care workers who 
politicized the virus. 
“There should be no bias when it comes 
to providing health care for individuals,” 
Parrish said. “Everybody deserves equal 
treatment.”
To stay motivated, health students 
should remember what sparked their 
passion, Parrish said.
“You just have to think about what 
kind of regrets you would have if you 
changed your career path decision based 
on a temporary issue,” Parrish said.
The pandemic, however, motivated 
some aspiring health care professionals 
even more. 
Pratham Pinni, a 19-year-old UF 
health science sophomore, said he’s 
more motivated to become a doctor after 
witnessing how essential doctors were 
during shortages of medical staff.
“It’s almost like a precious resource,” 
Pinni said. “It seems hard now, but if 
you can go through it, then you basically 
helped so many people. One doctor can 
save so many lives.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgGainesville residents paint seniors’ houses in Porters Quarters
Professionals, pre-health students persevere in medical field despite COVID-19 pandemicJiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
The Rev. Ron Rawls (left) and the Rev. Gerard Duncan (right) stand next to Ruby Williams’ house 
after painting it on Saturday, Oct. 16, 2021.
Professionals and students continue to deal with long 
shifts, lack of lunch breaks and emotional traumaBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Kayaks For Sale
2 Otter kayaks by Old Town with paddles 
$200 each.  1 sit on top kayak nearly new, 
with paddle $300 Call 352-275-1371  
10-18-21-1-10
the 
independent 
florida
we inform. you decide.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953        
11-8-21-5-6
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680    
11-8-21-5-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  ccooookkiiee
11..    CCeerrttaaiinn  ppiieeccee  ooff  jjeewweellrryy  55..    SSoouutthh  ________
22..    PPhheennoommeennoonn  66..    RRiinngg  
33..    AApppprrooaacchhiinngg  77..    SSnnooooppyy’’ss  bbrreeeedd
44..    HHiinnddeerrNNAADDOOMMLL
NNKKTTEEAALLAAEEKKRROO
MMCCEEIIHH
RRCCAAMMIILLEE
AAEEIIGGNNNNRRLLEEGGEEBBAA
IIDDEEPPMMEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAllmmoonndd    55AA--KKoorreeaa    66AA--CChhiimmee    77AA--BBeeaaggllee
11DD--AAnnkklleett    22DD--MMiirraaccllee    33DD--NNeeaarriinngg    44DD--IImmppeeddee    BB--DDeennmmaarrkk1100--1188--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  iissllaanndd  ooff  GGrreeeennllaanndd  iiss  
ppaarrtt  ooff  tthhee  KKiinnggddoomm  ooff  ________..
BONUSThe surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-13
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                        10-18-7-13
Did you get fired AGAIN? Try the Help 
Wanted section in the Classifieds.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Lynn Lempel
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/18/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/18/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 18, 2021
ACROSS
1 High-arcing 
tennis shot
4 Merlot and 
Malbec
8 Surname at Tara
13 Thurman in films
14 British noble
15 Particle in a 
nucleus
16 Happy-go-lucky
18 Supper, say
19 Ancient Andeans
20 Seek the 
affections of
22 The “E” in 
HOMES
23 Fizzles out
24 Meddlesome 
types
27 Germ-killing 
brand
29 Norse explorer 
Ericson
30 As well
32 Cry from a sty
34 State-sponsored 
gambling game
38 Pie à la mode 
choice
42 Tolerate
43 PBS science 
series
44 Chick-to-be, 
maybe
45 April 1 “honoree”
48 First head of the 
USSR
50 Anxiety resulting 
from being stuck 
indoors
54 Apples on desks
57 Codebreaker 
Turing
58 Public health org.
59 Bird that beats a 
birdie?
60 Small, sizewise
62 Morale booster 
... or words that 
might suggest the 
arrival of one of 
the circled words
65 Left the building
66 Texan’s neighbor
67 Cooperstown stat
68 Gathered, as 
leaves
69 Use a Kindle
70 Fed. benefits 
providerDOWN
1 Thinking clearly
2 Saudi neighbor
3 Spanish port city
4 NFL officials
5 Spot for a bud
6 “The Chronic” Dr.
7 Gobs and gobs
8 Smeltery supply
9 Wished one 
could have
10 Gaming giant
11 TV personality 
O’Donnell
12 Starts a poker pot
15 Examine 
thoroughly
17 “No sweat!”
21 Tall, skinny Olive
24 Bubble, as water
25 Forearm bone
26 Tin Man’s 
lubricator
28 Convinced of
30 Hotel room sets
31 Meal opening?
33 All in the family
35 Many “Twilight” 
characters
36 Kids’ chasing 
game
37 Texter’s 
“Heavens!”39 Limitless
40 “Merry old” king
41 Always
46 Eliminated, 
gangland-style
47 Went first
49 Spiritual guide at 
a mosque
50 Frivolous 
escapade
51 Amazon Echo 
assistant
52 Craft to dye for53 Aircraft’s trail
55 After-school 
groups
56 Old photo tone
59 Barely got, with 
“out”
61 Bill’s 
co-adventurer
63 Name on a 
1950s campaign 
button
64 Intelligence-
gathering org.
By Alan Olschwang
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/12/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/12/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 12, 2021
ACROSS
1 Crosses by 
wading
6 Bag-checking org.
9 Juice buy
14 Spreads used 
instead of butter
15 Bar passer, 
briefly
16 Latin bears
17 Crude carrier
19 De La Garza of 
“FBI”
20 “Stop stalling!”
21 Like a stunt pilot’s 
maneuvers
23 Disfigure
24 Part of an act
26 Notable biblical 
birth
28 “Inferno” poet
30 Tour de France 
saison
31 Gem set by itself
35 “She loves you” 
followers, in song
39 What may be 
before now?
40 Old nuclear agcy.
41 Chicago winter 
hrs.
43 Statesman with 
an eponymous 
jacket
44 Court case
46 It’s useless to 
argue with one
49 Predicament
51 “Speed Racer” 
genre
52 Hikers’ flasks
56 Serena’s sister
59 Time to 
remember
60 Twist in pain
62 Barbershop 
sound
64 Kaka’ako crooner
66 Dramatic 
descents, and a 
hint to each set of 
circles
68 Prenatal test, 
informally
69 Circus closing?
70 Pigeon shelters
71 Like starfish
72 Legal thing
73 It’s quite a blast
DOWN
1 __ chain
2 Hodgepodges3 Bit of antiquity
4 Punctuational 
symbol of 
completeness
5 U.S. ID issuer
6 Word before 
heart or heed
7 Less lax
8 Skylit courts
9 Good thing to 
spend with one’s 
kids
10 Internet  
acronym
11 “Ditto”
12 Approached 
aggressively
13 Lachrymose
18 Swaying hip-hop 
dance
22 Downed
25 “Rebel Without  
a Cause”  
co-star
27 Sign of success
29 Clock sound
31 Collector’s goal
32 Yossarian’s 
“Catch-22” 
tentmate
33 Island garland
34 Janet Yellen’s 
field: Abbr.
36 Physicians’ org.37 Scary “2001” 
computer
38 Fifth of a musical 
series
42 Desk chair 
feature
45 Admiral’s rear
47 ’70s tennis star 
Ilie
48 Two fins
50 Gen-__
52 Aromatic closet-
lining wood53 Barbecue draw
54 Child minder
55 Fertilizer 
compound
57 Act in concert
58 Angle 
calculations
61 Escaping-steam 
sound
63 Verbal nudge
65 Step on it, 
quaintly
67 BYU or NYU
10/11/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
Notice of Plan of Dissolution for the Florida 
Coalition Against Domestic Violence 
Foundation, Inc. and Florida Coalition Against 
Domestic Violence, Inc. A Plan of Dissolution 
was entered by the Circuit Court of the Second 
Judicial Circuit in Leon County, Florida under 
case no. 2020 CA 00437. The plan may af-
fect a creditor’s or party-in-interest’s rights. 
The Plan may be obtained by emailing info@
moecker.com or calling 954-252-1560. Any 
objection to the Plan must be filed with the 
Court on or before December 30, 2021, or the 
objection is waived.                         10-18-3-20
Notice To All Creditors of the Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence Foundation, 
Inc. (the “Foundation”) If you are a credi-
tor of the Foundation, to assert a claim for 
payment, claim forms can be obtained by 
emailing info@moecker.com or calling 954-
252-1560. Completed claim forms must be 
mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.    
10-18-3-20
Notice To All Creditors of Florida Coalition 
Against Domestic Violence, Inc. (“FCADV”) If 
you are a creditor of FCADV, to assert a claim 
for payment, claim forms can be obtained 
by emailing info@moecker.com or calling 
954-252-1560. Completed claim forms must 
be mailed to Michael Moecker & Associates 
Attn: Mark Healy 841 Prudential Drive 12th 
Floor, Jacksonville, FL 32207 or emailed to 
mhealy@moecker.com. Questions related to 
potential claims can be directed to Mark Healy 
at 904-210-7023. All claim forms must be sub-
mitted by January 31, 2022, or any right to a 
potential distribution may be waived.     
10-18-3-20
 GET VACCINATED TODAY!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
PUT IT IN THE ALLIGATOR!
● LOCAL
● TARGETED
● EFFECTIVE
● ECONOMICAL
Reach over 50,000 readers
each publication day.19 Connections 13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Housekeeping/Personal Assistant experi-
ence preferred, permanent part-time 15 
hrs per week, $15 per hr to start. 3 days a 
week MWF or Sat. Mostly afternoons call 
after 5pm 352-378-9771.        10-25-21-2-14
Wanted Web Designer
Wanted, someone to incorporate a pay wall 
into a website.
10-25-21-2-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
15 Services
Like a 2nd Job. BBB A+Rated, HUD-
Approved NonProfit offering Hardship/
Pandemic-related Loss Assistance for 
Credit Card & Mortgage Payments. Free 
Confidential Consultation. 561-472-8000 
Debthelper.com                                10-18-3-15
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
WANT TO ENJOY COLLEGE LIFE WITH REAL 
PEACE OF MIND? Searching for a simple, 
proven and stress-free approach to healthy, 
cleaner air? Then CLICK HERE: https://
lp.constantcontactpages.com/cu/h4i6bD1/per -
sonalairpurifier or email: admin@cazebiz.com
10-18-21-4-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
Instead of looking at the past, I put myself ahead twenty years and try to look at 
what I need to do now in order to get there then.  — Diana Ross
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the only country 
that ends with the letter Q?
2. LITERATURE: Which Truman Capote 
nonfiction book begins with the line, "The 
village of Holcomb stands on the high 
wheat plains of western Kansas, a lonesome 
area that other Kansans call 'out there'"?
3. MOVIES: What were the words on the 
hot-air balloon in which the wizard leaves 
Emerald City in "The Wizard of Oz"?
4. HISTORY: Which amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution guaranteed the right to vote 
regardless of race?
5. MEDICAL: What condition is the result of 
a decrease in red blood cells?
6. MEASUREMENTS: How many tablespoons 
are in a 1/4 cup?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What do deltiolo -
gists study and collect?
8. TELEVISION: What is Netflix's highest 
rated original series in 2021?
9. SCIENCE: What is a person who special-
izes in plant studies called?
10. FOOD & DRINK: Is eggplant considered 
a fruit or a vegetable?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
solution  below
answers below1. The Las Vegas Posse, Shreveport 
Pirates, Memphis Mad Dogs and Bir -
mingham Barracudas were teams that 
briefly played in what league during 
the 1990s?
2. Name the head coach who led the 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish women's 
basketball team to nine Final Four 
appearances and two NCAA champion -
ships from 1987-2020.
3. What team sport designed for visu -
ally impaired athletes was introduced 
as an official event at the 1976 Summer 
Paralympics in Toronto?
4. What TV personality and former NFL 
player authored the book "Everyone 
Can Be a Ninja: Find Your Inner Warrior 
and Achieve Your Dreams"?
5. In 2002, what New York Yankees 
outfielder took teammate Derek Jeter's 
bat and glove and sold them to a mem -
orabilia dealer?
6. What Ole Miss running back was se -
lected by the New Orleans Saints in the 
first round of the 2001 NFL Draft?
7. What catcher holds the record for 
the longest last name in Major League 
Baseball history with 14 letters?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service1. Iraq
2. "In Cold Blood"
3. State Fair Omaha
4. Fifteenth
5. Anemia
6. Four
7. Postcards
8. "Bridgerton"
9. A botanist
10. Fruit1. The Canadian Football 
League (CFL).
2. Muffet McGraw.
3. Goalball.
4. Akbar Gbajabiamila.
5. Ruben Rivera.
6. Deuce McAllister.
7. Jarrod Saltalamacchia.Trivia Test answers Sports Quiz answersMONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.WOMEN'S TENNIS
FLORIDA WOMEN’S TENNIS LATEST 
TRANSFER IS NO STRANGER TO 
FLORIDA TENNIS
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
Gators women’s tennis coach Roland 
Thornqvist reminds his players every practice 
of an ancient Greek myth — the story of Sisy -
phus. 
Sisyphus was a man condemned by the gods 
to roll a boulder up a mountain. Every time he 
reached the top, however, it rolled back to the 
bottom. Sisyphus would remain stuck in this 
cycle for all of eternity, but he eventually found 
joy in his struggle as he hoped for success.
Florida junior Emma Shelton draws from 
this Greek lesson. She finds joy in her dedica -
tion to reach the top of the mountain with her 
boulder: becoming a top collegiate tennis play -
er. Now, two years after she left Gainesville 
to embark on her tennis journey, she finally 
returned home.
“If you have players that are super talent -
ed and work hard and are helpful, then you 
can go really far as a team,” Thornqvist said. 
“Emma in particular is super motivated, you 
don't have to tell her twice to do anything.”
Shelton’s path to playing for Florida wasn’t 
as clear as Sisyphus’ trek up the mountain.  
As the daughter of Florida men’s tennis coach 
Bryan Shelton, she first ventured on the uni -
versity courts at around 10 years old practicing 
with her father as Thornqvist observed.
Those hitting practices over the years paid 
off. She attended Buchholz High School and 
was highly sought-after as a five-star recruit. 
She eventually committed to play in the SEC 
— but not with her father’s program. She left 
the shadow of the Gators in 2019 to play col -lege tennis for the South Carolina Gamecocks.
During her two years at South Carolina, 
Shelton racked up accolades for her efforts on 
and off the court. She was named the 2020 ITA 
Carolina Region Rookie of the Year,  and a ITA 
Scholar-Athlete and SEC Academic Honor Roll 
athlete her freshman year.
Even across states, her family never drifted 
too far apart. She fondly remembers her victo -
ry as a Gamecock in the USTA Winter National 
Championships in January 2020. Her brother, 
Ben Shelton, now a sophomore on the Florida 
men’s tennis team, competed in the same tour -
nament at the same time.
“I thought it was cool to go back and play 
a junior tournament after I was already in col -
lege,” she said. “And it was also a good experi -
ence because... a lot of my family was there.”
With former professional players on both 
sides of the family tree, tennis is a family affair 
for the Sheltons. Now, so are the Gators. 
Thornqvist recalls how quickly Shelton im -
mersed herself into the Gators program’s cul -
ture.
“She's seen our program through a decade 
of dominance, so I think Emma had a good 
idea of what a good team [looks] like,” Thorn -
qvist said. “I was very impressed with some 
of the questions and concerns she had as far 
as getting the team back to a championship 
level.” 
Shelton also takes it upon herself to act 
as a positive force and a support system for 
her teammates. She was the first to welcome 
two European freshmen tennis players, Bente 
Spee and Alicia Dudeney, when they arrived in 
Gainesville earlier this year. She picked them 
up from the airport and took them to Target. 
Thornqvist factored into Shelton’s decision 
to transfer: His positivity and calming presence 
on the court drew her back to Florida.
“He's an awesome coach, and he's super positive which really helps me on the court 
sometimes to lighten up and see the good 
things,” Shelton said.
Their shared vision for the team made 
Shelton’s transition to her old training ground 
seamless. 
“I'm so excited to be back,” she said. “It’s 
already so nice being home and having my 
family here and having that support system for 
us to all be lifting each other up.”
Shelton harbors high expectations for her -
self and the team this season. The junior itches 
for the prospect of achieving the success her 
brother and father found a year ago with a na -
tional championship. The thought spurs her to 
push her own boulder up the mountain, every 
day.
“I'm super excited to be on the team with a 
lot of new faces, another transfer and some up -
perclassmen,” she said. “I think that our team 
has everything that it takes to be at the top.”
Fellow SEC transfer Carly Briggs, another 
one of the team’s new faces, came from Ten -
nessee. She and Shelton crossed paths at junior 
tournaments in the past but never really got 
the chance to get to know each other before 
uniting in Gainesville. 
“Seeing her coming here actually made 
me want to go here even more,” Briggs said. 
“She's the kind of person that you want to be 
on your team.”
Being an older transfer can be isolating, but 
Briggs and Shelton connected right away. The 
two began to share inside jokes in the weight 
room within a month of their first meeting, 
drawing curious and confused looks from 
teammates. 
“She's already like my best friend,” Briggs 
said. “There's actually not been a single day 
that I have not seen her.”
The SEC Championship will run through 
the Gators’ turf this year at Alfred A. Ring Ten -
nis Complex. The team’s desire to defend its 
home offers additional motivation for Shelton 
and the rest of the team.
As teammates continue to push the boulder up the hill, they marvel at the intensity Shelton 
brings to the court. Senior Marlee Zein knows 
what it is like to play with and against Shelton.
“She has a lot of energy when she plays,” 
Zein said. “She's super loud, and that's always 
a good thing.”
Through hours of practice, Zein and Shel -
ton have forged a strong bond. They consider 
the short fall season an opportunity to prepare 
and lay the groundwork for the spring when 
the Gators can compete for a conference or na -
tional title.
The Gators still have a long way before they 
try to roll the rock up the mountain again this 
season. With Shelton on their side, though, 
they may find joy in the struggle.
@bogle_brenda
bbogle@alligator.orgEmma Shelton: A homecoming
Courtesy of the UAA
Florida’s Emma Shelton returns a ball 
at the Alfred A. Ring Tennis Complex.
SOCCER
OUTSHOT ON BOTH 
SIDES, THE UNRANKED 
GATORS NEED A QUICK 
TURNAROUND BEFORE THE 
CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT
By Jesse Richardson & 
Ryan Zehnder
Sports Writers
Standing patiently on her side 
of the pitch, Auburn goalkeeper 
Maddie Prohaska awaited the first 
shot attempt from a lackluster 
Florida offense. The first half 
ticked by, second by second, but 
the shot never came.
It wasn’t until the 60 minute 
mark when redshirt sophomore 
Nicole Vernis finally found a crack in the Auburn defense to 
bend the first shot toward the 
net. The ball fell comfortably into 
Prohaska’s gloves.
Vernis’ effort was Florida’s 
only shot on goal of the match.
The uninspiring performance 
by the Gators offense on Sunday 
offered just a small sample size 
of how the team has failed to 
produce goals this season.
After beginning conference 
play with two wins and a draw, 
the Gators appeared prepared for 
the difficult SEC schedule that lay 
ahead of them. 
Florida has lost four matches 
in a row and has been held 
scoreless three times since an 
emphatic away win versus Mississippi State on Sept. 26.
With just three matches 
remaining in the regular season, 
Florida’s offensive woes remain 
its primary impediment to 
consistent success. The Gators 
have failed to score in seven of 
their 15 matches this season. 
Florida has struggled to not 
only create enough quality 
chances, but overall chances in 
general.
The Gators average just 8.7 
shots a match to their opponents’ 
17. Of these chances, roughly 
46% are on target, meaning they 
force the goalkeeper to make a 
save less than half the time. So, 
all it takes for an opposing keeper 
to hold Florida scoreless on an average afternoon is about four 
saves.
Teams can skate by on a few 
shots per game when the key 
chances are converted into goals, 
but Florida has shown a lack of 
killer instinct this season. 
Despite defensive 
improvements within the last 
month, its backlines have failed to 
consistently prevent an opponent 
from using UF as a turnstile. Over 
the past four games, opponents 
racked up 72 shots within the goal 
area, which translated to eight 
total goals. Two of the scores 
coming from the 2-0 shutout loss 
against Auburn. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Alexa 
Goldberg slid and dove from post-to-post, but she can’t be The 
Flash and defend everywhere at 
once.
The SEC championship 
tournament is on the horizon, 
and only the top 10 squads in 
the conference will qualify to 
participate in Orange Beach, 
Alabama. The result on Sunday 
places the Gators in a tie for ninth 
with three matches left to play.
Florida will hit the road again 
in an effort to get the wheels 
rolling on the right track with a 
trip to face the Georgia Bulldogs.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.org
@ryan_zehnder
rzehnder@alligator.orgOutgunned: Florida’s shot struggles holds team back12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2021
FOOTBALL
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
The 2021 Florida-LSU game 
should have been known for 
the emergence of Gators backup 
quarterback Anthony Richardson. 
The redshirt freshman scored 
four straight touchdowns and 
added a crucial 2-point conversion 
once he seized control of the 
offense after Emory Jones’ second 
interception of the game.
The Gators defense, however, 
spoiled his arrival. 
LSU running back Tyrion Davis-
Price jab stepped to his left and 
took the handoff from quarterback 
Max Johnson, running right. His 
left tackle and guard paved the 
way for the junior to scamper 18 
yards for a touchdown, and LSU 
led 7-6.
The Tigers repeated this 
halfback counter over, over and 
over again, and the same play 
call flattened No. 20 Florida 49-
42 Saturday in Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, in a defensive disaster 
reminiscent of a season ago. 
“I mean, we made the 
adjustments we were given to 
make,” linebacker Mohamoud Diabate said after the game. “It 
seemed like they were hitting with 
a similar scheme, kind of counter 
run. We had whoever we had in 
the box, so we had to play it how 
we played it.”
The Tigers entered Saturday’s 
contest as the nation’s fourth-
worst rushing offense, but Davis-
Price led LSU with 287 rushing 
yards and three touchdowns. 
He shattered the record for most 
rushing yards against Florida in a 
single game (238), set by former 
Georgia running back Herschel 
Walker in 1980. 
Diabate gave credit where it 
was due. He said Davis-Price is 
great at running through tackles 
and being patient behind his 
offensive line when searching for 
a crease. 
He didn’t have any compliments 
to offer about the game plan or 
adjustments Florida and defensive 
coordinator Todd Grantham made, 
however.
“That’s not my decision to 
make,” Diabate said. “I don’t 
look into those things. I’m like a 
soldier. When the general tells me 
where to shoot, I shoot. I don’t 
really ask too many questions. That’s y’all’s job.”
The defense seen against LSU 
gave Florida fans flashbacks to 
last season, when Grantham’s unit 
surrendered 34.4 points per game, 
the worst Florida scoring defense 
since 1917. Instead of starting 
from scratch on the defensive side 
of the ball, head coach Dan Mullen 
elected to just fire two secondary 
coaches. 
This year, the defensive 
numbers are inflated due to cupcake 
games versus Florida Atlantic and 
South Florida that were absent 
during last season’s all-conference 
slate. Florida allowed 200 yards 
of offense versus common SEC 
bottom-dweller Vanderbilt and 
avoided a one-possession lead at 
halftime thanks to an overturned 
touchdown and the Commodores’ 
kicking incompetence. 
With the defense struggling 
again, Mullen has to fan the 
flames he lit when he didn’t cut 
Grantham loose. 
The fourth-year Florida 
coach’s main response to multiple 
questions about the defense after 
LSU’s game was that he’ll evaluate 
and watch film. One reporter 
asked Mullen point blank if he would consider a coaching change 
midseason. He said he won’t jump 
to conclusions. 
“Nothing changes my 
perspective on anything,” 
Mullen said about Grantham. 
“We’re always evaluating things 
throughout the course of the 
season in everything we do. It’s a 
long season. We’re in the middle 
point of the season going into our 
bye week.”Mullen and the Gators have 
drowned recently versus Power 
Five foes: They are 2-6 in their 
last eight games, mainly due to 
porous defense. The road after the 
bye week doesn’t get easier. They 
face No. 1 Georgia, who has given 
up 46 points total while the Gators 
gave up 49 versus LSU, on Oct. 30 
in Jacksonville.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.org Gators defense flashes back to 2020  
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida defensive coordinator Todd Grantham stands on the 
field before the Gators’ game against Vanderbilt on Oct. 9.
LSU gashes Florida to the tune of 321 rushing yards