Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
UF BLM
By Makiya Seminera
Alligator Staff Writer 
Last summer, calls for racial equity drove people with 
authority across the country to commit to substantial social 
change. A year later, The Alligator is following up on how 
much progress those promises have made.
Following the murder of George Floyd, the Black Lives 
Matter movement reverberated around the world. UF’s cam -
pus was no exception. Calls for racial equity took form in 
Gainesville through petitions, social media campaigns and 
demonstrations — evoking a response from university ad -
ministration to promise change.  
As a predominantly white institution and one of the old -
est universities in Florida, UF has an unmistakably long his -
tory of racial injustice to reconcile following Floyd’s murder. 
In 2017, white nationalist Richard Spencer was hosted 
on UF’s campus, which led a white nationalist supporter to 
shoot at a group of protestors at the intersection of South -
west 34th Street and Southwest Archer Road.
A year later, a study from University of Southern Califor -
nia gave UF an F rating in racial representation. The same 
year, the university also came under fire after a video went 
viral of a UF employee aggressively rushing Black graduates 
off the stage during their commencement ceremony. 
At the end of 2019, UF student Kitan Adeniji and a group 
of her friends were called racial slurs by a white male stu -
dent in a SNAP van. 
This year, the university commemorated the 50th anni -
versary of Black Thursday — the day when about 70 Black 
students marched to Tigert Hall to deliver their list of six 
demands for improving racial equity at UF to former univer -
sity president Stephen O’Connell. The protest resulted in the 
arrest and suspension of almost every demonstrator, which 
prompted nearly 1,500 people to return and protest the ar -
rests. 
Black Thursday evoked a variety of responses from UF, 
including the establishment of the Institute of Black Culture 
and intensification of Black student recruitment measures. 
Thirteen days after BSU issued a list of ten demands, 
including a zero-tolerance policy to hate speech, sufficient 
scholarships for Black incoming students and immunity to 
students arrested in peaceful protests, UF President Kent 
Fuchs released a statement, “Another Step Toward Positive 
Change Against Racism.” It outlined actions meant to ad -
dress and eradicate racism and inequity at UF. The 15-point 
list was organized to address three areas of anti-racism work: 
education, history and representation. 
Some points on Fuchs’ list were quickly resolved, like 
discontinuing the Gator Bait cheer and the use of prison la -
bor by UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Science. Other 
points, like implementing reforms in the UF Police Depart -
ment, supporting the recruitment and retention of Black stu -dents and faculty and renaming buildings remain an ongoing 
effort. 
Fuchs said he’s proud of the level of engagement in the 
anti-racism initiatives from all parts of campus and disci -
plines.
“This is a university where everyone, no matter 
who they are, or what parts of the world [they come 
from], their ethnicity, their race, their gender, 
their sexuality, this is the place that wants them 
to be here and wants them to be phenomenally 
successful, and not just as an institution but for 
each other,” Fuchs said.
During the largely virtual and socially distant year, CO -
VID-19 has been a hindrance to the university’s anti-racism 
initiatives. Some UF departments found themselves over -
whelmed with implementing new COVID-19 protocols rather 
than combating systemic racism. 
Black Student and Faculty Recruitment and Retention  
One of UF’s initiatives was to increase Black student and 
faculty recruitment and retention.  
Only 5.5% of UF Class of 2025 admits were Black, exclud -
ing those accepted into PaCE or Innovation Academy. UF’s 
admissions demographics data showed 845 Black applicants 
accepted to UF — 47 fewer from the previous year’s Black 
admission rate.
In comparison, 48.9% of admits were white, 12.8% of 
admits were Asian and 18.8% of admits were Hispanic. His -
panic applicants also saw a dip in acceptance rates, with 101 
fewer Hispanic admits this year than for the Class of 2024.
To Fuchs, one of UF’s greatest challenges has been creat -
ing a student population that reflects national demographics.
“[Improving Black recruitment], that’s an enduring effort, 
I believe, that will continue for years. It’s not one that we 
want to be slow on,” Fuchs said. “But it’s one that we have 
to continue to be committed to, not just to do it and check it 
off. It has to be continual.” 
UF’s new vice president for enrollment, Mary Parker, is 
also expected to be a leader in revamping admissions when 
she arrives in Fall, Fuchs said. Through her position, Parker 
will prioritize the improvement of Black student recruitment. 
Charles Murphy, director of freshman and international 
admissions, said he is unhappy with this stagnation.
“There’s definitely a lot of work that we need to do for 
underrepresented populations generally,” Murphy said. “I 
don’t think there’s anyone, certainly in the admissions office 
or probably on campus, that is satisfied with where we are 
with that right now.”
A decrease in Black enrollment is not a new trend for 
the university. Since 2010, UF has seen nearly a 4% drop in Black undergraduate enrollment, with 2020 having the 
lowest percentage — 5.61%. Of the 37,881 degree-seeking 
undergraduates in Fall 2020, 2,127 were Black, according to 
UF’s diversity dashboard. 
Answers to why Black applicants were accepted at a 
much lower rate cannot be reduced to one answer, but Mur -
phy said it’s hard to ignore COVID-19 as a factor. 
Coronavirus disproportionately affects minority groups 
due to discrimination, barriers to healthcare access, occupa -
tion as essential workers and wealth gaps, according to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Due to these 
disadvantages, some minority students may have had great -
er difficulty submitting applications or maintaining higher 
grades.  
As a way to improve recruitment for students of color at 
UF, the admissions office is looking into allowing students 
to self-report their official SAT or ACT scores to help avoid 
extra application fees. 
Increasing the number of Black faculty at UF has been 
another point of concern for organizations like BSU, which 
requested to see at least a 5% increase in the Black profes -
sional population by hiring more Black faculty at all colleges.
Unlike the Black undergraduate population, the amount 
of Black faculty working at UF has trended upward since 
2010 — by less than 1%. If the university’s Black faculty 
growth continued at the same rate, UF would not reach 
BSU’s demand until 2102.
As of 2020, Black faculty made up 4.62% of the UF fac -
ulty workforce.
Both the Black student and faculty populations demon -
strate a stark contrast with current U.S. racial demographics, 
with Black Americans making up 13.4% of the population, 
according to 2019 Census data. UF shows an even wider dis -
parity from the state of Florida, where 16.9% of the popula -
tion is Black.
Renaming buildings and UF’s history with race
Calls to rename the Reitz Union roared from protestors 
outside the building last October — only one of many ways 
UF students and faculty voiced their concern for changing its 
name. In their list of demands, BSU called upon the universi -
ty to consider renaming buildings like the Stephen O’Connell 
Center due to their ties to racist and homophobic histories. 
During last October’s protest, demonstrators pushed for the 
university to rename the Reitz Union after Virgil Hawkins, 
a Black applicant who was denied acceptance to UF on the 
basis of race.
Fuchs outlined two new presidential task forces focusing 
on history and symbolism at the university. Both task forces 
led missions to reconcile with UF’s involvement in discrimi -A year later: what progress has UF made in its anti-racism initiatives?
SEE UF BLM,  PAGE 7 Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
The Alligator spoke to student leaders and UF administrators to find out
Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
Brittny Randolph, 30, (left), and Michelle McCraw, 
24, (right) are both 4th-year medical students at UF. 
On June 25, 2020 they knelt in silence with fists 
in the air and encouraged others in the healthcare 
community to share #WhiteCoatsforBlackLives.
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFollowing up
Updates on promised made during last summer’s BLM protests,  pg. 8
Spurrier’s to open Aug. 11
The restaurant is now accepting reservations,  pg. 9Golden Gators
UF swimmers Caeleb Dressel and Bobby 
Finke rack up seven gold medals at the 
2020 Tokyo Olympics,  pg. 15
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 42
ACCORDING TO THE UF’S CRIME LOG, 
98 RAPES HAVE BEEN REPORTED AT 
UF SINCE 2015, WITH NEARLY HALF 
OCCURRING IN RESIDENCE HALLS
By Eve Thompson and Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writers
UF’s residence halls are meant to be a sec -
ond home for students, fostering a safe and 
welcoming environment at the university. 
But UF’s Crime Log shows residence halls are 
the most prominent places for rape on cam -
pus.
Out of the university’s 98 rape reports 
since 2015, more than 46% happened in or 
near residence halls and facilities, according 
to data from the UF’s Crime Log, a record of 
campus crimes reported to UF Police Depart -
ment and Campus Security Authorities. 
Five rapes occurred at or near Keys Com -
plex, the most out of any dorm, while four 
occurred at Jennings Hall and three at Bro -
ward Hall. 
Also, 16 rapes were reported to have oc -
curred at or near fraternities, making upward 
of 16% of the total rape reports since 2015. 
Some fraternities were listed, including Pi 
Lambda Phi, Kappa Sigma, Beta Theta Pi 
and Theta Chi, but 11 were unnamed on the 
Crime Log.
Eleven assaults took place at or near UF 
Health Shands Hospital.
UF Health public relations specialist Ken 
Garcia wrote UF Health takes accusations of 
sexual assault seriously and their hospital 
security cooperates with law enforcement to 
investigate any concerns. Garcia did not an -
swer questions about why the hospitals have 
a prevalence of rapes reported and what pre -
ventative measures UF Health takes.
Victims typically know their assaulter be -
fore the rape, making places where students 
live and socialize, like residence halls and 
fraternity houses, common areas for assaults, 
University Police Captain Rick Taylor said. 
The trends the Crime Log reveals are only 
part of the picture of sexual assault on cam -
pus.
In a 2019 survey of more than 51,000 UF 
students, about 30% of UF undergraduate 
women reported nonconsensual sexual con -
tact by physical force or inability to consent.
Alyssa Zucker, associate professor at the 
Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s 
Studies Research, said many undergraduates, 
especially female students, do not report to 
police. 
“I think a lot of the reason why some vic -
tims don’t tell anyone is that they feel like 
they won’t be believed or they will be judged 
on the terms of rape culture,” she said. 
Rape culture, a set of beliefs which holds women responsible for preventing rape and 
often excuses male perpetrators, is rampant 
on college campuses, Zucker said. Being pro -
active and putting responsibility on the per -
petrator, not the victim, can end rape culture.
About 26% of undergraduate females are 
raped or sexually assaulted during their time 
at college, according to a 2020 study done by 
the Association of American Universities.
  College is often called the best four years 
of life. From parties and tailgates to snack 
runs and studying all night, it’s full of hap -
py memories. However, for 98 UF students, 
those happy memories will be haunted by 
one specific moment. Sexual assault leaves 
lasting impacts on the victims, including de -
pression, post-traumatic stress disorder and 
panic attacks.
On a cool, calm Saturday night in Febru -
ary 2019, a freshman psychology and wom -
en’s studies student went to University Club, 
a gay bar off East University Avenue, with a 
group of her best friends.
“It felt like a normal day. I was just gonna 
go hang out with my friends, go see some 
drag queens,” she said. “It was just kind of 
something we did on the weekends.”
She usually went to bed earlier than her 
friends, so when she ran into someone she 
knew in high school who offered to give her 
a ride back to her residence hall, Keys Com -
plex, she said yes.
Instead of dropping her off, he followed 
her into her first-floor dorm room and sexu -
ally assaulted her
She reported her assault because she didn’t want anyone else to experience what 
she did.
“That’s kind of what led me to calling [the 
police] because I knew in that moment if I 
didn’t do anything, there was a greater po -
tential for that to happen to someone else,” 
she said. “The most important thing was that 
it did not.”
After the assault, the survivor ran out of 
her dorm, wrapped in a blanket. She bawled 
as she sat in the Keys courtyard.
Her roommate encouraged her to call the 
police, and UPD officers drove her and her 
roommate to Shands Hospital in a police SUV 
early Sunday morning, she said.
Then, she said she was interviewed by 
police and hospital workers five or six times.
Healthcare workers performed a rape kit 
exam, a four-to-six hour process that involves 
collecting physical evidence and examin -
ing injuries. She and her roommate spent 10 
hours awake in the hospital.
Her assailant was arrested the same day.
“You go through an assault, which is one 
of the most invasive things that can happen 
to a person, and then going to get a rape kit 
done, you feel even more exposed,” she said. 
“You have somebody swabbing every square 
inch of your body and taking pictures of you 
and asking question after question.”
The survivor, now a 21-year-old senior, 
pursued criminal charges against her assail -
ant, whose family paid a $275,000 bail bond 
to have him released to his parents’ home in 
Jacksonville. He was let go with a GPS moni -
tor and a promise to attend Phoenix House, a substance use disorder rehabilitation center 
in Citra, Florida, according to Alachua Coun -
ty court records. 
But the day she went to the State Attor -
ney’s Office to discuss the case, they told her 
they would be dropping all of the charges due 
to insufficient evidence, according to court 
records.
“That situation made me feel even more 
victimized than the assault itself,” she said.
Now, the survivor says there are moments 
when she regrets reporting her assault.
“Looking back, in a way it felt like speak -
ing out about it almost caused more harm 
than good,” she said.
Her assailant moved to another Florida 
university after the assault, she said.
“Before this happened, I had a kind of 
false sense of security at UF. And the experi -
ence was very eye-opening. One of my main 
criticisms of this school, surrounding sexual 
assault, is they’re very reactive and not pro -
active in preventing sexual assault,” said the 
survivor. 
The only sexual assault education she re -
membered was a video explaining how con -
sent was like tea, she said.
“I don’t think a 10 minute video compar -
ing consent to tea is adequate at all,” she 
said.
The Office for Accessibility and Gender 
Equity has run the mandatory sexual assault 
prevention and alcohol education courses for 
incoming students since 2017. The prevention On-campus sexual assaults most prominent in residence halls  
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
SEE ASSAULT,  PAGE 6T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 42
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.orgTwo years ago, I wandered 
into The Alligator’s news -
room for the first time, to -
tally clueless. It was the first 
meeting of Fall 2019, and 
I sat in the back as people pitched 
story ideas. 
I prayed that nobody would 
call on me, so I tried to look 
busy by admiring all the strange 
stuff decorating the walls — old 
newspapers, memes, inside jokes 
from past writers and editors that I 
wished I understood. I knew almost 
nothing about The Alligator, so it felt like I’d walked in on a cult. 
I transferred to UF from FSU that 
semester mostly because I thought 
journalism sounded pretty cool, 
which was maybe not the best 
reasoning for such a life changing 
decision. 
It must have been evident that 
I didn’t know what I was doing, 
because a few other newbies and 
I were rounded up to take a copy 
editing test. I didn’t even know what 
copy editing was, but sure, that 
sounded good.
Unsurprisingly, I failed the test. I 
remember that semester’s Big Three 
breaking this news in the gentlest 
way possible, and they encouraged 
me to try again next year. I walked 
home feeling discouraged, and for 
the next few months, I questioned 
whether transferring to UF was the 
right decision. 
After receiving some much-
needed encouragement by people on 
staff, I decided to give it another shot 
the following Fall. This time around, I 
was a little more confident in myself, 
and I had even figured out what AP 
style was. I joined as the paper’s first 
health reporter that semester, and 
I’m thankful I was given that chance. 
My only regret is that I didn’t 
make a greater effort to join sooner. 
When I think of my college years, I’m 
going to think of The Alligator — the 
chaos of reporting from Midtown or a Mike Pence 
rally during 
a pandemic, 
editing flats 
until 2 a.m. 
on the comfy 
and probably 
dirty couch, or 
being lectured 
on astrology 
over Zoom.
Joining this paper was the best 
decision I’ve made, because through 
it, I found my passion. I also found 
the smartest, kindest, funniest and 
most caring group of friends and 
coworkers ever, and I’m even more 
grateful for that. 
I might not have remembered 
everyone from my reporting class, 
but I will undoubtedly remember 
everyone I met at The Alligator.
 
Thomas Weber is a UF 
journalism senior. He was the 
Summer 2021 senior news director.
If you’ve ever discussed my job 
with me, I’ve probably told 
you if I didn’t have to be a stu -
dent to work at The Alligator 
— I would have dropped out 
of UF.
I don’t like sitting through 
lectures, I think textbooks are a 
scam and homework that doesn’t 
clearly relate to turning me into a 
reporter frustrates me. But I loved 
working at The Alligator, and if 
it took earning a degree in the 
background to be here, that’s what 
I was gonna do. 
It’s sorta funny, maybe a little 
ungrateful for the opportunities 
I’ve had, but hey, college isn’t for 
everyone and I wouldn’t even be 
here without Bright Futures funds 
and yearly loans. It’s been like 
pulling teeth, but thanks to this 
little student newspaper, I will be 
the first person in my family to 
earn a Bachelor’s degree. 
I’m the eldest daughter of an 
Army veteran-turned-firefighter 
and a foster kid who had to be her 
own good example when no one 
else in her life would step up to 
the plate. They were my age when 
they had me, and worked so hard 
to make sure my three siblings and 
I were better off than they were 
when they emerged into the world. 
I’ve lived in seven states, about 20 houses, and Little Caesars $5 pizzas 
and Hamburger Helper dominated 
Cassidy family dinners for a little 
more than the first decade of my 
life. 
As I write this, I’m also a student 
at the top university in Florida 
and the editor-in-chief of one of 
the largest independent student 
newsrooms in the country. 
It means a lot to be the first, and 
when I walk across that stage it’ll 
be because I got to be a part of this 
paper. 
I do, of course, have other 
people to thank. To my family, my 
best friends, Lisa Turk and Ashley 
Hicks, and frankly anyone I’ve 
talked to in the last two years or 
so, thank you for listening to all 
my rants about print nights and the 
state of journalism today. To Julia 
Coin, Steven Walker and Thomas 
Weber, I don’t know how I got so 
lucky with you guys on my team. 
You’ve been the best editors and 
friends, and I’ve loved doing the 
news (when it’s new) with you. 
Karina Elwood and Payton Titus, 
few people have instilled so much 
confidence in me. You become a 
good journalist when you think 
you’re a good journalist, and you 
two made me believe it. Thank you 
to everyone who has ever passed 
through this newsroom for building me, and to 
every person 
who has told 
me their story 
— I’ll never 
forget them. 
Special  
thanks  
to Coffee 
Culture as 
well for 
fueling many print nights and 
frenzied editing sessions. Best 
coffee in Gainesville.
From writing my first story for 
The Alligator with shaky hands 
to writing my last one in between 
editing the stories in this paper with 
tears in my eyes, if I’ve learned two 
very important things — first, you 
only need the word “that” about a 
quarter of the time you think you 
do, and second, everything in the 
whole world is interesting and 
boring all at once.
Look around you, take a 
different walk home, sit in a 
coffee shop and people watch for 
a few hours. It’s all so typical yet 
so beautifully unique and worth 
your time. Be fascinated by the 
mundane.
Kaelyn Cassidy is a UF 
journalism senior. She was the 
Summer 2021 editor-in-chief.Thomas’s goodbye column by Thomas
Probably you should finish your degreeGoodbye Column by Thomas
Goodbye Column
Thomas Weber
@thomasjohnweber
tweber@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy
@kaelyn_cassidy
kcassidy@alligator.orgFaith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Your Summer 2021 editors.
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
UFL.EDU
CONGRATULATIONS 
SUMMER 2021 GRADUATES6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
training has recently been revamped, and the 
office has also created an app to make sexual 
assault resources more available.
After her assault, she sought counseling. 
However, for two years she struggled to find 
an affordable, long-term therapist in her in -
surance network.
“I don’t come from a very wealthy back -
ground so I can’t afford to pay 200-plus dol -
lars a session to see a counselor,” she said.
She saw a UF Health therapist for four 
months until they stopped taking her insur -
ance in June.   Now, she is hesitant about 
continuing her treatment.
“My therapist used to say a lot that trauma 
work was very hard work, and I agree with 
that. It takes a lot of time and energy,” she 
said. “And then, I’m a student and working 
so I don’t really have much time to be search -
ing for a therapist and doing that at the mo -
ment.”
Sara Tanner, UF chief of staff and direc -
tor of marketing and strategic commuinica -
tion for student life, declined to answer ques -
tions on the prevalence of sexual assault in 
residence halls, resources for survivors or UF 
Housing’s preventative measures.
Greek life’s preventative measures and 
processes for dealing with sexual assault land 
on the individual houses.
UF’s Interfraternity Council oversees fra -
ternities while the UF Panhellenic Council 
oversees sororities; however, both councils 
manage the chapters with houses at UF.
When an assault of their member is re -
ported to UPD, UF Panhellenic Council alerts 
the Office of Sorority and Fraternity Life to 
assist throughout the case and offer resources 
to the victim, UF Panhellenic president Mar -
tha McCullough said.
Office of Sorority and Fraternity Life direc -
tor Reginald Lane, assistant director Ashley 
Cofield and associate director Simmone Hor -
man did not respond to an email request for 
an interview.However, McCullough said it is entirely 
up to the individual chapter presidents’ dis -
cretion how they want to approach reports of 
sexual assault.
“I usually don’t handle those cases per -
sonally but I am made aware of them, so in 
case I am needed in any capacity, I’m aware 
of the situation,” she said.
Details of the crime are withheld from Mc -
Cullough to protect the victim’s privacy.
In the Crime Log, instances of indecent ex -
posure, fondling and domestic violence were 
reported near Alpha Delta Pi, Zeta Tau Alpha 
and Delta Gamma sorority houses since 2015.
Sexual violence is prominent on college 
campuses, especially within Greek life, which 
makes up 13% of UF’s student population, 
McCullough said.
McCullough believes assault is prevalent 
in the Greek community because they are a 
prominent, socially active organization on 
campus.
Rape is a taboo subject that intimidates people from sharing their experiences in the 
Greek community, she said.
However, most assault cases within Greek 
life were reported to have occurred at IFC fra -
ternity houses.
IFC president Pierce Statham, executive 
vice president Scott Ater and vice president of 
membership Sammy Beyer did not respond 
to email requests for interviews, but Pi Kappa 
Alpha fraternity president Jeremy Grant did. 
If an IFC fraternity member is found guilty 
of any sexual misconduct in an informal in -
vestigation and trial, it results in immediate 
expulsion from the fraternity chapter as they 
have a zero-tolerance policy, he said. 
However, it isn’t a legal trial as Grant said 
but it is led by each chapters’ members and 
left entirely up to the chapter’s discretion in 
their decision and the severity of the punish -
ment.
The chapters are obligated to bring the 
incident and chapter’s decision to IFC’s and 
UPD’s attention. All IFC members are notified of the report through a mass email, which 
omits the names of anyone involved, Grant 
said.
Rapes were reported in Theta Chi Frater -
nity, Beta Theta Pi, Pi Lambda Pi and Kappa 
Sigma, according to the Crime Log. Eleven 
unnamed fraternity houses were also listed.
Grant believes rape is prominent in Greek 
life because of the partying lifestyle. The use 
of alcohol and drugs puts students at a higher 
risk of being a victim of sexual assault, he 
said. He said it only further reinforces the 
stigma that most rapes occur within Greek 
life and makes them look bad as a whole.
Alyssa Zucker, associate professor at the 
Center for Gender, Sexualities and Women’s 
Studies Research, said drugs and alcohol can 
contribute to victim vulnerability, but rape 
culture is to blame for prevalence.
@evealanaa
ethompson@alligator.org
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgASSAULT,  from pg. 3Rape culture
Shelby Cotta/ / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
nation, whether it be through reporting on UF’s history or 
establishing honorary naming practices.
Fuchs said the university does not plan to replace hon -
orary namings with other names. Instead, future and past 
namings will be evaluated separately. 
Led by UF’s general counsel Amy Hass, the second presi -
dential task force reviews and recommends criteria for the 
process of establishing future honorary namings of UF build -
ings — buildings named for individuals who significantly 
contributed to Florida or the university. 
The task force is not in charge of renaming buildings, Ay -
sia Gilbert, the only undergraduate member of the 14-person 
second presidential task force, said. Instead, UF administra -
tion will utilize the task force’s values and recommendations 
to decide whether to rename buildings.
“I would hope that we are able to create a message 
for people who are actually going to be in charge 
of changing these names to where they have to take 
into consideration this is just not something that 
we want on our campus,” the 20-year-old history 
sophomore said.
 
The process of renaming UF buildings is split into two 
phases — documenting all honorary namings at UF and de -
ciding what names should be removed. Since the task force 
started developing criteria for future honorific namings and 
compiling a list of all current honorific namings in Novem -
ber, the process could take at least a year, Fuchs said. 
Some honorary namings are under the jurisdiction of the 
Florida legislature and require a vote to remove the name, 
Fuchs said.
The first presidential task force outlined in Fuchs’ initia -
tives, led by executive chief of staff Winfred Phillips, docu -
ments UF’s history with race and ethnicity.
Currently, the first presidential task force is in the process 
of finalizing its report. Adreanne Martinez, a 23-year-old 
first-year law student and member of the task force, hopes 
the report will be accessible to the public in the next few 
months.
Since October, the 11-person task force researched three 
critical time periods: 1853-1905, 1906-1958, and 1959-2020. 
The task force specifically addressed Native American his -
tory at UF, Martinez said. 
“I would have liked to see a couple more undergraduates 
on [the task force], maybe a couple more grad students,” 
Martinez said. “I think that’s important because our goals 
essentially are supposed to be serving the students [and] like 
how do we make it more welcoming for them.” 
On June 2, 2020, Student Government Senate passed a 
resolution written by Martinez and five other students that 
recommended forming the current UF Working Group on In -
digenous Expropriation and Slavery to further the study of 
UF’s connection to Native American removal and slavery. 
Martinez was later recommended to join the presidential 
task force by former Chief Diversity Officer Antonio Farias. 
Both presidential task forces will be dissolved after they 
complete their individual missions.
Finding a New Chief Diversity Officer
Last Spring, the resignation of Antonio Farias, UF’s first 
Chief Diversity Officer, created an obstacle for the university 
in its pursuit to combat systemic racism. 
According to UF’s Anti-Racism website, Farias was in 
charge of two central anti-racism initiatives: strengthening 
recruitment and retention of students and faculty of color, as 
well as facilitating the focus of the 2020-2021 academic year 
to the Black experience and racism.
Due to the CDO’s vital role in supporting a more diverse 
university, the necessity for a replacement prompted a thor -
ough search from administration.
In what seemed to be the end of a months-long hiring 
process, the search committee narrowed down the applicant 
pool to four finalists: Marquita Booker, Kauline Cipriani, 
Lakesha Butler and Seval Yildirim. After the applicants vis -
ited campus and interviewed, the university decided not to 
select any of the candidates and begin the search process 
again this summer, according to Fuchs. Due to UF’s size and comprehensive nature, administra -
tion decided they wanted someone from a university of a 
similar scale, Fuchs said. 
The university is currently welcoming applications and 
nominations for the position, Jodi Gentry, vice president for 
human resources, wrote in an email. The hiring committee 
plans to invite candidates to campus in early Fall and select 
the next CDO by later in the Fall semester. 
In the absence of a new CDO, important anti-racism ini -
tiatives have been distributed to liaisons across the colleges. 
The new allocation of tasks is temporary until the new CDO 
is hired, Fuchs said.
For students like Dayanna Peek, a Black 19-year-old in -
ternational studies and public relations sophomore, hiring 
a CDO who is able to personally relate to the student body 
should be a top priority.
“I prefer for the CDO to be a person of color, that’s like 
bare minimum. And I feel like they should actually be in 
tune with the students,” Peek said. “You should be interact -
ing with students and finding out what they really want and 
what they need.”
Student Government’s role in anti-racism  
As the voice of the student body, UF’s Student Govern -
ment had a large role to fulfill in pushing UF’s anti-racism 
initiatives. 
Despite former Student Body President Trevor Pope issu -
ing an executive order denouncing national racist incidents 
after the murder of George Floyd, there was not an approved 
SG Senate resolution recognizing the Black Lives Matter 
movement until nearly four months later on Sept. 15, 2020.
Throughout the 2020-2021 school year, Senate also 
passed resolutions denouncing digital racism, supporting 
the creation of a first-generation Living Learning Community 
in Murphree Area that would benefit underrepresented stu -
dents, and calling upon the university to create the Working 
Group on Indigenous Expropriation and Slavery.
BSU’s demands and Fuchs’ anti-racism points also called 
on Accent Speakers Bureau as a venue to bring more diverse 
speakers to campus. 
In the past, Accent speakers have stirred controversy on 
UF’s campus, most notably Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly 
Guilfoyle in 2019. The Accent event elicited a large student 
protest and an attempt to impeach former Student Body 
President Michael Murphy. 
Accent hosted four Black speaker events in the 2020-2021 
school year: Black Lives Matter founders Patrisse Cullors, 
Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi, women’s rights leader Anita 
Hill, social media personality Tabitha Brown and actress Tif -
fany Haddish. 
The events made up a fourth of all Accent events for the 
2020-2021 academic year. 
The increase of Black speakers was a positive step for 
the speakers bureau — the last Black speaker it brought was 
Saturday Night Live cast member Jay Pharaoh in 2018. 
Despite inviting a more diverse array of speakers than 
previous years, Accent paid the three Black Lives Matter 
founders $10,000 each — less than the $50,000 Accent spent to bring Trump Jr. and Guilfoyle to speak in 2019.
Students also expressed dissatisfaction with Accent’s last 
speaker of the 2020-2021 school year, Dave Portnoy, the 
founder of Barstool Sports. Portnoy, who is white, was re -
corded using the N-word and calling former NFL quarter -
back Colin Kaepernick an “ISIS guy.”
For the new school year, Student Government ushered in 
a new administration from the Gator Party, led by Student 
Body President Cooper Brown, Student Body Vice President 
Faith Maniti and Student Body Treasurer Giovanna Mom -
premier. 
In its Spring platform, Gator Party did not specifically ad -
dress racial equity on campus. 
Since taking office, Brown’s administration plans to push 
anti-racism with Students Taking Action Against Racism. 
STAAR seeks to improve campus race relations through edu -
cational workshops, speaker panels and collaborative events 
with multicultural organizations. 
The agency’s co-chairs for the 2021-2022 school year, 
Hannah Thomas and William Ortiz, joined STAAR to expand 
their involvement in improving diversity and inclusion at UF. 
“I was at such a low point emotionally [last summer] that 
it was everything to be able to do something with those emo -
tions and with that energy and feel like I was doing some -
thing that would positively affect students,” Thomas said. 
Collaboration with other agencies and cabinets is another 
essential part of making sure that every student’s voice is 
heard, Thomas said. 
The agency wants to shift from social media outreach to 
community events this upcoming year, Ortiz said. Becoming 
more proactive with activism rather than social media-based 
education is an additional area STAAR hopes to improve on.
Funding Racial Equity Research 
As part of the effort to focus the 2020-2021 academic 
year on the Black experience, racism and inequity, a call for 
proposals was put out from the Office of Research to fund 
faculty research projects for the $400,000 Advancing Racial 
Justice Research Fund last summer. 
Forty-five applicants answered the call, which encour -
aged proposals that were directly relevant to the Black expe -
rience at UF to be submitted by September 2020, according 
to Sobha Jaishankar, Ph.D., assistant vice president of re -
search. With the help of the Chief Diversity Officer, the Of -
fice of Research assembled a review committee to distribute 
proposals for grading.
Each proposal was reviewed by at least three faculty 
members on the basis of four components: addressing a sig -
nificant challenge in the Black experience, having a potential 
considerable impact at UF, possessing relevant experience 
and leadership to pursue the research, and assembling a di -
verse and cohesive research team. 
After careful evaluation, 14 proposals were selected to 
receive money from the Advancing Racial Justice Fund from 
a much larger pool of funding than anticipated — $970,000. 
“We had initially put aside $400,000 towards this initia -UF BLM,  from pg. 2Renaming
SEE STORY,  PAGE 16Alex Brown / / Alligator Staff
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
By Antonia LaRocca
Alligator Staff Writer
After working over six years in academic 
advising, Thomas Beckwith’s efforts advising 
students as a Black man have reached commu -
nity and statewide recognition.
Beckwith drives 60 miles from his home in 
Fleming Island, Florida, to the Santa Fe College 
Academic Advisement Center, where he ap -
plies his passion for education by helping stu -
dents reach their goals.
Beckwith received the “Best of State” advis -
ing award from the Florida Academic Advising 
Association for his 2021 FLACADA conference 
presentation titled, “The Benefits and Challeng -
es of Being a Black Male Academic Advisor in 
an era where Black Lives Matter,” according to 
a Santa Fe press release. 
Santa Fe and Beckwith are committed to working toward eliminating racial disparities 
and increasing diversity with knowledge from 
Beckwith’s personal and professional experi -
ences and Black Lives Matter protests during 
the Summer of 2020 with George Floyd’s death. 
Since starting in January 2020 as coordi -
nator for the Santa Fe Academic Advisement 
Center, Beckwith said he assists students and 
provides leadership in his department. In his 
role, he helps students who are academically 
unprepared like he was when entering higher 
education, he said.
Beckwith’s experiences as a Black man at 
predominantly white colleges allow him to re -
late to students and share what he has learned, 
he said.
“It’s a way of paying a debt that I owe to 
society and also paying it forward and just be -
ing able to just clearly make a difference and 
impact,” Beckwith said.Beckwith’s over six years in advising in -
formed his virtual presentation, he said. He 
focused on media coverage of Black men, the 
construct of race and the benefits and chal -
lenges of being a Black male academic adviser.
His journey through education was not al -
ways easy. 
Beckwith’s father died when he was in 
eighth grade, and while living in Section 8 
housing in Florida, he considered dropping out 
of school when he turned 16 to help his mother 
pay the bills.
The possibility of halting his academic edu -
cation changed when his middle school assis -
tant principal and mentor  — a man he consid -
ers his father figure — provided support to him.
“He intervened and got on me, and he kept 
me out of the streets and from being incarcer -
ated,” Beckwith said. “A lot of my success is 
owed to him, along with many other people that helped me in life, but he was the one to 
help plant the seed and keep me grounded.”
This outlook projected Beckwith into higher 
education, working his way from high school 
to a master’s degree, he said. He is now pursu -
ing a doctorate in education at Valdosta State 
University while working at Santa Fe.
At his colleges, being among a handful of 
students of color on campus was overwhelm -
ing at times, he said.
Although he is still among the minority at 
Santa Fe, Beckwith said he can be his authentic 
self as he creates a sense of belonging for un -
derrepresented students.
Naima Brown, Santa Fe’s vice president for 
Student Affairs, said she appreciates Beckwith’s 
drive and the example he sets for the college.
 Read the rest online at alligator.org
@antoniarlarocca
alarocca@alligator.orgSanta Fe College’s staff address racial inequality in society and the education systemCHANGES IN GAINESVILLE 
LAW ENFORCEMENT 
FOCUS ON MENTAL 
HEALTH AND COMMUNITY 
RELATIONS FOLLOWING 
DEMANDS TO ADDRESS 
SYSTEMIC RACISM
By Jake Reyes, Phong 
Huynh & Alexander Lugo
Alligator Staff Writer
A year after Black Lives Mat -
ter protests shook the nation and 
Gainesville’s streets, the city’s po -
lice made efforts to focus on mental 
health responders and community 
relations. 
Gainesville Police Department 
and the Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office implemented programs to de -
crease arrests and de-escalate mental 
health crises over the last year. GPD 
redistributed its officers to increase 
familiarity with the communities 
they patrol, while ACSO set up a unit 
dedicated to community outreach. 
Some local racial justice activists 
agree the steps are going in the right 
direction, but others believe more 
work needs to be done.
Mental Health Response
GPD and ACSO renewed focus 
on interactions with people going 
through mental health crises. Both 
departments are experimenting with 
mental health responder programs to 
help with de-escalation in crisis situ -
ations.
GPD’s mental health responder 
program expanded from one to 
five positions last year, Gainesville 
Mayor Lauren Poe said. Instead of 
arrests, a GPD officer trained in crisis 
intervention and a mental health cli -
nician de-escalate situations and get 
people to mental health services.
The mental health responder pro -
gram had 655 interactions and 10 
arrests in 2020, and 351 interactions 
with 10 arrests so far this year, Shel -
ley Postle, a GPD corporal involved 
with the program, said.
Additionally, the city signed an 
agreement with the state attorney 
last month approving the diversion 
and deflection program, Poe said. 
The initiative will send people to counseling or a restorative justice 
program instead of court for nonvio -
lent misdemeanors like shoplifting or 
marijuana possession. A restorative 
justice program places a person who 
committed a crime face-to-face with 
their victim to help them understand 
the consequences.
“It puts a human face on it and 
it’s no longer a victimless crime in 
their eyes,” Poe said.
The city and county set aside 
money for constructing a central 
receiving facility, Poe said. It would 
receive people who would otherwise 
face arrest or a hospital visit during 
a mental health crisis. The center 
would be a part of Meridian Health -
care, which partnered with GPD for 
its mental health responder pilot pro -
gram.
The project is now finding a loca -
tion and securing state funding. Poe 
said he feels optimistic state fund -
ing will be provided because similar 
facilities are already funded by the 
state.  
ACSO also implemented de-
escalation tactics when responding 
to police calls. The office’s mental 
health responder program has been 
in place since April 2020, Kaley Behl, 
an ACSO spokesperson, said.
The program has been composed 
of one mental health responder since 
its inception over a year ago and has 
not expanded since. The office hopes 
to grow the program in the future, 
Behl said.
About 80% of the officers com -
pleted Crisis Intervention Team 
training, a program focusing on 
training most people on the force 
for interacting with someone going 
through a mental health crisis, Behl 
said.
Officers are now required to inter -
vene and report incidents where an -
other officer acts outside their scope, 
Behl said. The policy was officially 
introduced in July 2020.
Officers were able to report before 
the policy but it is now reinforced on 
paper, Behl said.
“If you see an officer that’s doing 
something they shouldn’t be doing, 
you’re supposed to stop it and report 
it, period,” she said. 
Clovis Watson Jr. was elected 
Alachua County’s sheriff in Novem -
ber 2020. On the campaign trail, 
he promised de-escalation training, community engagement and a focus 
on mental health assistance. ACSO’s 
mental health responder program 
and the reinforcement of its police 
accountability policy were imple -
mented prior to the sheriff’s arrival.
Sheriff Watson has not been in -
terviewed since he became sheriff 
and did not respond to requests for 
an interview.
Mackintosh Joachim, a member 
of the NAACP UF Chapter, said GPD 
and ACSO are going in the right di -
rection after implementing mental 
health responder programs. 
The 22-year-old UF women’s 
studies senior said mental health 
programs and training officers how 
to respond to crisis calls are major 
points he advocated for in last year’s 
protests. 
“We’re sending people to men -
tal health institutions to get the help 
they need,” he said. 
However, Joachim wants to see a 
psychiatrist or social worker respond 
to mental health calls in the future. 
Professionals who studied mental 
health and work in those environ -
ments would be better suited for the 
job, he said. Sending social workers 
or psychiatrists would take the work -
load off police, he said. 
In the meantime, having officers 
go through CIT training to de-esca -
late situations involving someone 
with a mental illness is better than 
no training at all, he said. 
Chanae Jackson, a Black 
Gainesville activist who partici -
pated in multiple BLM marches in 
Gainesville, welcomes some of the 
changes but does not think the fight 
for equality is over. She wants to see 
progress from two sides: the govern -
ment and the people.
Jackson advocates for more job 
training programs in Gainesville as 
she believes the workforce and bet -
ter job training could reduce violent 
crimes.
“By fixing these social issues in 
our communities, we actually reduce 
the victimization and the realization 
of our people, and we improve the 
lives of Black lives,” she said. 
One of her most important advo -
cacies is pushing people of color to 
vote. She said the issues in systemic 
racism start with elected officials.
“I want people to understand that 
the one place that everybody has equal power is in that voting booth,” 
she said. “Anything else that we 
push, it won’t matter if the people 
who have the like-minded ideas are 
still in the minority.”
Police and community relations   
Another area of focus for reforms 
is community engagement.
ACSO implemented the govern -
ment and community relations unit 
in January, spokesperson Kaley Behl 
said. One of the unit’s purposes is 
to serve as a contact point for com -
munity members to address any con -
cerns ranging from juvenile crime to 
gun violence. 
“We have community leaders 
that are reaching out to us saying, 
‘Help me bridge this gap between 
law enforcement and the commu -
nity,’” Behl said. 
Behl did not provide specific 
names of people who called in.
GPD also emphasized reaching 
out to the community and mak -
ing themselves more available for 
engagement. A key component for 
improving communication has been 
attending neighborhood crime watch 
meetings, neighborhood association 
meetings, business watch meet -
ings and staying in contact with the 
NAACP as well as the Gainesville 
Chamber of Commerce. 
Although the department was 
challenged by a nationwide shortage 
of police recruits, the department 
assigned officers to smaller beats in 
line with Chief Tony Jones’ promise 
last year.
As of January, GPD is divided 
by zones and districts, which estab -
lished more familiarity between the 
officers on patrol and residents, as -
sistant police chief Lonnie Scott said.
Officers were originally divided 
between the city’s east and west 
sides, Scott said. That divide is also 
how the city’s neighborhoods are 
racially divided; East Gainesville 
is predominantly Black neighbor -
hoods, and West Gainesville is pre -
dominantly white. 
“We eliminated that designa -
tion,” Scott said. “The optics of it 
wasn’t right.”
Evelyn Foxx, president of the Ala -
chua County NAACP chapter, said 
her branch communicates with GPD 
on a monthly basis to find solutions for issues like the recent rise in gun 
violence.
She’s pleased with the open com -
munication and thinks the mental 
health responder program is a good 
initiative, but there’s still work to do.
“We aren’t where we need to be, 
but at least it’s a start,” Foxx said.
GPD’s redistribution of its officers 
has also improved accountability in 
the department, she said.
Aeriel Lane, the organizer for 
last summer’s March for Our Free -
dom group, said GPD has been more 
visible and involved in the commu -
nity. She said GPD provided written 
documents and examples of how 
their funding was used toward the 
Reichert House and youth programs. 
“They do a good job of attempt -
ing to build bridges in the commu -
nity,” she said. 
But she considers the national re -
sponse to George Floyd’s death to be 
“slacktivism.” They are not sustain -
able, long-term solutions, she said. 
“Declaring Juneteenth as a na -
tional holiday is great and it also 
means nothing at the same time 
when it comes to advancement,” she 
said. “And I believe that putting up a 
statue of George Floyd is counterpro -
ductive because it feels like, okay, 
we did this thing, check that box and 
let’s move on to the next thing.”
The BLM movement is not dead, 
but it is less visible, Lane said. She 
believes when a movement has lost 
attention, activism dwindles away.
“Things are always happening 
behind the scenes,” she said. “But 
I think when it comes to how that 
contributes to the larger showing of 
activism, people who are on the out -
side see that as a dwindling whereas 
it’s more of a quiet storm below the 
surface.”
Changes in Gainesville law en -
forcement demonstrate local prog -
ress to address systemic racism; 
however, community members are 
uncertain about its future extent in 
addressing racial justice and the 
community’s needs.
@frlJakeReyes
@phongphont
@alexlugo67
jreyes@alligator.org
phuynh@alligator.org
alugo@alligator.orgHow policing procedures and policies changed following calls for racial justice
Thomas Beckwith won a statewide advising award for his presentation 
on the benefits and challenges of being a Black male academic adviserKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
NBA Draft
Former Gators Tre Mann and Scottie Lewis lived out their dreams 
when their names were called in the NBA Draft July 29, pg. 14
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
STANDARD GARAGE 
BY UF NOW OPEN!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!THE ALL-AMERICAN 
RESTAURANT AND MUSEUM 
IS SET TO OPEN AUG. 11  
By Alexis Carson 
Avenue Staff Writer
After months of anticipation, 
legendary Head Ball Coach Steve 
Spurrier’s newest play off the field, 
Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille and Visor’s 
rooftop bar, is ready for its kick-off 
opening Aug. 11
Originally set to open in spring, 
Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille is an up -
scale yet casual restaurant and foot -
ball museum that will cater to Gator 
fans and football enthusiasts every -
where. 
It is located in Celebration Pointe 
at 4860 SW 31st Place and will high -
light Gators football history and its 
namesake legacy of success, quality 
food and first-class service.
Freddie Wehbe, the managing 
partner for Spurrier’s, said construc -
tion delays and staff shortages be -
cause of the COVID-19 pandemic 
caused setbacks .  
But with the staff hired and con -
struction complete, Wehbe said 
they’re ready to serve the Gainesville 
community.
Spurrier said the space is close to 
18,000 square feet, featuring Visor’s 
rooftop bar and three dining rooms 
that can host nearly 500 people total.
It’s the largest restaurant in 
Gainesville and the ninth-largest 
restaurant in Florida, according to Wehbe. 
Families and friends of employees 
have been invited to test the “prac -
tice dinners” to provide feedback for 
any last fine-tuning adjustments to 
the menu and the service. 
“So hopefully, opening night, we 
will have all the kinks worked out,” 
Spurrier said.  
The restaurant’s story began two 
years ago when Spurrier’s daughter, 
Amy Moody, sparked the idea. 
“Dad, you need a restaurant or 
something to put all these plaques 
and trophies and championship 
rings and all that kind of stuff,” she 
said, according to Spurrier. 
With help from Wehbe, an entre -
preneur who owns Make It Happen, 
an improvement consulting compa -
ny based in Gainesville, Spurrier said 
the vision started coming to life.
“[Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille] truly 
is beyond the restaurant, it’s an ex -
perience,” said Wehbe.
The “Head Ball Coach” memo -
rabilia is displayed in the exhibit, 
including all of his trophies, cham -
pionship rings and the coveted Heis -
man trophies for both Spurrier and 
Danny Wuerffel. In addition, patrons 
can find bathrooms decorated with 
Spurrier’s gameplays, and there is 
also a podcast studio where ESPN 
radio shows will be recorded. 
“We don’t have it yet but if we 
get [Tim Tebow’s] Heisman trophy, 
we’ll be the only restaurant in the 
world that will have three Heisman 
trophies,” Wehbe said. 
Spurrier said the restaurant pre -pared extensively to find the best 
staff. 
“I think we have some quality, 
first-class people that work there 
also, have good food, excellent ser -
vice, and that’s what we plan to 
have all the time there,” he said. 
Mark Heigl, the head chef of 
Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille, has been 
in the food industry for over 30 years 
and has worked as one of three head 
chefs in the summer 1996 Olympics. 
Spurrier said he is fond of Heigl’s 
work and that the flavor in every -
thing he cooks is outstanding. 
“It is polished American with a 
little bit of southern in it and a hint 
of international,” Heigl said. 
The ingredients are locally 
sourced. They utilize Wainwright 
Dairy, Hawthorne Creek Creamery, 
Quincey Cattle Ranch and more. Ev -
erything is 100% made from scratch 
or sourced from local businesses. 
Opus Coffee provides the restau -
rant’s coffee. 
The menu consists of a wide 
range of dishes from oysters and 
mahi to margarita-flavored wings, 
steaks, burgers, salads and vegetar -
ian, gluten-free and dairy-free op -
tions. 
Spurrier said a huge part of mak -
ing the restaurant the best it could 
be was making sure the food was 
excellent.
“If something wasn’t a 10, we 
were going to work on it until it 
was a 10. Or it just didn’t get on the 
menu,” Heigl said. 
Heigl said there’s a process to cre -ating the perfect menu.
“We visited all of the local farms 
to make sure that the animals were 
being treated right, the farms were 
ran properly and everything,” he 
said. “And so that’s how we did the 
farm to table.”
Wehbe said Gainesville is not a 
small city anymore, and it needed a 
place like Spurrier’s — a quality res -
taurant with good food.
“We built it for the community,” 
he said. “We built it for recruit -
ing talent. We built it to enhance 
Gainesville. We built it to be able to recruit better doctors and bet -
ter professionals and better players 
and we had Coach Mullen in here 
a few times with recruits. They’re 
impressed, their families are im -
pressed.”  
As of Aug. 1, reservations can 
be made online. Spurrier’s Grid -
iron Grille is open Sunday through 
Thursday from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
and on Friday and Saturday from 3 
p.m. to midnight.
@Alexis_Carson99
a.carson@alligator.org Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille announces official opening to the public  
FOOD & DRINKFOOD & DRINK
Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
The Spurrier’s Gridiron Grille and Visor’s rooftop bar, as seen on 
Sunday, August 1, 2021, had to delay opening due to staffing 
issues. The restaurant, which is located at 4860 SW 31st Place  
in Gainesville, will open August 11.
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
HB1 is an anti-protest bill signed into law in Florida last 
month that sparked backlash from local governments 
and community leaders. The bill was proposed by Gov. 
Ron DeSantis in response to the Black Lives Matter pro -
tests over the summer of 2020. The purpose of the bill is 
to “combat rioting,” however, its broad definition criminalizes protesters as well. 
If a group of 25 people are protesting and one person commits a violent act, the 
police could arrest the entire group and charge them with a third degree felony of 
“committing a riot” for that one individual’s action. 
Not only does this bill provide regulations on protestors, but it also prohibits 
local governments from determining how to allocate funding for police to address 
the concerns of their local communities. It protects the confederate monuments, and shields 
counter-protesters from civil liability if they kill or injure a protester. 
However, many cities and organizations are fighting this bill. Gainesville is the first city to 
challenge the law since the state passed it. 
On May 20, the Gainesville City Commission recruited two law firms to challenge the 
recently passed HB 1 bill. The city attorney will work with the Community Justice Progress and 
Public Rights Project to draft the complaint. 
The city attorney has some hesitation regarding the lawsuit. Until there is a cause of action, 
such as the state attorney challenging a budget decision made by the city of Gainesville, they do 
not recommend moving forward with it. Real circumstances need to present themselves before 
a lawsuit can take place. 
However, should they wait that long or move forward with the proceedings? Can Gainesville 
even have the chance of winning a case like this? 
In an interview with commissioner Gail Johnson, who approved the motion to draft a 
complaint against the bill, I learned more about what this lawsuit could mean for Gainesville.
What motivated you to take action and want to file a lawsuit? 
The motion was to direct city staff to work with the Community Justice Project and the 
Public Rights Project in order to draft a complaint and bring it back to us within thirty days. 
However, on Aug. 5 is when we are going to decide whether to take the next steps. 
We would be the anchor plaintiff. HB 1 is a terrible law. Targeting both individuals and us 
as a city. Not even just as a city, but as lawmakers. It essentially puts a target on our back. 
We are speaking out for the protected right of free speech.  Local governments are standing 
in solidarity with people who have the right to peacefully protest. This bill is a total overreach 
from the governor and attack on home rule.
T ell me a little more about the nonprofits you are working with.
They’re both fantastic organizations. Public Rights Project is a national organization that works with cities. The Community Justice Project focuses on social justice movements 
and cities specifically in Florida. There is also an additional legal entity they brought 
in out of D.C. An entire team of lawyers throughout the nation is working on this. 
We recognize how important their work is and how important Florida is for the fight 
towards racial justice. 
It’s a national fight and a big deal.
 
It’s my understanding that the main reason for this lawsuit is to reallocate resources to 
various programs within Gainesville from the police department’s budget. 
What programs would these funds be going to exactly?
That we are even having these conversations about a possible reallocation of 
staff and/or resources to a different department means there would be a decrease 
in funding for the police department. It is problematic that we cannot respond properly to 
our community that has repeatedly told us we need to think about youth services and what 
that would mean for our community. We technically could not do that with this law. While 
theoretically we can, if a state attorney or even a city commissioner or the governor has a 
problem with it, the governor can go line by line over our police budget and decide what he 
wants to do with it, not us. That right there is problematic. 
I’m a student and we know how politically active Gainesville is. This bill prohibits protesting or at least 
makes it harder to protest. Would this lawsuit help protect people’s right to protest? 
Not this specific lawsuit. There are different ways the litigation is being crafted around HB 
1. For cities it is about home rule and overreach of the governor on how we spend our budget. 
The other piece is about the protest activities. The ACLU, Dream Defenders, NAACP, the Black 
Collective and a few other groups are specifically focusing on the protest aspect of it. There are 
going to be multiple litigation strategies and multiple lawsuits. 
The part in the bill about protests that impacts cities is if there are any protests it makes the 
cities liable for them by waiving sovereign immunity in specific situations. If there is a “riot,” 
and we actually do not know what a riot is given they did not clearly state the definition in 
HB 1, then usually with sovereign immunity there is a cap for how much the city would be 
liable for. For any personal injury, wrongful death or property damage that occurs if we “fail to 
respond appropriately” that waves the immunity. We could be the hook for millions of dollars 
when usually we are only responsible for up to $200,000.
Do you all think you may have a chance at winning?
I don’t think there would be multiple attorneys from both state and national level if we 
didn’t think we could win. It is a huge investment of time and resources, right? I can’t see 
anyone investing that if there was not a chance at winning. Sex trafficking is happening in every city and could impact any individual regardless 
of gender, age, race, ethnicity, religion, socioeconomic background or education. 
With Florida ranking third in the country for reported cases of sex trafficking, it’s 
important that as a community we understand the reality of this issue and commit 
to doing something to change it.
The indicators of trafficking and exploitation often go unseen, so when we as a community 
acknowledge the prevalence of sex trafficking locally, we create a safe place for survivors to be 
heard, believed, supported and, ultimately, for lives to be restored. 
A foundational point to understand is this issue has little to nothing to do with choice, but 
rather the lack thereof. Nearly all survivors we work with at Created Gainesville report they were 
victims of childhood sexual abuse. When we talk about the grooming process of victims, the 
early experiences of sexual abuse are a part of most survivors’ initial grooming, which creates 
normalization and vulnerability of continued sexual exploitation. 
Victims of sexual exploitation and sex trafficking don’t find themselves in those circumstances 
overnight. Rather it often is a life-long process of desensitization to being abused and taken ad -
vantage of.
Additionally, many victims of sex trafficking will be forced into prostitution, which is one of 
the most common forms of trafficking. This leads to countless mental and physical scars, with 
68% of those involved in prostitution meeting the criteria for PTSD. 
Often, these scars are manipulated by traffickers as tactics to gain and maintain control over 
another person; these tactics include severe forms of violence, isolation, fear, sleep deprivation, 
quotas, debts, shame, drugs and promises of love, protection or fast money. It is important to 
understand that trauma is a frequent — and, for most, a daily occurrence.  
An added concern today is the prevalence of websites and online platforms which serve as 
a hotspot for predatory behavior. The internet adds to the shielding of this issue, meaning that 
more and more local youth and young adults are impacted. This needs our attention, especially 
that of service providers in our community, who may be the first point of contact for someone 
looking for help. This phenomenon of greater online trafficking through escort ads, por -
nography and social networking platforms or video games, means as a 
community we need to stay vigilant in educating ourselves and others, 
while also creating safety measures and standing with those who may have 
experienced this reality.  
As a community, we also need to recognize no two experiences of sex 
trafficking are the same. As much as it is our human nature to want to 
understand trends, norms and patterns, we must remember that with traf -
ficking, every story and situation is unique. When we attempt to box every 
survivor into one narrative, we strip the ability and opportunity for survi -
vors to be heard and to access the help needed to escape. With that, it is vital that the most impor -
tant voice in the conversation about trafficking is that of survivors. We learn best from those who 
have lived it. No one knows as much about what the needs of survivors are along the journey of 
escape, healing, and restoration as the survivors themselves.  
If we want to make lasting changes in our community and in the lives of survivors and those 
most vulnerable to sexual exploitation, we need to start with humbly acknowledging our gaps, 
shortcomings and lack of resources. We need to acknowledge there is a big issue in Gainesville 
and our surrounding communities that demands our response of action, compassion and gener -
osity of time, resources and expertise.
According to the Tim Tebow Foundation, there are only enough safe beds in the U.S. to serve 
10% of victims of sex trafficking in our country.  We must do better, we can do better and Created 
Gainesville is working tirelessly to fill this need of more safe homes, not only for survivors in our 
community, but for survivors all over our country in need of a safe place to hit pause, to rest, to 
create stability and sustainability to heal, to rediscover themself and to overcome the impact of 
sex trafficking and sexual exploitation.  
To learn more about Created Gainesville and find ways that you can help us reach and restore 
lives impacted by sex trafficking, visit www.createdgainesville.com. No one can do everything, 
but everyone can do something.
Alison Ungaro is the executive director at Created Gainesville which is aimed at 
reaching and restoring lives impacted by sex trafficking and exploitation. 
Q&A with a Gainesville City Commissioner about the city’s potential lawsuit against Florida’s anti-protest bill  Is sex trafficking happening in Gainesville?
ColumnColumn
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Natalie Cabral
@nat_roseeee
ncabral@alligator.orgAlison UngaroMONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021   ALLIGATOR   11 
SRILA PRABHUPADA, THE 
FOUNDER OF ISKCON, 
INSPIRED IT THROUGH 
HIS 1971 UF ADDRESS
By Juliana Ferrie 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Since 1971, the Hare Krishnas 
have offered a haven of love in the 
form of affordable plant-based meals 
at the Plaza of the Americas.
July 29 marked the 50th anniver -
sary of the arrival of the founder of 
the International Society for Krishna 
Consciousness at UF, A.C. Bhak -
tivedanta Swami Prabhupada, also 
known as Srila Prabhupada. His 
1971 address, which took place in the Plaza of the Americas, inspired 
the Krishna Lunch known by UF stu -
dents and the Gainesville community 
today.
In celebration of the anniversary, 
an event-filled festival began July 29 
and continued until July 31.
The events included speakers, 
an open house at the Bhaktivedanta 
Institute and a groundbreaking cer -
emony at the Krishna House, where 
they are expanding both the kitchen 
and its housing facilities. 
Krishna Lunch is served Monday 
through Friday at both the Plaza of 
the Americas and the Krishna House 
at 214 NW 14th St. The meals are 
vegetarian, follow a recurring weekly 
menu and are all-you-can-eat style. 
Lunch is served from 11 a.m. until 
1:30 p.m. on campus and from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Krishna House. 
Nanda Dasi, 49, the Krishna 
Lunch manager, oversees the en -
tire production, coming up with the 
menu, changing recipes as needed 
and making sure they never run out 
of food. She has been a follower of 
Krishna Consciousness for 30 years. 
“It’s definitely improved my char -
acter,” Dasi said. “I see the world 
very differently than I did when I first 
started practicing.” 
Dasi said 50 years is a long time to 
continually serve healthy meals to the 
students and people of Gainesville. 
“It started so small, and it grew to 
what it is today,” she said. “It per -
sisted through time and even through 
a pandemic.” 
Even during the height of the pan -
demic, the Hare Krishnas found a 
way to be there for the community. 
They set up an online platform so 
people could order Krishna Lunch to-
go and decided to distribute lunches 
to the hospital for health care work -
ers, Sruti Sagara Das, 31, the presi -
dent of the Krishna House, said. For 
other people in need, they went door-
to-door to ask if they wanted to sign 
up for Krishna Lunch, and many of 
them did, he said. 
Now, they provide meals to the 
Ronald McDonald House. 
“We just try to help out in gen -
eral in the community, not just with 
the food but also the idea that we’re 
there for you,” he said. 
After not being on UF’s campus 
from April to August of 2020, they 
worked closely with the university to 
create safe COVID-19 protocols when 
they returned. Summer is slow, but 
they feed about 300 to 500 people 
each day during Fall and Spring, Das 
said. “We’re just not out there to sell 
our $5 lunch,” he said. “We want 
to support students. We want to be 
there for them throughout the whole 
year.” 
Especially over the last year, the 
most rewarding part for Das is being 
there for other people through the 
ups and downs. 
He said the tradition of Krishna 
Consciousness comes from India, 
and its main text is the Bhagavad 
Gita. 
Krishna Consciousness’ main val -
ues are that there is one God, and 
everyone is a soul in a human body. 
There are many different ways to 
serve and tap into the nature of the 
soul, which is different from that of 
the material body, he said. 
“Our main essence is to function 
in harmony with God and to serve 
God as spirit souls,” he said. 
Krishna Lunch food is sanctified 
and offered with love to Krishna. The 
vegetarian and vegan meals offered 
fulfill one of their main tenets by pro -
viding food without violence.  
“The idea that when you cook 
something with love and devotion 
then that energy goes into the food,” 
he said. “When that energy goes into 
the food and whoever eats it, then 
they experience that spirituality as 
well.” 
For unlimited helpings, there is a 
suggested donation of $5, which Das 
says mostly goes toward the food it -
self. 
At Krishna Lunch, compostable 
plates are used in collaboration with 
UF, Das said. They work to have the 
least amount of trash possible and to 
avoid polluting the Earth — a living 
entity — further. 
Tasnim Thakur, a 21-year-old UF business senior, said her favor -
ite thing about Krishna Lunch is 
the sense of community that comes 
along with it.
“It’s a tradition,” Thakur 
said. “If you go to UF and you 
haven’t had Krishna Lunch on 
that lawn at least once, it’s one 
of those bucket list things.”  
The food is good and really afford -
able, she said, which is important for 
college kids. By far, her favorite lunch 
item is Krishna’s Friday potatoes. 
Reagan de la Cruz, a 19-year-old 
UF marketing sophomore, said she 
likes Krishna Lunch because it’s a 
cheap, healthy option on campus. 
All of the people from Krishna are 
friendly, and it’s a fun place to have 
lunch, she said. 
She estimates she ate Krishna 
Lunch around 30 to 40 times this 
year. 
De la Cruz’s favorite meal is served 
on Fridays: Gauranga (creamy) pota -
toes, chili and carob halava. 
Nartaka Gopala, a 69-year-old 
property trustee for the International 
Society for Krishna Consciousness, 
said the Krishnas are sometimes 
called “kitchen religion.” 
“We try to put the love and de -
votion into our cooking, and we also 
say prayers over our food so that 
when whoever eats the food gets a 
certain type of blessing,” she said.
Through the years, Gopala has in -
teracted with past UF students who 
say the Krishnas saved their lives 
while in school by feeding them ev -
ery day. 
“They express their appreciation 
for the availability of food prepared 
with love right in the middle of cam -
pus when they need it the most,” she 
said.
@juliana_f616
jferrie@alligator.org Krishna Lunch celebrates its 50th anniversary
By Camila Pereira
Alligator Staff Writer
While growing its ranking to become a top-
five public university, UF’s faculty members 
have become locally, nationally and even inter -
nationally recognized for their expertise.
In the past two years, UF’s faculty has been 
called upon to share their knowledge on a va -
riety of current events and topics on respected 
media outlets such as NPR and the Washington 
Post. With nearly 5,000 faculty members at UF, 
some have been recognized for their research 
and work through notable awards from differ -
ent organizations like the American Phytopatho -
logical Society and the NAACP Image Award.
Major topics faculty members have contrib -
uted to include COVID-19’s impact on life ex -
pectancy, the virus’ Delta variant, the humani -
tarian crisis and protests in Cuba and this year’s 
hurricane season.
Having faculty members speaking on nation -
al platforms contributes to the student experi -
ence and quality of education at UF, UF spokes -
person Steve Orlando, said.
“Our students know that they’re getting a 
top quality education here with some of the best 
faculty in the world,” Orlando said. “But it also 
raises the stature of the university so that people 
elsewhere in the country know the kind of great 
work that’s going on here at the University of 
Florida.”
UF’s national media prominence increased 
by 107% in the past year, according to a June 
Board of Trustees presentation. In 2020, UF rose to No. 4 in faculty expert share of voice, dem -
onstrating a faster growth than any other top 
public university.
During the 2020 U.S. presidential election, 
UF political science professor Sharon Austin 
said she was bombarded with requests for in -
terviews from media outlets all over the world.
Recently, she talked about the U.S. Presi -
dent Joe Biden’s April speech on Fox 4 Now 
Southwest Florida, explaining how it may have 
caught the interest of Floridians regarding edu -
cation and police reform. 
Austin said not only does the media pres -
ence of faculty enhance UF’s reputation, but it 
also makes professors who get recognized for 
their research feel their hard work is important 
and has a purpose.
Rolda Darlington, a UF political science doc -
toral candidate, said Austin has been her pro -
fessor for over 20 years now, starting from her 
sophomore year as an undergraduate student to 
now as a doctoral student.
The 39-year-old said her professor is not only 
a great person who cares deeply for her students 
but is also an incredible scholar. She said work -
ing with her has been a beneficial experience.
Austin is part of the first all-female editorial 
team for the American Political Science Review 
and will be the first African American lead edi -
tor for the journal in the 2023 to 2024 academic 
year. She is also one of the first African Ameri -
can editors for the University Press of Florida.
Darlington said it encourages her to see Aus -
tin as a fellow Black woman in political science 
who is widely recognized for her work while representing UF.
“It also makes me feel a sense of pride in my 
own work because I know I am working at a 
university that houses scholars like Dr. Austin,” 
Darlington said.
Extension faculty member Lisa Krimsky is 
also included in the extensive list of UF faculty 
called to speak nationally. As a water resources 
regional specialized extension agent, she has of -
ten been called upon to provide insight on the 
red tide outbreak on Tampa’s coastline.
As one of the extension UF Institute of Food 
and Agricultural Sciences experts for harmful 
algal blooms in Florida, Krimsky was quoted in 
various media outlets, including the Smithson -
ian magazine, and she spoke live on the Weath -
er Channel on July 23 about the red tide.
She said the opportunity to speak on nation -
al media platforms allows professors to share 
applied science research acquired at UF, explain 
it to a wider audience and push for real-world 
solutions.
Part of UF faculty’s mission is also to help 
foster a rich learning environment for students 
with their experiences and knowledge in their 
specialized areas.
UF journalism professors and investigative 
reporters, Kathleen McGrory and Neil Bedi won 
the Pulitzer Prize in local reporting on June 11 
for their Tampa Bay Times investigation on the 
Pasco Sheriff’s Office’s intelligence-led policing 
program.
“As journalists, we definitely don’t do the 
work for the awards — we do the work to shine 
light on programs and to help people who don’t necessarily have a voice,” McGrory said. “But I 
will tell you that being recognized by the Pulit -
zer board is just a tremendous honor.”
Being an instructor who is still in a news -
room and knows the pressures of journalism 
today, she hopes her work inspires the next 
generation of journalists.
“One of the highlights of every week is get -
ting to interact with students and share my ex -
perience as a journalist, and kind of help them 
establish the building blocks of reporting that 
are going to be very useful in their careers,” Mc -
Grory said.
Sophie Feinberg, a 23-year-old journalism 
graduate, said McGrory has always been a re -
sourceful mentor to her, both while being her 
student and later in her reporting career. 
“I felt it was just invaluable to my learning 
process — inside and outside of the classroom 
— just encouraging me as a journalist and a 
person, and I can’t say enough how much I ap -
preciate it,” Feinberg said.
After the Surfside condominium collapse in 
Miami, UF design, construction and planning 
professor Zhong-Ren Peng was called to speak 
on numerous media outlets about the incident.
Peng, who is also director of UF’s Interna -
tional Center for Adaptation Planning and De -
sign, said being able to share his knowledge 
and work on the dangers of coastal living brings 
it to the attention of policymakers and society. 
He also helped to place an op-ed in USA Today, 
emphasizing the importance of faculty research 
on these current issues.
“I think it’s the duty of the faculty,” he said. 
“It’s part of our service to the community.”
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgUF’s media prominence rises to No.4 as faculty experts speak on international platforms  Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
A group of Hare Krishnas gathered outside the Krishna House at 
214 NW 14th Street in Gainesville on Thursday, July 29, 2021. The 
Gainesville community is celebrating the 50th anniversary of Krishna 
Lunch at UF on Saturday and Sunday.
UF faculty is recognized internationally, providing insight on issues 
such as COVID-19, national elections and Cuba’ s humanitarian crisesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            8-15-21-13-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
HOME FOR SALE 3BR/2BA, immaculate. 
1200 sq. ft. New roof, paint, carpet, tile, 
windows. Great location. Near University/ 
$245,000  352-406-9325
8-2-21-2-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE- 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN 
SETS $149 KING SETS $199 NEW 6 
DRAWER DRESSERS $220 NEW 5 
DRAWER CHEST $199 WE HAVE OVER 
300 MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953          9-07-5-6©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    ________  eeiigghhtt
11..    RReennoowwnneedd  55..    EEtthhiiccaall
22..    ________  ccaann66..    SSmmookkee  ________
33..    DDiisscchhaarrggee  77..    ________  sshhoowweerr
44..    FFlluutttteerr,,  qquuaakkee  RREEFFUUGGII
MMFFAAUUOOSSAARRLLOOMM
AARRLLMMAA
AAGGEEAARRGGBB
EEEEAASSRREELLEERRMMEEOOTT
MMOOTTEERRRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--FFiigguurree    55AA--MMoorraall    66AA--AAllaarrmm    77AA--MMeetteeoorr
11DD--FFaammoouuss    22DD--GGaarrbbaaggee    33DD--RReelleeaassee    44DD--TTrreemmoorr    BB--RRooggeerr  MMoooorree88--22--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  ssuucccceeeeddeedd  AAuuddrreeyy  HHeeppbbuurrnn  
aass  ggooooddwwiillll  aammbbaassssaaddoorr  ffoorr  UUNNIICCEEFF.. BONUS
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-21-13-14
Yard work/some light housekeeping. 
Student,P/T a few hours/week. Wanted by 
retired UF Grad. Close to UF, all equipment 
furnished. $10-$12/hr depending on exp. 
Reply with schedule/short resume include 
phone no. ghpolkgator@gmail.com.
8-16-21-4-1413 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Joe Schewe
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/02/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/02/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, August 2, 2021
ACROSS
1 Up to the task
5 Bounce off a wall
10 __ ’n’ roll
14 Faucet brand
15 Goodnight 
woman of song
16 Wrinkle remover
17 Space-saving TV 
display
19 Property measure
20 Mason of “The 
Goodbye Girl”
21 Life in it is 
exciting but risky
23 Tax form ID
24 Do sum work
26 Camp bed
27 Deadeye
33 Jokes around
36 Primp
37 2001 boxing 
biopic
38 Eye creepily
39 Does some 
sous-chef work
40 Word after final or 
physical
41 “Roth” investment
42 Prohibition agent 
Ness
43 Its State 
Crustacean is 
lobster
44 Cotton, wool or 
silk
47 Neither’s partner
48 Old PC monitor
49 Deep __: diving 
area
52 Watches kids for 
cash
57 End opposite the 
pencil point
59 Longtime Hydrox 
rival
60 Distinguished ... 
and what 17-, 27- 
and 44-Across 
literally are?
62 Seven-foot 
NBAer Nowitzki
63 Give the slip to
64 Extra
65 Barely beat
66 Opera hero, often
67 On the __ of 
the moment: 
impulsively
DOWN
1 Std. car radios
2 Gauchos’ 
weapons3 Memorize
4 Tolkien tree 
creatures
5 Insect that may 
live for 17 years
6 LAX incoming 
abbr.
7 Atoll barrier
8 __ Day 
VitaCraves
9 Good people, 
from the Yiddish
10 Venetian market
11 Killer whale
12 Kerneled veggie
13 Commonly 
replaced joint
18 Persian 
potentates
22 Donald or Daffy 
Duck
25 TV advice show 
co-created by 
Oprah
27 “Savvy?”
28 DA’s burden
29 Type of tank
30 City curbside call
31 Distinctive style
32 “The __ of the 
Ancient Mariner”
33 Become a 
member34 Taj Mahal city
35 Surveyor’s map
39 Benny 
Goodman’s 
“licorice stick”
40 12-Down unit
42 Greek Cupid
43 MGM’s first “M”
45 Disconnect, as 
oxen
46 Milwaukee 
MLBer
49 Bar, in court50 India’s first prime 
minister
51 Washer’s partner
52 Foreshadow
53 Dry as a bone
54 Shipping hazard
55 Tin-painting art
56 Daze
58 Refs raise them 
to signal a 
successful field 
goal
61 Tokyo, formerly
By Winston Emmons
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/27/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/27/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 27, 2021
ACROSS
1 Eva of “Green 
Acres”
6 Smart guy?
10 Mosque leader
14 L.A.’s Staples 
Center, e.g.
15 “The lady __ 
protest too 
much, methinks”: 
“Hamlet”
16 Zilch
17 Frozen rain
18 “The African 
Queen” 
co-screenwriter 
James
19 Fairly brisk gait
20 ESP neighbor, to 
the IOC
21 *Site of an annual 
ball drop
24 Acrylic fiber
26 Bach composition
27 Was understood, 
finally
29 Halley 
observation
31 Bernie’s 
songwriting 
partner
32 Hawaii state bird
33 Poetry 
competition
37 Flight tracker info
38 *Comedic climax
41 In the style of
42 Unkempt dos
44 Electrical unit
45 Polite refusal
47 Lock on one’s 
head
49 “To clarify ... ”
50 Less prevalent
52 Oscar, for one
53 *Ray Kinsella 
in “Field of 
Dreams,” e.g.
56 Quarterback’s 
asset
59 Como una mujer 
con mucho dinero
60 Best ever, initially
61 Paddled boat
63 Haphazard way 
to run
64 Salinger title 
girl who says, 
“I’m extremely 
interested in 
squalor”
65 Florida theme 
park
66 Things of little 
consequence67 Kevin Costner 
in “Field of 
Dreams,” e.g.
68 Judges
DOWN
1 Shocked sound
2 Folksy Guthrie
3 *Keg buy in a pub
4 Half a pair
5 Not good under-
the-hood sound
6 Rhett’s last 
words
7 Theater tier
8 Sorbonne 
summers
9 Knights or rooks
10 Somehow knows
11 French 
Revolution 
radical
12 Love to pieces
13 Deckhand
22 Charged particle
23 Montreal’s prov.
25 Old MGM rival
27 Apparently are
28 Kind of sax
29 Phones in 
pockets or 
purses
30 Working the case
32 Oxfam and 
CARE, for two34 Wedding 
reception finale, 
and a feature of 
the answers to 
starred clues
35 Et __: and others
36 Damages
39 Batting stats
40 Improved in 
value
43 Barely runs?
46 Item for a dinghy
48 Civil War soldier
49 Pan Am rival50 “Spider-Man” 
trilogy director 
Sam
51 Fancy neckwear
52 Subsequent to
53 Source of fiber
54 121-episode  
TV drama set 
on a mysterious 
island
55 Tibetan honorific
57 Space
58 Citi Field team
62 Bonobo, for one
07/26/2021answers on page 101. GEOGRAPHY:  In which 
European city would you find 
the Spanish Steps?
2. TELEVISION:  What were 
the names of the parents on 
the animated TV show "The 
Jetsons"?
3. LITERATURE:  Which 
20th-century novel begins 
with the line, "This is my fa -
vorite book in all the world, 
though I have never read it"?
4. U.S. STATES:  What is the 
state capital of Nevada?5. HISTORY:  What was the 
pen name used to publish The 
Federalist Papers in 1787-88?
6. ADVERTISING:  What 
product is advertised in com -
mercials that feature The 
Most Interesting Man in the 
World?
7. MOVIES:  Which movie 
features the often-quoted 
line, "Round up the usual sus -
pects"?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What 
kind of fish produces caviar?
9. ENTERTAINERS:  What 
were the names of the sock 
puppets used by ventriloquist 
Shari Lewis?
10. SCIENCE:  How many 
elements are on the Periodic 
Table?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by FifiRodriguez
solution  on page 10HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/ answers below1. In a 2004 ESPN special called "Utility -
man: The Quest for Cooperstown," comedi -
ans Randy and Jason Sklar campaigned to 
get what player into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame?
2. Pro Football Hall of Famer Steve Atwater 
was a hard-hitting safety for the Denver 
Broncos from 1989-98, but he played his 
final season in 1999 with what team?
3. In November 2014, what 47-year-old 
goaltending coach for the Buffalo Sabres 
suited up as an emergency backup net -
minder?
4. What Ohio State Buckeyes men's basket -
ball player was named Big Ten Co-Player 
of the Year in 1999 and won the Frances 
Pomeroy Naismith Award (for the best 
shorter-than-average player)
5. In 2001, the Baltimore Ravens were 
featured in the first season of what long-
running HBO documentary series? 
6. In roller derby, the players who score 
points and wear stars on their helmets are 
known as what?
7. "You got a beat-up glove, a homemade 
bat and a brand-new pair of shoes" are lyr -
ics to what 1985 song by John Fogerty?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Help Wanted: Personal Assistant/Driver
OT/PT/SLP students would be a great fit 
for this job, but not required to provide 
assistance to an individual with cerebral 
palsy. 352-258-0228.
8-2-21-2-14
Code Writer
Retired Scientist is looking for someone 
to write now and again simple math codes 
in "Mathematica" software. $20/code. 
adinculescu@cox.net
8-16-21-3-14
NOW HIRING for FALL '21  
Apply at SmokinNotes.com
9-7-21-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME.
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $13.00 per hour.
Contact:  fairoaks1879@aol.com   
8-30-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center
Sun Country Sports is hiring for Fall! 
After School Counselors,
Gymnastics, Ninja Zone, Rockwall and 
more. Apply today at
suncountrysports.com/jobs.
8-23-21-4-14  
Experienced Swim Lesson instructors need -
ed for UF and Sun Country West.  Weekday 
afternoons (either M/W or T/TH), Saturday 
mornings, and/or Sunday afternoons.  Email 
resume to Jill at jwilby@cox.net.  
8-23-21-3-14
Trivia Test  answers1. Rome, Italy
2. George and Jane Jetson
3. "The Princess Bride"
4. Carson City
5. Publius6. Dos Equis beer
7 . "Casablanca"
8. Sturgeon
9. Lamb Chop, Charlie Horse, Hush 
Puppy and Wing Ding
10. 118Sports Quiz  answers1. Jose Oquendo.
2. The New York Jets.
3. Arturs Irbe.
4. Scoonie Penn.
5. "Hard Knocks."
6. The jammers.
7. "Centerfield."
solution  below
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUND
alligatoralligator
PUZZLE SOLUTIONS
www. alligator .org/classifieds
(352)373- FIND
classified @alligator.org
Visit alligator.org/classifieds and submit your 
ad to one of the following categories today!
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
ATTENTION ALLIGATOR ADVERTISERS!
run date:
August 23, 2021
submit by:
August 16 
+
save 10%
: (352) 376-4482
: advertising @alligator.org
Contact your sales rep today and let incoming students know  
you’re ready for business in the Welcome Back Edition!
the
independent
florida
welcome back 
edition
 2021
NOTE: This newspaper assumes no respon-
sibility for injury or loss arising from contacts 
made through advertising. We suggest that 
any reader who responds to advertising use 
caution and investigate the sincerity of the ad-
vertiser before giving out personal information 
or arranging meetings or investing money.
the 
independent  
florida
we inform. you decide.MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021   ALLIGATOR   13 MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.NBA
EL CAIMÁNTHE FORMER FIVE-STAR 
RECRUITS ARE THE FIRST 
GATORS TO BE SELECTED IN 
THE DRAFT SINCE 2013
 By Joseph Henry and 
Ryan Haley
Sports Writers
Two former Gators saw their 
dreams become reality in the 2021 
NBA Draft July 29.
The Oklahoma City Thunder 
selected former Florida point guard 
Tre Mann with the No. 18 overall 
pick, and the Charlotte Hornets 
selected former UF guard Scottie 
Lewis with the No. 56 overall pick. 
This marks the first time multiple 
Gators have heard their names 
called on the same draft night 
since Chandler Parsons and Vernon 
Macklin in 2011. 
The Thunder selected Australian 
guard Josh Giddey with the No. 
6 overall pick earlier in the draft. 
Giddey and Mann join shooting 
guard Shai Gilgeous-Alexander in 
the OKC backcourt.
Mann served as Florida’s floor 
general in 2020-21. The Gainesville, 
Florida, native averaged 32.4 minutes 
a game in a breakout season.
The sophomore started all 24 games he appeared in and led the 
Gators with 16.0 points per game, 
improving on his 5.3 points per 
game the season prior. He also 
scored the most points by a Gator 
in a single game this past season 
when he dropped 30 points against 
Tennessee in the SEC Tournament 
quarterfinals.  
Mann came to UF as a 2019 
McDonald’s All-American and a five-
star recruit according to 247Sports.
Mann was more of a role player 
during his freshman campaign, 
averaging 17.8 minutes a game with 
just four starts. This was largely due 
to the presence of now-Gonzaga 
Bulldog point guard Andrew 
Nembhard. 
Nembhard’s departure for 
Spokane, Washington, gave Mann 
full reign of the Gators’ offense, and 
he took advantage. 
The significant bump in playing 
time led to Mann improving his 
overall shooting percentage from 
35.6% to 45.9% and his three-point 
percentage from 27.5% to 40.2%. His 
second year under head coach Mike 
White ended with Mann earning 
a spot on the All-SEC First Team 
and foregoing his last two years of 
eligibility for the professional ranks. 
Mann’s silky smooth jump shot, ball handling and overall athleticism 
set him up for success in the modern 
NBA, according to Derek Murray of 
BasketballNews.com. 
Scottie Lewis became the second 
Gator of the night to leave for the 
professional ranks in the 2021 NBA 
Draft.
Lewis, a former five-star prospect 
and the class of 2019’s No. 7 overall 
recruit according to 247Sports, spent 
the past two seasons in Gainesville 
under head coach Mike White. 
He declared for the draft via social 
media on April 2, forgoing the rest of 
his eligibility.
The 6-foot-5 guard entered the 
2019-20 season as the headliner of 
Florida’s eighth-best recruiting class 
of 2019 and the third-highest recruit 
in school history by 247Sports’ 
rankings. He averaged 29.1 minutes 
per game as a freshman, fourth-most 
on the team, and offered a statline 
of 8.5 points, 3.6 rebounds and 0.8 
assists per contest. He led the team 
with 1.2 blocks and shared the team 
lead with 1.2 steals per game.
Lewis seemed poised for a 
breakout sophomore campaign, but 
the surge never came. He averaged 
25.6 minutes, 7.9 points and 3.1 
rebounds per game, all decreases 
from his debut season. He increased his assists to 1.5 per game, third-
highest on the team, and added to 
his already gaudy defensive numbers 
with 1.0 blocks and a team-high 1.6 
steals on average.
The former Gator was ranked 63rd 
on CBS Sports’ prospect rankings, 
and he now joins a Charlotte roster with the wing populated by the likes 
of Terry Rozier, Gordon Hayward 
and Malik Monk, among others.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.org
@Ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.org
Por Ariana Rios y Isabella Barnet
Escritores del Caimán
Saira Gonzalez
Traductor del Caimán
Los Juegos Olímpicos de Tokio 2020 mar -
can la tercera mayor cantidad de atletas de 
la Universidad de la Florida enviados a los 
juegos tan esperados. Cuatro de los 32 atletas 
olímpicos calificados son hispanos que repre -
sentan a UF en natación, carreras de pista y 
campo y golf. 
Cuatro Gators de Puerto Rico, Uruguay y 
Venezuela representan a sus países de origen 
para tener la oportunidad de ganar medallas 
en Tokio.  
Andrés Arroyo, de 26 años, comenzó su 
carrera profesional en la Universidad de la 
Florida en 2013. El Gator se clasificó para sus 
primeros Juegos Olímpicos mientras aún es -
taba en UF en 2016.
Arroyo hizo su debut en los Juegos Olímpi -
cos de Río 2016 como el primer puertorrique -
ño en calificar para la carrera de pista y campo 
masculina de 800 metros. Su carrera atlética continuó desarrollándose como clasificatorio 
para los Juegos Olímpicos de Tokio 2020 en 
el mismo evento.
Dijo que no podría haberlo hecho sin UF.
“Sabía que UF iba a ser quien me diera 
las herramientas para llegar a donde quería 
estar”, dijo Arroyo, quien eligió el programa 
de carreras de UF sobre Yale, Harvard y Princ -
eton.
El tiempo de la estrella de la pista en UF fue 
precedido por una impresionante carrera en la 
escuela secundaria. De origen hispano y una 
área predominantemente hispana de Orlando, 
Florida, Arroyo dijo que su transición a UF fue 
difícil al principio.
"Estaba entrando en una comunidad que 
no conocía y que iba a estar lejos de mi lado 
español... No conocía a nadie más en el equipo 
que fuera tan español como yo", dijo Arroyo.
Arroyo notó lo difícil que fue integrarse en 
la cultura de UF al principio, siendo el español 
su idioma principal cuando llegó por primera 
vez.
Todo eso cambió cuando encontró orga -
nizaciones hispanas que lo ayudaron a conec -
tarse con la comunidad hispana en UF y en Gainesville. Dijo que la Asociación de Estu -
diantes Hispanos (HSA) y la Unión de Estu -
diantes Puertorriqueños Activos (UEPA) fue 
impactante en su transición a UF.
“Podía sentirme más en casa a pesar de es -
tar a millas de distancia”.
Arroyo también mencionó cómo su entre -
nador, Mike Halloway, es como un segundo 
padre para él y una gran razón de su éxito 
en los Juegos Olímpicos ahora. Halloway es 
uno de los dos entrenadores de los Gators en 
Tokio, sirviendo como entrenador en jefe de 
pista masculino de los Estados Unidos.
Enzo Martinez-Scarpe, el capitán de 26 
años del equipo Uruguayo de natación, es un 
ex alumno que compitió en el freestyle mascu -
lino de 50 metros junto a su compañero Cae -
leb Dressel.
Algunos dicen que Martínez nació para na -
dar — con solo 6 meses de edad, los médicos 
le dijeron a su madre que tenía asma y que 
probara clases de natación infantil. Comenzó 
a nadar de manera competitiva en su país de 
origen a los 7 años.
“Al principio fue muy difícil por el hecho 
que nunca había estado tan lejos de mi fa -milia, y creo que los latinoamericanos somos 
muy apegados a la familia'', dijo Martinez. 
“Pero sabían lo estaba siendo para cumplir mi 
sueño olímpico”. 
Otros Gators hispanos que calificaron para 
los Juegos Olímpicos comparten este mismo 
sentimiento, que los inmigrantes atléticos 
atienden a UF para tener una mejor oportuni -
dad de jugar de manera competitiva. Al igual 
que Arroyo, Martínez permaneció con UF a 
través del Gator Swim Club para continuar su 
carrera de natación en Gainesville después de 
graduarse en 2018.
Dressel ganó el oro en el freestyle de na -
tación, mientras que Martínez no clasificó 
para la final después de calificar en el puesto 
35 en las eliminatorias. Sin embargo, el depor -
tista Uruguayo dijo que incluso estar en los 
Juegos Olímpicos de 2020 después de no cla -
sificarse en Río 2016 fue suficiente para él.
“El deporte son más las caídas que los tri -
unfos… pero supe salir adelante, y de eso se 
trata los deportes”
ibarnet@alligator.org
sgonzalez@alligator.comMann and Lewis drafted to NBA
Cuatro atletas hispanos cumplen sus sueños olímpicos con los Gators en Tokio 2020Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Florida's Tre Mann against Mizzou March 4. Mann was drafted by 
the Oklahoma City Thunder 18th overall in the NBA Draft.
MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021   ALLIGATOR   15 
TEAM USA
NCAABy Faith Buckley
Sports writer
Florida swimmers Caeleb Dressel and 
Bobby Finke returned to the United States 
with seven Olympic gold medals in tow 
— a simple accolade backed by the most 
seamlessly stressful moments seen in 
Olympic swimming history. 
Dressel started his gold streak in the 
4x100 meter freestyle relay July 24, where 
he pulled in first place alongside American 
teammates Zach Apple, Bowen Becker and 
Blake Pieroni. 
The 10-time NCAA Champion dove into 
the pool first and took the lead within the 
opening 15 meters. He finished his opening 
leg in 47.29 seconds. 
“It feels great, we knew there was a 
huge target on our back,” Dressel said in an 
interview after the race. “We’re never going 
to doubt ourselves — that’s how Team USA 
works.”
Dressel tallied his second gold medal of 
the 2020 Olympics July 28 when he won 
the 100-meter freestyle, his first individual victory of the Tokyo Games. 
He stood atop the podium with a new 
Olympic record of 47.02 seconds, 0.06 
seconds ahead of Australia’s silver medalist 
Kyle Chalmers. Dressel used his lanky 
6-foot-3 frame and strong dive for a 0.60 
reaction time to assume command of the 
race within the first 20 meters. 
The former Gator paced the pool once 
again and notched his third gold medal of 
the 2020 Tokyo Olympics July 30 in the 
100-meter butterfly. He swam a new world 
record 49.45 seconds, holding off Hungary’s 
Kristoff Milak by 0.23 seconds. 
Dressel launched off the diving board 
with an astounding 0.60 reaction time off 
the blocks. He had the lead off the wall at 23 
seconds flat, but a long turn allowed Milak 
to fight back. The Hungarian matched each 
stroke at the end, but Dressel’s long reach 
touched the pad first.
The human dynamo swam to gold in the 
50-meter freestyle July 31 with a 21.47 time. 
He outswam Florent Manauduo from France 
by a staggering 0.48 seconds. Dressel sprung 
into the race with a 0.63 reaction time but continued to build his lead 20 meters in. He 
didn’t take a breath the entire race.
Dressel didn’t have much time to bask in 
Olympic glory as he competed in the 4x100 
men’s medley relay less than an hour later. 
He won his fifth gold medal in the race 
with a world-record-breaking 3:26.78 time, 
0.73 seconds ahead of team Great Britain. 
Dressel swam the third stroke, the butterfly, 
in a 49.5-second split. 
Dressel wasn’t the only Gator to bring 
home gold, however.
Current Gator swimmer Bobby Finke took 
home a gold medal July 28 in the 800-meter 
freestyle, his first Olympic medal and the 
second men’s individual swimming gold for 
the United States in Tokyo this summer. He 
set a new American record with his 7:41.87 
time. 
The U.S. representative held steady in 
fifth place until the final 50 meters, when he 
surged ahead of Italy’s Gregorio Paltriniera, 
who dominated the waters for the majority 
of the race. 
The UF junior added to his hardware 
once again three days later when he hauled 
in his second 2020 Olympic gold medal July 
31 in the 1500-meter freestyle. He raced 
a 14.39.65 time and out swam Ukraine’s 
Mykhailo Romanchuk by 1.01 seconds. 
Finke appeared fated for bronze at first. The Gator swam behind Florian Wellbrock 
and Gregorio Paltrinieri throughout the first 
350 meters and gained control of third place 
at the 600-meter mark. He held a constant 
1.61 meters per second. He slowed down 
to 1.63 m/s at the 850-meter mark and 
maintained the respectable pace for the 
remaining lengths. 
Finke continued to hold tight with 
Wellbrock and Mykhailo Romanchuk as 
he sat comfortably in third place for 900 
meters. 
He then did the unpredictable.
The elite swimmer used all his force and 
surpassed both Wellbrock and Romanchuk 
the final 50 meters of the race. Finke 
finished the final length in an astounding 
25.7 seconds. Finke became the first U.S. 
swimmer to win Olympic gold in the 
1500-meter freestyle in 37 years. 
“I had to try and race the others,” Finke 
told NBC. “I was just trying to hold on and 
get my hand on the wall.”
While Olympic swimming has concluded, 
the list of Gator accolades has only begun. 
Current and former UF athletes will compete 
in events such as golf, baseball and track 
and field as the games continue into August.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.org
BIG 12 POWERHOUSES WILL 
BECOME CONFERENCE’S 
NEWEST MEMBERS IN 2025
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
The Oklahoma Sooners and 
Texas Longhorns are on their way 
to the Southeastern Conference.The two universities and their 
athletic programs will join the SEC 
in July 2025 after a unanimous 
vote by the conference presidents 
and chancellors July 29.
A three-fourths majority vote, 
in this case 11 of 14 submissions, 
was required to approve the 
invitation.
SEC commissioner Greg Sankey received a request from 
the universities July 27.
“We believe that there 
would be mutual benefit to the 
universities on the one hand, and 
the SEC on the other hand, for the 
universities to become members 
of the SEC,” University of Texas 
President Jay Hartzell and 
Oklahoma University President Joseph Harroz Jr. wrote in a 
letter dated July 27.
Sankey says the conference is 
always open for new competition.
“While the SEC has not 
proactively sought new 
members, we will pursue 
significant change when there 
is a clear consensus among our 
members that such actions will 
further enrich the experiences 
of our student-athletes and 
lead to greater athletic and 
academic achievement across our campuses,” Sankey said.
There will be 16 teams in 
the SEC once the new members 
join. The plans for the two 
programs’ former conference, 
the Big 12, finding replacements 
or expanding is unknown. 
Television contracts must be 
negotiated before OU and Texas 
make their departure.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgDressel and Finke combine for seven gold medals at 2020 Tokyo Olympics
Texas and Oklahoma to join SECFlorida alumnus Dressel racked up five 
gold medals, while Finke brought in two
Courtesy of the Associated Press
Caeleb Dressel celebrates his gold medal in the men’s 4x100-meter medley 
relay final.Courtesy of the Associated Press
​​Bobby​Finke​of​the​United​States​on​the​podium​after​receiving​his​gold​medal​
for​the​men’s​800-meters​freestyle​final.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 2, 2021
tive based on the quality of the proposals and the number 
of proposals,” Jaishankar said. “The research was so excit -
ing that [the Office of Research] was able to allocate more 
funds, and therefore, we had close to a million dollars being 
funded.”
The 14 research projects spanned across nine UF colleges 
and were given a year-long project period. 
Currently, the Office of Research is not sure whether they 
will continue to fund more projects through the Advanc -
ing Racial Justice Research Fund. Discussions on whether 
to continue the funding will most likely occur in August or 
September.
Reevaluating UF curriculum  
For many years, IDS1161: What is the Good Life was a 
course every UF freshman would have to sit through, wheth -
er they loved it or hated it. One petition set out to change 
that last summer. 
Written by UF alumna Sarah Klein, the petition garnered 
over 26,000 signatures to push the university to re quire 
ANT3451: Race and Racism, which ultimately resulted in 
UF declining the proposition. Instead, Quest 1 courses have 
been expanded to address more diverse topics — many of 
which discuss race. 
“UF Quest has been charged with developing a curricu -
lum that prioritizes student choice and the individual areas 
of expertise of the faculty teaching UF Quest courses so that 
students could choose from a range of courses to fulfill the 
UF Quest requirement,” Steve Orlando wrote in an email. 
Although Race and Racism did not become either required 
or an option for Quest 1 courses, the Quest program demon -
strated considerable growth in the number of classes dealing 
with topics of race and diversity within the past two years. 
In the 2019-2020 school year, UF Quest offered 13 dif -
ferent courses that satisfied the diversity general education requirement, with four specifically addressing race in their 
course description. The number of courses that fulfilled the 
diversity credit in the 2020-2021 academic year rose to 16, 
five of those discussing race.
For the 2021 Fall semester alone, UF Quest will have a 
15-course catalog of diversity-designated classes for students 
to select from. Eight of those courses will specifically explore 
race. 
Part of this growth in both diversity and race-focused 
courses in the UF Quest program can be attributed to this 
year’s call for new Quest proposals, which directly encour -
aged faculty to submit proposals for classes examining sys -
temic racism, diversity and inclusion, and social justice and equality.
Another measure UF has taken to diversify its curricu -
lum was the establishment of a General Education Diversity 
Task Force last Spring. The task force’s mission is to assess 
the current general education program and suggest ways for 
more diverse content to be incorporated in courses, as well 
as develop opportunities for students to engage with anti-
racist practices.
Juliana Ferrie contributed to this report.
mseminera@alligator.org
@maksemineraUF BLM,  from pg. 2, 7Studying Race
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
