We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFIRST SUMMER SENATE 
MEETING FAILED TO 
ESTABLISH QUORUM
By Grace Stoler
Alligator Staff Writer 
Student Government held virtu -
al meetings for the Budget and Ap -
propriations Committee, Replace -
ment and Agenda Committee and 
Judiciary Committee on Monday 
— all of which broke SG’s codes by 
being conducted remotely.  
The codes specify all SG meet -
ings must be held in person except 
in the event of a local or federal 
state of emergency. 
After a yearlong state of emer -
gency in Florida because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, Gov. Ron De -
Santis lifted the state’s emergency 
status on May 3. This forced Sen -ate to choose between breaking its 
codes or transitioning to in-person 
meetings before UF lifted its CO -
VID-19 protocols.
Senate’s first summer meeting 
was scheduled for Tuesday, but it 
could not be completed due to an 
inability to meet a quorum, or the 
number of senators who must be 
present in order to move forward 
with Senate proceedings. If a quo -
rum had been met, Senate’s codes 
would have been broken again. 
DeSantis declared a new, gaso -
line-related Florida State of Emer -
gency Tuesday evening shortly 
before the start of the meeting, 
which had been scheduled to be 
held virtually days in advance. 
It is unknown when the state of 
emergency will be lifted. Had the 
new state of emergency not been LGBTQ+ STUDENTS WILL HAVE ACCESS 
TO VARIOUS AMENITIES TO FACILITATE 
SUPPORT WITHIN THE COMMUNITY
By Camila Pereira 
Alligator Staff Writer
After scrolling through different housing options 
when applying to UF, the name Lavender Living 
Learning Community caught Kate Eggenberg’s eye.
“I was curious about what the Lavender LLC 
was, and I kind of knew that ‘lavender’ was a 
queer-coded word,” the 18-year-old UF computer 
science incoming freshman said. “So I looked into 
it, and I realized this is a gender-inclusive housing 
option, so I was like, I kind of want to partake in 
that.”
LGBTQ+ students can look forward to living 
at UF’s first gender-neutral housing, the Lavender 
LLC this Summer — an initiative to build a more 
inclusive, unified and welcoming community on 
campus. 
The LLC will officially open in Summer B in the Springs Complex for all current and incoming UF 
students.
Living Learning Communities are designed to 
foster unity within different groups and identities, 
especially those that are marginalized. There are 
16 LLCs at UF for races, ethnicities and areas of 
interest.
“The LGBT community has so much to offer,” 
Jeremy Fuentes, a 19-year-old UF nursing sopho -
more interested in living at the LLC, said. “I feel 
like it will never be a bland moment and there will 
never be anything that you can’t really educate 
yourself or immerse yourself in.”
Ryan Wilder, a former UF Student Government 
senator and alumnus, said he pushed to create an 
LLC to incorporate gender-neutral and transgender 
students’ needs into the on-campus living commu -
nity. 
The Lavender LLC is not assigned by sex and 
allows students to be comfortable with their iden -
tity without having to worry if their roommate is 
Gas shortage
Panic buyers use up fuel. Read more on pg. 5
Free insulin
GRACE pharmacy offering insulin until it expires,  pg. 6Florida falters in Tuscaloosa
Gators softball fell in the SEC Championship 
4-0 to Alabama. Read more on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MAY 17, 2021 VOLUME 115 ISSUE 32
NCAA
COLLEGE ATHLETES IN FLORIDA CAN PROFIT OFF OF 
THEIR NAME, IMAGE AND LIKENESS STARTING JULY 1
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
College athletes are about to get paid.
In a league constructed around amateurism, that sounds illegal in 
some way. For most of history, it has been. That’ll all change in less than 
two months.
The name, image and likeness legislation, or NIL for short, will go into 
effect in Florida on July 1. The law will allow college athletes to receive 
compensation off just that: their name, image and likeness. 
Schools and conferences still cannot pay athletes for their performanc -
es. However, athletes can now sign endorsement deals or profit off their 
own advertising deals. For example, the University of Florida won’t be 
able to pay quarterback Emory Jones to play for them in 2021, but if a 
local business wanted Jones to sponsor a sale, under the new legislation, 
Jones would be able to do so and earn money for the work.
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis first signed the bill in June 2020, nearly 
nine months after California became the first state to do so. California’s 
bill won’t take effect until 2023, while DeSantis signed on to allow ath -
letes to begin profiting on July 1, 2021. Since the bill was signed, Geor -
gia, Alabama, New Mexico and Mississippi have passed similar legisla -
tion as the first wave of states to legalize student-athletes profiting off 
their appearance.
Florida attempted to delay the bill until July 2022 on April 29, but 
public outcry from players and coaches within the state forced an amend -
ment to return the bill to its original start date by the next morning. Neil 
Schwartz, a longtime sports agent of roughly 30 years, said there’s sig -
nificance in being the first states to accept endorsements for athletes, 
especially when recruiting prospects.
“You’re an athlete who’s thinking about either going to Texas or 
Florida or Georgia, and you’re hearing that the Florida athletes are mak -Florida name, image and likeness legislation set to change college athletics
Shelby Cotta / / Alligator Staff
 SEE NCAA,  PAGE 11
SEE LGBTQ+,  PAGE 4SEE SG, PAGE 4UF’s first gender-neutral Living Learning Community 
will officially open to students this SummerSummer Senate: UF SG 
violates its own codesT oday’s Weather
ASCO SAID IT WILL ENFORCE 
CONSEQUENCES FOR ANY 
DEPUTY WHO DOES 
NOT FOLLOW POLICY
By Jake Reyes 
Alligator Staff Writer
Nearly half of all law enforcement 
agencies in the United States require 
officers to wear a body camera. 
Soon, the Alachua County Sheriff's 
Office will join them. 
Last October, the Alachua County 
Board of County Commissioners ap -
proved $500,000 for body cameras, 
ACSO spokesperson Art Forgey said. 
Deputies who do not wear body 
cameras when they’re supposed to 
can face penalties. There is currently 
not a set date for the body camera re -
quirement.
The change comes amid police 
brutality issues surrounding race na -
tionwide.
On April 12, an ACSO deputy 
fatally shot a man for allegedly at -
tempting to stab his girlfriend. How -
ever, there was no body camera foot -
age to document the incident, which 
is currently being investigated by the 
Florida Department of Law Enforce -
ment. 
Alachua County Commission -
ers spokesperson Mark Sexton said 
ACSO requested funds for the body 
cameras last year. He said county 
commissioners don’t have control 
over what the sheriff’s office does 
and can only approve or disapprove 
of requested funds. 
“I think they’re aware of what’s 
going on nationwide and the impor -
tance of body cams,” Sexton said. 
The ASCO budget for the 2021 fis -
cal year is $94 million, Sexton said.
Chanae Jackson, a Black 
Gainesville activist, has been advo -
cating for body cameras since 2018 
when her son Keyon Young, who 
is also Black, was pulled over for 
speeding in a school zone.ACSO deputies used force to pull 
Young out of the car, one officer 
drawing a taser. The police report 
confirms a taser was drawn but not 
used in the encounter and officers 
gave several warnings for Young to 
exit the vehicle. 
The ACSO wrote in a Facebook 
post about the incident that it is pol -
icy to ask drivers to step out of their 
cars and walk to the patrol vehicles 
to ensure safety.
Officers were not wearing body 
cameras, and the only footage of the 
incident was from a dashboard cam -
era on one of the police cars.
Jackson said it’s important for po -
lice to release full footage of alterca -
tions to ensure a “more fair” criminal 
justice system. 
“Whenever there is a disparity 
among racial lines, one of two things 
is true,” she said. “Either there’s bias 
in the system or there’s something 
that’s wrong with all Black people, 
and we know number two is not 
true.”
Jackson said body cameras in Ala -
chua County will provide clarity for 
both sides. 
“There’s a greater level of ac -
countability because officers would 
be more attune to making sure that 
their reports are complete and accu -
rate,” Jackson said. “When there are 
people who may be aggressive to -
ward law enforcement, it could pro -
tect an officer by showing they did 
fear for their lives, and this was the 
only option.”
Gainesville District 4 City Com -
missioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said 
he is when body cameras are used, 
altercations between officers and 
community residents decrease.
“It helps build trust both with the 
public and also with the officers,” 
Hayes-Santos said.  
Gainesville resident Frances McK -
enna, 39, also agrees with the deci -
sion to require body cameras on 
ACSO deputies but doesn’t think they 
would decrease police altercations.
“My hope would be that the of -ficers would start thinking ‘I’m on 
camera, I should be a good person.’ 
So far, it seems to not be the case,” 
McKenna said.
Studies show mixed results about 
whether body cameras improve po -
lice behavior. In Milwaukee, a 2018 
study found body cameras had no ef -
fect on the likelihood officers would 
use force. The New York Times 
reported a similar study on NYPD 
found body cameras led to about a 
40% increase in traffic stops. 
However, an NPR study found 
complaints against police dropped by 
17% and use of force by police dur -
ing fatal and non-fatal encounters fell 
by nearly 10% in police departments 
across the United States.
Still, McKenna said ACSO 
should’ve started using body cam -
eras a long time ago. 
“I figure we hand deadly weap -
ons to these people and send them 
out among the public, any oversight 
is probably a good idea,” she said. 
Quil Cauchon, an organizer for 
the Gainesville chapter of the Dream 
Defenders, disagreed with the fund -
ing given to the sheriff’s office for 
body cameras. 
“We can give that money to the 
community who knows far better 
how to solve the problems than the 
police are being asked to solve,” she 
said.
@frlJakeReyes
jreyes@alligator.org 
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 115 ISSUE 32
 Body cameras will be required for Alachua 
County Sheriff’s Office deputies soon  
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Selin KilincLauren Hasson, Sophia Handley, 
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative Director
Outreach Director
Lead Strategist
InternsMichael Weinberg, weinbergm@ufl.edu
Brian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Baemnet Abetew
Adam Cohen, Ella Choi, Sophia Hanneken,
Donya Mansoorian, Sarah Bhatt, Ella Kulak
Matthew Ohlhaber, Christina Chau
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Assistant Production Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Investigations Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Graphic Design EditorPhoto Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgAshley Hicks, ahicks@alligator.orgJulia Cooper, jcooper@alligator.org
Natalie Cabral, ncabral@alligator.orgMichael Hull, mhull@alligator.org
Ryan Haley,  rhaley@alligator.org
Kaelyn Cassidy, Steven Walker, Julia Coin, 
Natalie CabralCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgAbigail Hasebroock, ahasebroock@alligator.orgThomas Weber, tweber@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.orgKaelyn Cassidy, kcassidy@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.orgMONDAY, MAY 17, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  
and services at tobaccofreeflorida.com/quityourway.NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led virtual sessions are now available for all Florida residents, 
regardless of insurance status. Participants are also eligible to receive free 
nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
FFoorr  mmoorree  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  oonn  vviirrttuuaall  GGrroouupp  QQuuiitt  sseessssiioonnss,,  ccoonnttaacctt::
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
UF Area Health Education
Cente rs (AHEC) Program 
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA|4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
homophobic, transphobic or dis -
criminatory in any way.
Wilder said he has heard from 
many UF queer students about 
their experiences of living in the 
dorms and how they were afraid 
of having to come out to their 
roommates who might not sup -
port them. 
“This is something that we 
were able to do to prevent that 
from ever having to happen to 
another student ever again,” 
Wilder said.
 Dayanna Peek, first-year UF 
international studies major, said 
the community has set behav -
ioral expectations for students 
living in the LLC and that it is up 
to the resident assistant to share 
that information and reinforce it 
to ensure residents are respectful 
and supportive.
The LLC is also trying to cre -
ate an environment that educates 
residents on the complexities 
of gender identity and its im -
portance, the history of the LG -
BTQ+ movement and the figures 
who contributed to it, among 
other goals.
“It’d be interesting to learn 
more and kind of learn the roots 
of how we got to where we are 
now,” Eggenberg, who will live 
at the LLC this Summer, said.
Initially, the LLC was to be 
called the Marsha P. Johnson 
LLC, but with the recent con -
troversies around UF buildings 
named after people, UF admin -istration agreed on the Lavender 
title.
Peek said the reason behind 
the name, Lavender LLC, is to 
reclaim the term ‘lavender’ from 
the Lavender Scare in the 1950s, 
which was a moral panic about 
LGBTQ+ people in the U.S. by 
the Florida Legislative Investi -
gation Committee, or the Johns 
Committee.
However, former UF President 
J. Wayne Reitz aided members 
of the committee in 1958 by as -
signing a UFPD official to work 
with the committee to find and 
question LGBTQ+ students and 
professors on-campus in an inter -
rogation room. 
It was a witch hunt where 
many LGBTQ+ students and fac -
ulty were kicked out or fired from 
UF.
The Lavender LLC was pro -
posed in Fall 2020 by a team of 
six SG senators and students, in -
cluding Wilder, Monica Lea, an 
SG Graduate Senator, and Alex 
Hernandez, former UF Pride Stu -
dent Union president. 
UF Housing and Residence 
Education approved the proposal 
on Oct. 5, 2020.
“I’m really proud to be part of 
this task force to bring ideas and 
bring this to life,” Peek, who will 
be the RA for the LLC in the sum -
mer, said. “I’m just so excited for 
the new students that come in to 
have a home.”
The student organizers are 
currently working with various 
partners to schedule different 
activities for residents during Summer B and Fall, said Peek. 
Once they have moved in, they 
are planning to host a kick-off 
event for all residents to wel -
come students and provide gen -
eral on-campus and off-campus 
resources.
Pride Student Union, the Col -
lege of Liberal Arts and Sciences’ 
Center for Gender Sexualities and 
Women’s Research, UF Student 
Healthcare Center and other cam -
pus organizations and centers 
partnered with the LLC to pro -
mote the community and offer 
multiple resources to students.
Alyssa Zucker, the associate 
director and undergraduate coor -
dinator for the Center for Gender, 
Sexualities and Women’s Studies 
Research, said she is excited to 
introduce students to the differ -
ent degree programs and studies 
they offer.
Zucker, who is also the offi -
cial liaison to the academic side 
of the LLC, will promote a new 
course that will be offered in the 
Fall: IDS 2935, Be a Social Justice 
Activist. The course dives into 
the organization, intersectional -
ity and hashtag activism in social 
movements.
In the Springs Complex, UF 
Housing will set up what it calls 
pods, which consists of suites. 
Within a suite, there are two 
rooms and a bathroom that is 
shared by two or four students, 
depending on if it is a single or 
double suite.
Mary Jordan, associate direc -
tor for the department of housing 
and residence life at UF, said the department estimates between 60 
and 80 students will live in the 
LLC within the first year.
For Summer B, prices range 
from $1,255 to $1,351 per stu -
dent, while in the Fall and 
Spring, prices may vary between 
$3,198 to $3,430 per semester. 
Compared to other UF residence 
halls, the mean cost of a dorm in 
Summer B is $1,161 and $2,933 
in the Fall and Spring.
Students can register to live 
in the community as long as they 
add the Lavender LLC to their 
preferences after doing a hous -
ing contract in the Housing Man -
agement System. However, the 
deadline for Summer B was May 
14.
From there, students can 
use the RoomSync app to look 
through possible roommate pro -
files until UF Housing sets live 
Zoom roommate matching as -
signments by May 17, where 
students can meet, connect with 
each other and decide whether 
they’d be good roommates. 
This process of roommate 
matching where residents meet 
prior to move-in day is only done 
for this Living Learning Commu -
nity.
“Because it’s truly gender-in -
clusive housing, we want every -
one to have a roommate scenario 
that they feel really good about,” 
Jordan said.
Normally, UF Housing will as -
sign roommates within the dor -
mitories, as well as provide the 
RoomSync app to incoming resi -
dents, unless otherwise stated in a student’s preferences after 
completing their housing con -
tract.
The Lavender LLC was award -
ed UF’s 2021 Outstanding Inclu -
sive Excellence Initiative, which 
recognizes actions that cultivate 
and celebrate diversity and dem -
onstrate a sustained commitment 
to advancing inclusive excellence 
within the UF community. 
Although, some students felt 
this should have been imple -
mented at UF a long time ago as 
many other universities in Florida 
already offer LGBTQ+ LLCs or 
gender-inclusive housing options 
for students on-campus such as 
the University of South Florida, 
University of North Florida and 
Florida International University.
“Being a part of it, it made me 
realize that, UF, we’re really be -
hind,” Peek said. 
Fuentes said he just hopes the 
Lavender LLC is one that contin -
ues to grow and it is able to stay 
for a long time, providing a safe 
space for LGBTQ+ identifying 
students to feel welcomed in the 
university.
“We want to hear more from 
students, like what do they want 
to see in the community like it re -
ally is their community. It’s their 
LLC,” Wilder said. “It’s so impor -
tant that we put the students first 
and the people who will be living 
in the community first.”
@CamilaSaPereira
cpereira@alligator.orgLGBTQ+,  from pg. 1Students can sign up for the Lavender LLC by adding it to their housing preferences
declared, Senate meetings would be deemed 
unconstitutional under SG policy if they con -
tinued solely through Zoom.
The broken codes are a result of the Rules 
and Procedures Amendments passed in the 
fall, stating Senate and its committees may 
only hold virtual meetings as long as Florida 
is under a state of emergency.
According to the Rules and Procedures 
Amendments, “The Student Senate and the 
committees of the Student Senate may only 
conduct virtual meetings in the event of a 
federal, state, or local state of emergency as 
determined by the University of Florida ad -
ministration impacting the Student Senate’s 
ability to meet in-person.” 
The updated code also states legislation 
can only be submitted by SG members and 
students must sign up for public comment 
by 11:59 p.m. the day before the meeting.
These amendments limited student in -
volvement in Senate by keeping non-SG 
members from participating in public com -
ment and writing legislation.
When asked how Senate and committee 
meetings would be held this semester given 
the conflict with SG and university policies, 
Senate President Franco Luis asked for clari -
fication on what codes were being broken 
and had no further comment.
The amendments were authored by Gator 
Party members, including Luis and Senate 
Pro-Tempore Blake Robinson, and faced sig -
nificant opposition from the minority party. Minority party members argued in the case 
of the state of emergency being lifted, the 
codes would force Senate to hold meetings 
in person during a pandemic, which would 
limit student participation in public com -
ment.
Following a turbulent start with the codes, 
the first Senate meeting of the summer was 
adjourned within nine minutes after its start, 
as the minimum number of 50 senators re -
quired to conduct the meeting wasn’t met. 
According to Reitz Union’s list of COV -
ID-19 Safety Measures, the amount of seat -
ing in public places has decreased to coin -
cide with the state’s COVID-19 precautions.
The university updated its Campus 
Events and Gathering Policy in early April, 
establishing a maximum in-door capacity of 
50 people through Summer A. 
Following these guidelines, any SG meet -
ing held in person would break university 
policy, forcing SG to choose between violat -
ing its own codes or the university’s. 
For some students who have had a hard 
time getting a hold of Senate in the past, at -
tending meetings in person has made it eas -
ier to be heard. 
Evan Smith, who advocated for renew -
able energy on campus throughout public 
comment in Spring, said he prefers the dy -
namics of in-person Senate meetings.
“People can get the attention of Senators, 
their undivided attention, especially in per -
son,” said Smith, UF’s Florida Public Interest 
Research Groups (PIRG) Chapter President. 
“It’s much easier to ignore someone’s speak -
ing at public comments when they’re on a screen, you know, you could be on your 
phone, you can mute them and you don’t 
have to pay attention,” Smith said.  
However, other students rely on the re -
mote environment to participate in Senate 
while still keeping themselves and their 
loved ones safe. 
Students with health complications or 
concerns about the pandemic would be un -
able to express their concerns and needs to 
Senate without putting themselves at risk by 
entering the Reitz’s chamber, which would 
need to be filled by at least 50 Senators.Spring Senator Zachary Utt (Murphree, 
Inspire) was among those who advocated 
against the amendments. He believes all stu -
dents should have equal access to participat -
ing in public comment. 
“It’s just restricting access to the Senate 
saying that in Senate Student Government, 
you must live here and you must be okay 
with congregating in large groups,” Utt said.
@GraceStoler
gstoler@alligator.orgSG,  from pg. 1In-person meetings break UF policy
Alligator File Photo
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE COLLEGE WAS RECOGNIZED IN 
BACK-TO-BACK YEARS FOR 
TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARDS
By Makiya Seminera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Harrison Hove and Clay Calvert, J.D., 
Ph.D. — two faculty members within the Col -
lege of Journalism and Communications — 
were named Teacher of the Year and Teacher/
Scholar of the Year respectively for the 2020-
2021 school year. 
Faculty members are nominated by stu -
dents, other faculty and staff members or 
themselves to receive the UF Teacher of the 
Year award. Nominees are judged based on 
their excellence, effectiveness and innovation 
within the classroom.
Each college also annually nominates one 
faculty member to receive the UF Teacher/
Scholar of the Year award for their scholarly 
work. The winner receives an honorarium of 
$6,000, an SEC Faculty Achievement Award 
and a nomination for the UF’s SEC Professor 
of the Year award. 
Following the College of Journalism and 
Communications, professor Moni Basu’s win 
last year, Hove is the second member of the 
college to receive the esteemed award, as well 
as the sixth to win the award within the last 
15 years. With a dual appointment within the 
CJC and the Levin College of Law, Calvert was 
the first member to receive Teacher/Scholar of 
the Year through both colleges.
T eacher of the Year:  Harrison Hove  
A commitment to truth and compassion 
guided Harrison Hove through his career as 
a journalist. Now, his devotion to instilling 
these values into the next generation of young 
journalists has earned him an assortment of 
teaching awards with his 2020-2021 Teacher 
of the Year award being the most recent.   
Sixteen years after earning a bachelor’s de -
gree from UF in telecommunication and politi -
cal science, Harrison Hove never expected to 
be named the university’s 2020-2021 Teacher 
of the Year.
“It’s really special,” Hove said. “When I 
think about the quality of this university and 
the quality of the faculty members across all 
the colleges — thousands of them — and for 
you to be singled out with this honor, it’s something that’s really, really special.”
Before returning to UF as both WUFT News 
Manager and a faculty lecturer, Hove built a 
notable career in broadcast news, winning 
seven regional Emmy awards. Following his 
graduation from UF and FSU, Hove spent the 
majority of his career with Ohio News Net -
work and WCHM-TV as a reporter and me -
teorologist.  
Recently, however, Hove found his call -
ing teaching, serving first as a lecturer at Ohio 
State University and now at UF.
“You think about how you want to give 
back and how you want to help others through 
the same process that you went through,” 
Hove said. “I can think of no way that’s more 
gratifying than helping someone get a world-
class education that can never be taken from 
you.”
Although Hove has only been a faculty lec -
turer since 2019, he has had a large impact on 
the student population. 
Jolena Esperto, a 21-year-old UF telecom -
munications news senior, has taken two 
courses with Hove — Writing and Reporting 
for Electronic News and Investigative Report -
ing for Broadcast Journalists — that she said 
have shaped her career as a student journalist. 
“He introduced me to TV and really just 
made me comfortable with how I can be a 
media practitioner; how I can be a reporter,” 
Esperto said. “If I hadn’t had him as a teacher, 
I don’t know if I would feel that way.”
Hove said creating a teaching environment 
where students of all backgrounds are wel -
come is essential. By attending professional 
development programs within the UF Center 
for Teaching Excellence, International Center 
and Center for Instructional Technology and 
Training, Hove said he is attempting to bet -
ter his teaching practices to ensure a formative 
learning experience.
“I’m constantly reshaping my own lens to 
be more inclusive, more diverse, more equita -
ble to make sure there’s a pathway to success 
for every student and that I’m comfortable 
in my ability to connect with every student,” 
Hove said. 
Winning Teacher of the Year during a year 
stricken by a global pandemic was especially 
rewarding to Hove who continued to work 
diligently with his students. 
“I think my students have done … some of 
the best work I’ve ever seen in the pandemic,” 
Hove said. “That’s a credit to them and their hunger to continue to work hard and achieve 
in very creative ways.”
T eacher/Scholar of the Year:  Clay Calvert
Clay Calvert is no stranger to the academ -
ic excellence required to be a UF Teacher/
Scholar of the Year. Authoring over 150 law 
journal articles, Calvert has been a preeminent 
scholar in the fields of communications law 
and freedom of expression — all while teach -
ing a CJC course in the fall and a law course 
in the spring. 
“I was both surprised and highly hon -
ored to receive this award,” Calvert said. “I 
feel very fortunate having won it, given that 
there are so many well-qualified and excellent 
teachers and scholars at UF.”
Calvert’s esteemed career in First Amend -
ment law began in 1986 when he enrolled in 
an undergraduate class similar to the Law of 
Mass Communication course he teaches to -
day. Now, nearly 35 years later, Calvert’s ca -
reer has led him to co-author the most recent 
editions of the same textbook he used as an 
undergraduate: Mass Media Law. 
“It’s good to [write] the textbook because it 
forces me to be able to write in a clear, coher -
ent and concise style,” Calvert said. 
Calvert remains busy outside the classroom 
as director of Marion B. Brechner First Amend -
ment Project, which seeks to address issues af -
fecting the First Amendment. Through the or -
ganization, Calvert works closely with a small 
cohort of undergraduate students to conduct 
legal research. “What I write about is largely dictated by 
what’s happening in the courts and in the leg -
islative bodies today across the United States, 
which is nice because, in other words, I try to 
focus on timely First Amendment free speech 
and free press issues as they arise,” Calvert 
said.
The unique experience of holding a joint 
appointment between the CJC and Levin Col -
lege of Law has also allowed Calvert to inter -
act with both undergraduate and law students 
at UF.
Jaci Schreckengost, a 23-year-old digital 
marketing manager and UF alumna, had Cal -
vert as both a professor and an adviser for her 
senior project. 
“He has just always been so uplifting and 
just always pushing you to do your best, 
but also always being there to help you to 
make sure you’re doing as well as you can,” 
Schreckengost said. 
In both his CJC and Law course, Calvert 
holds himself to one rule: make the class as 
engaging as possible. Through the constant 
updates of his lectures to incorporate new top -
ics, Calvert achieves this goal with ease. 
“The highest compliment that I could be 
paid is when a student says after the class that 
they came into the class expecting to be bored 
and not like it and not interested in it,” Calvert 
said. “But when they left, actually finding it to 
be one of their more interesting classes.”
@makseminera
mseminera@alligator.orgc
GASOLINE PANIC 
BUYING CAUSED BY 
MISINFORMATION AND 
FEARS OF A SHORTAGE 
HAS PRODUCED 
ACTUAL SHORTAGES
By Phong Huynh
Alligator Staff Writer
Bright yellow plastic bags, long 
lines of cars and impatient custom -
ers — Gennavieve Conver has en -
dured it all.
The largest oil pipeline in the 
United States temporarily shut down 
on May 7 due to a ransomware cy -
berattack. The shutdown generated 
panic as gasoline shortages sprang 
up along the East Coast. Gov. Ron 
DeSantis declared a state of emer -
gency on Tuesday. 
Conver, 24, works as a lead cus -
tomer service representative at the 
Circle K on Southwest 34th Street in Gainesville and has dealt with the 
response to the Colonial Pipeline 
shutdown firsthand.
In Alachua County, panic buy -
ing caused a gas shortage. Though 
county officials said the fears are 
unfounded, consumers continued 
to hoard gasoline and drive up de -
mand.
Conver said the excessive con -
sumption disrupted the gas station’s 
supply. 
“We get a set amount of fuel 
that is supposed to last us a certain 
amount of time,” she said. “That is 
no longer happening because people 
are panic-buying fuel.”
Daily routines have also been 
disrupted.
“We get interrupted very fre -
quently by people calling us to ask if 
we have gas,” Conver said. “We’ve 
had customers come in, complain 
and get angry at us.” 
Safety concerns also arose when 
people started pumping gas into unsafe containers. According to 
Conver, as licensed fuel operators, 
employees must call emergency ser -
vices for fuel spills over 25 gallons.
Alachua County Emergency 
Management urged citizens not to 
hoard gasoline. 
“It’s really important to assess 
the situation before doing things 
like hoarding gas or filling up extra 
gasoline canisters because we aren’t 
serviced by the pipeline here,” Ala -
chua County Emergency Manage -
ment Acting Director Jen Grice said.
Grice said several gas stations in 
the county did not have as much gas 
as they normally would because of 
the increased demand, resulting in 
an abundance of people waiting to 
get gas.
Most of Gainesville’s fuel comes 
from the ports of Tampa and Jack -
sonville, Grice said. Florida gets 
most of its gas from Gulf Coast refin -
eries while only 3% of Florida’s an -
nual 12 billion gallons of gas comes from Colonial Pipeline, which re -
started operations Wednesday. 
Despite Gainesville not being di -
rectly affected by the pipeline shut 
down, panic buying did not wane. 
At the Circle K on Southwest 34th 
Street on Wednesday, yellow bags 
covered almost all the pump han -
dles at the gas station, indicating no 
fuel availability.
Grice said people should be more 
receptive to officials and experts to 
make informed choices about their 
gas consumption. 
“The number one thing is to lis -
ten to trusted, verified sources of in -
formation, which would typically be 
your government or other agencies 
who are subject matter experts on a 
particular topic,” Grice said.
Tiffany Trentski, a 41-year-old 
environmental scientist, said she 
saw similar hoarding of products at 
the beginning of the COVID-19 pan -
demic.
“Fear begets fear,” she said. “You see someone at the gas station 
filling up several gasoline contain -
ers, and then that’s gonna inspire 
other people to get gasoline contain -
ers and hoard it for themselves.”
As a Gainesville resident who 
commutes 40 minutes to work, 
Trentski said she had to be more 
conscientious about driving. 
“I’ve had to be very careful in 
trying to push back my field days, 
times when I need to drive my car 
and sometimes grouping and driv -
ing with employees,” she said.
Trentski said people should 
make informed decisions and con -
sider the impact of their individual 
choices. 
“If we just pause to think pro -
actively based on facts and empa -
thetically what’s best for us as a 
community as a whole instead of 
individuals, then nobody would be 
short on gas.”
@phongphont
phuynh@alligator.orgCJC Faculty Harrison Hove and Clay Calvert named Teacher and Teacher/Scholar of the Year
A temporary shutdown of the largest oil pipeline in the United 
States causes unnecessary gasoline hoarding in GainesvilleAlex Brown / / Alligator Staff
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
PRAIRIE CREEK 
CONSERVATION CEMETERY 
FOCUSES AS MUCH 
ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
FRIENDLINESS AS IT DOES 
ON ITS RESIDENTS
By Sam Schaffer
Alligator Staff Writer
Savannah Gass’s first word was 
‘bug,’ so it was no surprise when she 
grew up and developed an undying 
love of nature. 
As a young girl in Florida, she 
would take trips out west with her 
sister and dad at the beginning of ev -
ery summer. 
Kelsea Gass, Savannah’s sister, said when she was 11 and Savannah 
was 14, their dad accidentally took 
them on an advanced hiking trail 
to see what was then called Harney 
Peak in the Black Hills National For -
est of South Dakota.
Savannah and Kelsea’s father, 
Dan Gass, said after eating all of their 
food and helping each other through 
rough and dangerous terrain for a 
few hours, they made it to the base 
of a lookout where they saw people 
they hadn’t seen on the way up. 
As it turned out, there was an 
easier way.
“You could have just drove a 
truck up there,” Dan, a 62-year-old 
ambulance salesman, said. 
But the Gass girls took it in stride. 
“We were too young to com -plain,” Kelsea said. “We were just 
having fun.” 
Since Savannah’s unexpected 
death in September, she has become 
a part of nature by decomposing nat -
urally in the Prairie Creek Conserva -
tion Cemetery. 
The Gasses convened at the 
cemetery on May 15 for Commu -
nity Planting Day in the wide-open 
meadow area where patches of na -
tive wildflowers brighten the land 
and the sun beats down on dead 
natural wreaths.
Sarah Uhrig, the assistant director 
at PCCC, said it was one of four con -
servation burial grounds in the Unit -
ed States when it started in 2010. 
Uhrig said PCCC does not em -
balm its residents or use traditional 
coffins or vaults, which are concrete 
boxes that keep the bottom of the 
grave flat. Savannah rests on cotton 
in a natural wicker casket. 
A conservational cemetery oper -
ates with a goal of minimal environ -
mental impact, Uhrig said. 
“It’s about these people, but it’s 
also about the land and protecting it 
and managing it as a living space,” 
she said.  
First, members of the Society of 
the Pick and Spade, a community of 
volunteers who help the cemetery 
operate, dig the graves by hand, Uh -
rig said. 
Next, the contents of the graves 
are considered. There are about 700 
people buried at PCCC, and each of 
them rests in minimalist graves with 
their names, birth dates and death 
dates etched into the head of a large 
stake instead of a traditional tomb -
stone. 
The goal is to leave as little of a 
barrier as possible between the body 
and the earth. Many are buried in 
shrouds and layers of natural wicker 
woven into biodegradable caskets, 
Uhrig said. 
Community Planting Day in the 
meadow is one of two days each 
year when families and volunteers combine with staff at PCCC to rein -
troduce native shrubs, grasses and 
wildflowers to the land, Uhrig said. 
The other Community Planting 
Day is in the green, thickly wooded 
area of the cemetery, where more 
plants are also introduced.
This year, Uhrig said PCCC or -
dered about 120 native plants includ -
ing shrubs, grasses and wildflowers 
from growers around Florida. It also 
conducted a controlled burn of about 
a quarter-acre area of the meadow 
three weeks ago to prepare for plant -
ing milkweed for butterflies.
Families can call in advance and 
reserve plants to put at the graves 
of their loved ones on Community 
Planting Day, and they can also re -
quest for PCCC staff to plant in their 
stead if they cannot attend, Uhrig said. 
Once planted, the location of the 
plants is recorded by staff so they 
can water them as needed for the 
next few months to give the plants 
the best chance of continuing to live 
on their own. 
The Gasses planted some milk -
weed on Savannah’s grave to attract 
butterflies. There were also feathers 
and a sea shell left on her grave in 
honor of her love of nature, her fa -
ther said. 
“She was a quiet peacemaker — 
just had a very kind presence about 
her with everybody,”  Dan said. 
“Too many people didn’t know her.”
@samschaf_
sschaffer@alligator.org
VOLUNTEERS PUSH TO DISTRIBUTE 
6,000 BOTTLES OF INSULIN 
DUE TO EXPIRE THIS YEAR
By Joelle Wittig
Alligator Staff Writer
Grace Pharmacy is still offering free in -
sulin to community members in need. The 
6,000 remaining vials are due to expire this 
year.
Grace Pharmacy, also known as the 
“pharmacy without a cash register,” an -
nounced May 10 it has insulin for people 
with Type 2 diabetes. The pharmacy pro -
vides both Humulin-R to lower the blood 
sugar of patients who need more than 200 
units of insulin per day and Humulin-N, a 
slower and longer-lasting alternative.
The Humulin-R expires July 31, and the 
Humulin-N expires Dec. 31. While these 
supplies last, anyone can come by the phar -
macy at 3055 NE 28th Ave between 1 p.m. 
and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, as long 
as they know the type of insulin they need 
and how to use it. 
The pharmacy began giving away 
$600,000 worth of insulin to the public on 
Jan. 29. The insulin comes in 10 mL vials, and pharmacy manager Tim Rogers said a 
prescription is not required.
The continuously increasing prices for 
insulin are outside many peoples’ budgets.
“I know people that are paying $1,500 
a month just in copays for their insurance 
to be able to get the insulin, and now it’s 
available at no cost,” Rogers said.
He said he hopes to build up the initia -
tive to serve a larger community in order to 
help more people get the medication they 
need.
“I’ve been practicing pharmacy here in 
Gainesville since 1972,” he said. “During 
the years, you see people who stopped tak -
ing their medication or never started just 
because of costs.”
Giving away free and accessible insulin 
to those who need it can change the lives 
of many individuals. Mary Brinkley, a phar -
macist and schedule coordinator at Grace 
Pharmacy, works to dispense the medica -
tion in what she calls the “great insulin 
giveaway.”
“It’s very rewarding to be able to help 
people that may have been struggling to 
even keep up with their medical needs,” 
she said. “This is allowing them freedom 
from having to worry about that.” 
This initiative helps those who are homeless, uninsured and underinsured, 
Rogers said. Lorry Davis, the Grace Health -
care services corporation program adminis -
trator, works alongside Grace Pharmacy to 
help with administrative tasks.
Davis’ daughter, who has since passed 
away, was homeless and in need of health -
care, she said. This inspired her to become 
involved at Grace Pharmacy.
“I entered into this thinking, ‘Perhaps I 
can help some other mama’s babies,’” she 
said.
Davis’s experience managing nonprof -
its for the past few years prepared her for 
her work with the pharmacy. She said she 
works with record keeping and communica -
tion, and she hopes to eventually earn fund -
ing and grants to put toward the project.
“I was excited about finding something 
in my local community to give back, and I 
stepped in and started doing some volun -
teering, and it worked into this,” she said. 
“When we’re helping out each other, we 
feel better.”
The pharmacy is run by volunteers who 
hope to give back to their communities 
through accessible medication. Camila Viz -
carrondo, a UF College of Pharmacy mas -
ter’s student, started volunteering at Grace 
Pharmacy in October.“I’m learning something that has to do 
with my profession, but at the same time, 
I’m helping to bridge a gap for people 
who don’t have access to healthcare,” she 
said. “I love that we have that opportunity 
through Grace Pharmacy to serve the com -
munity and specifically people that are un -
derserved and underrepresented.”
Vizcarrondo was born in Venezuela and 
is a native Spanish speaker. She said she 
hopes Grace Pharmacy will work to include 
accessible translations and advertising for 
these communities.
“When you only speak Spanish, it’s re -
ally hard for you to understand what’s go -
ing on and know the resources available,” 
she said.
As Grace Pharmacy continues to provide 
free medications such as insulin, people 
like Vizcarrondo work hard to give every -
one access to what they need.
“Serving the community is so impor -
tant as healthcare professionals,” she said. 
“That’s literally why we do what we do. It’s 
not for money or to be the best at some -
thing but looking out for people who can’t 
look out for themselves.”
@JoelleWittig
jwittig@alligator.org Community Planting Day adds biodiversity to land while beautifying graves 
Grace Pharmacy continues offering free insulin to the Gainesville communitySam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
Jillian Rexroat and son, Jaxson Rexroat, (left) arrange dirt as 
Matt Rexroat (right) smiles at his grandmother-in-law’s grave in 
the Prairie Creek Conservation Cemetery on Saturday, May 15, 
2021. The family was there for Community Planting Day in the 
meadow area of the cemetery.Sam Schaffer / / Alligator Staff
Kelsea Gass (left) and Dan Gass (right) reminisce about the life 
of Savannah Gass, Kelsea’s sister and Dan’s daughter, at Prairie 
Creek Conservation Cemetery on Saturday, May 15, 2021. They 
planted milkweed on Savannah’s grave as part of the Community 
Planting Day event at the cemetery.
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021   ALLIGATOR   7 
The Sackler School of Medicine-New York State/ American Program offers an 
outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York 
and is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. 
One of these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one 
of the top 10 hospitals around the world.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,000 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org  provides extensive information about Sackler SOM. For further 
information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Applications for the Class of 2025 are available on our website 
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
A simple but often overlooked 
truth is that sexual assault is 
the responsibility of the per -
petrators. Yet time and time 
again, sexual assault survivors 
are scrutinized and held responsible for 
what perpetrators chose to do to them. 
Discussions of sexual assault too of -
ten turn to victim-blaming (e.g., were 
they at a party? Were they drinking? 
What were they wearing?) This must be 
reframed so the actions and choices of 
sexual assault perpetrators are under the spotlight. 
We are a team of student and faculty research -
ers in the Center for Gender, Sexualities and Wom -
en’s Studies Research at UF who, for the past year, 
have been working in collaboration with Alachua 
County Victim Services and Rape Crisis Center to 
examine criminal justice responses to rape and 
sexual assault in Gainesville. 
Around three-quarters of sexual assaults in the 
US are not reported to the police. It is estimated 
that, nationally, fewer than 5% of reported sexual 
assaults result in a conviction, a pattern that is not 
unique to the U.S. 
This impunity for perpetrators and the lack 
of justice for survivors has consequences. As we 
continue to analyze local trends, two issues have 
emerged from our work. 
How can sexual assault survivors get justice?
The first issue is establishing what survivors 
want and need in terms of justice. Too many per -
petrators are protected and not held accountable. 
Gainesville has specialist advocates in the com -
munity and on campus who provide support for 
all sexual assault survivors, including those who 
want to pursue a police report and those for whom 
restorative justice might be preferable. 
Accountability is not a one-size-fits-all situation. 
For many survivors, especially people of color and 
LGBTQ+ folks, the criminal justice system brings 
fear of further victimization. Justice in any form is 
often denied because of a perceived lack of cred -
ibility, especially when assaults are not reported to 
law enforcement immediately after they occur.  
Start by Believing is a campaign in which peo -
ple can pledge their understanding that nothing a 
victim-survivor does or says makes sexual assault 
their fault. 
How can we end sexual violence?
The second issue is to recognize, name and 
change the culture around sexual violence. 
A 2019 survey of UF students found that non -
consensual sexual contact by force or inability to 
consent was common on campus, particularly 
among young women. Nearly 1 in 3 undergraduate 
women, 1 in 5 graduate women and 1 in 7 trans, nonbinary and gender-nonconforming 
people reported such contact. 
Contrary to rape myths that assume 
“real rape” occurs when a strange man 
jumps out of the bushes to assault an 
unsuspecting woman, most rapists 
of college women are men who are 
friends, former partners and acquain -
tances of female survivors.
Most conversations about stopping 
sexual violence are directed at women 
on how to avoid being a victim of sexual 
assault. Don’t walk alone at night. Lock your door. 
Watch your drink. 
Is this the most ambitious we can be about stop -
ping sexual violence? Why not “don’t sexually as -
sault people?” 
Sexual assault can only end when perpetrators 
no longer commit sexual assault. To achieve that, 
we have to develop ideas of masculinity that are 
not linked to sexual conquest and entitlement. 
Where does change need to begin?
On college campuses, aspects of party culture 
that facilitate sexual coercion have been normal -
ized or excused. As students, we are witnesses to 
this. 
The targeting of intoxicated women needs to 
stop. 
It almost appears to be socially acceptable to 
grab women and touch them sexually while danc -
ing at clubs or parties. This needs to stop. 
Sexual harassment and assault in a public space 
is an everyday occurrence. This entitlement to 
sexually invade the bodies of women, trans, non -
binary and gender-nonconforming students needs 
to stop. 
Men need to have conversations with each 
other about stopping this behavior and challeng -
ing others who do it. These conversations must go 
beyond teaching women how to say “no.” They 
must include teaching men about hearing and re -
specting “no.”
Guilt-tripping partners or asking repeatedly un -
til they give in to sex — what Peggy Reeves Sanday 
calls “working a yes out” — is not consent. 
All UF students deserve a campus where survi -
vors of sexual assault are believed, supported and 
given the space to work out their needs. 
We also want our campus and the outside 
world to take up the task of stopping sexual assault 
where it begins — with perpetrators.  
Written collaboratively by Haaniya Ahmed, 
Asia Barlow, Lanique Griffin and Alexandra 
Quintana. With Dr. Maddy Coy and Dr. Alyssa 
Zucker from the Center for Gender, Sexualities, 
and Women’s Studies Research. Sexual violence needs to stopColumn
THE 27-YEAR-OLD SYSTEM IS 
COMING TO AN END 
IN GAINESVILLE
By Maya Erwin
Alligator Staff Writer
With a newborn baby in her house, 
Nina Bhattacharyya finds it increasingly 
important to save money and cut down 
on waste.
However, with the Gainesville City 
Commission’s May 6 decision to remove 
the Pay-As-You-Throw program, the Zero 
Waste Gainesville founder is concerned 
about her ability to do so.
Pay-As-You-Throw began in 
Gainesville in 1994, and the purpose of 
the program was to create an incentive 
for residents to produce less waste by 
making it more expensive to own a larger 
trash bin, Bhattacharyya said. Homeown -
ers can choose from four trash bins, each 
with a different size and price. The small -
est bin holds 20 gallons of waste and costs 
$184.73 while the largest bin, which holds 
96 gallons of waste, costs $322.68. 
Under the program, if a homeowner 
produced more waste than their trash cart 
held, the city automatically upgraded that 
resident to a larger sized bin and charged 
them for the upsize.
“Pay-As-You-Throw gives households 
the chance to save money while also opt -
ing for a smaller trash cart that promotes 
less waste,” she said.
Despite these benefits, equity issues 
caused five of seven city commissioners 
to vote for the program’s removal.
City Commissioner David Arreola was 
among the five who voted to eliminate 
Pay-As-You-Throw.
“The zip codes that were predomi -
nantly Black were paying much higher 
prices because they were all using the big -
ger bins,” he said.
During the meeting, the Gainesville 
Office of Equity and Inclusion provided 
an analysis showing how low-income ar -
eas were throwing away more trash and 
therefore paying larger waste fees than 
affluent neighborhoods that had higher 
recycling uses and generated less waste. 
This imbalance in cost was deemed a ra -
cial inequity because the lower-income 
neighborhoods are predominantly black, 
while the higher-income neighborhoods 
are predominantly white.
However, City Commissioner Adrian Hayes-Santos said he believes waste ineq -
uity will not come to an end along with 
the program.
“This action will actually have a dif -
ferent effect than what the commission 
voted to do and will actually make things 
more inequitable,” he said. “People who 
use less pay less and people with more 
trash pay more.”
Hayes-Santos was one of two commis -
sioners who voted to save it.
“Pay-As-You-Throw is the most effec -
tive way that cities can create an equita -
ble system for trash,” he said. “The EPA 
has said this is one of the most effective 
things that a city can do to help reduce the 
amount of trash going to landfills.”
Amanda Waddle, the Zero Waste 
Gainesville co-chair, said she was ex -
tremely upset by the commission’s deci -
sion.
Waddle said the group, which was 
founded in 2017, has two missions: work -
ing with city and county officials to advo -
cate for a zero-waste community and edu -
cating individuals and families on how to 
work toward day-to-day zero-waste. The 
group’s website provides an email mes -
sage to send to city commissioners, urging 
them to revisit the recent vote.
“The removal of this program was too 
quick of a decision,” Waddle said. “In -
stead, we need to take a step back and 
figure out how we can keep Pay-As-You-
Throw and work on improving it so that it 
is equitable across the community.”
Alachua County residents were also 
disappointed in the lack of community 
engagement involved in the decision to 
eliminate the program.
Among the concerned community 
members is 68-year-old Alachua County 
resident Janice Garry, who believes the 
Pay-As-You-Throw program should be 
fixed rather than thrown out altogether.
“The decision is very short-sighted. 
It is single-topic restricted. It is unneces -
sary,” she said. “This hasn’t changed my 
view of the commissioners because it 
hasn’t been the first time that I have dis -
agreed with them, but I am really terribly 
disappointed in their decision.”
Arreola said the commission plans 
to determine if any votes will be recon -
sidered for the removal of Pay-As-You-
Throw at a meeting on May 20.
@mayaerwin3
merwin@alligator.orgGainesville City Commissioners vote 
to end the Pay-As-You-Throw program
Center for Gender, 
Sexualities, and Women’s 
Studies ResearchKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
STUDENTS WITHIN THE 
AAPI COMMUNITY DISCUSS 
HOW ASIAN AND PACIFIC 
ISLANDER MUSICIANS HAVE 
IMPACTED THE MUSIC 
INDUSTRY AND THEIR LIVES
By Karter Nancy
Avenue Staff Writer
From the neon-coated, hyper 
sounds of Korean pop music (K-
Pop) like BTS, to the sweet melo -
dies of singer-songwriter Conan 
Gray, a range of Asian and Pacific 
Islander musicians influence North 
American pop culture. 
Western artists have a history 
of being inspired by musicians 
from Asian and Pacific Island -
ers and merging the two cultures. 
Whether it be collaborations or 
visuals in music videos and social 
media posts, examples of this type 
of influence in pop culture are ev -
erywhere.  
In 2021, American artist Lady 
Gaga paired with South Korean 
girl group BLACKPINK to create 
the bubblegum dance-pop anthem 
“Sour Candy.” Today, “Sour Can -dy” has over 210 million streams 
on Spotify. 
Alyssa Soejima, a Japanese-
American third-year education sci -
ence major at UF, is  passionate 
about listening to Asian pop mu -
sic; in particular, she blasts Japa -
nese pop music and K-Pop.
Soejima said as a child she was 
a Lady Gaga fan. Even though 
BLACKPINK isn’t her favorite K-
Pop group, she was ecstatic about 
a Korean group pairing with one of 
her favorite artists from the U.S. 
and combining Asian influence 
with mainstream American pop 
culture.
“I think collaborating is a really 
good way for cultures to discover 
more about the other,” Soejima 
said. 
Niko Bronto is a Filipino Ameri -
can and the outgoing Executive 
Director for UF Asian Kaleidoscope 
Month. 
The fourth-year advertising 
student said it’s great Asian mu -
sic and culture is growing in the 
U.S. and opening up conversations 
about cultural appropriation and 
what defines an “Asian sound and 
who gets to decide what styles of 
production ‘belongs’ to a group.”“I think the leaps that K-Pop 
and international Asian music has 
done for the Asian community is 
huge. It also highlights some prob -
lems like colorism and classism,” 
Bronto said. 
Asian and Pacific Islander com -
munities contribute to the artistry 
of others. My Linh Tinnirella, a 
third-year theatre student at Flor -
ida State University, said AAPI 
artists contributed to her musical 
vision. 
A Vietnamese American her -
self, she mentioned R&B AAPI art -
ists who influence her style. 
“I’ve noticed a lot of people of 
Asian or Pacific Islander descent 
have a very distinct sound that 
is still very catchy and very cre -
ative,” Tinnirella said.
She said musicians like Jhené 
Aiko and Joji have “very unique 
sounds” she greatly appreciates 
and considers while writing her 
own music.
Rolling Stone explains how the 
record label 88Rising pushed sev -
eral Asian hip-hop artists to be 
successful in the U.S. music charts. 
Joji, who was born in Japan and 
moved to the states when he was 
18, became the first Asian-born artist to top Billboard R&B/Hip-
Hop album charts for his album 
“Ballads 1” in 2018.  
Soejima and Bronto acknowl -
edge some of their favorite artists 
in the AAPI community who also 
happen to ride the hip-hop wave. 
“NIKI is probably one of my 
favorites,” Soejima said. “Her per -
sona, in general, is so cute and 
amazing. She sings all of her songs 
in English, so it provides me an op -
portunity to recommend it to other 
people more.” 
Soejima said it can be sad to feel 
the need to recommend only music 
sung in English to her American 
friends. She said she thinks NIKI is 
an incredible singer with “vibey” 
sounds people would enjoy. 
In addition, Bronto said H.E.R. 
is one of his favorite AAPI artists 
to listen to. 
“I love H.E.R. because she rep -
resents her identities with an au -
thenticity that many artists don’t 
always showcase as well as she 
has,” Bronto said.
As Asian, Pacific Islander and 
Asian American musicians influ -
ence North America’s mainstream 
pop culture, they gain recognition 
and provide representation that was absent in the past. 
You can stream Bronto and 
Soejima’s favorite AAPI artists as 
well as a song from Tinnirella her -
self on a playlist curated by the 
Avenue in honor of Asian Ameri -
can and Pacific Islander heritage 
month. The mix also includes art -
ists like Bruno Mars, Mitski, Ol -
ivia Rodrigo, Rina Sawayama and 
more.
@writtenbykarterTHE BUS, SPONSORED BY THE 
CULTURAL ARTS COALITION, HOUSES 
HANDS-ON SCIENCE EXHIBITS 
FOR STUDENTS  
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer
 
Most school buses transport students, but 
this one transports science.
The Cultural Arts Coalition (CAC) is 
sponsoring a Science Bus to aid in science 
education for underprivileged elementary 
students. The bus houses mini science exhibits 
and visits several schools, community centers, 
libraries and other public areas across Alachua 
County.
The Science Bus made its first public 
appearance May 15 at the Fourth Avenue Food 
Park, located at 409 SW Fourth Ave. About 
30 visitors attended when the bus was parked 
from noon to 3 p.m.
NKwanda Jah, executive director of 
the CAC, said those who toured the bus 
were enthusiastic about their walk-through 
experience.
“The kids are loving it,” she said. “We had 
a couple of them take a couple trips on there.”
Though the first iteration in Gainesville, the 
Science Bus is not the first of its kind. The idea for this exhibit-on-wheels originated in Tucson, 
Arizona, when Chris DiScenza, a 43-year-old 
teacher with the Upward Bound program in 
Bradford County, founded the Physics Factory 
alongside three other teachers.
The program sought to provide fun, 
engaging physics education to young students 
across Arizona, and it grew to include 
mentorship, resources for science teachers and 
other outreach opportunities. But at the center 
of it all was the Physics Bus — a refurbished 
school bus housing interactive physics exhibits.
When DiScenza relocated to UF to earn his 
doctorate degree in coastal engineering, he 
brought the idea for the bus with him. In 2014, 
DiScenza received a grant from the American 
Physical Society to run a Physics Bus of his 
own, but the vehicle eventually went out of 
commission in 2016.
“That bus got to be too old and mechanically 
just needed to be laid to rest,” DiScenza said.
An additional grant was awarded to the 
CAC, this time for a bus encompassing all areas 
of science. After the installation of shelves to 
showcase the exhibits and a courtesy makeover 
by a group of Alachua County art teachers, this 
new bus is ready for a summer tour around 
Gainesville and beyond.
DiScenza said the experiments, made mostly 
using materials from the Repurpose Project, are 
meant to introduce science in an entertaining manner, encouraging direct participation and a 
hands-on experience. 
Highlights include an old TV connected to 
a microphone that projects the soundwaves 
of the speaker; a collection of butterflies that 
can be viewed in full detail under a magnifying 
glass; and a cornstarch and water combination 
that “comes alive” with the commanding hum 
of a bass-focused speaker.
“The idea of a lot of these exhibits is just 
to spark their curiosity and imagination,” 
DiScenza said.
The Science Bus is part of the CAC’s larger 
initiative to make science education more 
accessible to students in Alachua County, 
especially those in East Gainesville. For the 
past nine years, the CAC has sponsored 
science clubs across the county with the help 
of local educators, student organizations and 
community members with science knowledge 
and activities to share.
Jah said the idea for the clubs originated 
when she noticed significantly lower test 
scores of East Gainesville students than those 
in West Gainesville. The clubs, she said, were 
conceived as a way to expose elementary 
students to science in a non-intimidating 
manner and through hands-on exhibits and 
activities. 
Instead of a lecture or lesson, Jah said these 
clubs emphasize involvement with activities that keep students engaged. 
“The kids have been told to sit down and 
be quiet all day in the classroom,” Jah said. 
“When they get to science club, they get to get 
up and move around and touch and see how 
things work.” 
Jah said the implementation of these clubs 
helped students improve in their classes. In the 
schools where the CAC sponsored a science 
club, teachers reported students who belonged 
to the club scored higher on their science tests 
than students who didn’t.
It worked so well, Jah said, that the schools 
asked the CAC to host activities during school 
hours as well, so those not attending after-
school sessions could reap the benefits of extra 
science education. 
The Science Bus will enhance hands-on 
experience, offering students the opportunity 
to enjoy science without the pressures of 
memorizing terminology or cramming for a test. 
Jah said this emphasis on enjoyment is meant 
to combat the disdain many students have for 
school later in life, which she attributed to the 
overly complicated nature of science education. 
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/the_avenue
@hgrizzl
hbushman@alligator.orgMONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
www.alligator.org/the_avenue
One stroke ends Gators’ season
Florida women’s golf’s season ended in defeat at the NCAA 
Regional Tournament in Stanford, California. Read more 
on pg. 11 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
This week, The 
Avenue put together 
a playlist highlighting 
AAPI musicians 
in honor of  AAPI 
heritage month.
SPOTIFYSPOTIFYLectures and lessons come to life on Alachua County Science Bus  
Asian and Pacific Islander Influence in the U.S. Music Industry
EDUCATIONEDUCATION
AAPIAAPIBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-21-13-5
6 Furnishings
BEDS - Brand Name, Brand NEW Pillowtop 
Mattress & Box Set: Twins $89, Fulls $100, 
Queens $120, Kings $200. Can Deliver 352-
377-9846. Gainesville Discount Furniture.  
8-15-13-6
get VACCINATED today
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
8-15-21-13-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    8-15-13-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman352@gmail.com
8-15-13-121For Rent
furnished
This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to adver -
tising use caution and investigate the sincerity of the 
advertiser before giving out personal information or ar -
ranging meetings or investing money.
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$460/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     8-15-21-13-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4991 or 
352-215-4990                            8-15-21-13-2
3 Sublease
Sublease in LynCourt Square 1st Floor, fur -
nished 2br/2ba, W/D, Male, Individual lease 
required. $500/month 1blk from UF SW 
3rd Ave & SW 12th St. Call 407-234-7438.   
5-16-21-4-3solution on page 10
©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    FFaarrmmaabbllee  
11..    RReeddddiisshh--bbrroowwnn  ccoolloorr55..    MMuussccuullaarr  ssttrreennggtthh  
22..    AAssttoouunnddiinngg  66..    MMeennttaall  ppiiccttuurree  
33..    AAnncceessttrryy  77..    CCoonnccuurrrreedd
44..    BBuuddAALLBBAARREE
BBUUAAUUNNRRWWNNAABBRR
GGIIEEMMAA
ZZAAAAGGIINNMM
EEGGLLAAIINNEEEEAARRDDGGEE
EERRIIDDNNFFAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AArraabbllee    55AA--BBrraawwnn    66AA--IImmaaggee    77AA--AAggrreeeedd
11DD--AAuubbuurrnn    22DD--AAmmaazziinngg    33DD--LLiinneeaaggee    44DD--FFrriieenndd    BB--ZZiimmbbaabbwwee55--1177--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  ccoouunnttrryy  hhaass  1166  
ooffffiicciiaall  llaanngguuaaggeess..
BONUS
scan to subscribe to the scan to subscribe to the alligatoralligator  newsletter newsletter
answers on pg. 101. MOVIES: How long was the shortest 
Academy Awards ceremony?
2. TELEVISION: Which U.S. state was 
the setting for the 1980s "Newhart" TV 
sitcom?
3. MEDICAL: What is a common name 
for the condition known medically as 
ankylosis?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Which European nation 
colonized Haiti?
5. HISTORY: What was the Monroe Doc -
trine, a policy stated by President James 
Monroe in 1823?
6. ADVERTISING: Horatio Magellan Crunch 
is the mascot for which cereal brand?
7. FOOD & DRINK: What is bannock?
8. BIBLE: What is the Pentateuch?
9. SCIENCE: How do mosses reproduce?
10. INVENTIONS: When did the first 
patented drive-in movie theater open?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
DONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona-
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. AcceptingTrucks, Motorcycles & RVís 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response - Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                          5-17-2-1213 Wanted 5 Real Estate
By Kurt Krauss
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/17/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/17/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, May 17, 2021
ACROSS
1 Mineral used 
in much tailor’s 
chalk
5 Bridge feat
9 March parade 
VIP
14 Hipbones
15 Ripped into 
pieces, with “up”
16 Football venue
17 Rind
18 “Terrible” Russian 
ruler
19 Subsequently
20 *Inside scoop
23 Couple
24 Civil rights leader 
Medgar
25 Greasy
27 Feline metaphor 
for a wealthy 
donor
30 Actress Bening
33 Brightly colored 
fish
34 Bathroom fixtures
37 Lucy’s best friend 
in old TV
38 Not dis?
39 Decade in 
which the Slinky 
debuted ... and a 
phonetic hint to 
the answers to 
starred clues
41 Part of ESL: 
Abbr.
42 Eight-related
44 Soccer score
45 Shaving lotion 
brand
46 Let go
48 Newspaper chief
50 Art Deco master
51 More wise
53 Proactiv target
55 *End-of-
broadcasting 
image on old 
late-night TV
60 Farsi speaker
62 Beach bird
63 “I had no __!”: 
“What a surprise!”
64 Frigid
65 Clapton who 
sang “Layla”
66 Sail support
67 Public to-do
68 Brazilian soccer 
legend
69 CPR prosDOWN
1 Waitstaff 
rewards
2 Actor Baldwin
3 “In __ of gifts ... ”
4 Pasadena 
institute where 
most of “The Big 
Bang Theory” 
characters work
5 High, thin heel
6 Aficionado
7 Many Yemenis
8 Software options 
list
9 Soup crackers
10 Singer’s syllable 
before la-la
11 *Minor shoplifting 
crime, say
12 Again
13 Hawaiian tuber
21 FDR power 
project
22 Freight weight
26 Allow
27 Big name in 
travel guides
28 Lickety-split
29 *Snitch
30 Largest  
continent
31 __-one: long 
odds32 “Pomp and 
Circumstance” 
composer
35 Strong desire
36 “Takin’ Care 
of Business” 
rockers, initially
39 What a spare 
replaces
40 Refinement
43 __ Lingus
45 When the show 
must go on47 “Comprende?”
49 MLB’s Tigers, on 
scoreboards
51 Cubic meter
52 Month of showers
53 Postal codes
54 Classic Camaro
56 Big first for a baby
57 Mild Dutch 
cheese
58 Take it easy
59 D.C. MLB team
61 Tandoori bread
By Tom Locke
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/11/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/11/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Tuesday, May 11, 2021
ACROSS
1 Urges to attack, 
with “on”
5 Actor Hawke
10 Chew (on)
14 Help out during 
exercises, as in 
a gym
15 LP player
16 One of a model’s 
repertoire
17 *Youthful blush, 
say
19 Common country 
suffix
20 Palindromic 
magazine
21 __ Alamos, NM
23 Oil field?
24 Look up to
26 *Idler at the 
shore
28 Double-crosser
29 Lavish bash
31 Spanish rice dish
32 Not 
commissioned, 
after “on”
34 Author Jaffe
36 Like Lady 
Liberty’s crown
37 Hit from behind 
... and what 
the answers to 
starred clues 
are?
40 Farrier
43 Quite a distance
44 Cocksure
48 Coming from the 
heart?
50 “Your guess __ 
good ... ”
52 Solver’s cry
53 *Parlor piece
55 Docking places
57 Cold War mil. 
program
58 Gate 
announcement, 
briefly
59 Modern mining 
target
60 Cantina cooker
62 *Frank holders
67 Causing yawns, 
often
68 Archer’s weapon
69 Mine entrance
70 Central Iowa city
71 Watch partner
72 Peter or Paul  
(but not Mary)DOWN
1 Cold War state: 
Abbr.
2 Wall St. news
3 “Les Misérables” 
girl
4 Bob or weave
5 Collectibles like 
ticket stubs and 
matchbooks
6 Not just any
7 Gardening tool
8 Bracelet site for 
one on house 
arrest
9 “Outta luck!”
10 Docs who don’t 
specialize
11 Especially
12 Usually
13 Lost it
18 Musical pitch 
indicator
22 Close call
24 Trauma ctrs.
25 Maple extract
26 Perk from work
27 Two of them are 
better than one
30 When tripled, a 
1970 WWII film
33 Minotaur’s island
35 Santa __: dry 
winds38 Clear the board
39 Deplete, as a 
bank account
40 Grill-cleaning 
solution
41 Gangster
42 One of the Wright 
brothers
45 Plunders
46 Old TV dial 
letters
47 Really good time
49 Deadly51 Heavy carpet
54 Put on a  
pedestal
56 Facing the 
pitcher
61 “Happy Days” 
diner
63 __-la-la
64 Palme __: 
Cannes award
65 Actress Long
66 Philharmonic 
sect.
05/10/2021
HIRING home/office/apartment cleaners(m-f 
and every other sat). Day and night shifts avail-
able. Must own a car. weekly pay $10.00/hr. if 
interested please call 352-214-0868. 
8-15-21-13-15
Cafe Risque
24/7 NUDE Entertainment
Micanopy, FL
352-466-3803
Performers Audition NOW
Cooks / Managers / Waitresses
APPLY IN PERSON
7-19-20-14
Five Star Pizza is now hiring for all positions. 
Full time/part time, day/nightshift. Apply at 
fivestarpizza.com/employment
* Delivery drivers
* Pizza makers
* Phone personnel
* Food prep
* Managers
6-7-21-8-14
Sun Country Sports Center is now hiring 
Summer Camp Counselors
Fun, friendly work environment with awe-
some kids facilitating fun sports activities! 
Gymnastics, Rock Climbing, Swimming, 
Games, Crafts and much more! Apply to-
day at suncountrysports.com/jobs      
6-7-21-4-14
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille
NOW HIRING
Until June 13th, we'll be hosting interviews 
for Spurrier's Gridiron Grille! We need 5-star 
restaurant talent to join our team. Applications 
must be submitted online & an interview will 
be scheduled with those qualified. No walk-ins 
due to the high volume of applicants. Apply at 
spurriersdraft.com                        6-7-21-5-14
Tacachale is Hiring!
Did you know that Tacachale is one of 
Gainesvilleís largest employers? We have 
amazing benefits, and offer something for 
everyone's career path! Join our team and 
enjoy a rewarding career serving Florida's 
most vulnerable adults. Are you ready to 
make a difference, not just a living?
Visit peoplefirst.myflorida.com and search 
"Tacachale" to apply, or give us a call at 
(352) 955-5600!                                5-17-2-14
Part time sales assistant to work Saturdays 
from 10am-3pm in a local Gainesville retail 
audio/video store. Individual needs to be 
personable, organized, dependable and 
possess good communication skills. Must 
have a reliable vehicle to get to & from work. 
$11.00 per hour with some extra hours on 
occasion. Applicants can email resume to 
mark@electronicsworld.net         6-1-21-4-14Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
1-866- 352-5323
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-21-13-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
PLEASE RECYCLETHIS NEWSPAPER.
THANKYOU!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/answers below1. Nicknamed "Hefty Lefty," this quar -
terback tallied four completions for 28 
yards for the Super Bowl champion 
New York Giants in 2007. Who is he?
2. Who holds the NBA record for techni -
cal fouls in a career?
3. Name the novelist who wrote 
"Beartown" and "Us Against You," 
which both take place in a small, hock -
ey-obsessed community in Sweden.4. The Tim Hortons Brier is the Canadi -
an men's championship in what sport?
5. In 1930, Chicago Cubs catcher Gabby 
Hartnett caught a baseball dropped 
800 feet from what?
6. What Yale football player and coach 
became known as the "Father of Amer -
ican Football" for creating many of the 
sport's rules?
7. Baseball historian and author Peter 
Nash (aka Prime Minister Pete Nice) 
was a member of what early 1990s rap 
music group?
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service14 Help Wanted
13 Wanted16 Health Service
Freon Wanted: We pay $$$ for cylinders and 
cans. R12 R500 R11 R113 R114. Convenient.
Certified Professionals. Call 312-291-9169 
or visit RefrigerantFinders.com    5-17-1-13
14 Help Wanted
HOUSEKEEPER / PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Good pay. Steady 20 hours / week
Near UF. Must like dogs. Call 352-727-0255    
5-24-21-53-14
Front Desk Reception SIMEDHealth
SIMEDHealth is looking for both PT and FT 
Front Desk Receptionists for our Gainesville 
locations. Please go to our website to apply: 
http://simedhealth.com/jobs.  
6-7-21-5-14
University of Florida Survey Research Center
720 SW 2nd Ave. Suite 156
Mon-Fri 9am-9pm
352-392-2908 ext. 105
$10.00 - $10.50 per hour + performance 
incentive + Paid Training
REMOTE POSITION; COMPUTER AND 
RELIABLE INTERNET REQUIRED
Search ‘Telephone Interviewer’ on Gator Jobs!
http://jobs.ufl.edu                         5-17-21-17-14
solution to the right
solution below
Sports Quiz  
answers1. Jared Lorenzen.
2. Rasheed Wallace, with 317.
3. Fredrik Backman.
4. Curling.
5. A Goodyear Blimp.
6. Walter Camp.
7. 3rd Bass.Trivia Test  answers1. The first Academy Awards ceremony in 
1929 lasted 15 minutes.
2. Vermont
3. Stiff joint
4. France
5. The U.S. opposed further European 
colonization of the Americas, but wouldn't 
interfere with existing colonies or meddle 
in the affairs of European countries.6. Cap'n Crunch
7. Flat, quick bread of Scottish origin
8. The first five books of the Bible: 
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and 
Deuteronomy
9. Spores
10. 1933 in Camden, New Jersey 
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
MegaMaze solution
www.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.orgwww.alligator.org/classifieds   |   (352) 373-FIND   |   classified@alligator.org
PUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONSPUZZLE SOLUTIONS10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
found found 
something? something? 
place a place a 
free free 
"found""found"   
ad in ad in 
thethe  
alligatoralligator   
classifieds!classifieds!   
Call 373-FIND  Call 373-FIND  
or emailor email     
classified@classified@ alligatoralligator ..org  org  
¿hablas español?¿hablas español?
 leelee
alligator.org/section/spanish/alligator.org/section/spanish/
MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
www.alligator.org/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/sportsFollow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast. 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.ing more money than the Texas athletes — 
where are you going?” Schwartz said.
Schwartz saw opportunity through the al -
lowance of college-athlete compensation in 
the most modern form of communication of 
all: social media.
Schwartz co-founded a website called 
Jenloop, which allows fans to submit re -
quests for social media posts from athletes 
for set prices. The website already features 
Pro Football Hall of Famer Terrell Davis, for -
mer Atlanta Falcon Roddy White and even 
CBS analyst Jason La Canfora. Florida line -
backer Derek Wingo is already on the web -
site, but he won’t be able to receive requests 
until after the July 1 deadline has passed.
Schwartz didn’t mince words about what 
collegiate stars missed out without this bill, 
especially the biggest names NCAA Football 
ever saw.
“Millions.” Schwartz said. “Trevor Law -
rence and Tim Tebow, tens of millions.”
Former UGA punter Drew Butler, who 
now operates as the executive vice president 
of the collegiate division at Icon Source, sees 
the NIL legislation as something players 
both big and small can work to their benefit.
“You’re talking about kids from all over this country, where $100, $200, $250 can 
make a huge difference not only for them, 
but for their family back home,” Butler said. 
“On the other side of that, there will be op -
portunities that will be $250,000 and that’s 
really exciting as well.”
Butler described Icon Source as a third-
party, on-demand digital marketplace that 
offers athletes a place to advertise them -
selves, find the best marriage of brand and 
opportunity, and ensure none of their deals 
violate any new eligibility rules. 
Butler echoed Schwartz’s sentiments 
about how NIL restrictions would affect 
new high school recruits. College coaches in 
states like Florida being able to highlight the 
extra dimension of financial support could 
prove the difference between keeping and 
losing a recruit.
“[Florida coach Dan] Mullen or [Florida 
State coach Mike] Norvell or [Miami coach 
Manny] Diaz can tell these recruits, ‘Hey, 
guess what? This fall, if you have five touch -
downs in week one, your Icon Source could 
be popping off with opportunities and you 
can capitalize on what you do on the field at 
our university,’ that’s a huge added bonus,” 
Butler said.
Florida walk-on Clifford Taylor IV knows 
how to manage a social media following. 
The former tight end amassed over 319,000 
followers between Twitter, Instagram and 
TikTok; a level of engagement potential en -
dorsers look for. Taylor, who played basketball in high 
school, proved through his social presence 
that there’s an avenue for athletes who 
aren’t five-star football prospects.
“My biggest thing is, be authentic,” Tay -
lor said. “Don’t let this money you’re about 
to get change you … don’t change your 
brand for anybody, flesh out your personali -
ty. If you’ve got a good personality, if you’re 
a funny guy, let the world see that.”
Taylor said he was surprised the move 
to allow college athletes to profit didn’t be -
come effective a year prior, especially after 
the movement to save college football sea -
sons gained national momentum amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic. He said he was angry 
when the bill was delayed.
“To me, it was almost hypocritical, be -
cause they were finally addressing the fact 
that it’s time to pay the athletes what they’re 
worth, and then all of a sudden … they’re 
making them hold off for what they’re 
worth,” Taylor said.
Name, image and likeness laws are un -
likely to remain a state-level issue for long, 
although it remains to be seen what a na -
tional law about NIL rights would look like. 
As many as six national bills have been in -
troduced, including those by Florida Repub -
lican Senator Marco Rubio and the tandem 
of New Jersey Democratic Senator Cory 
Booker and Connecticut Democratic Sena -
tor Richard Blumenthal. A bipartisan bill of -
fered by Representatives Anthony Gonzales (R-Ohio) and Emanuel Cleaver (D-Missouri) 
exists as well.
While both parties appear set to work to -
ward national legislation allowing collegiate 
athletes to profit off their name, image and 
likeness, the two don’t necessarily see eye-
to-eye on the vision of how such laws would 
be enacted. 
Republican Senator Roger Wicker of Mis -
sissippi submitted a bill which would grant 
the NCAA both antitrust protections as well 
as the ability to limit different types of finan -
cial agreements. Booker and Blumenthal’s 
College Athlete Bill of Rights, however, pro -
posed freedoms far beyond name, image and 
likeness, such as health and safety standards 
and improved education for athletes.
The idea of athletes being able to profit 
off their image and accept endorsements and 
sponsorships will change the landscape of 
sports forever, from recruiting to advertise -
ments to even local businesses.
“What Uber did to the taxi industry, what 
Airbnb did to the hotel industry is what 
name, image and likeness is going to do to 
the NCAA,” Schwartz said.
For now, however, the clock continues to 
tick towards July 1 as recruits, agents and 
businesses around the country hold their 
breath in anticipation of the opening bell.
@ryan_dhaley 
rhaley@alligator.org NCAA,  from pg. 1A new leg upGOLF
AFTER A SEASON RIDDLED 
WITH DISAPPOINTMENT, 
THE FLORIDA WOMEN’S 
GOLF TEAM SAW THEIR 2020-
21 CAMPAIGN COME TO AN 
END IN STANFORD  
By Joseph Henry
Sports Writer 
The Gators advanced to the 
NCAA Championship 29 times in 
program history, but that figure 
will hold steady for the time be -
ing. 
One stroke was the difference 
between Florida’s women’s golf 
team traveling to Arizona at the 
end of May or putting their clubs 
away until next fall. One stroke 
marked the line between success 
and failure. 
The Gators were finally able to 
play a full slate in 2020-21 follow -
ing a season that was canceled 
right as play was heating up. 
Florida returned many notable 
golfers from their last full season 
in 2018-19. Addie Baggarly was 
a mainstay in the starting five, 
while Clara Manzalini, Jenny Kim 
and Lauren Waidner all appeared 
as part of this season’s squad. 
Baggarly shaved her stroke av -erage down from 74.17 in 2018-
19 to 73.52 in 2020-21. The senior 
appeared in eight events for the 
Gators, with her best finish com -
ing at the East Lake Cup, where 
she tied for 10th. 
The young guns led Florida in 
total rounds played this year and 
offered a glimpse toward the fu -
ture of the roster. 
Second-year star Annabell 
Fuller earned the lone all-confer -
ence team nomination for Florida 
when she was announced to the 
All-SEC Second Team. The Eng -
land native notched the lone win 
of the season for Florida with a 
5-under-par total at their home 
tournament, and she led the team 
with a 72.63 scoring average and 
four top-10 finishes.
Sophomore Marina Escobar 
played a team-high 28 rounds 
with a 73.89 stroke average. Es -
cobar matched Fuller’s team-lead -
ing five top-25 finishes. 
Maisie Filler totaled 25 rounds 
in her debut year for the orange 
and blue and saw steady growth 
throughout the season. The All-
SEC Freshman Team member fin -
ished in the top-25 four times and 
notched a new career-best T12 
finish at the NCAA Regional after 
three rounds of even-par 71, the best performance on the team. 
Juniors Manzalini and Kim 
both competed in four events for 
the Gators. They commonly slid 
into the fifth slot of a line-up an -
chored by Baggarly, Fuller, Filler 
and Escobar. 
In seven university-hosted 
tournaments, the Gators finished 
in the top 5 only one time but 
made it count when they took 
home a team win. 
Florida’s lone victory came on 
its home turf when it hosted the 
Gators Invitational.
Florida shot a 16-over-par dur -
ing the late February competition. 
Ole Miss matched the Gators’ 
mark and took home a share of 
the title. This was the Gators’ 
sixth straight year winning their 
home event. 
Fuller secured an exclusive in -
vitation to the Augusta National 
Women’s Amateur in March. 
Baggarly was also included in the 
field of the world’s best female 
amateurs, who got to tee it up at 
one of the world’s most presti -
gious golf courses. 
Fuller finished the event in a 
tie for 22nd with a 10-over-par 
226. Baggarly missed the cut after 
the first two days. 
The Gators struggled for the majority of the year outside of 
Gainesville. 
During their season-opening 
trip to Fayetteville, Arkansas, the 
team finished in sixth. Escobar 
did collect her first top-five finish 
when her 1-over-par earned her a 
tie for fourth. 
Mississippi State hosted The 
Ally at Old Waverly for Florida’s 
second tournament, which start -
ed promisingly. The Gators stood 
atop the leaderboard after the first 
day with an 8-under-par 280. The 
collapse started from that point 
on. Florida finished in a tie for 6th 
at 6-over-par 870 after playing the 
final 36 holes 14 over par. 
The Gators ended the fall por -
tion of their season at the East 
Lake Cup in Atlanta, Georgia. The 
team finished third out of four 
teams and competed against Ole 
Miss, South Carolina and Texas. 
After an underwhelming fall, 
the Gators turned their focus to 
the spring part of their season. 
After the break, Florida came 
out hot with a victory in front 
of the home crowd. The Gators 
looked to build off the win for the 
three remaining events before the 
postseason. 
Things did not go as planned. 
UF faced intense competition in Colombia, South Carolina, at 
the Gamecock Intercollegiate. 
Florida finished second to last on 
the team leaderboard, and Filler 
was the only Gator to crack the 
top-50, tying for 20th. 
Florida’s subpar play contin -
ued in its final two regular-season 
outings. 
A ninth-place finish at the Liz 
Murphey Collegiate Classic and a 
tie for 12th at the LSU Tiger In -
vitational had Florida on a cold 
streak headed to the postseason. 
The Gators would go on to 
miss the top-eight cut at the SEC 
Championship in Birmingham, 
Alabama. The five Gators all fell 
outside of the top-25 individually. 
After failing to finish in the top 
six at the NCAA Regional and not 
qualifying for the NCAA Champi -
onship, Florida’s attention turns 
to the 2021-22 season. 
SEC end-of-season honor re -
cipients Fuller and Filler will lead 
Florida into the future. 
The Gators say goodbye to 
past and present staples Baggarly, 
Waidner, Elin Esborn and Marta 
Perez, as they completed their se -
nior seasons.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgGators fall short of NCAA Championships and see their season end12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 17, 2021
SOFTBALL
THE GATORS LEAVE THE 
SEC CHAMPIONSHIP FIELD 
TROPHYLESS AND SHUTOUT, BUT 
WITH THE NCAA TOURNAMENT 
TO LOOK FORWARD TO
By Julianna Reichenbach
Sports Writer
The clock finally struck midnight for the 
Florida Gators Friday.
The Gators (42-9, 19-5) broke hearts at 
the last minute time and time again through -
out their final stretch of the season, but they 
couldn’t pull off a comeback against Alabama 
in the SEC Championship, as they mustered 
up just three hits and no runs in the 4-0 loss. 
In the years of Hannah Rogers, Jackie 
Traina and Lauren Haegar, Alabama and 
Florida softball games represented a battle 
of the elites and produced stellar games be -
tween legends.
In front of a rowdy hosting crowd in 
Tuscaloosa, the Alabama Crimson Tide (45-
7,18-6) immediately got on the board in this 
year’s rendition of the rivalry. Alexis Mack 
singled on the first pitch, and starter Eliza -
beth Hightower hit SEC Player of the Year 
Bailey Hemphill with a pitch. Soon, a Jenna 
Johnson single brought Mack home to open 
up the scoring. 
Disruption of the Gator defense brought 
two more runners in. An errant throw to sec -
ond base from third baseman Charla Echols 
and a cat-and-mouse distraction from KB 
Sides meant Hemphill and Johnson ran in for 
two unearned runs for the third-ranked Tide.
The Gators attempted to rebound in the reverse of the inning. Echols and designated 
player Kendyl Lindaman coupled a pair of 
singles to set up senior Jaimie Hoover with a 
chance to tie the championship game.
Hoover struck out, a theme Gators found 
all too familiar the rest of the afternoon
The SEC Co-Pitcher of the Year Montana 
Fouts played phenomenally. Approximately 
70% of Fouts’ pitches were strikes, helping 
to carry her through the Gator lineup. The 
junior walked Echols and hit Goddard with 
a pitch but surrendered no other easy bases. 
Echols, Lindaman and Sarah Longley ac -
counted for the only three Gators hits.
Fouts also ended First Team All-SEC sec -
ond baseman Hannah Adams’ on-base streak 
at 35 games; the first time since March 6 Ad -
ams hasn’t stood safely on a bag.
The Gators simply struggled to get on base 
before amassing two outs. 
The score remained 3-0 with minimal 
threat of variation until the sixth inning.
Katie Chronister entered the game for 
Hightower in the fifth inning and garnered an 
important strikeout while allowing one RBI 
in the sixth.
Following Chronister’s strikeout of the 
Tide’s ninth hitter, the Gators still had a glim -
mer of hope and looked to surmount mighty 
Alabama. 
They knew the blueprint. Amanda Lorenz 
hit a two-RBI double in the sixth inning for 
the Gators to win the last SEC Championship 
against Alabama in 2019. 
The brightest sparks of the Gator team this 
day were up to bat: Echols and Lindaman. 
Echols popped out high into the sky. Lin -
daman struck out looking.
Jaimie Hoover could’ve gotten something started, but she struck out swinging.
The seventh inning would be just as brief 
and disheartening for the Gators. Fouts threw 
the final nail in the heavily piled strikeout 
coffin, and Florida’s hopes of a third-straight 
SEC title went up in smoke. 
The Gators will now look ahead to the 
NCAA Tournament. 
“Our regional’s gonna be tough, I know it, 
I can already sense it,” Walton said after last 
Sunday’s game against Texas A&M. “I hope 
we can continue to get better.” The squad does get some good news after 
the tough loss, as catcher Julia Cottrill, who 
sat out the past three games with an illness, 
will return for the tournament.  
The Gators will host the USF Bulls at Katie 
Seashole Pressly Stadium in the first round of 
the NCAA Tournament Friday at 2 p.m. The 
game will be broadcast live on ESPNU.
 
@Julianna_Reich
JReichenbach@alligator.orgNo comeback this time: Gators Softball loses SEC Championship
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Hannah Adams against Texas A&M on May 8. The Gators fell in the SEC 
Championship 4-0 to Alabama.
