We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, FloridaSPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -UF players defend Coach Kelly Rae Finley
Finley was appointed following Cam Newbauer’s resignation,  pg. 4
UF Health mandates vaccines for employees
Workers must be fully vaccinated by Dec. 8,  pg. 5Turnover troubles
Florida football has outgained all eight of its 
opponents so far in 2021. So how in the world 
are the Gators 4-4? Read more on pg. 12.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 11
No car? No problem.
Hitch oﬀers private and shared rides from Gainesville to Orlando, 
Jacksonville, Tampa, and more. 
First ride is FREE!* CODE: UFNEWS1 ridehitch.com *discount up to $50
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Eric Hernandez, Torche bassist, plays during the set at Bo Diddley Plaza on Saturday, Oct. 30, 
2021. FEST 19 was rescheduled to this year because of COVID-19. Read more on pg. 7.
IAN MILASKI WILL APPEAR 
BACK IN COURT FOR 
SENTENCING DEC. 13
By Isabella Douglas
Alligator Staff Writer
A former UF resident assistant 
was found guilty of attempted 
sexual battery, kidnapping and 
burglary Wednesday after about 
two years of a postponed trial. He’ll 
be sentenced Dec. 13.
Ian Milaski, a 23-year-old Cape 
Coral resident, appeared in court 
Oct. 26 and Oct. 27 to address 
attempted rape allegations made 
against him in August 2019. He 
pleaded not guilty to all charges.
Ron Kozlowski, Milaski’s 
lawyer in 2019, wrote that his client 
needed to clear his name to attend 
law school. He added, “No law 
school will ever accept a fugitive.”
His lawyer told Judge Mark 
Moseley that Milaski was a “high-
achieving” student who could not 
afford to pay the $125,000 bond. 
Moseley released Milaski without 
having to pay a bond. 
Moseley was removed from 
the case after it received national attention, following his decision 
to release Milaski from jail with no 
bond. Moseley was later replaced 
by Judge William Davis. 
On Oct. 20, Davis granted 
Milaski’s lawyer’s request to limit 
what the jury could hear about 
law enforcement opinions on the 
case and the victim’s mental health 
following the battery, according 
to court records. This included 
the victim’s medical absence from 
college and police officers’ opinion 
on her credibility. 
The lawyer argued that the 
evidence, if presented, would bring 
sympathy and prejudice against 
Milaski. 
Regardless of redacted evidence, 
court records show the jury found 
Milaski guilty of all charges Oct. 
27. Milaski was then sent back to 
the Alachua County Jail to await 
sentencing.
During court proceedings, 
Milaski’s attorney said the incident 
was a “misunderstanding among 
platonic friends fueled by alcohol.”
Before the sexual battery, 
Milaski was enrolled at UF as a 
21-year-old economics senior. 
On Aug. 25,  2019, a female 
student told police a drunk Milaski called her before 2 a.m. asking 
for help, a University Police 
Department arrest report read. 
Milaski attempted to “make out” 
with her after she arrived at his 
room with water in Weaver Hall, 
and he later attempted to touch her 
genital area and grabbed her. After 
she left his room, he went to her 
room and repeatedly asked her to 
sleep with him. 
He was arrested Aug. 28, 2019, 
on charges of battery and false 
imprisonment. 
The case was rescheduled four 
times from January 2020 to August 
2021. 
On Oct. 26, a photo of a text 
message from Milaski was released 
to the court. It read, “I apologize for 
last night…”
At the time, the victim took to 
Facebook to detail what happened. 
“I will continue to fight this and 
I will continue to fight him until the 
very end!” she wrote, according to 
News-Press. “I have a long way 
to go but I’m determined to make 
sure that the responsible individual 
is held accountable for his actions.”
@Ad_Scribendum
idouglas@alligator.orgTHREE POLITICAL SCIENCE 
PROFESSORS’ REQUESTS TO OFFER 
EXPERT TESTIMONY FOR A VOTING 
RIGHTS CASE WERE DENIED
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Three UF political science profes -
sors requested to lend their expertise 
by testifying in a lawsuit against the 
state of Florida. However, UF turned 
them down, telling them their partici -
pation as expert witnesses is adverse to 
the university’s interests. 
Universities across the country, in -
cluding UF, have generally allowed 
professors to offer expert testimony 
in lawsuits, according to a New York 
Times report.
The lawsuit challenges a new state 
law backed by Gov. Ron DeSantis 
that the plaintiffs argue discriminates 
against voters of color and violates the 
Voting Rights Act. 
The plaintiffs, a coalition of vot -
ing rights organizations, claim the law 
in question limits the ability to vote 
through a drop box or through mail. 
Theys requested professor testimonies 
as expert witnesses as they pursue liti -
gation against Florida Secretary of State 
Laurel Lee, according to an NPR report. 
UF faculty members are required 
to “report any outside activities and 
interests,” where disclosures would be 
directed for review to the Conflicts of 
Interest Program in the Office of the 
Provost, according to the university 
website. As reported by NPR, when 
they submitted their reports, professors 
Dan Smith, Michael McDonald and 
Sharon Austin each received respons -
es prohibiting them from testifying in 
court.
“The University of Florida has a 
long track record of supporting free 
speech and our faculty’s academic 
freedom, and we will continue to do 
so,” read a statement released by UF 
Saturday. 
However, the professors’ attorney, Paul Donnelly, wrote to NPR that this 
decision is unacceptable and chills the 
exercise of free thought and speech.
“Faculty do not forfeit their First 
Amendment rights as citizens by ac -
cepting an offer of employment with 
UF,” he wrote to NPR. 
Donnelly argues testifying does not 
interfere with any of their job duties 
and is not a conflict of interest, accord -
ing to NPR.
The report read that some in posi -
tions of power at UF have close ties 
to Gov. Ron DeSantis, who appointed 
Secretary Lee to her position. The chair 
of UF’s Board of Trustees, Morteza 
“Mori” Hosseini, is a major Republican 
donor and adviser to DeSantis, accord -
ing to NPR.  
“It is important to note that the uni -
versity did not deny the First Amend -
ment rights or academic freedom of 
professors Dan Smith, Michael McDon -
ald and Sharon Austin,” UF’s statement 
read. “Rather, the university denied 
requests of these full-time employees 
to undertake outside paid work that is 
adverse to the university’s interests as 
a state of Florida institution.”
Academic freedom experts said they 
have not heard of professor speech and 
testimony restrictions like this, accord -
ing to a New York Times report. 
The professors were not immedi -
ately available for comment but have 
been active on social media since the 
news broke.
“We must support academic free -
dom no matter what the consequences 
are,” Austin tweeted. 
McDonald publicized his commit -
ment to fight for his rights through a 
tweet of a Tom Petty GIF coupled with 
the lyrics from the classic song Gator 
fans proudly sing every home football 
game.
“Well I won’t back down — No I 
won’t back down,” the GIF read in Mc -
Donald’s tweet.
@elenabarrerraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgFormer UF resident assistant found 
guilty of sexual battery, kidnappingUF blocks professors from 
testifying against the stateT oday’s Weather
THE ONLINE EVENT 
FEATURED STATE LEADERS 
LIKE REP. ANNA ESKAMANI 
AND GUBERNATORIAL 
CANDIDATE NIKKI FRIED
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
To climate leaders both on UF’s 
campus and across the state, cli -
mate change is what’s scaring them 
most this Halloween.
The online UF climate confer -
ence convened on Sunday as stu -
dents became part of the process to 
make a difference both locally and 
globally. 
To introduce students and other 
attendees to the worldwide United 
Nation Conferences of Parties, 
about 50 attendees tuned in Sunday 
to the Campus Climate Corps Con -
ference hosted by UF master’s stu -
dent and U.N. Climate Conference 
delegate Rock Aboujaoude, Jr. The 
event hosted statewide leaders like 
Rep. Anna Eskamani and Florida 
Commissioner of Agriculture Nikki 
Fried.
Aboujaoude set the tone for the 
event with a stark reminder.
“We’re inheriting a planet that 
is facing destruction,” Aboujaoude 
said. “It is going to take all of us 
working together in order to make 
this journey successful.”
Nikki Fried, the Florida Commis -
sioner of Agriculture who is running 
for governor in 2022, discussed her 
Florida Energy and Climate Plan, 
which will be considered in the 
2022 legislative session.“The University of Florida is my 
second home,” Fried said. “It means 
so much to me to know that there 
is such a dedicated group of young 
leaders here in Florida who are 
working to proactively take steps to 
protect our planet.”
The bill takes steps to mitigate 
the impacts of climate change in the 
state, she said, establishing goals for 
greenhouse gas reduction: 50% by 
2030, 90% by 2050 and 100% by 
2055. 
“These may seem like ambitious 
goals,” Fried said. “But the cost of 
not taking action is much higher.”
The bill includes new methods 
for floating solar panels, which can 
be installed in retention pond sys -
tems and generate jobs in energy 
efficiency.
“Keep up the fight,” Fried said. 
“Keep working to break down the 
barriers to change. And never give 
up. Our planet and our future are 
worth it.”
Another speaker was Donald 
Zepeda, an activist with Extinction 
Rebellion, which he said is a global 
environmental group using nonvio -
lent action to inspire climate policy. 
He encouraged students to speak 
out through civil disobedience.
“We don’t need to be everyone’s 
friends, we just need to get the ball 
moving,” Zepeda said. “We don’t 
have the time to elect better politi -
cians. All politicians, however, re -
spond to sustained public pressure.”
UF political science professor 
and sustainability studies program 
director Leslie Paul Thiele discussed 
the political and social dimensions 
of the climate crisis.
People often think of politics as a dirty word, Thiele said. But to stand 
by and do nothing is no longer an 
option. People who are not part of 
the political elite have to be active 
participants in holding politicians 
accountable, he said. 
“It’s illegitimate to be a bystand -
er,” Thiele said. “Saving civilization 
is not going to be a spectator sport.”
It is in the power of the people, 
he said, to vote politicians out of 
office who aren’t committed to cli -
mate solutions. 
“It’s changing politicians, not 
lightbulbs, and changing laws, not 
lightbulbs, that is the more impor -
tant, depressing task that we face,” 
Thiele said. 
Rep. Anna Eskamani, who repre -
sents the Orlando area in the Florida 
House, discussed her Florida legis -
lation to require 100% renewable 
electric power generation by 2040. 
The bill is still making its way 
through subcommittees.
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 11
Students, state leaders discuss unease, climate 
action at Campus Climate Corps conference
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Multimedia Editor
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Renee Hancock, rhancock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgLauren Witte, lwitte@alligator.org
Chloe Greenberg, cgreenberg@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.org
Zachary Huber,  zhuber@alligator.org
Steven Walker, Kristin Bausch, 
Carolina Ilvento, Chloe GreenbergAlex Lugo, alugo@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgCarolina Ilvento, cilvento@alligator.orgKristin Bausch, kbausch@alligator.orgSteven Walker, swalker@alligator.org
Grethel Aguila, g aguila@alligator.org
 The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for 
its Citizens Advisory Committee.  The Citizens Advisory Com -
mittee reacts to planning proposals and provides comments with 
respect to the concerns of various segments of the population in 
regard to their transportation needs.  The Metropolitan Transpor -
tation Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
has also outlined additional functions of the Citizens Advisory 
Committee as defined in its bylaws.  Citizens Advisory Commit -
tee members usually serve a three-year term.  At a forthcoming 
meeting, the Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization 
for the Gainesville Urbanized Area will make several appointments 
to fill vacancies on its Citizens Advisory Committee.
     The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City 
of Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County Com-
missioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and 
comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gaines -
ville Metropolitan Area.  
     Public participation is solicited without regard to race, color, 
national origin, sex, age disability, familial status, religious sta -
tus, marital status, sexual orientation or gender identity.
     Applications and/or additional information may be obtained 
by writing or calling: Metropolitan Transportation Planning Or -
ganization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area, 2009 NW 67 Place, 
Gainesville, Florida 32653; telephone 352.955.2200; or from its  
website at www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo.  Applications must be received 
no later than Monday, November 29, 2021.NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
TO THE
METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION PLANNING 
ORGANIZATION FOR THE GAINESVILLE
URBANIZED AREA
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   3 
ALERT
Plasma is needed now. 
This is a call you can’t 
ignore. Because 
patients can’t wait.
New donors receive
up to $800 your
ﬁrst month.
Biomat USA
2315 NW 13th St
Gainesville
(352) 378-9431
*Must be 18-69 years of age, weigh at least 110 pounds and be in general good health to donate plasma. In addition to 
meeting center donation criteria, you must provide a valid photo ID, proof of current address, and proof of Social Security 
number or Border Crossing Card to donate. Valid for new donors at participating centers only. Management reserves all rights. 
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
Green Health and Wellness
Medical Marijuana Physicians
111 SE 1st Avenue, First Floor
Gainesville, FL 32601
Tel: (352) 792-6707
Web: GreenHealthAndWellnessFL.com
Email: GreenHealthAndWellnessFL@gmail.com
HIGH QUALITY CARE. EXPERT TREATMENT. AFFORDABLE PRICING.
•  MILITARY AND OTHER DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE  •
*WE OFFER A 100% MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE IF YOU DO NOT QUALIFY
SCAN QR CODE TO MAKE AN APPOINTMENT TODAY TO GET 
YOUR FLORIDA STATE REGISTRY MEDICAL MARIJUANA CARD!*
By Max T aylor
Alligator Staff Writer
While biology may not sound 
like a creepy affair, some UF re -
searchers are closely studying bi -
zarre diseases that rot amphibians’ 
skin, along with a new species of 
worm-like creatures and lizards that 
eat other animals and their eggs.
Arik Hartmann, a graduate stu -
dent who conducts research under 
Ana Longo in UF’s biology depart -
ment, works with frogs, salaman -
ders and other amphibians. 
Hartmann currently studies dis -
ease outbreaks in amphibians. He 
measures outbreaks of sickness, like 
the fungal infection Batrachochy -
trium dendrobatidis, which causes 
animals’ skin to rot and fall off. 
“It looks really, really gross,” 
Hartmann said. “I’ve encountered 
animals whose faces are rotting off, 
or their limbs are hemorrhaged, and 
I’m like ‘They’re not long for the world.’” 
Some people don’t realize am -
phibians’ importance, Hartmann 
said. They’re what’s known as an 
indicator species, which means they 
play an important role in allowing 
ecologists to measure the health of 
an ecosystem. 
“Even if someone doesn’t care 
about the frogs or the salamanders 
in the system … amphibians are 
waving the flag around like, ‘We’re 
not doing okay. This whole sys -
tem is not doing okay,’” Hartmann 
said. “And that has ripple effects 
throughout every sort of level of or -
ganization and ecology.”
Sarah McGrath-Blaser, a 30-year-
old graduate student working in the 
same lab as Hartmann, also studies 
disease in amphibians. 
While on a trip to the Bornean 
rainforest in 2017, McGrath-Blaser 
collected two samples of a possible 
new species of caecilian, a legless, 
worm-like class of amphibians na -tive to most tropical climates.
Even after five years, McGrath-
Blaser continues to  gather data. 
“Not that much genetic data ex -
ists for them,” McGrath-Blaser said. 
“We’re doing all the work to try to 
dig up as much of the information 
as we can to do the comparison so 
that we can say for sure whether 
they’re a new species or not.”
Jaguars are also misconceived as 
scary animals. A jaguar’s jaws can 
crush through the back of its prey’s 
skull at a force of around 1,000 
per square inch, according to Field 
and Stream. Proportionally, it’s the 
strongest bite of any big cat, stron -
ger than both the lion and the tiger.
To Matt Hallett, a 39-year-old 
professor in UF’s wildlife ecology 
and conservation department, a 
powerful jaguar is just another day 
at work. Both of Hallett’s graduate 
degrees involved specifically jaguar 
research. He travels to Guyana, a 
country in northern South Ameri -
ca, in the spring and summer and 
teaches at UF in the fall.
Hallett studies animals in the 
rainforests of Guyana, which is 
36% rainforest, and hosts animals 
like tapirs, piranhas and, of course, 
jaguars. 
“Jaguars are that thing that 
[goes] bump in the night for a lot 
of people in Guyana,” Hallett said. 
“They start to hear noises outside — 
a dog barking or cows coming close 
or pigs squealing. And it could be 
because there’s a very large, very 
able predator that’s outside and is 
helping themselves to some of your 
livestock.”
A large part of his research in -
volved human-jaguar relationships. 
Farmers often lose livestock to jag -
uars hunting on the forest’s periph -
ery, but sometimes people blame 
jaguars for livestock deaths that 
have nothing to do with them, like 
drought or disease.
“Our groups try to understand 
the human side of how people per -
ceive these things, and how they re -
act,” Hallett said. “We’re just right now scratching the surface to try to 
talk to people about how to sort of 
address the misconceptions, but in 
a positive way.”
Invasive species can also prove 
to be ‘scary’ when they are intro -
duced to non-native environments, 
sometimes having devastating im -
pacts. 
Keara Clancy, a 24-year-old wild -
life ecology and conservation gradu -
ate student, studies tegus, a lizard 
species invading the Everglades that 
can grow up to 4 feet.
Clancy currently analyzes and 
collects data on the tegus’ possible 
impact on the Everglades. The tegu 
has a tendency to eat other animals 
and their eggs, which can be a prob -
lem for endangered species like the 
gopher tortoise, Clancy said.
Clancy is also involved with the 
Natural Resources Diversity Initia -
tive, a UF student organization that 
works to involve underprivileged 
groups in science. Clancy some -
times goes to Gainesville commu -
nity centers to teach kids about 
animals, bringing live alligators and snakes to help generate interest in 
science.
“Obviously, [the animals] can 
be dangerous,” Clancy said. “But 
under a professional handling of 
them, [the children] learn that you 
can interact with them and learn a 
lot about them, and they’re actually 
pretty cool. They’re basically real-
life dinosaurs.”
Clancy tries to teach people rep -
tiles are important, with a promi -
nent environmental impact. She 
wants to emphasize their influence 
on ecological systems, even though 
some people are afraid of them, 
Clancy said.
“People have this instinctual 
fear of reptiles and because of it we 
kill them, we hurt them, we banish 
them from our properties,” Clancy 
said. “But these are animals that 
play such an important role in our 
ecosystem. If we learn to start co -
existing with them, I think that we 
would be a lot better off.”
@MTaylor_Journ
mtaylor@alligator.orgUF researchers try ending misconceptions about ‘spooky’ animals
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Sarah McGrath-Blaser (left) holds a Florida softshell turtle 
shell while Arik Hartmann (right) points to it, showing how 
the vertebrae is fused with the shell, at UF’s Longo Lab on 
Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. “Turtles can’t leave their shells 
because they are part of the skeleton,” Hartmann said.
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Two three-lined salamanders are seen at UF’s Longo Lab on 
Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2021. Arik Hartmann, UF graduate student, said 
these salamanders are used to study amphibian pathogens such as Bsal.
Wildlife ecology professors and students work to measure 
disease, invasive animals and possible new species4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
ASSOCIATE HEAD COACH 
KELLY RAE FINLEY WAS 
APPOINTED INTERIM HEAD 
COACH AFTER FORMER 
COACH CAM NEWBAUER’S 
RESIGNATION
By Zachary Huber
Sports Writer
The Florida Gators women’s 
basketball team held its first media 
availability since abuse allegations 
were levied against former head 
coach Cam Newbauer. Interim head 
coach Kelly Rae Finley and several 
players took turns addressing the 
program at the podium.
The Alligator published a story 
on Sept. 27 featuring multiple former Florida players under Newbauer 
who came forward and alleged 
that he made racist remarks, 
threw basketballs at players during 
practices and verbally abused the 
players, assistant coaches and 
trainers. 
One of the first questions Finley 
received was about what she knew 
about Newbauer’s behavior and the 
role she played in it. She deflected 
it, attempting to shift focus toward 
the Gators first game against Flagler 
College on Nov. 5. 
“Our administration has 
addressed the previous allegations, 
and our focus is on the upcoming 
season,” Finley said. 
Cydnee Kinslow, a former player 
on last season’s team, accused 
Finley of doing damage control for Newbauer, who coached at 
Florida from 2017-2021. Florida 
athletic director Scott Stricklin and 
the athletic department haven’t 
addressed the allegations from 
former players that Finley swept 
Newbauer’s behavior under the 
rug. They’ve only commented on 
Newbauer’s behavior.
The reporter followed up and 
asked if Finley felt like she felt these 
women down. 
“No,” guard Kiki Smith interjected 
on her coach’s behalf.
Finley continued and added she 
wouldn’t be here if that were the 
case. 
It wasn’t the last time the question 
was brought up. Later in the press 
conference, guard Lavender Briggs 
jumped in to defend Finley. She 
accused Kinslow of placing false 
allegations against her current head 
coach. 
“As far as Cydnee goes, she 
doesn’t speak for me,” Briggs said. 
“She doesn’t speak for the team. So, 
I mean, what she said doesn’t really 
matter. 
In The Alligator’s story, Kinslow 
said a teammate of hers attempted 
suicide. This week, Zach Goodall 
of SI’s AllGators published a more 
detailed story about Kinslow’s 
experiences where she added she 
tried to end her own life and provided 
more details on her teammate’s 
attempt. 
She said she broke down a 
bathroom door and pulled her out of 
the shower to prevent the effort. 
“We as a university and myself 
take mental health very seriously,” 
Finley said about her former players’ suicide attempts. “I think that as a 
country, it’s something that we need 
to be invested in.”
Briggs said she already noticed 
a different environment during 
practices under Finley. 
“There’s a lot more energy, 
there’s a lot more smiles and there’s 
a lot more people happy to actually 
be playing with each other and to be 
stepping on the court playing under 
the coaches we’re playing under,” 
she said. 
The Gators take the court for the 
first time under Finley on Nov. 5, 
when they take on Flagler College in 
an exhibition game in the O’Connell 
Center at 6 p.m. 
Kinslow told The Alligator she 
wishes nothing but the best for her former teammates and Briggs. 
However, she reiterated she spoke 
about her own experiences at 
Florida. 
“What I went through was 100% 
what I went through,” she said in 
response to Briggs. “I wouldn’t put 
that on anybody else, and I would 
never wish that upon anybody.”
Kinslow said she was 
disappointed Briggs dismissed her 
experience by virtue of not having a 
similar one. 
“That’s very much so a classic, 
‘Oh, it didn’t happen to me, so it 
didn’t happen to anybody else,’” she 
added.
@zacharyahuber
zhuber@alligator.orgBriggs, teammates defend Kelly Rae Finley in first team media since Newbauer scandal
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Kiki Smith (left) and Lavender Briggs (right), pictured during a game 
against Mizzou game Jan. 28, spoke to the media for the first time before 
the 2021-22 season and defended their interim coach Kelly Rae Finley.Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Florida now-interim head coach Kelly Rae Finley and Lavender 
Briggs photographed on the bench of a Gators women’s 
basketball game against Kentucky on Feb. 15.
STUDENTS WHO’VE SIGNED SAY 
CANVASSERS TOLD THEM THEY’D BE 
SUPPORTING NATIVE AMERICANS
By Serra Sowers
Alligator Contributing Writer
UF students who stroll through Turling -
ton, Plaza of the Americas or the Reitz Union 
may be haggled by strangers with bright blue 
papers who beg for their signatures, address -
es and phone numbers. 
Since September, canvassers who claim 
to support Seminole Native American tribes 
have been spotted around campus collecting 
signatures for a cause many students know 
nothing about.
The petition claims to support the Semi -
nole Compact, a proposed legislation that 
would keep casino betting profits a mo -
nopoly asset to Native American tribes, like 
the Seminoles. Supported by prominent Re -
publican politicians and Gov. Ron DeSantis, 
the legislation was initially approved by the 
Florida Legislature in May 2021.
The compact promises to create 2,200 
jobs for Floridians and guarantees $2.5 bil -
lion in the first five years, according to its 
website.
However, under the compact, sports-bet -
ting companies like DraftKings and FanDuel 
would gain access to gambling profits. This 
could shift the funding the Seminole Tribe 
receives from gambling profits, which could 
go to private interests instead. 
Standing near The Hub on Stadium Road, 
canvasser Irving Williams asks students for a moment of their time. He said he works for 
L&R Political Consultants, a for-profit organi -
zation based in Palm Harbor. 
People begging for signatures have been 
spotted in downtown Orlando as well as the 
University of Central Florida, said Donya 
Sedaghat, an 18-year-old UCF health scienc -
es sophomore who saw canvassers near the 
student union.
The Seminole Tribe has a group of lobby -
ists in Tallahassee, but their relation to this 
petition is unclear. The list includes Agus -
tin G. Corbella, Angela P. Dempsey, Hayden 
R. Dempsey, Fred O. Dickinson and Will 
McKinley.
Just a few feet apart, some canvassers, 
mostly men, ask for signatures and personal 
information from passersby more than once, 
even if students have already signed.
The confusion for those signing the peti -
tion comes from the discrepancy in the lan -
guage listed on the paper and what is verbal -
ized by canvassers.
“We, the residents of Florida, support the 
new Compact between the State of Florida 
and the Seminole Tribe of Florida,” the pe -
tition states. “The Seminole Compact has 
been approved by both the state and federal 
government and is now law. This partner -
ship will guarantee billions in new revenue 
and create thousands of jobs for the people 
of Florida for the next 30 years.” 
Another canvasser, Josh Thomas, said he 
is working for the Seminole Tribe. He said 
he believes through loopholes, money will 
go from the Seminoles to schools and other 
areas of government.“The Seminoles are getting ripped off,” 
Thomas said. 
Thomas also noted there has been wide -
spread support from people signing and said 
he has convinced plenty of students and peo -
ple in other public places, like local farmers 
markets, to sign. 
“This petition is to keep the original Sem -
inole Compact that was recently struck,” 
Thomas said. “Now the government is using 
commercials and talking about infrastruc -
ture, schools, raising the percentage that the 
Seminoles are going to pay.”
Thomas didn’t provide information on 
canvassers salaries, employers or number of 
signatures collected in Gainesville. 
General canvassers collect personal infor -
mation –– such as full names, addresses and 
dates of birth ––  to verify the identity of a 
real person signing the paper petitions at the 
state level, said Frank LoMonte, director of 
the Brechner Center for Freedom of Informa -
tion. 
Under state law and the First Amend -
ment, outdoor areas are considered public 
and free for individuals to sign petitions or 
pass out pamphlets. The UF campus is gov -
ernment property, so the same laws apply if 
people aren’t interfering with the purpose of 
the public space. 
Students should be aware of what they’re 
signing and only sign if they’re passionate 
about the cause as it could have legal conse -
quences, LoMonte said. In Florida, a petition 
for a bill or legislation needs almost 900,000 
signatures to get on a ballot at the state level.
He said he would have reservations in signing something like this because it’s un -
clear where the petitions and signatures are 
going. 
“Read what you are signing,” LoMonte 
said. “Make sure you are comfortable giving 
away your personal information, because it 
could be used for identity theft.”
Some students are cautious of petitioners 
because of their persistence to gain signa -
tures. 
Nef Dzubin, a 23-year-old UF philoso -
phy junior, said they are uncomfortable that 
canvassers are taking advantage of student 
sympathy. 
Dzubin, who is a Central American indig -
enous student not part of the Seminole tribe, 
said they are an advocate for indigenous 
rights. 
Instead, giving tribes access to educa -
tion and resources might be more beneficial 
for the advancement of indigenous people, 
Dzubin said. Creating jobs, like the petition 
claims, sometimes means taking away land.
“I have only had one encounter with 
them, but it seems suspicious,” Dzubin said. 
“There was not much information on the 
pamphlet and the people were just rushing 
for signatures.”
Earlier in the semester, similar petitions 
floated around campus, such as one asking 
for support in protecting Florida sea turtles. 
It’s still unknown what interest groups are 
behind these petitions and where these sig -
natures are going.
Serra Sowers is a contributing writer for 
The Alligator.Petitioners solicit signatures, personal information on campusMONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021   ALLIGATOR   5 
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area invites interested persons to apply for 
its Bicycle/Pedestrian Advisory Board.  The Bicycle/ Pedestrian 
Advisory Board provides advice to the Gainesville City Commis -
sion, Alachua County Commission and Metropolitan Transporta -
tion Planning Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area on 
bicycle and pedestrian related matters. 
    The Metropolitan Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area, composed of the Mayor and six City 
of Gainesville Commissioners and the five Alachua County Com-
missioners, is responsible for the continuing, cooperative and 
comprehensive transportation planning program for the Gaines -
ville Metropolitan Area.
     Applications and additional information may be obtained by 
writing or calling: North Central Florida Regional Planning Coun -
cil, 2009 NW 67th Place Gainesville, Florida 32653; telephone 
352.955.2200; or from the following website at www.ncfrpc.
org/mtpo.  Applications must be received no later than Monday, 
November 29, 2021.NOTICE
APPLICATION FOR
BICYCLE / PEDESTRIAN ADVISORY BOARD
THE MANDATE IS IN 
RESPONSE TO PRESIDENT 
BIDEN’S EXECUTIVE ORDER 
REQUIRING VACCINATION 
FOR FEDERAL WORKERS
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Health announced Wednes -
day all its employees must be ful -
ly vaccinated by Dec. 8 or have 
an approved accommodation on 
file. 
The mandate comes amid 
President Biden’s executive order 
requiring certain federal workers 
to be fully vaccinated for COV -ID-19, unless exempt for medical 
or religious reasons. By comply -
ing, UF and UF Health collec -
tively receive over $1.6 billion in 
federal contracts or contract-like 
agreements, including Medicare/
Medicaid funding, UF spokesper -
son Steve Orlando wrote in an 
email. 
Fully vaccinated status is 
achieved two weeks after re -
ceiving the last required vaccine 
dose, according to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention. 
Thus, staff must complete their 
vaccination by Nov. 24.
As federal contractors, UF and 
UF Health are subject to the fed -
erally mandated vaccine order, Orlando wrote.
“UF and UF Health have not 
mandated vaccines,” Orlando 
wrote. “UF and UF Health are 
responding to the federally man -
dated vaccine order.”
The state plans to challenge 
the mandate. Christina Pushaw, 
a spokesperson for Gov. Ron De -
Santis’ office, pointed to a Florida 
law prohibiting government en -
tities or educational institutions 
from requiring vaccine passports, 
or documents that show someone 
was vaccinated.
Johnny Dickerson, a Shands 
endoscopy technician, has no is -
sue with the mandate, saying staff 
should respect the rule to help as many people as they can. Every -
one in the endoscopy department 
is vaccinated, but those not yet 
fully vaccinated should do their 
part to keep others safe, he said. 
“We can’t help the sick if 
we’re sick,” Dickerson said. 
Some staff can’t get vaccinated 
for religious beliefs or health is -
sues, and Dickerson said they 
have a right to feel that way. But 
UF Health allows approved reli -
gious or medical exemptions, ac -
cording to its email, and Dicker -
son said everyone should do the 
best they can for the greater good.
“If we can all stick together, 
we can get past this,” Dickerson 
said. “Hopefully everybody will take heed to the rules and just do 
the best they can to keep every -
body safe.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgUF Health mandates vaccines for employees
Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
UF Health Shands Hospital is 
seen on June 29, 2021.
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
As of last week, 95% of Shands COV -
ID-19 patients were unvaccinated. Despite 
high hospitalization numbers and experts 
reassuring people that COVID-19 vaccines 
are safe and effective, some are still skepti -
cal about getting the shot.
Tony Domenech, a retired Gainesville 
resident and former city commissioner, said 
he doesn’t care whether people are vacci -
nated or not. However, he doesn’t support 
UF Health’s recent vaccine mandate, or any 
other mandates like it, because they lead 
people to pressure others to get vaccinated 
and strain relationships. He also has per -
sonal distrust in the government.
“There’s a lot of times [government of -
ficials] don’t tell me the truth, so I ques -
tion the things that they’ve been telling us,” 
Domenech said.
Despite some skepticism, Domenech 
got the vaccine in summer because he was 
high-risk for severe infection. But he still 
doesn’t trust it, and said it isn’t really a vac -
cine because it doesn’t prevent COVID-19. 
Krissy Copley, a former patient advocate, 
said her father developed tremors a little while after getting the virus, despite having 
completed his vaccination shots six months 
prior. 
“So how did he get the COVID?” Copley 
said. “It doesn’t make sense if they’re all 
taking precaution.”
But millions have received COVID-19 
vaccines under the most intense safety mon -
itoring in U.S. history, Kartik Cherabuddi, 
associate professor of infectious diseases 
and UF Health epidemiologist, wrote in an 
email. 
“Health care workers have had close fol -
low-up and scrutiny and have not demon -
strated any long-term side effects from the 
vaccine,” Cherabuddi wrote.
Although he testifies for the effectiveness 
of the vaccine, Cherabuddi wrote the vac -
cines don’t completely prevent a positive 
COVID test. However, vaccines prevent se -
vere complications that could lead to death, 
as well as limit infection and spread, he 
added. 
“Risk reduction and prevention strate -
gies in medicine target more severe com -
plications and the COVID-19 vaccines are 
highly effective at preventing those,” he 
wrote. 
Cherabuddi said the spread of misinfor -mation leads people to question the vac -
cine. The best way to combat myths and 
change minds has been through having in -
dividual conversations with patients, Cher -
abuddi said. UF Health has group sessions 
to ensure staff is well informed. 
Early on in the pandemic, broad forms 
of communication informed people, Cher -
abuddi said. But over time, people narrowed 
their sources of information. Social media 
has led to echo chambers where beliefs, re -
gardless of facts, are reinforced by repeti -
tion and safe from refutation. When people 
consume information from these closed 
spaces, changing their minds through broad 
communication becomes harder.
Disinformation is intentionally used to 
deceive others for personal gain, he said. 
Just 12 people, dubbed the “Disinformation 
Dozen,” promote 65% of vaccine disinfor -
mation on social media, according to an 
NPR report. Most people who consume this 
information seek to inform their friends and 
family without intending to deceive them, 
distinguishing this type of lie as different 
from misinformation, Cherabuddi said.
“Because the disinformation campaigns 
are made so well, it’s hard to distinguish 
between accurate information and misinfor -mation,” Cherabuddi said.
Platforms like Facebook have helped 
spread doubt about vaccines, he said.
“The noise of it all plays with your 
mind,” Cherabuddi said. 
UF Health has seen very few severe re -
actions, no one has died from vaccination 
and most people have mild symptoms for 
a day or two, Cherabuddi said. According 
to The Wall Street Journal, COVID-19 was 
over five times more common among hospi -
talized patients who were unvaccinated and 
had prior infection, compared with those 
who were fully vaccinated and weren’t pre -
viously infected. Only a handful of people 
with medical conditions have been advised 
not to get vaccinated. 
Claims that booster shots have adverse 
reactions are also false, he said
“Everyone else has successfully taken 
the vaccination, even though they have al -
lergies to other medicines or vaccines,” Ch -
erabuddi said. 
Cherabuddi said people should talk with 
their doctors about their concerns. 
“If you’re honest with them and engage 
them, they’re willing to listen in and take 
action as well,” Cherabuddi said.
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgAs vaccine hesitancy continues, UF Health experts engage with skeptics, give the facts
One expert finds one-on-one conversations help people understand the truth behind vaccines6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
THE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM 
HELPS FEND OFF 
ISOLATION AND DEPRESSION  
By Alexandra Harris
Alligator Staff Writer
Kay Koons, 89, is in a blue raft rushing 
down whitewater rapids in her blue Hawai -
ian shirt. 
Moments later, she’s in a hot air balloon 
floating over Portugal. She’s quiet, glancing 
up and down at the surrounding entourage 
of multicolored balloons. Her occasional 
giggles blend with chirping birds. It’s calm -
ing, she jokes, as long as you don’t hit an 
electric wire.
Thanks to technology, Koons doesn’t 
have to move an inch.
Virtual reality technology is captivating 
residents at the Oak Hammock Retirement 
Community at UF, located at 5100 SW 25th 
Blvd. By way of virtual reality goggles, resi -
dents can skydive and travel back in time to 
scenes from their weddings.
The experience expands the horizons of 
all residents — the bed-bound feel motion 
once more, the restless dementia wanderers 
are calmed, and the lonely feel connections. 
Oak Hammock partnered with Rendever, 
a virtual reality platform, to offer a 360 im -
mersive experience that transports residents 
anywhere they want to go. The residents 
can connect with others, stroll down mem -
ory lane or check items off their bucket lists. 
The community is now equipped with six 
headsets and two streaming tablets. Other 
residents can participate by watching the 
television screen to view what the user is 
seeing.
For Koons, her favorite part of the tech -
nology is reliving experiences that mean a 
lot to her. 
The technology can function like Google 
Earth; it allows users to type in destinations 
across the world. 
After she put on a headset, Koons was 
back at a brick home in Maryland. She no -ticed a short chimney and winding side -
walk. The garden bushes are different now, 
but Koons knows those bricks — she lived 
within them for 50 years. 
“That’s it,” Koons said. “Makes you feel 
like you’re right there.”
Even though she moved to Oak Ham -
mock in 2004, she doesn’t miss her old 
home too much.
“You’ve got to be happy where you are,” 
Koons said.
Chrissy Smoak, Oak Hammock’s life en -
richment manager, said the program is one 
of the most rewarding experiences she has 
participated in.
“I’ve worked here for so long,” Smoak 
said. “They’re almost like grandparents.”
She said after learning one of her 
residents recently lost her husband, she 
strapped her into the headset and took her 
on a trip to the church the resident got mar -
ried in. In an instant, her past came flooding 
back.
“It just brings you goosebumps,” Smoak 
said. “To see people have tears over memo -
ries, you just can’t help but be touched by 
it.”
Because the COVID-19 pandemic limited 
visitation, she said the staff got creative to 
find ways to keep residents connected.
The technology has been successful even 
in the memory care unit and for some resi -
dents who experience sundowning, or in -
creased confusion at dusk for Alzheimer’s 
patients, Smoak said.
Sometimes they have off days and down 
moods, she said. But with the goggles on, 
they’re made calm, which helps with be -
havioral aspects.
“It’s really an amazing thing to see how 
it turns people’s day around,” she said.
Smoak said one of the nonverbal resi -
dents perked up after watching farm ani -
mals through the goggles. 
“Did you see that goat?” the resident re -
peated, according to Smoak.
For the geriatric population, it’s an 
amazing thing for people to remember and see where they got married or a home they 
grew up in or the college that they went to, 
Smoak said. Some residents in their 90’s 
have told Smoak seeing the Aurora Borealis 
has always been on their bucket list, and 
they could check it off of their bucket list 
just by doing it this way.
Oak Hammock is looking forward to im -
plementing personal profiles for residents’ 
families later on. Families can upload vid -
eos and pictures of a resident’s personal life, files of great grandchildren and birth -
day parties or marriages the resident may 
be unable to attend. 
After a few introductory sessions, Koons 
is just getting started. She said she’s writing 
up her own destination bucket list.
“Amazing. It’s amazing,” Koons said. “I 
just can’t believe what they can do.”
@harris_alex_m
aharris@alligator.orgVirtual reality transports seniors down memory lane at Gainesville retirement community
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Kay Koons, 89, Oak Hammock resident, uses a Rendever virtual reality headset 
to take a hot-air balloon ride while at the Oak Hammock Health Pavilion on 
Wednesday, Oct. 20, 2021.
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
The rain didn’t stop children in 
costumes from circling around the 
outdoor venue like cars on a race -
track Thursday evening.
The covered area outside the 
Duval Early Learning Academy 
building was lined with tables 
while volunteers served food, 
managed carnival games and 
handed out toys and candy as 
prizes. Even Gainesville Police De -
partment officers joined in on the 
fun, grooving in the middle of the 
dance floor.
More than 100 community 
members came together to enjoy 
Duval Heights community’s Youth 
Night and Community Fall Festi -
val, held at Duval Early Learning 
Academy at 2106 NE Eighth Ave.
Duval Heights is a historically 
Black neighborhood located in 
East Gainesville. With the rise 
of gun violence among youth 
throughout Gainesville during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, residents of 
Duval Heights have felt the need for a lighthearted family event.
The Rev. Gerard Duncan, an 
organizer of the festival, said he 
knew the community would show 
up for an event like this because 
it’s been so long.
“We just really have a very 
strong passion for our commu -
nity,” Duncan said. “We thought 
about everything that the Duval 
community has experienced over 
the pandemic. And we thought, 
‘What could we do as community 
leaders to bring the community to -
gether?’”
Besides providing games and 
food, the festival set up a corner 
of the event where people could 
get their COVID-19 vaccine and 
booster shots.
“Vaccines are important,” Dun -
can said. “As a community leader 
who’s really been a part of leading 
the vaccine charge away from vac -
cine hesitancy, I wanted to make 
sure that I included it as a part of 
this event, as well. We want to 
promote it.”
Samantha Maurice, a 24-year-
old UF College of Medicine stu -dent, works as a volunteer at the 
college’s mobile outreach clinic. 
She said volunteers came to the 
festival to meet community mem -
bers where they are.
“Instead of trying to get them 
to come to us, we just decided to 
come to them,” Maurice said.
Maurice said the clinic expected 
to give out 40 to 50 booster shots 
to people who had both of their 
vaccine shots at least six months 
prior to the festival.
Pam Smith, a 77-year-old 
Gainesville resident and event 
volunteer, was painted green and 
dressed as a witch while greeting 
guests at the front of the event 
venue.
“I keep a witch’s costume 
around,” Smith said. “I just want 
to make it interesting to the kids.”
For Smith, Halloween is a time 
of creativity and fun. Her daughter 
was also born on Halloween, so it 
is a special time for her family.
“Gainesville used to have huge 
Halloween parties for young peo -
ple,” she said. “I associate it with 
maybe being able for some people to be able to get a little wild but 
not dangerous.”
Nasseeka Denis, 28, is the high 
school director of Aces in Motion, 
an afterschool program and volun -
teer organization based at Duval 
Early Learning Academy.
The organization tabled at the 
festival and put out sign-up sheets 
for families who wanted to enroll 
their children alongside the 65 
middle school and high school stu -
dents in their program.
“We’re all about community,” 
Denis said. “We try to find ways 
to get involved in the community 
in any capacity, whether it’s com -
ing by, saying hi, tabeling or what -
ever. We just want to be a part of 
what’s going on.”
Denis said by volunteering for 
events like these, the students are 
learning about giving back to their 
communities.
“We definitely want our stu -
dents to know you always want 
to give back to where you come 
from,” she said. “And if you want 
to see change, be that change.”
Tamarra Jenkins, a 38-year-old Gainesville resident, said she 
was on her way to her son’s foot -
ball practice when she drove past 
the festival and remembered she 
promised to let her children go to 
the event.
Jenkins said that positive 
events for the community are long 
overdue. As a community orga -
nizer, she is helping to plan more 
events like this one to promote 
youth safety.
“With the gun violence and ev -
erything, we’ve already been pre -
paring for scheduled events that 
would allow for the youth to have 
more faith and family around,” 
she said.
Her 8-year-old daughter, 
Makayla, said she enjoys meeting 
new people at events like these.
“It’s really important to gather 
and to create this unity where they 
know that they don’t have to be 
pitted against each other,” Jenkins 
said. “That’s what they need. With 
COVID having everyone just so 
disconnected, I think that’s where 
a lot of things got lost in transla -
tion.”
@jiselle_lee
jlee@alligator.orgTricks, treats, vaccine shots: Duval Heights community excites neighborhood with fall festival
More than 100 community members came together to celebrate fall and familyKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
A plethora of podiums
Florida women’s golf opened the season No. 17, but four 
straight podium finishes through the fall and remarkable depth 
have raised the expectations, pg. 11 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
By Chloe Greenberg
Avenue Staff Writer
In a blur of concert flyer-cov -
ered streets, forearms bearing col -
lections of multicolored wristbands 
and inescapable medleys of live 
music pouring out of downtown 
Gainesville venues, Jenna Bassi 
awaited her very first FEST.
The 27-year-old traveled from 
her home in New York to follow 
her favorite band, Crime In Stereo, 
in their latest slew of shows across 
the northeast. She capped off her 
mini-tour in Florida, where the 
band was set to play Sunday.
Bassi has always wanted to 
come to FEST, where some of her 
most cherished music has been 
showcased over the years. But 
as a teacher, the festival’s timing 
never allowed her to — until this 
year. She and friend Eleni Doulos 
finally made it to their sought-after 
Gainesville stages. 
“I’m just excited to spend the 
weekend with my best friend,” 
Bassi said.
Bassi’s FEST anticipation is just 
an example of what Gainesville’s 
quintessential punk-powered mu -
sic and entertainment festival 
means to people. The 19-year-old 
event invites thousands of punk 
fans to the streets of downtown 
Gainesville each year for live 
music, independent professional 
wrestling and live comedy.With the countless hurdles to 
live music following the start of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the commu -
nity-oriented and volunteer-driven 
event had to diverge slightly from 
its typical path this year. But masks 
and extra safety precautions only 
worked to fuel the weekend, with 
both artists and attendees willing 
to do whatever it takes to experi -
ence live music again — whether 
it be from behind the mic or within 
the crowd. 
FEST owner Tony Weinbender 
mentioned the fear felt by the mu -
sic industry in the past year, as it 
often felt there was no end in sight 
for the halt placed on live shows. 
This year’s FEST offered an oppor -
tunity for fans and bands to dive 
back into not only live music, but 
the community FEST fosters.
Weinbender said the event 
owes its success to its own volun -
teer network.
“The bands really love the fact 
that they have all these eager, ex -
cited college students all the way 
up to retirees that volunteer for 
FEST every year,” he said. “We al -
ways say we’re leading by example 
with the positivity that FEST is.”
That positivity and stake in the 
community is what largely keeps 
the volunteer pool so strong year 
after year. 
Longtime volunteer-turned-
FEST employee Avery Bender 
capped off her 16th year with the event this weekend. After coming 
back each year for 10 FESTs in a 
row, they were promoted to venue 
overhead manager, in charge of six 
stages across downtown and train -
ing volunteers.
“Everyone that does it truly be -
lieves in making it,” she said. “You 
want it to succeed.”
The community ties FEST fos -
ters run deep. Gainesville-born 
band Hot Water Music returned to 
FEST this year, eager to return to a 
hometown stage. Drummer George 
Rebelo said the past year was the 
longest he had gone without play -
ing live music in his career of 27 
years. 
The band played their 2001 al -
bum, “A Flight and a Crash,” from 
start to finish during the week -
end, marking their first time play -
ing some of those songs live ever. 
Revisiting the 20-year-old album 
wasn’t only a way to give back to 
fans — it also served as a realiza -
tion of the group’s artistic and pro -
fessional growth, Rebelo said. 
And just as the band has grown, 
he said he’s seen FEST evolve, too. 
From its earliest iterations and for -
mative years, FEST has grown into 
an annual hub for a like-minded 
musical community — usually 
dressed in all black, Rebelo added. 
With two weekend shows on 
downtown’s Bo Diddley Commu -
nity Plaza, one being an all-fan-re -
quests set, Hot Water Music dove back into a crowd of familiar fans 
in the same place they got their 
bearings, following what seemed 
like an end of live music.
“I feel like I have purpose in life 
again,” Rebelo said. 
Also revisiting Gainesville stag -
es this weekend was Los Angeles-
based band Spanish Love Songs, 
playing their fourth FEST. The 
emo punk-adjacent band played 
two shows this weekend, one at 
Bo Diddley Plaza stage and an -
other more intimate acoustic set at 
Loosey’s. 
The variety of venues and scope 
of the festival is something lead vo -
calist and guitarist Dylan Slocum 
thinks makes FEST so distinctive. 
Shifting from performing on one 
stage and becoming a fan at an -
other stage makes it feel less like a 
festival and more like a collection 
of unmissable shows, he said.
With only six shows under their 
belt this year, FEST served as one 
of Spanish Love Songs’ first big 
live shows back. To the band, Slo -
cum said this meant not only being 
able to jump back into the essence 
of their whole career, but also to 
connect with a community where 
they feel most at home. 
“I think a big part of our band is 
kind of killing our collective loneli -
ness,” he said. “So being able to do 
that with a crowd of people is just 
the most important thing to us.”
Brittany Luna of ska punk band 
Catbite cited the pandemic as not 
only a gap in live music but also a 
shift in the way artists view their 
careers. With no one to perform 
for and an uncertain road ahead, 
much of the music industry turned 
to support rather than competition.
“It feels like people are want -
ing to boost their friends or want -
ing to boost music that they like,” 
she said. “It gives you a whole new 
reach to different people.”
Heading into their second FEST, Catbite was most excited to con -
nect with social media friends and 
old music communities they hadn’t 
seen, coming together in the face 
of returned live music.
For returning artists and vol -
unteers, FEST is a longtime tradi -
tion. But each year remains a new 
opportunity for those first making 
their way in. 
Minneapolis-based band Gully 
Boys played their first FEST this 
year. The three piece formed in 
2016 with lead vocalist and guitar -
ist Kathy Callahan, bassist Nata -
lie Klemond and drummer Nadi 
McGill. Only five years old, the 
group christened their first Florida 
show with a Saturday night set at 
Loosey’s.
Apart from playing a festival 
they’ve always wanted to, the 
band was most excited to be fans 
this weekend, too. 
“That’s one of my favorite feel -
ings and one of the things I miss 
most about being able to go to 
shows and see live music — just 
stumbling upon a band that takes 
your breath away,” McGill said. 
The grunge pop-inspired trio 
marked their sound as melodic 
and emotion-oriented more than 
anything else. And after releasing 
their EP “Favorite Son,” earlier this 
year, getting back into performing 
live left them playing every show 
like it’s their last.
“We’re a little bit more grateful 
and mindful of what we have and 
what can be taken away,” Calla -
han said. 
Whether at FEST as a fan, art -
ist, volunteer or any combination 
of the bunch, attendees showed 
out in the thousands once again — 
with masks and no less passion for 
punk.
@chloe_greenberg
cgreenberg@alligator.orgFEST rises from the dead Halloween weekend
MUSICMUSIC
Chloe Greenberg / / Alligator Staff
Gully Boys Bassist Natalie Klemond (left) and Lead Vocalist Kathy Callahan (right) play their 
first FEST show at Loosey’s on Saturday, Oct. 30, 2021.Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Attendees chant and sing during Strike Anywhere’s set at 
Bo Diddley Plaza on Sunday, Oct. 31, 2021.
The punk-focused festival turned 19 after a year-long hiatusMONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
At a school with more than 60,000 students, it 
seems paradoxical that engaging with campus can 
be difficult.
When presented with so many opportunities, 
students may feel overwhelmed by choice, 
paralyzing their ability to make a decision about campus 
engagement, civic consciousness or even just grocery 
shopping. 
But with the proper resources, students can navigate 
these pathways to involvement while becoming more 
confident in decision making.
Student organizations
UF offers plenty of student organizations built around 
identity, issue advocacy, sports, culture, professional 
pursuits, political affiliation and more.
UF Student Activities and Involvement provides the 
GatorConnect Portal to filter student organizations by 
specific focuses. Student organizations centered around 
social and cultural communities include Hispanic Student 
Association, Asian American Student Union, Black Student 
Union, Pride Student Union, Jewish Student Union, Islam 
on Campus and more.
UF Student Government presents opportunities to get 
involved with a SG party or agencies such as Chomp The 
Vote, Students Taking Action Against Racism and Gators 
Going Green.
Engaging with Gainesville
Students’ often temporary stay in Gainesville can leave 
impacts on the city that outlive their individual presence.
Gainesville For All is at the forefront of addressing Alachua County’s racial and economic inequities by 
bringing together residents and local organizations striving 
toward bettering the community. 
UF’s Strategic Development Plan has teamed up with 
students to form Engage Florida, a student-led group 
working directly with community partners on issues of 
homelessness, education, economic opportunity and 
community capacity. 
Students have the opportunity to preserve Gainesville’s 
environmental resources through tree plantings and other 
green-centered events with UF’s Imagining Climate Change 
initiative.
Voting
UF offers a free service, UF TurboVote, available to all 
Gators from freshmen to alumni. It eases registering to vote, 
checking or updating information, requesting to vote by 
mail and sends a notification before any election you are 
eligible to vote in. 
With information on voting guides, conversations and 
more, you can make decisions on how to vote and who to 
support.
Bob Graham Center for Public Service
The Bob Graham Center is UF’s center of civic 
engagement, housing various opportunities for students 
interested in bringing their unique skills to the world of 
public service through internships, student organizations, 
research, academics and more.
The center is nonpartisan and works to remove barriers 
to civic engagement. This extends to organizations such as 
the Bob Graham Center Student Fellows, Florida Political Review and Freshman Leadership 
Council; internships in Gainesville, 
Tallahassee and the U.S. Capitol; and 
research through Civic Scholars and 
Askew Scholars. 
The best paths to engage with 
the Graham Center are to join their 
newsletter, explore their website or 
stop by the second story of Pugh Hall 
to speak with an advisor at the center.
Brown Center for
 Leadership and Service
The Brown Center for Leadership and Service provides 
the structure and resources for UF students to assume roles 
of leadership and service on campus.
The BCLS spearheads and funds projects on campus, 
from leadership development — Projects for Peace, LeadUF 
and Changemakers’ Dialogue — to service opportunities 
like Campus Beautification and Florida Alternative Breaks.
To become involved with the BCLS, students can browse 
the website, schedule a meeting after taking the service 
quiz, or visit them on the second level of the Reitz Union.
Research
UF’s Center for Undergraduate Research is the hub 
of campus research. UF offers entry-level research 
opportunities such as the Emerging Scholars Program 
and the Graham Center’s Civic Scholars program. Both 
opportunities pay students who participate.
If you are not sure where to begin, you can speak to 
students involved with UF research through the Center for 
Undergraduate Research Board of Students or attend one of 
their workshops or advising in Newell Hall.
Andrew Shodell is a UF English and political science junior.Pathways to opportunity and involvement at UFColumn
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.EL CAIMÁN
TU FIESTA RADIO WILL BE 
AVAILABLE THROUGH A 
MOBILE APP AND WEBSITE, 
24/7 STARTING NOV. 1
By Isabella Barnet
Caimán Reporter
Cady Casellas’ hit Latin segment 
“Chisme Con Cady” was discontin -
ued from GHQ, UF’s student-run ra -
dio, during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
leaving a void in Gainesville’s radio 
scene. However, one Cuban native 
and Alachua County resident will in -
troduce the first full-fledged Spanish 
station based in Gainesville starting 
Monday.
Elio Piedra’s idea, alongside his 
partner Charlie Delatorre, comes at a 
time where Gainesville’s radio scene 
is limited to English-based content, 
despite having more than 73,000 His -
panic listeners in Alachua County’s 
audio and television market popula -
tion. 
Piedra goes by many titles. He’s 
an entrepreneur, entertainer, musi -
cian, and now a radio junkie pio -
neering Fiesta Media, his very own 
production company. Tu Fiesta Ra -
dio’s soft opening will launch Mon -
day through the radio’s own phone-
based application and website Nov. 
1.
Piedra is no stranger to the Gainesville Hispanic scene — his 
iconic drum and percussion set 
paired with his lively, booming voice 
can be found at Spanish restaurants 
and even at UF events. He’s not your 
average musician, boasting years of 
experience with the National Con -
servatory of Music in Cuba and with 
countless symphonies across de -
cades of his life. 
Originally from Pinar del Rio, his 
musical talents unraveled at the early 
age of 9. The musician and DJ im -
migrated to Gainesville in 2011 at 20 
years old to join his now-wife, Yare -
lis Serrano, who was then a student 
in the area. 
With the help of friends and 
community partners throughout the 
years, they’ve created a powerhouse 
of Hispanic representation through 
Piedra’s company that provides di -
versity to Alachua County’s radio 
scene and the entire entertainment 
industry. 
“There are so many American 
radio music stations of all genres,” 
Piedra said. ”But what we can do 
for our community that can posi -
tively impact not only the question 
of music but also as another platform 
that serves as support, as a means of 
communication and entertainment 
and brings good Latin music that is 
nowhere to be found.”
The Spanish station will host 
specialty segments featuring guest stars and classic Spanish hits ranging 
from reggaeton, bachata and salsa. 
Gainesville Spanish speakers will get 
to enjoy Tu Fiesta Radio from the 
comfort of their homes or anywhere 
on the go through the mobile app. 
Audiences can request songs directly 
through the app and connect the sta -
tion to automatically play through 
vehicle radios and smart devices like 
Google Home and Amazon Alexa.
Although formatted differently 
than broadcast radio stations, Pie -
dra’s digital radio station will func -
tion like traditional stations with 24/7 
music and hit segments throughout 
high-traffic hours. 
Unlike traditional broadcast sta -
tions with limited frequency ranges, 
listeners can tune into Tu Fiesta Ra -
dio beyond Alachua County limits 
and throughout the nation with any 
cellular connection or through the 
station’s website.
Piedra celebrates 10 years since 
he first emigrated to the U.S. from 
Cuba to pursue his musical dreams 
and reunite with his childhood 
sweetheart. Although he’s made a 
name for himself in Alachua County 
through his flamboyant performanc -
es and heavy involvement with the 
Greater Gainesville Chamber of Com -
merce, he doesn’t forget the struggles 
he underwent as an immigrant who 
didn’t know English and brought 
very little from his homeland. “When you have a dream, you 
must hold on to it with tooth and nail 
and not let anyone steal that dream 
from you,” Piedra said. “You have to 
be hungry to do good without want -
ing to harm the community.”
After the crises brought forth by 
COVID-19, Piedra said he felt a need 
to incentivize and motivate his com -
munity through music, motivating 
the creation of Tu Fiesta Radio. 
Former GHQ radio host Cady 
Casellas, 23, could always be found 
at UF’s Weimer Hall Fridays during 
Chisme con Cady’s 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
time slot. After pitching the idea in 
Spring 2017, the telecommunication 
alumnus dominated Gainesville’s ra -
dio scene with the only Latin radio 
show at the time until its cancellation 
in Spring 2020.
“Chisme Con Cady” followed a 
traditional specialty program for -
mat with Top 40 Latin songs, guest 
stars and “chisme,” or gossip, sur -
rounding Spanish artists. Although 
the Cuban Jewish alumna featured 
more modern taste with more Span -
ish trap, Casellas bridged the gap be -
tween older and younger Hispanics 
through a blend of classic and reg -
gaeton Spanish hits. 
“From the beginning, I said I am 
creating this, but this is not ending 
with me,” Casellas said. “I wanted 
to train someone or appoint some -
one. But they wanted to keep the pop format, which I can understand 
from their perspective … but there 
is such a need for a Latin station in 
Gainesville.”
Hispanic locals and UF students 
have asked about the segment’s re -
turn, but her Friday evening slot re -
mains unoccupied despite potential 
replacements introduced by Casellas.
As radio stars who share similar 
Cuban pride, both are passionate 
about using their platform to educate 
viewers on the current political Cu -
ban crisis demonstrated through the 
hashtag #SOSCuba. 
“They’re creating a Latin station, 
and that made me so happy because 
I feel like I started this thing and then 
there was a gap in between, but there 
was such a need for it that it was 
brought back [by Tu Fiesta Radio],” 
Casellas said.
“Chisme Con Cady’s” top 3 in 
Latin music still lives on at 4:45 p.m. 
and 6:45 p.m. through Casellas’ on-
air, pop music radio slot from 4 p.m. 
to 8 p.m. on PlayFM.
Monday marks Tu Fiesta Radio’s 
soft opening, but there will be an 
event to celebrate Gainesville’s inau -
gural Spanish radio station in person 
Nov. 5 at Tioga Town Center, where 
reggaeton hits will be paired with 
raffles and giveaways all night long.
ibarnet@alligator.org“Celebrando nuestra música”: Gainesville’s first Spanish radio station prepares for debutAndrew Shodell
opinions@alligator.orgBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE 
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953        
11-8-21-5-6
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680    
11-8-21-5-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-6
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"©2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    IInnssuurraannccee  ________
11..    ________  sscchhooooll  55..    HHuusshh  mmoonneeyy
22..    ________  ttiimmee  66..    JJooiinn  ttooggeetthheerr  
33..    TTyyppee  ooff  sscciieennttiisstt  77..    DDeelliiccaatteellyy  
44..    LLiikkee  GGoorrddoonn  GGeekkkkoo  LLIICCYYPPOO
IICCUUPPLLBBBBIIEERRBB
EENNIITTUU
EELLIIUUEERRSS
IIEETTSSCCHHMMLLEENNGGYYTT
RRGGEEYYEEDDAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--PPoolliiccyy    55AA--BBrriibbee    66AA--UUnniittee    77AA--GGeennttllyy
11DD--PPuubblliicc    22DD--LLeeiissuurree    33DD--CChheemmiisstt    44DD--GGrreeeeddyy    BB--BBiinngg  CCrroossbbyy1111--11--2211
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002211  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  eenntteerrttaaiinneerr’’ss  ffiirrsstt  nnaammee  wwaass  HHaarrrryy..    
BONUSDONATE YOUR CAR TO KIDS. Your dona -
tion helps fund the search for missing chil-
dren. Accepting Trucks, Motorcycles & RV’s 
too! Fast Free Pickup -Running or Not -24 
Hour Response- Maximum Tax Donation - 
Call (888) 515-3443                        11-1-9-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-13
GET VACCINATED TODAY!13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Susan Gelfand
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC11/01/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
11/01/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, November 1, 2021
ACROSS
1 Kid around with
5 Wind with two 
reeds
9 Young fellow, in 
Ireland
14 Square footage, 
say
15 Mama’s mate
16 Rapper Ice 
Cube’s first name
17 *Trendy terms
19 Cardinals and 
Orioles
20 Runs in, cop-style
22 Ready for picking
23 Passage in a 
personal journal
26 Runs at full speed
28 College courtyard
29 Guerrilla Guevara
32 Curtain holders
33 Cities, informally
34 “(Marie’s the 
Name) __ Latest 
Flame”: Elvis hit
35 Dutch beer brand
38 Silent 
communication 
syst.
39 Vacillates ... or 
what you can do 
when you look 
at the starts of 
the answers to 
starred clues?
41 Mine find
42 Eyed lecherously
44 Rose of Guns N’ 
Roses
45 Not kosher
46 Elevated on a 
peg, as a golf ball
47 Hoped-for 
response to 
a marriage 
proposal
48 Splinter group
49 Mongoose family 
member
52 Needing practice
53 Luxury hotel
54 Ketchup-and-
mayo dressing
58 Title film cousin
60 *Popular cause to 
jump on
64 Formal “Just me”
65 Lake with the 
same first and 
last letter66 Long skirt
67 German steel city
68 Pro __: in 
proportion
69 Fan favorite
DOWN
1 Boxer’s quick 
punch
2 Christian sch. in 
Tulsa
3 States, slangily
4 Ventures, as a 
guess
5 Skunk’s defense
6 Naked
7 Betting ratios
8 Divisions for the 
Yanks and Mets
9 Automated spam 
sender
10 Log-in needs
11 *Mall anchors
12 Well-groomed
13 Desert havens
18 Dryly humorous
21 Spreads out 
one’s arms and 
legs
23 Math sign
24 Hospital worker
25 *Game with 
paddles27 CD-__: data 
holders
29 Cracker cheese
30 Rush, old-style
31 Op-ed piece, e.g.
36 Upright
37 Southpaw
39 Search for
40 Chopping tool
43 Get the rest of 
the soap out of
45 Tidal wave 
cousin49 Theater feature
50 Radiates
51 Potato or yam
52 Uncooked
55 __ Lee: dessert 
brand
56 Sulky state
57 “Good thinking!” 
thought
59 Yang’s partner
61 Wander (about)
62 Kitchen tool brand
63 Naught
By Daniel Sweren-Becker and Daniel Nussbaum
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/26/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/26/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 26, 2021
ACROSS
1 Conservatives’ 
foes, briefly
5 Word with run or 
drive
9 More than nudge
14 Inactive
15 Muppet who 
doesn’t use the 
pronoun “I”
16 One faking it
17 Frame of mind
18 Landed
19 Student’s 
measuring stick
20 *Island known for 
its bars?
22 Windshield 
shades
23 Homer’s neighbor
24 Thrill
26 Part of a play
29 __ de plume
31 Polar masses
35 *Tom Sawyer’s 
creator
38 In a wistful way
39 Soft French 
cheese
40 Dunks, Blazers 
and Jordans
42 Corned beef 
specification
43 Happening
45 *Highest peak in 
the Alps
47 Bureaucratic 
sticking points
49 Sign of a sellout
50 __ Vegas
51 Slides 
uncontrollably
53 Not online, for 
short
55 Best of the hits
58 What the 
answers to 
starred clues are, 
in different ways
63 Opera solos
64 Steep rugged cliff
65 Indianapolis 
NFLer
66 Linguistic group 
that includes Zulu
67 Bee home
68 Green smoothie 
green, perhaps
69 Somnology study
70 Mellowed in a 
cask
71 Winter fallDOWN
1 Peruvian capital
2 Adored singer, 
say
3 Voting unit
4 Family car
5 Remove, as the 
wall in Reagan’s 
demand to 
Gorbachev
6 Jazzy Fitzgerald
7 Tyra Banks 
portmanteau for 
happy peepers
8 Little one
9 Little ones
10 Obsolescent 
doctor visit
11 Viking trading 
post now a world 
capital
12 Zig or zag
13 Boots the ball
21 Camper’s 
quarters
22 Little sucker?
25 Bedding
26 “Waves of grain” 
color
27 Slice the turkey
28 True partner
30 Badly injured
32 “It’s __!”: “Sold!”33 Opening strategy
34 Lip-__: mouths 
the words
36 Campus setting 
for Neil Young’s 
“Ohio”
37 When repeated, 
classic New 
Orleans refrain
41 Like guitars and 
sitars
44 Starts to learn, as 
a hobby46 Delivered
48 ATM user’s need
52 Parsley piece
54 Doesn’t have
55 Bar bills
56 Spoken
57 Tree with cones
59 House overhang
60 Gripe
61 Cockney greeting
62 Ragout or goulash
64 Half a Latin 
dance
10/25/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!Want to be a CNA?       Don’t want to wait?
Express Training Services now offers a CNA 
class which can be completed in one weekend.  
Perfect for busy college students. 
www.expresstrainingservices.com/ww   
8-15-21-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-15
Window Treatments Bundle- UPDATE 
YOUR HOME with Beautiful New Blinds & 
Shades. FREE in-home estimates make it 
convenient to shop from home. Professional 
installation. Top quality - Made in the USA. 
Call for free consultation: 866-636-1910. 
Ask about our specials!                   11-1-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES  in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems 
at AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime war -
ranty & professional installs. 
Call Now! 888-460-2264  BATH & 
SHOWER UPDATES in as little as ONE 
DAY! Affordable prices - No payments for 
18 months! Lifetime warranty & professional 
installs. Senior.& Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                11-1-2-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
lnogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. lnogen
11-1-2-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    12-6-12-19
20 Events/Notices
Holiday Marketplace 2021 st First UMC
Join us for the holiday shopping event of 
the year and help support the missions 
and ministries of First United Methodist 
Church on Friday, Nov. 5 from 5-8pm and 
Saturday, Nov 6 from 9am-4pm.  We will 
have 8 shopping areas catering to differ-
ent interests, ages and budgets to browse 
through featuring holiday shopping, upscale 
resale and baked goods. Cash & credit 
cards will be accepted, and there is no entry 
fee. First UMC is located at 419 NE 1st ST 
Gainesville 32601. Visit us at https://fum-
cgnv.com/HolidayMarketplace For every-
one's safety masks will be required in the 
Holiday Marketplace.                 11-1-21-1-2015 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in-
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Wanted Web Designer
Wanted, someone to incorporate a pay wall 
into a website. Call 352-494-9920 or email 
papkemac@earthlink.net
11-1-21-3-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Yard work &/or light household duties. 5-6 
hrs a week, flex schedule, $10-$13 depend -
ing on experience, If interested please call 
352.278.8071                            11-22-21-7-14
Help Wanted Donut Connection
Baker needed, experience preferred but 
will consider trainee. Also hiring counter/
drive thru sales. Salary depends on experi-
ence. To apply, Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com.
11-1-21-2-14
Volunteer Intern Psychology Office
We are looking for volunteer interns to serve 
at least 2 full days per week in our private 
practice clinic from now until the end of the 
semester or longer. Qualified candidates must 
have excellent writing and proofreading skills 
and attention to detail. Familiarity with medi -
cal and/or neuropsychological terminology a 
plus. In addition to front office duties, major 
responsibility involves taking information from 
complex histories and doctor notes and tran -
scribing them into report templates. We are 
working on some demanding legal cases with 
this being a great opportunity for exposure for 
neuropsychology students interested in diag -
nostics and forensics.
Send vita to info@cpancf.com with letter of 
interest.                                        11-1-21-2-14
EDEP NOW HIRING
for the PERFECT college job!
Weekends & Holidays OFF!!
Never work past 6 p.m.
Energetic People needed to work  
with elementary kids
Extended Day Enrichment Program
is the Alachua County Public Schools  
after-school program.
It is full of fun activities. Positions are 
available at various schools.
Must be 18 or older &  
have a high school diploma
Hours are M,T,Th,F 1:45-5:30
Wed. 12:30-5:30 PM.
Activity Leaders $11.25 per hour
Background Investigation Conducted, Drug 
Testing Required, Affirmative Action,
Equal Opportunity Employer
Applications Available Online
www.sbac.edu
For more information call 352-313-6533
11-1-21-2-14
15 Services
Career Training and Medical Billing -TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! Become 
a Medical Office Professional online at CTI! 
Get Trained, Certified & ready to work in 
months! Call 877-324-4096. 
The Mission, Program Information and Tuition 
is located at CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-
information.                                        11-1-2-15
Tired of laundry? Need help? We wash, dry, 
& fold. Only $1/LB. Free pickup & delivery. 
SudShare.com or 833-783-7427. Use code 
CLASS for $10 off.
11-1-2-15CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
DON'T COMPROMISE YOURSELF. YOU ARE ALL YOU'VE GOT. THERE IS NO 
YESTERDAY, NO TOMORROW, IT'S ALL THE SAME DAY. — JANIS JOPLIN
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
solution  below1. 23
2. Bounty paper towels
3. Olympia
4. A charm
5. "Holiday"
6. "Back to the Future," 
Dr. Emmett Brown
7. Arnold
8. Austria
9. Two
10. VenusTrivia Test answersanswers below1. FOOD & DRINK: How many different flavors 
are in a Dr. Pepper soda?
2. AD SLOGANS: Which product was advertised 
as "the quicker picker upper"?
3. U.S. STATES: What is the capital of Wash -
ington state?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of hum -
mingbirds called?
5. MUSIC: What was Madonna's first Top 
10 hit?
6. MOVIES: Which blockbuster movie had this 
final line, "Roads? Where we're going, we don't 
need roads!"?
7. TELEVISION: What was the name of the pet 
pig on "Green Acres"?
8. GEOGRAPHY: Which European country is 
known as Osterreich in its native tongue?
9. MEASUREMENTS: How many tablespoons are 
in 1 fluid ounce?
10. ASTRONOMY: Which planet in our solar 
system is known as both the Morning and 
Evening Star?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2021 King Features Synd., Inc.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.WOMEN'S GOLF
THE GATORS PLACED NO 
LOWER THAN THIRD IN 
EACH OF THEIR FOUR 
TOURNAMENTS
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
After missing the national 
championship last spring, no one 
knew what to expect from the 
Florida women’s golf team this 
fall. 
In head coach Emily Glaser’s 
10th year on the job, expectations 
were tempered for the program, 
and the Gators earned just the 
No. 17 spot in the preseason 
collegiate rankings. 
After the fall season for the 
Gators wrapped up on Oct. 27, it 
became clear the strength of the 
team lies in its depth. Not only 
that, but the top-end talent of 
the team might be just enough 
to make some noise come this 
postseason.
The top-to-bottom nature of 
Florida’s lineup gives the team a 
cushion that can survive a rough tournament from any one Gator. 
In Florida’s 20 individual 
performances in four 
tournaments, 15 ended within the 
top 25. Depth breeds consistency, 
and the Gators boasted both this 
fall. Their strong individual play 
led to top-three placements in all 
four meets, including a second-
place finish in the final meet of 
the calendar year. 
When Florida suffers from 
a rough round from one of its 
golfers, the pressure on the rest 
of the team is not as heavy, as the 
golfers can rest assured that the 
team has their back.
Junior Jackie Lucena finished 
with a 9-over 225 at the Mason 
Rudolph Championship in 
Nashville, Tennessee, but the rest 
of the lineup carried the weight; 
every other individual finished 
in the top 25 of the individual 
leaderboard. At the next meet, 
Lucena more than made up for 
her absence with a second-place 
overall finish, tied for the highest 
finish of any Gator this fall. 
Lucena, who transferred from UC-Davis this offseason, has 
been a surprise standout for the 
Gators this year. Besides the 
rough outing in the Music City, 
the California native has finished 
in the top 25 in three of the four 
tournaments and in the top 10 
twice. Lucena has even begun to 
receive national attention for her 
play; she is the No. 41 collegiate 
female golfer in the nation, 
according to GolfWeek.
Another golfer who broke onto 
the scene this fall is sophomore 
Maisie Filler. After showing signs 
of excellence last spring at the 
NCAA Regional, she has taken 
the next step forward and become 
a mainstay at the top of Florida’s 
leaderboards. She capped off a 
fall that consisted of three top-
15 finishes by mirroring her 
team’s second-place finish on 
the individual leaderboard in the 
final tournament.
The Palm Beach Gardens 
native has shown she can anchor a 
lineup for the Gators, now ranked 
as the No. 22 golfer in the nation. 
That progress could provide Florida with the elite talent teams 
need to make serious pushes for 
national championships.
Starting her senior year with the 
Gators, Clara Manzalini also saw 
a solid fall campaign that included 
two top-15 performances. At the 
Mason Rudolph Championship, 
the Italian secured a share of 
seventh place with a 5-under 211. 
As the team enters the 
spring and begins postseason 
play, the veteran experience of 
Manzalini should only boost 
the team's ability to handle the 
heftier pressure. Because the 
team failed to make the national 
championship last year and 
COVID-19 canceled the event in 
2020, Manzalini is the only active 
member of the lineup who has 
been to the biggest tournament of 
the year.
Junior Marina Escobar also 
contributed to the Gators, but 
she usually remained on the 
fringe of the top-25 on individual 
leaderboards. In four tournaments, 
the Spanish native finished 27th, 
32nd, 23rd and 15th. While she 
has been consistent and avoided 
forgettable performances, Escobar 
usually finished in the lower half 
of Florida’s lineups. An individual 
who can consistently finish in the 
top 25 and remain in the bottom 
half of the lineup is the strongest 
testament to the Gators’ balance.After being named to the 
preseason ANNIKA Award watch 
list and slotting 23rd on Golf 
Channel’s preseason rankings, 
junior Annabell Fuller has not 
produced the elite play preseason 
rankings seemed to expect from 
her. She was unable to produce 
a top-10 finish across any of the 
four tournaments and only found 
the top 25 twice. 
The fact that the presumptive 
star has not excelled but the 
Gators still shined as a team 
is  incredibly promising. If the 
English native can raise her level 
of play to the tier she was expected 
to compete in, the Gators become 
an even more formidable team for 
anyone to play as the postseason 
draws closer by the day
As the team enters a brief 
offseason before the spring season 
gets rolling, the expectations 
around the program have 
skyrocketed, and the Gators have 
risen to No. 6 in the country. With 
a lineup that features individuals 
that can place in the top 10 at 
every corner, the Gators appear 
primed for both a successful 
spring season and postseason.
The team resumes play at the 
FAU Paradise Invitational Feb. 7, 
2022.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgFlorida women’s golf shows potential in fall season
Courtesy of the UAA
Florida women's golf coach Emily Glaser and Maisie Filler stand together on the course at Mark 
Bostick Golf Course on February 23, 2021.Courtesy of the UAA
Florida golfer Annabell Fuller was listed on the preseason watch 
list for the ANNIKA Award and one of Golf Channel’s top 25 
collegiate female golfers before the season started.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2021
FOOTBALL
GATORS WRECKED BY NO. 1 GEORGIA 
IN SECOND GAME AGAINST TOP 
TEAM, FOURTH LOSS TO BULLDOGS 
IN FIVE YEARS
By Ryan Haley
Sports Writer
Florida running back Malik Davis took 
the ball with the game clock winding down, 
the fourth quarter seconds from expiration. 
The redshirt senior plunged forward behind 
his offensive line and picked up three yards, 
and with 20 seconds left to play, the Gators 
finally eked ahead of the Bulldogs — 355 
yards of offense to 354.
Head coach Dan Mullen met his oppos -
ing foe, Georgia head coach Kirby Smart, at 
midfield for a quick handshake as the clock 
ran down. As the fourth-year Florida coach 
ignored his school’s band and retreated to 
the locker room, the scoreboard illuminat -
ing the Duval County skies told the true 
story of the latest Florida-Georgia game. 
No. 1 Georgia left Jacksonville with a 
34-7 demolition of the Gators on its resume, 
and UF tumbled to 4-4 on the year despite 
its statistical prowess after a disastrous 
close to the first half.
For a four-loss team, the Gators exist in 
a realm all their own on the box score. Mul -
len’s team has outgained all eight of its op -
ponents this year. Florida has won the yard -
age battle 3,867-2,709 across every game, 
an average of 144.75 more yards per game. 
Even in conference play, where the orange 
and blue have won just two of six games, 
UF tallied 441.3 yards per contest to oppo -nents’ 345.5 yards.
Teams have outgained undefeated No. 
4 Oklahoma three times this season. No. 2 
Cincinnati, another undefeated team, lost 
the yardage battle twice. In the Southeast -
ern Conference, Florida’s the only team 
who hasn’t surrendered more yards than it 
gained in a game.
So how has arguably the most statisti -
cally proficient team in the conference lost 
three of its past four games to sit .500?
Florida has been crippled by turnovers in 
2021, with no stretch more evident than the 
final two minutes of Saturday’s first half, an 
135-second rollercoaster which surely flat -
tered the ghost of Walt Disney.
Redshirt freshman quarterback Anthony 
Richardson, who got the nod for his first ca -
reer start against a defense averaging less 
than 7 points allowed per game, fumbled 
once and threw a pair of interceptions on 
three straight possessions to close the sec -
ond quarter. All three giveaways generated 
touchdowns for the Bulldogs, the final score 
coming on a pick-six from linebacker Na -
kobe Dean. 
In a span of two minutes and 15 seconds, 
Georgia’s lead ballooned to 24 points. Flor -
ida’s chances of winning fell from 21.5% to 
0.8% in a matter of 12 plays, according to 
ESPN’s live calculation.
Georgia only outscored Florida 13-7 in 
the other 58 minutes of the game.
Richardson and Emory Jones, Florida’s 
two quarterbacks this season, combined for 
15 passing touchdowns compared to 14 in -
terceptions through eight games. No other 
team in the SEC has thrown more than 11. 
Jones threw multiple picks in three of his seven starts against a single start without 
one, and Richardson threw four in his past 
two games.
In Florida’s seven-point loss to Ken -
tucky, a blocked field goal returned for a 
touchdown and a short-field drive gifted by 
a Jones interception gave the Wildcats 14 of 
their 20 points. In a seven-point loss to Lou -
isiana State, three interceptions in the first 
three quarters directly created 21 of LSU’s 
49 points, including a pick-six on Jones’ er -
rant final pass in the third quarter.
Florida’s defense has snatched six inter -
ceptions of its own and nine total turnovers 
on the year (11th in the SEC in both cat -egories), but Mullen’s offense has gifted op -
ponents 16 for a -7 differential. No. 1 Geor -
gia forced three more turnovers than its 
opponents this season, and No. 3 Alabama 
walked away with a differential of +7.
Now, for the first time under Mullen, the 
Gators can’t win more than four games in 
their conference schedule. Florida lost sev -
en of its last nine games against Power 5 
teams. But the yardage streak survived an -
other week.
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligatorInterceptions doom Florida football team finding ways to lose
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Anthony Richardson drops back to pass during his first start 
against No. 1 Georgia during a 34-7 loss on Oct. 30.
