We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Professor-endorsed restrictions affect transgender healthcare
Six-hundred people signed a letter opposing the guidelines sup -
ported by State Surgeon General Ladapo,  pg. 4
Peach party
Williston’s Red, White  and Blues Farms hosted first peach festi -
val this weekend , pg. 7Shelton prevails as NCAA singles champion
The sophomore won the title a year after 
teammate Sam Riffice did. Read more on pg.  12 .
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 35
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
SOFTBALL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS 
DEBATE NEXT STEPS
 By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Leanne Haggerty took a shaky breath 
as she watched a live stream of police 
cars circling Robb Elementary School 
from her Gainesville bedroom. Text 
scrolled across the screen: more than a 
dozen children killed. 
The 20-year-old UF applied physiology 
and kinesiology junior heard about the 
May 24 Texas school shooting through 
TikTok. She thought it was a sick joke. 
An 18-year-old gunman killed 
19 children and two adults at Robb 
Elementary in Uvalde, Texas, the 
second-deadliest school shooting since 
Sandy Hook in 2013.
“I was just so lost at the thought that 
someone would choose to walk into a 
school full of young innocent children 
and try to hurt them or kill them,” she 
said. “They really haven't done anything 
to anyone in their entire life.” 
Haggerty prays a gun-related incident 
won’t occur on or near UF’s campus. 
There have been more than 200 
mass shootings in the U.S. this year, 
according to the Gun Violence Archive. 
Twenty-seven of those have been school 
shootings. In 2020, firearms surpassed 
motor vehicles as the leading cause of 
death for children over the age of one 
in the U.S.
In the last two weeks, there have 
been 42 deaths linked to mass shootings 
nationally.
On Sunday morning, a shooting at an 
Oklahoma Memorial Day festival left one 
dead and seven injured. One of the eight 
victims was a juvenile. 
On May 14, an 18-year-old white 
male shot and killed 10 people in a 
predominantly Black neighborhood at a 
Buffalo supermarket in New York.
Alachua County public schools 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson said 
the district has not updated its safety 
procedures since the shootings. ACPS 
classes ended Friday. Duval, Manatee 
and Polk counties banned backpacks for 
the last week of school.
ACPS recently arrested a student 
for bringing a loaded gun to Fort GATORS SOFTBALL IS OKLAHOMA 
CITY BOUND FOR THE FIRST 
TIME SINCE 2019, 11TH TIME IN 
PROGRAM HISTORY
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
With every run Florida batted in to home 
plate, the dugout stacked and taped Powerade 
cups atop a rally cap.
By the end of the five-inning game, the 
orange and blue bound 12 cups together in a 
tower as the team produced a merciless shutout. 
The Gators now head to Oklahoma City to 
compete in the Women’s College World Series 
for the first time since 2019 and the 11th time in 
program history. Their ticket was punched after 
defeating the No. 3 Virginia Tech Hokies in two 
of three Super Regional games.
Last season UF hosted a Super Regional, but 
saw its season come to a close after Georgia 
swept the Gators by a combined score of 10-0 
over two games. 
Game one of the series in Blacksburg, Virgin -
ia, was less than ideal for Florida, as it was shut 
out 6-0 Saturday. Hokies sophomore outfielder 
Emma Ritter’s two home runs highlighted the 
game that was forced to be completed Saturday 
following harsh weather conditions at the top of 
the fifth inning Friday.  
Despite losing the opening game, Florida’s 
solid defense in the final two innings bled into 
Saturday’s second game. The Gators’ series-ex -
tending 7-2 victory set the stage for a winner-
takes-all Sunday finale. 
Virginia Tech senior pitcher Keely Rochard 
struggled to keep Florida batters off the score -
board in Sunday’s first inning. UF freshman out -
fielder Kendra Falby slid home for the first run 
of the game, scoring off of two defensive errors.
In the second, Florida exploded offensively 
as sophomore outfielders Katie Kistler and Av -
ery Goelz recorded runs to put their team ahead 
3-0. Falby tallied another run for the Gators via a 
single from redshirt junior infielder Skylar Wal -
lace.
Rochard gave up two more runs in the third, 
this time to senior outfielder Cheyenne Lindsey 
and freshman infielder Reagan Walsh. Hokies 
freshman pitcher Emma Lemley took over in 
the circle, but the change in pitching style did 
not stop Florida from taking on four more runs 
before retiring the side.
Virginia Tech looked to shift the momentum 
of the game as the Gators led 10-0, making an -
other pitching change with sophomore Macken -
zie Osborne. Goelz singled to center field and 
allowed Kistler to score another run.
A pop fly secured by Lindsey signaled the 
end of the game. Florida players threw their 
gloves in the air in jubilation, tackling fifth-year 
pitcher Natalie Lugo to the ground in glee.
The Gators season started off strong but hit 
some turbulence as they finished conference 
play 13-11, dropping critical games against ri -
vals Alabama, Arkansas and Tennessee. Florida ‘I was just so lost’: 
Gainesville residents 
look for change amid 
recent mass shootingsFlorida routs Virginia Tech, advances to Women’s College World Series
By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
With the conclusion of listening 
sessions, UF community members await 
the next steps in the presidential search 
— many of which will continue behind 
closed doors. 
The Board of Trustees will compile the 
ideal president’s requirements and desired 
characteristics based on community 
input from the past month’s 15 listening 
sessions. The Search Advisory Committee 
hosted its final sessions May 24, allowing 
students, faculty, alumni and Gainesville 
residents to express attributes they think 
the next president should have. 
During the final listening sessions, 
attendees voiced concerns about lack of 
transparency and trust with university 
leaders. They fear political values will 
interfere with the selection.Brantlee Richter, a UF plant pathology 
assistant professor who attended a 
listening session, said trust was breached 
between faculty and the president’s 
office when its values transitioned from 
campus advocacy to obliging the state 
government.  
“The biggest challenge that the 
incoming president is going to have 
to face is how to carve out a position 
for themselves as the president of the 
university, not as an employee of the 
governor,” Richter said.
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed a bill in April 
allowing the Board of Trustees to require 
post-tenure reviews every five years and 
suggesting the Board of Governors may 
develop regulations regarding tenured 
status. He also signed the ‘Stop WOKE’ 
Act last month, which will limit how UF community says new president 
must combat political interference  
SEE SHOOTING,  PAGE 5SEE LISTENING,  PAGE 5SEE SOFTBALL,  PAGE 11During the last listening sessions, many said Florida 
legislators caused faculty’ s distrust of the university
Outfielder Cheyenne 
Lindsey catches  a 
pop fly Feb. 29, 2020. 
She secured the final 
out Sunday, signaling 
Florida’s advance to the 
Women’s College World 
Series.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator StaffT oday’s WeatherSG MINORITY PARTY 
LEADER FAITH CORBETT 
ANNOUNCED ABUSE OF 
POWER INVESTIGATION 
REQUEST INTO SENATE 
PRESIDENT HARTZOG 
AFTER THE CANCELED MAY 
17 SENATE MEETING AND 
ISRAEL TRIP
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government senators 
resumed their weekly meetings May 
24, and senators grappled over com -
mittee recommendations and ethical 
dilemmas.
UF Senate confirmed five senators 
to its Rules and Ethics committee. 
Gator Party's overwhelming majority 
pushed these confirmations through 
Change Party's dissent on each vote. 
Minority Party Leader Faith Cor -
bett said Senate’s vote on Rules and 
Ethics’ recommended candidates 
was unethical and motioned to refer 
those seats back to the Replacement 
and Agenda committee. 
The committee was underper -
forming, she said, by not fairly filling seats and not considering candidates’ 
potential connections to Senate Presi -
dent Elizabeth Hartzog and her pend -
ing investigations.  
President Pro-Tempore Olivia 
Green said Hartzog abstained from 
all votes pertaining to the Rules and 
Ethics Committee when it voted on 
the recommendations. 
Hartzog rejected Corbett’s mo -
tions as Chair of the Senate and ruled 
11 lines of communication as dilatory 
throughout the hour-and-a-half long 
meeting.
Hartzog canceled the May 17 Sen -
ate meeting and traveled to Israel. 
She and External Affairs Director 
Noah Fineberg took the trip with a 
group of senators and student gov -
ernment officials. Both said they at -
tended in their personal capacities in 
statements to The Alligator last week.
Change Party has moved forward 
with an investigation for abuse of 
power against Hartzog. The Rules 
and Ethics Committee set a hearing 
for June 2.
“In Student Government, we 
are the minority party. If we are 
not here to check the majority 
party, what are we really doing?” Deputy Minority Party 
Leader Mohammed Faisal 
asked Senate.
 
Judiciary Chairman John Brink -
man said the complaint against 
Hartzog was unfounded. He cited 
Senate rules  that give Hartzog the 
power to cancel Senate at her dis -
cretion.
Corbett addressed Hartzog and 
Brinkman by name. “Put simply, if 
you are innocent, the facts should 
point this way.”
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 35 Tense Senate meeting addresses 
abuse of power investigation
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
SANTA FE HAS SEEN AN INCREASE IN 
APPLICANTS AS UF ADMISSIONS GROW 
MORE SELECTIVE AND THE THREAT OF 
COVID-19 SUBSIDES
By Lindsay Schindler
Alligator Staff Writer 
As UF admission rates drop with the return to in-
person classes, Santa Fe College’s are on the rise. 
Cynthia Roldan Hernandez, UF media and content 
strategist, said the university’s acceptance rate for the 
class of 2026 was about 22.8%, a steep drop from last 
year’s 32.8%.
Santa Fe has already admitted more than 8,000 
students for Fall 2022 — 170 more freshmen than the 
previous year — and applications are still open, Santa 
Fe recruitment director Quinten Eyman said. He said 
first-time applications are up 4% this year after taking 
a hit the last few years, and this year’s application rate 
is at least on par with, if not more than, what was seen 
before the pandemic.
The college’s reputation of successful transfers 
makes it an attractive option for students who wish to 
attend UF. Santa Fe has the highest percentage of trans -
fers to UF of any college; 68% of students who graduate 
from Santa Fe with their associates degree successfully 
transfer to UF, according to Eyman.
Taylor Denton, a 17-year-old incoming biology 
freshman and aspiring veterinarian, strives to walk across UF’s stage in 2026 with a bachelor's degree. Her 
journey will begin at Santa Fe. 
Denton said UF is her dream school, but she knew 
she didn’t have the test scores or extracurriculars nec -
essary to get accepted straight out of high school. She 
decided to attend Santa Fe for her associates degree and 
transfer to UF in the future. 
COVID-19 also plays a prominent role in the num -
ber of Santa Fe applicants, Eyman said. The pandemic’s 
economic impact has left families struggling.
“We try not to pretend that COVID is over,” he said. 
“Even though we’re seeing it as maybe slightly less of a 
public health impact, the economic impact is still with 
us and probably will be for a while.” 
He said Santa Fe reaches out to less wealthy stu -
dents to ensure they are aware of the cheaper alterna -
tive Santa Fe provides. 
Santa Fe hosts an annual open house around the 
time UF admissions are released. This year, UF deci -
sions were released Feb. 25, and the Santa Fe open 
house took place March 19.  
Students are given the opportunity to tour campus 
and meet with program and academic advisers. 
There is no one-size-fits-all track that students fol -
low in life, and sometimes community college is the 
first step one takes. 
“Our job is to provide information and inspiration to 
help bolster aspiration,” Eyman said.
@lindsschindler
lschindler@alligator.orgSanta Fe college admissions on the riseTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
By Lillian Lawson
Alligator Staff Writer
Six hundred UF community members 
signed a letter opposing a Department 
of Health guideline endorsed by a UF 
professor that prohibits transgender 
people under 18 from adopting 
characteristics matching their gender 
identity.
The guidelines would bar access to 
puberty blockers, hormone therapy and 
gender reassignment surgery. They were 
backed by Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and 
State Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo, 
who is also a UF College of Medicine 
professor.
Ladapo has faced criticism at UF due 
to his controversial views on COVID-19 
measures, which were critical of mask 
mandates, lockdown restrictions and 
vaccines. Many believed he was not 
properly vetted and his tenure was 
rushed.  
He said children should not be in the 
position to make life-altering decisions 
about their gender or sex. The guidelines 
recommend access only to social support 
and counseling. They do not apply to 
those with genetic sex development 
disorders such as irregular development 
of internal and external genatalia. 
“The federal government’s medical 
establishment releasing guidance failing 
at the most basic level of academic rigor shows that this was never about health 
care,” Ladapo said in a press release. “It 
was about injecting political ideology 
into the health of our children.”
Nine members of the UF wildlife 
ecology and conservation department’s 
Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Access 
Committee wrote a letter criticizing 
the guidelines and called upon the UF 
community to advocate for transgender 
healthcare access for children. It was 
emailed to members of the UF community 
Apr. 29.
The letter stated that Ladapo was 
cherry picking evidence and chose 
information aligning with his political 
ideology rather than recognizing current 
transgender healthcare and its importance 
to children’s mental wellbeing. 
Ethan White, a 45-year-old member 
of the wildlife ecology and conservation 
department’s IDEA Committee, said the 
guidelines are constructed in a way that 
neglects scientific suggestions and policy.
“Because this was led by a 
University of Florida faculty 
member, I think it’s really 
important for us to all step up and 
communicate that this is not the 
way that we should be going about 
setting policy,” White said.
White has a child who is a member of 
the LGBTQ community. He said the DOH guidelines go to an extreme, advising 
transgender adolescents not present 
themselves as the gender they identify 
with. The guidelines also go against 
general recommendations on allowing 
adolescents access to medications that 
stop the production of male and female 
sex hormones at the appropriate age and 
stage of life, he said.
If handled incorrectly, he said 
the guidelines could impact LGBTQ 
healthcare.
Olgert Bardhi, a 29-year-old recent 
UF College of Medicine graduate, said 
he wasn’t surprised the guidelines were 
released. He felt they were politically 
motivated and not based on established 
medical studies.
“When I was reading it, I thought 
to myself that they tried to somehow 
do the wording so they sounded like 
it was based on science, but it was 
not,” he said.
He said the DOH guidelines go against 
recommendations from the American 
Academy of Pediatrics and the American 
Psychological Association, which both 
support gender-affirming care.
Bardhi wanted to sign the petition as 
a future medical provider. He said he 
hopes most physicians continue to follow 
the academy’s guidelines — instead of 
the DOH guidelines — to provide the best care for their adolescent patients.
“We’re taught ‘Do no harm’, but if 
you are not able to provide these forms 
of care for the patients, which is in their 
best benefit, then I think that it’s going 
to at least make physicians think twice 
about what they’re doing and if they are 
able to provide the care,” Bardhi said.
Lameace Hussain, a 31-year-old Ph.D. 
student in the Department of Wildlife and 
Ecology Conservation, also signed the 
letter. They came out as non-binary in 
their late 20s while living in Washington 
and did not get the support they needed 
from doctors and their community until 
later in life. Torn on what gender they 
were, Hussain struggled with depression 
and suicide attempts.
“It was incredibly confusing and 
I had no idea what was going on, 
and I always thought there must 
have been something wrong with 
me,” Hussain said.
 
They said the new DOH guidelines 
create discomfort in the LGBTQ+ 
community at UF and in Gainesville — a 
fairly queer-friendly city.
“I think that there’s a looming cloud 
that they go after kids, and eventually 
it’s going to kind of work its way up,” 
Hussain said.
@LillianLLawson
llawson@alligator.orgUF community challenges transgender youth health guidelines
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Graphic depicting the new statement related to the recent Florida Depantment of Health guidance on healthcare for transgender children.
Petition against DOH gathered more than 600 signatures from faculty, staff and studentsTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
Clarke Middle School. One 
student voiced concerns over 
the potential school shooting a 
month prior, and a parent pulled 
their child from the school after 
the incident.
The school district mistakenly 
warned of an active shooter one 
week after the arrest, worrying 
family members across the 
county. 
ACPS’s false message was 
not sent out in response to the 
Buffalo shooting, nor the Fort 
Clarke student bringing a gun to 
school, Johnson said. The district 
was testing its Intrado Safety 
shield system, which is used 
to alert law enforcement and 
administrators of an emergency, 
she said. 
Florida State University also 
sent out a tweet falsely alerting 
residents and students of a  
“dangerous or life-threatening 
situation” on campus May 24. 
The tweet was deleted shortly 
after, and the account clarified 
the message was sent during its 
annual emergency management 
training session with FSUPD.
FSU did not comment about 
additional precautions in 
response to recent shootings.
The state of Florida requires 
all public schools, including 
charters, to have a mobile panic 
alert system. The law, known as 
Alyssa’s Alert, was put in place 
by Gov. Ron DeSantis in 2020 
following the Marjory Stoneman 
Douglas shooting and was named 
after Alyssa Alhadeff, one of the 
17 victims. 
This is just one of the 
precautions in place to prevent 
mass shootings in Florida. ACPS 
fortifies its buildings by assigning 
a law enforcement officer to every 
school; performs regular active 
shooter drills with students and 
staff; screens vendors, volunteers 
and visitors; creates crisis plans 
specific to a school's geography, 
layout and demographics; and 
performs threat assessments.
The Alachua County Sheriff’s 
Office is also part of the Coach 
Aaron Feis Guardian Program, 
spokesperson Kaley Behl said. 
It trains volunteering school 
employees and hires personnel to act as armed guardians.  
“All of that is BS,” local 
Gainesville activist Chanae 
Jackson said. “It is extremely 
reactive and does not fix the root 
cause of the problem.”
Jackson’s top priority is 
banning assault rifles. She said 
background checks, mental 
health advocacy and gun 
buybacks will not work in 
America’s gun culture.
March for Our Lives 
spokesperson Noah 
Lumbantobing said he thinks 
universal background checks, 
mandatory minimum waiting 
times and raising the minimum 
age to purchase a firearm can be 
effective.
March for Our Lives held a 
public Zoom call Wednesday 
outlining their next steps for 
fighting gun violence across 
the country. They called for 
nationwide protests on June 11.
“The important thing to do 
right now is not to lose hope,” 
Lumbantobing said. 
Recent P.K Yonge 
Developmental Research School 
graduate Taylor Witt said she 
felt somber during the last week 
of school. Teachers shared 
their personal condolences 
with students, she said, but the 
administration barely made an 
effort to acknowledge the tragedy 
in Uvalde. 
The 17-year-old worries about 
her younger siblings going to 
school in a country that is not 
doing enough to protect them. To 
decrease gun violence and school 
shootings, she advocated for 
more police officers in schools 
and routine mental health 
screenings. 
Mayor Lauren Poe said the 
discussion of mental health 
is a red herring — distracting 
national conversation from the 
main issue. He advocated for 
strictly regulated and licensed 
vendors, a longer waiting period 
and background checks for 
firearm sales.
He expressed his frustration 
with the “good guy with a gun’ 
theory” in a recent tweet. 
“There were good guys with 
guns and armor on the scene 
immediately. They did not act,” 
Poe wrote. Other countries with similar 
governments and economic 
situations do not experience 
shootings like the U.S. does. The 
differences are the steps these 
countries took to control guns 
and alleviate gun violence, Poe 
said.
In January, the Gainesville 
City Commission approved the 
Gainesville Police Department’s 
request for American Rescue 
Plan Act funds for their One 
Community Initiative to tackle 
gun violence. The commision 
approved $240,000 for community 
oriented policing, $41,350 for 
community education efforts, 
$271,500 for forensic equipment 
and $68,633 for the public safety 
coordinator position. 
Gainesville resident Matthew 
Hutchins, 25, said gun buybacks 
are only effective at getting guns 
off the streets, and that isn’t the 
problem. 
“I hate to sound like an NRA 
tagline, but I don’t know if guns 
are the issue,” Hutchins said. The people who commit mass 
murders will not stop because the 
weapon has changed, he said.  
Williams Temple Church of 
God in Christ will host a Gun 
Buyback, where residents can 
sell firearms without the fear 
of being arrested, June 25. The 
event is organized by the Office 
of the State Attorney, the Eighth 
Judicial Circuit, GPD and the 
Save Our City Initiative. 
Gainesville City Commissioner 
David Arreola said the current 
precautions cannot replace 
regulating military-grade 
weapons. He wants to see assault 
rifles out of the hands of civilians.
However, Florida statutes 
prohibit local governments from 
introducing policy regulating 
firearms. The state can fine 
elected officials up to $5,000 and 
remove them from office if they 
violate this law, Arreola said. 
In 2019, Arreola and other 
elected Florida officials filed 
a brief challenging its harsh 
financial penalties. In 2021, the 
Florida Supreme Court agreed to 
hear the case on June 9. 
Florida statutes also prohibit 
government entities from keeping a “list, record or registry 
of legally owned firearms or law-
abiding firearm owners.”
Other community members 
have different opinions about 
what can be done to prevent 
mass shootings. Retired lawyer 
George Robert Dekle noted school 
shootings are spree killings, two 
or more murders without a break 
in between.
“Unlike serial killings and 
mass murders, spree killings are 
predictable,” Dekle wrote.
He said the U.S. needs a 
nationwide monitoring system to 
detect and apprehend those who 
plan spree killings. 
“Such a system would 
have detected and could have 
prevented the Uvalde shooter,” 
he wrote.
March for Our Lives held a 
public Zoom call Wednesday 
outlining their next steps for 
fighting gun violence across 
the country. They called for 
nationwide protests on June 11.
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
race is discussed in classrooms. Faculty 
fears both laws will affect their academic 
freedom. 
Additionally, DeSantis signed a pair 
of bills keeping the presidential search 
process hidden from the public. 
Ken Dawson-Scully, a father of a UF 
student, said he was worried politics may 
conflict with what the university needs to 
do or wants to do.“It concerns me that the rankings of the 
university could be impacted by those kinds 
of things,” he said. “I think a president 
really needs to be able to ride that razor 
edge between appeasing politicians while 
appeasing what is required to maintain the 
highest rankings of the university.”
UF alumnus Juan Galan said effects 
from tenure and accreditation legislation 
from the state might deter candidates.
“I'm somewhat familiar with the past 
and the level of political interference that existed, let's say, 10 years ago,” he said. 
“But today's level is very disturbing.”
Fellow donors have a similar lack of 
trust in university leadership because 
they also sense a higher level of political 
interference than in the past, he said.
Ashley Sanguino, who attended one 
of the listening sessions, said she wants 
a clear answer on the Board of Trustees 
expected transparency in wake of the 
legislature’s restrictions. Most students 
aren’t given enough information about the 
process, she said, and they deserve to have 
a hand in it.
Rahul Patel, the chair of the presidential 
search committee, said the current process is transparent with no outside influence. 
All meetings are open to the public unless 
individual candidates are being discussed. 
Many attendees expressed regaining the 
trust of faculty will be the biggest challenge 
for the next president. 
Faculty fear the board will appoint an 
outsider who doesn’t understand academic 
systems and how they differ from political 
or business systems, Richter said. She said 
the incoming president needs to understand 
the particular structures and functions of a 
land grant institution.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgSHOOTING,  from pg. 1
LISTENING,  from pg. 1Mass shootings unsettle students
Politics in presidential searchAlligator File Photo
Candles flicker along the front of Library West on Sunday, Feb. 14, 2021. They accompanied 17 
luminaries honoring the people killed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School four years ago.
6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Under the unforgiving May 
sun, Stephen Carr wandered 
around Evergreen Cemetery 
Saturday looking for veterans’ 
graves to place American flags. 
The 75-year-old Vietnam veteran 
and Gainesville resident followed 
paper maps to identify where 
those who served had been laid to 
rest.
More than 1,000 veterans are 
buried across Evergreen’s 56 
acres, located at Southeast 21st 
Avenue. Saturday’s flag-placing tradition happens twice every year 
in anticipation of Memorial and 
Veterans’ Day.  
Marihelen Wheeler, the chair 
of the Alachua County board of 
commissioners, also read the 
county’s proclamation officially 
recognizing Memorial Day to more 
than 200 people who gathered at 
the cemetery Monday.
Attendees held white fans to 
cope with the heat as they sat 
before a stainless steel monument 
inaugurated in November. Los 
Angeles-based artist James Dinh 
designed the monument, which 
features beams with a star-shaped outline.  
Wheeler said it was important 
to remember both the fallen and 
returning service members whose 
lives were significantly altered by 
their experiences.
“They came home, but they 
came home and lost homes. They 
lost limbs. They lost minds,” she 
said.  
Kat Cammack, U.S. 
Congresswoman serving Florida’s 
3rd Congressional District, urged 
attendees to use Memorial Day 
to reflect upon how they can be 
better citizens in light of service 
members’ sacrifices. Carr reflected on his own 
struggles adjusting back to the 
life of a civilian after returning 
home. He said he could sleep only 
with a gun next to him for a year 
following his return home because 
of habits he developed during 
the Vietnam War. Carr said he 
overcame post-traumatic stress — 
even as certain memories lingered.
“Eventually you get back 
into not having to worry about 
combat,” he said. “That’s just the 
way the human brain works, that 
you eventually get over traumatic 
things that happened to you. Now 
some things you’ll never forget, like the death you saw.”
Kathleen Kauffman, a 
member of Gainesville’s Historic 
Preservation board, also 
volunteered. She spoke of her 
own family’s experience with 
generations of military service and 
the importance of setting a positive 
example for the next generation.
“If we don’t show kids that we 
are out willing to volunteer and 
help the community do things like 
this, how do we expect our kids to 
learn how to do that?,” she said.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgGainesville reflects on Memorial Day Weekend
Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Veterans and Alachua County Veterans Services Division members gather at the Evergreen 
Cemetery on May 30, 2022 to honor for those who lost their lives fighting for our country.Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Milton Lewis Young Marines conducts the flag ceremony onat the 
Memorial Day Ceremony at the Evergreen Cemetery on May 30, 
2022.
Evergreen Cemetery hosted two events to honor veterans
Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Milton Lewis Marines fold the flag at Evergreen Cemetery on 
May 30, 2022.Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Citizens gather at Evergreen Cemetery on May 30, 2022, to honor veterans this Memorial Day.
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
With bright skies and fields of fresh fruit, 
Red, White and Blues Farm provided the per -
fect rural escape from Gainesville’s city life.
The farm’s first Peach Festival this weekend 
included live music, games and approximately 
30 vendors. More than 5,000 people attended 
the event.Visitors saw one of the biggest smiles on 
the farm belonging to Steven Keiper, a 45-year-
old Williston resident, who the regulars call 
Farmer Steve.
He started working on the farm cutting sun -
flowers in 2021 and soon fell in love with 27 
acres of the 10-foot-tall plants.
“When I tell you how awesome it was — 
the whole thing was sunflowers,” Keiper said. 
“It was just yellow. You could feel it.”Keiper moved to Williston a year ago after 
deciding Gainesville city life was not for him. 
Downtown made him uncomfortable, Keiper 
said, and he now calls Red, White and Blues 
Farm his spiritual retreat.
He said the set up for the Peach Festival 
looked like a dream come true.
Rachel Eloy, a 19-year-old UF neurosci -
ence and women’s studies junior, and Radha 
Seemongal, a 20-year-old UF applied physiol -
ogy and kinesiology junior, followed dirt roads 
deep into rural Levy County.
“This is one of my first times driving 
through the countryside,” Eloy said. 
“It wasn’t that bumpy — some of 
the Gainesville roads by UF were 
definitely worse.”
 
Seemongal said it was nice to be out in 
nature, disconnected from the internet. The 
family-like friendliness of the other guests was 
not something they recognized in Gainesville.
What started as a family-owned blueberry 
farm has become the growing grounds for sun -
flowers, strawberries and peaches. Stephanie 
Carten, the farm’s marketing manager, said 
they plan to throw a festival for each crop 
grown at the farm. 
An unexpected hard freeze wiped out 95% 
of the farm’s peaches just weeks before the fes -
tival, she said. To make up for the lost crops, 
at least a ton of peaches were shipped from 
South Carolina and a sister farm about an hour 
south in Umatilla, Florida, for this weekend’s festival.
After being sold to the larger H&A Farms, 
the Williston location put its focus into agri -
tourism, aiming to keep the farm open year 
round.
Though some are excited for the future 
of Red, White and Blues Farm, others have 
voiced concerns with commercialization. 
What was once a free entry venue has now 
been burdened with lines and a $5 fee.
General manager Heather Duran assured 
guests the general admission price is only 
implemented on festival days and entry will 
remain free every other weekend.
Red, White and Blues Farm is trying to 
keep the term “festival” exclusive to its crops, 
she said. The farm has many events planned 
for the upcoming seasons including a concert 
series. It also hosts events such as weddings, 
birthday parties and field trips.
After school let out Friday, Edward H. 
White High School juniors and Jacksonville 
residents Mia Benton, 16, and Cassidy Jor -
dan, 17, traveled to Ocala so Jordan could see 
where Benton grew up. 
Benton spent a lot of her upbringing out -
doors tending to her uncle’s horses and going 
to farms to pick blueberries and flowers. The 
girls came to the Williston farm Saturday hop -
ing for a similar experience.
Benton said the Red, White and Blues Farm 
felt like a memory. The two best friends agreed 
to make the trip a new tradition.
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.orgTUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
By Jackson Reyes 
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County high school se -
niors attended their graduation cer -
emonies, maskless and side-by-side, 
for the first time in two years. The 
county had more than twice as many 
COVID-19 cases during this year’s 
graduation week compared to last 
year. 
High school graduation ceremo -
nies in Alachua County did not have 
any COVID-19 restrictions this year, 
and graduates were allowed an un -
limited number of guests. Though 
in-person ceremonies were held in 
the Stephen C. O’Connell Center 
last year, graduates were required to 
wear masks and were spaced for so -
cial distancing. 
According to the New York Times, 
the daily average for new reported 
cases in Alachua County during the 
week of graduations was 70 cases 
per day. Last year, the daily average 
during graduations was 26 cases per 
day. In 2020, the daily average was 4 
cases per day.
John Engstrom, a 21-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said they were 
wary of Alachua County lifting the 
restrictions for the graduations, but 
they attended the ceremony to see 
their friend’s sister graduate. 
Engstrom said the pandemic’s lin -
gering effects put those in attendance 
at risk, including the students gradu -
ating. 
“It’s pretty terrifying to see how many people are here without 
masks,” Engstrom said. 
Optional masking, they said, 
seemed to be in line with how Ala -
chua County has handled COVID-19.
Graduation ceremonies began 
May 24 and ended Friday. Buchholz, 
Gainesville, Eastside, Santa Fe and 
Newberry high school’s graduations 
were held in the O’Connell Center. 
PAM at Loften High School and Haw -
thorne High School’s ceremonies 
were held in the Phillips Center for 
Performing Arts.
Melanie Feltoon, a senior event 
coordinator for the O’Connell Cen -
ter, would not comment on if there 
was any extra security in wake of 
the recent school shooting in Uvalde, 
Texas. Standard guidelines prohib -
ited noisemakers and all weapons 
from the event. Metal detectors were 
also used.
Knekeysha Graham, a 39-year-
old stepparent of a Gainesville High 
School graduate, said she was com -
fortable with a maskless ceremony 
because of declining COVID-19 cases.
New daily cases in 2022 peaked at 
933 Jan. 20 and dropped below triple 
digits with 91 on Feb. 18; they have 
not surpassed that number since.
Graham said she hated seeing stu -
dents graduate under the stress of the 
pandemic. The restrictions, limited 
how much support students could 
get from family by making them pick 
and choose who could attend their 
graduations, she said. 
Saniya Graham, Knekeysha’s 17-year-old stepdaughter and re -
cent Gainesville High School gradu -
ate, said removing restrictions like a 
guest limit allowed her to invite ev -
eryone she wanted to watch her get 
her diploma.
She said she was relieved she 
was able to graduate with her friends 
without being six feet apart.
Tessa Betke, a 17-year-old recent 
Santa Fe High School graduate, said 
it was a relief to graduate without 
social distancing or wearing a mask. 
She enjoyed having the freedom to 
experience the ceremony without 
restrictions, unlike her 20-year-old 
brother, Garrett Betke, who gradu -
ated from Santa Fe High School in 
2020.
Garrett recalled his graduation be -
ing at Gainesville Raceway, where 
he drove a car around the track to 
accept his diploma. He said the hot 
weather was not ideal for sitting in 
the car in a cap and gown.
“Even though we weren’t so for -
tunate, I’m just glad that my little 
sister can get the graduation that she 
always dreamed of,” Garrett Betke 
said. 
Josh Hewett, the 43-year-old fa -
ther of recent Santa Fe graduate Mad -
ison Hewett, said he enjoyed seeing 
the teenagers graduate without re -
strictions — it was a morale boost for 
everyone.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgAlachua County high schools hold restrictionless graduation ceremonies
Seniors did not have to wear masks across the stage for first since pandemic’ s startNamari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Steven Keiper stands in front of the Pumpkin Eater, a machine that gives guests 
a view of the peach festival at Red White and Blue Farm from 30 feet in the air, 
Saturday, May 28, 2022.
Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Two graduates congratulate each other outside of the Stephen 
O’Connell Center after the Santa Fe High School Commencement 
Ceremony Friday, May 27, 2022.
Gainesville residents escape metropolis at Williston’s first Peach Festival
Red, White and Blues Farm implemented new festivals as focus shifts to agritourismKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
NCAA Regionals return to Gainesville this weekend
Florida advanced all the way to the SEC T ournament final in 
Alabama, rewarded with host regional. Read more on pg. 11 .
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
by Kristine Villarroel 
Avenue Staff Writer
When the Hardback Cafe first 
closed down in January 1999, a 
crowd of passionate patrons gath -
ered for a two-day concert featur -
ing 26 bands. Images of broken 
windows, fire-breathing anarchists 
and police officers on horses paint -
ed a picture for many to remember 
— and many others to hear stories 
about. 
In its 30-year lifespan, the 
venue, owned and led by retired 
attorney Alan Bushnell, outlived 
a 15-year-long hiatus, two reloca -
tions and a pandemic, all while 
fostering a close-knit community 
where human expression thrives. 
Patrons talk devotedly of the 
venue’s impact on the people sur -
rounding it and the memories they 
have made there. 
Perseverance and community 
support made the Hardback sur -
vive, but building lease and repair 
complications pushed it out again. 
On May 25, it closed its doors 
again. Its community — reminis -
cent of one that gathered in 1999 
— gathered again, this time for an 
eclectic event. Musicians, artists, 
speakers and patrons attended an 
open mic show performed in the 
style of a church service; Reverend 
Angel Dust’s Tabernacle of Hedo -
nism served as the venue’s send 
off. 
The venue closed a chapter 
right as live music hit a post-pan -
demic high. That irony isn’t lost on 
Bushnell. 
While restaurants closed their 
indoor dining areas at the height of 
the COVID-19 pandemic, Bushnell 
kept the space alive by selling eggs 
and milk outside of the venue’s 
small front porch. 
He had a refrigerator and a busi -
ness license that allowed curbside 
sales, so he made it happen.
“I’ve become a master at 
surviving and functioning 
with the minimum,” Bushnell 
said. “That’s, I guess, my art.”
 
While talking on the venue’s 
porch, a musician friendly to the 
venue rode by on a bicycle and ap -
proached Bushnell and Miller. 
“We’re doing an interview with 
the Alligator about the recent final days,” Bushnell said to him.
“The latest final days,” Miller 
said. “Hardback is forever.”
A place for community
The Hardback embodied the do-
it-yourself spirit of the Gainesville 
music scene. It stood on the pillars 
of diversity, free expression, origi -
nality and resourcefulness. 
“No matter what your act is, 
you’re going to get some love 
there,” Debra Fetzer, frontwoman 
of punk band Piss Test, said.
From its landmark punk rock, 
hardcore and metal; to country, 
hip hop, electronic and folk music, 
Bushnell made it a mission to give 
a stage to all musicians who come 
to his door. 
Inside the dark main room, per -
formers brought life and vibrance 
to the stage. Outside, a crowd gath -
ered between performers, interact -
ing and connecting with one an -
other. Between couches arranged 
in conversational layouts facing the 
stage, unconventional decorations 
and more eccentric artifacts, the 
venue’s layout had a living room 
feel that made every show, no mat -
ter how big, feel like a house show.
“It’s a beautiful symbiosis,” 
Miller said. “It’s not about a 
band being onstage in front 
of an audience, it’s about a 
community coming together 
to interact in creative ways.”
Twenty-four-year-old Adam 
Leme fell into those couches’ open 
seats after he moved to Gainesville 
in 2016. 
He recalled feeling swept up in 
the shared energy that drew a like-
minded crowd to the space, and 
he experienced that characteristic 
openness from the stage when he 
started playing there. 
During his first show with the 
band Ra’sbry, Leme said Bushnell 
stepped in to fix technical sound 
issues in the middle of the set. To 
him, this exemplified the type of 
environment the venue created for 
new performers. Bushnell wasn’t 
just running the sound: he was 
looking out for the acts and helping 
them sound their best.
People like Miller turn to the 
Hardback as an escape from an 
otherwise overwhelming world. To 
him, the strength found in the artis -tic rawness being performed con -
trasted a highly-corporate world 
that has strayed away from human 
values of community and expres -
sion.
“This is like an oasis of peace 
and love even if somebody’s 
throwing a guitar off the stage,” 
Miller said.
A generation’s home
Described by Alligator reporter 
Jenny Williams as “the bastard 
child of downtown Gainesville” in 
1999, the venue gave a flawed but 
beloved home to the vibrant 1990s 
punk scene.
Bushnell founded the Hard -
back in 1989 after law enforcement 
started a city-wide movement to 
shut down house parties — where 
the punk community had existed 
up to that point. 
The original location, where 
Boca Fiesta, the Backyard and Pal -
ominos now sit, wasn’t a perfect 
venue. The building wasn’t well 
maintained, and by the late ‘90s, 
the ceiling was held together by 
duct tape. But with a new space 
to exist, the community made the 
venue their own. 
“The Hardback succeeded be -
cause there were no places for 
bands to play anymore,” Bushnell 
said.
Bushnell sold the business to 
Matt Sweeting and Drew Demaio 
in summer of 1997. Under their 
punk-enthusiastic management, 
the venue reached new heights of 
cultural importance in the scene. 
However, the change proved to be 
short-lived. 
Investors bought the building, 
located in the heart of Gainesville’s 
downtown, and resolved to replace 
the Hardback’s space with com -
mercially friendly businesses. 
It was effectively the end of the 
Hardback as 1999 Gainesville knew 
it. So patrons went all out. 
Twenty-six bands played in a 
two-day pseudo-festival, with ven -
ue regulars like Hot Water Music, 
Radon and Assholeparade perform -
ing their farewells. 
The closure of the original Hard -
back was dramatized and mysti -
fied through oral tradition as it 
was passed from person to person. 
Some think of the farewell show as 
a riot, but Miller, who hosted it, de -
nied that. “The last day wasn’t a riot, 
[there were] police on horses, 
that’s true,” Miller said. “That’s 
what made it look like a riot.”
“The last day” ended with 
the passionate patrons breaking 
windows, smashing beer bottles, 
blowing fire into the night sky and 
effectively tearing down the build -
ing with their bare hands.
No arrests were made and no 
one was injured — it was simply 
a passionate display of a memorial 
service for a beloved space. 
While he admires the notori -
ous farewell, Bushnell hoped the 
recent closure wouldn’t mimic it.
“  Our last day is not going to be 
that,” Bushnell said. “I want my 
security deposit back.”
The Hardback’s legacy nearly 
became an urban myth during its 
15-year hiatus. 
For years, newcomers assumed 
the venue still lived, as Matt Walk -
er noticed while teaching a class at 
UF on his book “Gainesville Punk: 
A History of Bands & Music”.
“People still talked about it,” 
Walker said. “It never went 
out of the consciousness of 
the local music community.”
In 2016, Bushnell reopened the 
Hardback on 211 West University 
Avenue, and the community that 
had been built around it promptly 
returned.
It moved to its current location, 
in the area near downtown dubbed 
“Undertown” by some locals, on 
920 NW 2nd Street in 2019. Again, 
the community followed.
A flower in the turd
Facing lease conflicts and a faulty building, the complications eventu -
ally caught up to the venue, and 
Bushnell decided to close it down 
once again. 
To the community surrounding 
the venue, the closure is a reflection 
of a city-wide trend: rising rent pric -
es and new developments take up 
city resources and push longstand -
ing local businesses out of the frame.
Miller sees it as real estate de -
velopers “taking a big turd on 
Gainesville, and wherever a flower 
can grow, it may pop up around the 
periphery.” 
While trying to find a place to re -
locate, Bushnell has faced the com -
petitive real estate market in the city. 
He says that whenever he looks at 
a space, it’s either needing intensive 
repairs or unaffordable. He’s not yet 
found a suitable successor to the Un -
dertown location. 
Even with these roadblocks, 
Walker doesn’t see the community 
going anywhere anytime soon. The 
author has seen how the scene re -
groups, reshapes and continues to 
survive. 
“You might not know where it’s 
going to pop up next, but it will keep 
existing,” he said. “There’s always 
going to be people who are there to 
create.”
As the Hardback goes into an in -
definite hibernation, the community 
won’t hold its breath. Wherever it 
might happen, the people will use 
their resources as they always have 
and will find, or create, new spaces 
to exist and interact in the creative 
ways the Hardback has always wel -
comed.
@ktnedelvalle
kvillarroel@alligator.orgLong-standing music venue closes doors once again  
MUSICMUSIC
Yingquan Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Two girls hug while listening to the band Heart Prevails at the 
Hardback Cafe’s closing party on Saturday, May 14, 2022.
The Hardback Cafe fades into uncertainty 
after moving out of current locationBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets.  Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                         5-31-3-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
Online Auction Only
Relu Co. d/b/a Paul Davis Emergency 
Services of the Gables
Located at 7369 NW 34th Street, Miami, FL 
33122
Auction ends: Tues, June 7th, 2022 at 10:00 
A.M.
Auction will consist of: 2019 Ford Transit 
Commercial 250 Van Medium Roof 148” w/
Sliding Pass VIN 1FTYR2CMXKKA30259, 
office furniture, air movers, shop vacs, HEPA 
vacs, dehumidifiers, water extractors, carpet 
cleaning machines, sump pumps, ladders, 
scaffolds, generators, pallet racking, com-
mercial cleaning products and chemicals, 
buckets, brooms, mops, warehouse equip -
ment and much more.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: 06/06 by appointment.
Call for details (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-
BIDS
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
No. 22-007900-CA-43
(No onsite attendance)
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin        5-31-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
2For Rent
unfurnished
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds 
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953      
6-6-22-5-6
11..    WWeeddddiinngg  ________
11..    SSccaarreeddyy--ccaatt  55..    IInnjjuurryy
22..    GGrraadduuaattee  66..    RReeggiisstteerreedd  ________
33..    BBaacckk77..    VViissiibbllee  ffeeaattuurree  
44..    BBllaacckk  ________PPLLCCHHEEAA
RRWWOOCCAADDNNDDWWUUOO
NNRREESSUU
MMSSUUNNLLAAUU
EERRNNOOEEDDSSPPCCTTAAEESS
RREEFFSSOOTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--CChhaappeell    55AA--WWoouunndd    66AA--NNuurrssee    77AA--AAssppeecctt
11DD--CCoowwaarrdd    22DD--AAlluummnnuuss    33DD--EEnnddoorrssee    44DD--FFoorreesstt    BB--SSnnooww  lleeooppaarrdd55--3311--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: AA  ________  ________  ccaann  lleeaapp  uupp  ttoo  ssiixx  
ttiimmeess  tthhee  lleennggtthh  ooff  iittss  bbooddyy.. BONUSCanoe, kayak, paddleboard & more best offer 
For sale best offer: ● 3-person canoe, ● 
1-person kayak, ● paddleboard, ● chipper/
shredder, ● portable table saw, ● electric 
power washer. Hawthorne. (352) 301-4707 
5-31-22-3-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
BAM POWER BIKE 
ELECTRIC / MANUAL - Like New. 
Black.  Kendra tires. 
Helmet & 2 battery packs included, $1200. 
Call 352-222-9649                        6-13-22-6-11
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-136 Furnishings
By Ed Beckert
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/31/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/31/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, May 31, 2022
ACROSS
1 Antlered deer
5 Take in the sights
9 Transfer to a new 
city, informally
13 Run out of steam
14 “__ Wolf and 
Cub”: manga 
series
15 Wi-Fi device
16 *Shabby and 
dated
18 Winery process 
that takes years
19 French farewell
20 Matching cups, 
saucers, etc.
22 The Big Apple, 
for short
23 *Tunes for fogies
27 Toothpaste 
option
28 Possesses
29 Spanish Mrs.
30 Issa of “Insecure”
31 Genesis garden
33 Word between 
surnames
35 Rough-sounding
37 Make sweeter, 
in the way the 
theme answers 
do to their starred 
clues?
41 Wristwatch part
44 Actor Lowe
45 MLB team 
in the ESPN 
documentary 
“Once Upon a 
Time in Queens”
49 Bowl over
50 Opposite of NNW
53 Note from one 
who’s shy?
55 Museum 
collection
56 *Blubber
59 Sturgeon product
60 Hot, dust-laden 
Saharan wind
61 Island south of 
Sicily
63 Want very much
64 *Hopelessly out 
of touch
67 Apple desktops
68 Honest-to-
goodness
69 Border on
70 Gael, for one
71 Whirlpool
72 “This Is Us” role 
for Susan Kelechi 
WatsonDOWN
1 Odd
2 Like many  
hand-colored 
T-shirts
3 Magazine story
4 “Sommersby” 
actor Richard
5 Pampering, for 
short
6 “Look, fireworks!”
7 Condo divisions
8 Classroom break
9 Tennis great 
Federer
10 Cosmopolitan 
group?
11 Camera 
accessory
12 Short “Good 
grief!”
15 Eyelash 
application
17 “That hurts!”
21 “Bel-__”: 2022 
drama series 
based on a 
1990s sitcom
24 “Auld __ Syne”
25 Sailing
26 Lock opener
32 Govt. intel group
34 Play a proper 
noun in Scrabble, 
say36 Drive-thru device
38 Ultimate results
39 Spiral
40 Clarinet kin
41 1950s actor 
Mineo or 1950s 
pitcher Maglie
42 Pair
43 Second or third 
staging on 
Broadway, say
46 Oft-pierced body 
part
47 Present proudly48 Furtiveness
51 Cul-de-__
52 Concertgoer’s 
“More!”
54 “Semper Fi” 
military org.
57 Raise
58 Meted (out)
62 “Moby-Dick” 
captain
63 POTUS, militarily 
speaking
65 Pop
66 Underhanded
By Ella Dershowitz
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/24/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/24/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, May 24, 2022
ACROSS
1 Fail to interest
5 Bundle of papers
10 Needs no 
hemming, say
14 “My life. My card” 
card co.
15 World Heritage 
Site in Jordan
16 Law school 
newbie
17 *Hunting-and-
fishing official
19 Just good 
enough
20 Sport that made 
its Olympic debut 
in 2021
21 Personal 
histories
23 Supermarket 
conveniences
24 *End a 
relationship
27 Poses a  
question
28 Tire filler
30 Boot tip
31 Filmmaker 
Craven
32 ATM key
34 Like voices after 
a loud party
35 *Slouch
37 Audition hopeful
40 Lots and lots
41 Mont. neighbor
44 Reacted to head 
scritches, maybe
46 Most junk mail
47 Amanda Gorman 
creation
48 *Adorn with lots 
of bling
50 “In what way?”
51 Pandemonium
52 Lots and lots
54 Start of a story
56 “How clever of 
you!,” and a hint 
to the first words 
of the answers to 
the starred clues
59 Like kids at a 
magic show
60 Luxury watch
61 Romance 
novelist Roberts 
who writes 
mysteries as J.D. 
Robb
62 “Let It Go” singer 
in “Frozen”
63 Bicycle part
64 Jury __DOWN
1 Duffel or tote
2 Sushi experience 
curated by the 
chef
3 Comments
4 Applies, as 
influence
5 Petty quarrel
6 Attendance 
answer
7 Liftoff approx.
8 Tapas corncake
9 Tribute pieces by 
devotees
10 Shoes
11 Glands in squids 
and cuttlefish
12 Sweet __
13 Crafty
18 “Now, where 
__ I?”
22 Mall map units
23 Crow’s call
24 First word in 
many a baking 
recipe
25 Sharp bark
26 “Harriet the __”: 
kid-lit classic
28 Novelist Patchett
29 Symptom 
targeted by an 
oatmeal bath
32 “Mystery solved!”33 Street
35 Cinnamon-y rice 
milk drink
36 Corp. execs
37 Just right
38 Mean mutt
39 Upper arm 
muscle
41 Words of 
gratitude
42 Sweet course
43 “Yo te __”
45 Some a cappella 
singing47 Central European 
country
49 “I’m here to help”
50 “Good” 
cholesterol initials
52 “Black Widow” 
actress Kurylenko
53 Iridescent stone
54 Rage
55 __ makhani: lentil 
dish
57 Acted as tour 
guide
58 Calendar square
05/23/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.11Motorcycles/
Mopeds15 Services 19 Connections 13 Wanted
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
5-31-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
5-31-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6-27-22-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME. 
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $15.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     
5-31-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com             5-31-22-9-14
Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy is 
hiring a part-time cashier for evening shift. 
Schedule is 1:00-9:30, 3 shifts per week. 
Starting pay is $11.00/hr. and eligible for 
raise after 90 days. Fast-paced environment. 
Please come in person to fill out application.  
6-6-4-14
HELP WANTED DONUT CONNECTION
COUNTER / DRIVE-THRU SALES
Salary depends on experience.
5205A NW 39th Ave. Text 352-214-1506, 
email donutconnection1@aol.com. 
6-13-22-4-14DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
5-31-18-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            5-31-1-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                5-31-13-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
5-31-17-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover-
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                 5-31-1-15
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       5-31-18-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-18
Trivia Test  answers
answers below1. TELEVISION: Luke's Diner is a prominent 
feature in which 2000s TV show? 
2. MUSIC: When did The Archies' "Sugar Sug -
ar" hit the No. 1 spot?
3. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What does the Greek 
translation of rhinoceros mean?
4. MOVIES: Which movie features the song 
"Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head"?
5. LANGUAGE: What is the American English 
equivalent of the British English phrase "draw -
ing pin"?
6. U.S. STATES: Which state's nickname is the 
Yellowhammer State?
7. HISTORY: Who is believed to be the first to 
draw a world map, in 6th century BC?
8. AD SLOGANS: Which company advertised its 
product with the one-word description "Fah -
rvergnugen"?
9. GEOGRAPHY: How many states are in Aus -
tralia?
10. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel 
starts with the line, "They're out there"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
I AM A GREAT BELIEVER IN PLANTING THINGS FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS.
 I LOATHE THE NOW CULTURE WHERE YOU JUST LIVE FOR TODAY. — PENELOPE KEITH
solution  belowThe end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Want to Get Paid Daily?
Work 30 minutes a day.
Watch your PayPal account grow.
Easy fun work!
https://www.clkmg.com/milestones13/usft
6-13-22-4-20
WE BUY MORTGAGES FOR CASH
Lump Sum of Cash for
Owner Financed Mortgages
Professional Service / Fast Closing
Call or Click Today! 305-358-0772 or 
TheNoteDepot.com                         5-23-2-20
Crypto- Currency!
Learn the Pros and Cons.
Start building your wealth today.
Fully Explained! www.bit.ly/38ybQ1w    
6-27-22-4-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. "The Gilmore Girls."  2. 1969.  3. Horned nose.  4. "Butch Cassidy 
and the Sundance Kid."  5. Thumb tack.  6. Alabama.  7. Greek 
academic Anaximander.  8. Volkswagen. It's German for "driving 
enjoyment."  9. Six.  10. "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest."10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.BASEBALL
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
HOOVER, Ala. — The road 
to hosting an NCAA Regional in 
Gainesville was filled with more 
potholes and cracks than a UF 
construction site.
The Gators’ Southeastern 
Conference record sat at 6-12 April 
24, putting their chances of making 
the tournament, let alone hosting a 
regional, into question. The team 
rallied, rattling off nine wins in 12 
conference games to end the season. 
The SEC Tournament would be the 
final chance to assert themselves 
as worthy of a hosting placement, 
but even the trip to Hoover was not 
perfect.
After a 10-0 beatdown at the 
hands of the No. 2-seed Texas A&M 
Aggies Thursday, Florida faced 
three straight elimination games 
that would forecast the team’s 
regional fate. The Gators from 
early April, who at one point had 
lost eight of 12 conference games, 
would’ve more than likely folded 
after that kind of loss to the Aggies.
Instead, they kickstarted a three-
game winning streak that sent the 
No. 7-seed Gators to the tournament 
final. Despite a beat-down at the 
hands of the No. 1-ranked Tennessee 
Volunteers in the tournament finale 
Sunday, Florida was awarded a 
home regional.
Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
emphasized the talent, albeit 
inexperience, of the pitching corps all year. After sophomore ace 
Hunter Barco was ruled out for 
the remainder of the year due to 
Tommy John surgery, the depth of 
the highly touted recruiting class 
was put to the test the remainder of 
the year.
The week was a barometer of the 
team’s bullpen.
UF’s top two pitchers, 
sophomore Brandon Sproat and 
freshman Brandon Neely, were used 
before the elimination games began. 
Florida’s chances to host a regional 
were in the hands of unlikely faces. 
Redshirt junior Nick Pogue, 
who battled inconsistency as he 
recovered from his Tommy John 
surgery, allowed just two runs in 
five innings against No. 3-seed 
Razorbacks Friday. Saturday 
morning, against the red-hot 
Crimson Tide, redshirt freshman 
Nick Ficarrotta iced the game with 
6.1 scoreless frames, setting up a 
do-over date with the No. 2-seed 
Aggies.
Sophomore Timmy Manning 
saw his first competitive game since 
April 5 against Texas A&M. The 
lefty rebounded from this season’s 
subpar outings and worked five 
scoreless frames in the semifinal 
against the No. 5 team in the 
country.
If anyone at Hoover Metropolitan 
Complex saw that coming, they 
should play the lottery.
The tournament-finale blowout 
at the hands of Tennessee was a 
disappointing end to the run, of course, but a demoralizing loss from 
the Volunteers is hardly out of the 
ordinary; entering Sunday’s final, 
the nation’s top team outscored 
opponents 27-5 in the tournament.
UF entered the tournament with 
an inoffensive 15-15 conference 
record. The Gators turned that into 
an aggregate record of 19-17: the 
kind of record that allows a ballclub 
to host a national tournament.
Mere hours after the team loaded 
the buses and headed back to 
Gainesville, Florida was announced 
as the No. 13 national seed and 
one of 16 teams hosting a regional. 
Oklahoma, Liberty and Central Michigan will make the trip to the 
Sunshine State as play begins Friday 
afternoon. 
The 2022 Gator baseball season 
was akin to a “Final Destination” 
kind of roller coaster that goes off 
the rails, yet lands on a soft pillow 
and is granted an NCAA Regional.
“We had so many guys that 
didn’t really have a lot of 
positive contributions to the 
season on the field, they got 
their chance today,” junior 
catcher BT Riopelle said. 
“In the last couple of days they really made the most of 
their opportunities and we’re 
really excited about them 
moving forward.”
In spite of the loss to the Vols, 
Florida appears to be playing its 
best baseball at the right time with 
16 wins in its last 21 games, and 
that is just what every team wants 
heading into postseason play. 
The Gators have the deepest 
caverns of their bullpen to thank.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.orgGators to host regional after SEC Tournament run
also persevered through a three-week stretch of games without fifth year 
infielder Hannah Adams after a hand injury kept her out of the lineup. 
UF’s late season performance catapulted it into contention.Florida now 
prepares to face the best teams in the nation on the biggest stage for colle -
giate softball at the Women’s College World Series June 2-10. 
The other seven teams making the trip to the WCWS are the Oklahoma 
Sooners, Texas Longhorns, UCLA Bruins, Northwestern Wildcats, Oregon 
State Beavers, Arizona Wildcats and Oklahoma State Cowgirls.
The Gators first taste of action on the diamond will be against Oregon 
State Thursday. First pitch is set for 7 p.m. and will be televised on ESPN.
@bogle_brenda
bbrenda@alligator.orgSOFTBALL,  from pg. 1Softball topples Tech
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Florida's Brandon Sproat pitches against Jacksonville on March 13, 2021. Sproat pitched 8.1 
innings Tuesday in Florida's 2-1 win over South Carolina.
UF bullpen carries postseason play back to Condron Ballpark for second consecutive season12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, MAY 31, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREMEN’S TENNIS
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
Florida sophomore Ben Shelton 
held a 5-2 lead in the third set of 
the singles championship match.
The No. 2-ranked player and 
current SEC player of the year was 
on the verge of greatness, about to 
secure the national title. 
Shelton calmly delivered a 
powerful serve. San Diego redshirt 
senior August Holmgren countered 
quickly, playing the ball back to 
Shelton’s court. 
Shelton jumped at the chance 
to end the match. He placed the 
ball just out of Holmgren’s reach 
to capture the 2022 Division I 
singles title.
The match was anything but 
comfortable. Shelton lost the first 
set 4-6, before he took an early 3-1 
lead in the second set. Shelton kept 
Holmgren at bay for the remainder 
of the contest, ultimately winning 
4-6, 6-3, 6-2.
Shelton pumped his fist and 
shook hands with Holmgren 
before volunteer assistant coach 
Scott Perelman embraced him in a celebratory hug. His father, 
Florida head coach Bryan Shelton, 
trailed behind. The Buchholz High 
School product grinned over his 
father’s shoulder as he soaked the 
moment.
“I’m just really proud of him 
today with the way that he 
competed,” Bryan said. “He 
never lost his resolve even 
after losing the first set, he 
just continued to get better as 
the match progressed.”
Following the win, the newly 
crowned champion marveled at 
Holmgren’s talent. 
“To be able to beat a player like 
[Holmgren] and come out on top, 
it’s really special,” Shelton said. 
“I’m glad that I got to do it with 
a lot of my family here, my dad 
on the court with me, our great 
coaches and my teammate Sam on 
the sidelines cheering for me.”
Shelton battled his way to the 
title match against Holmgren. He 
defeated Michigan junior Ondrej 
Styler 7-5, 6-2 and Notre Dame senior Axel Nefve 6-0, 7-6 (7-1) 
in the first two rounds of play. 
The sophomore kept it rolling, 
overcoming Ohio State sophomore 
JJ Tracy 6-4, 6-4 and Stanford 
sophomore Arthur Fery 6-3, 6-4.
His Final Four performance 
ultimately punched his ticket to 
the finals. Shelton executed an 
impressive comeback to eliminate 
Tennessee graduate student Adam 
Walton 6-7 (3), 6-3, 7-5.
His display of toughness 
mirrored teammate Sam Riffice’s 
performance a year ago. The 
Gators’ top doubles pair now 
individually hold back-to-back 
singles
 titles. Riffice won the 
program’s third NCAA singles 
crown last season.
Riffice put up a formidable 
showing as the reigning singles 
champion, advancing to the Final 
Four alongside his teammate. 
An all-Florida final wouldn’t 
materialize, however, as the 
veteran did not outlast Holmgren, 
who advanced to the final 6-7, 6-4, 
6-2, to leave one Gator standing.
Shelton and Riffice vied for a doubles title in addition 
to their individual quest, but 
their run came to an end in the 
quarterfinals, falling to Texas 
redshirt sophomore Cleeve Harper 
and senior Richard Ciamarra 7-5, 
6-2.
Shelton becomes just the fourth singles champion from Florida and 
qualifies for a Wild Card bid into 
the 2022 U.S. Open Main Draw.
@bogle_brenda
bbrenda@alligator.orgBen Shelton wins NCAA singles championship  
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Ben Shelton, pictured in a Feb. 2021 match against Auburn, captured 
the NCAA Division I singles national championship Saturday.
The sophomore sensation became 
Florida’ s second consecutive champion