We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  
pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Gainesville's Colombian community celebrates its own "Encanto"
UF students,  alum  appreciate the Latin American representation, pg. 7
Student Government parties announced executive tickets
Gator Party,  Communisty Party chose their candidates, pg. 5Basketball team manager doubles as 
player barber
Ju-Ray Kuo gives out cuts and 
conversations. Read more on pg. 12.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 21
SG HOPES TO MAKE THE 
FORMAL EVENT A NEW 
UF TRADITION
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government is 
trying to establish a new UF 
tradition: a college prom night.
SG and Gator Nights partnered 
to host the inaugural Gator Gala 
Friday evening at the Reitz Union. 
The free event was open to all UF 
students from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
in the Grand Ballroom with live 
music, poker tables and raffles 
for free items, including a UF 
basketball jersey worth $109.99.
A public records request filed 
with UF’s Public Records Request 
Center on Jan. 25 and Jan. 28 for 
the event’s cost were not returned 
in time for publication.
Filling up with about 400 
students by 9 p.m., students 
danced with friends on an LED 
floor as pop music curated by the 
event’s DJ blasted through the 
ballroom speakers. Some wore 
sequined gowns and suits while 
others opted for sweatpants and 
T-shirts. Less than half of the 
students wore masks. 
UF’s Classic Fare Catering 
supplied a buffet of spinach dip, 
cookies and pretzel bites.
Deepak Kashyap, a 25-year-
old UF master’s student, found 
out about the event through 
friends who had seen Instagram 
posts about the Gator Gala. The 
Poker and Blackjack tables with 
free betting chips were the most 
appealing activity, but the food 
could have been better, he said.
“I think it's like adult fun 
time,” Kashyap said. “I think Student Government hosts its first UF Gator Gala
Lillian Lawson / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Students play a game of poker at the Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Friday, Jan. 28. The event was the inaugural Gator Gala, a 
get-together for students with games, food and a dance floor.
CHESTNUT PREPARES FOR 
HER NEW POSITION WHILE 
HOWLAND RETURNS TO A 
GRADUATE PROGRAM
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville voted in its new 
city commissioner Jan. 25, ending 
five months of special elections, 
campaigning and run-offs.In the days following the 
election, commissioner-elect 
Cynthia Moore Chestnut 
prepared for her position as city 
commissioner at-large seat B. 
Opposing candidate Matt 
Howland will be returning to 
his studies, flying between 
Gainesville and his classes at 
George Washington University in 
Washington, D.C.
The two candidates’ 
showdown began in November after Gail Johnson resigned 
from the seat. They ran against 
three other candidates during 
the first special election, but no 
one received more than 50% of 
the vote, resulting in a run-off 
election. 
Chestnut and Howland 
were the only candidates from 
the initial special election 
who progressed to the run-
off. Tuesday night, Howland 
conceded once he was told there weren’t enough votes for him to 
win. Chestnut won by 244 votes. 
The Alachua County 
elections office was buzzing 
with excitement the night of the 
election. Three precincts had 
to drive in their memory cards 
due to loading issues, and one 
precinct had a power issue at the 
end of the night, Alachua County 
Supervisor of Elections Kim A. 
Barton said. Cynthia Chestnut, Matt Howland continue their work in the electoral process
SEE GALA,  PAGE 4SEE ELECTION,  PAGE 4T oday’s WeatherCONSTRUCTION WILL BE 
FINISHED BY THE END OF 
THE SPRING, AND STUDENTS 
AND FACULTY WILL BEGIN 
MOVING IN FOR THE 
SUMMER TERM
By Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
After one and a half years of 
construction, Santa Fe will open 
the doors of its campus expansion 
into downtown Gainesville by the 
end of the semester.
Construction of the 87,366 
square-foot educational center is 
expected to be finished by the end 
of the Spring semester, and Santa 
Fe College plans to open the three-
story building to students and fac -
ulty soon after, said Steve Doll, 
project manager with Parrish Mc -
Call Constructors LLC.
The Charles L. Blount Center 
previously served as the college’s 
outreach and educational facil -
ity in downtown Gainesville. The 
new $36.5 million dollar Blount 
Hall has the same location bene -
fits but will expand its services by 
turning the center into a campus, 
offering everything a college stu -
dent needs from their first day of 
classes until graduation, according 
to the college’s website. 
Parish McCall Constructors is 
waiting on the last of the neces -
sary audio and visual equipment 
to finalize classrooms in the edu -
cational center, he said. The deliv -
ery of these finishing touches has 
been delayed because of COVID-
19-related supply issues.
“All of the classes are set up to 
where they can be broadcasted for 
online schooling,” Doll said.
The new facility is designed to 
be environmentally friendly and is on track to achieve the LEED 
(Leadership in Energy and Envi -
ronmental Design) Silver certifica -
tion from the U.S. Green Building 
Council for sustainability and re -
source efficiency, he said. 
LEED certification considers 
factors like the ratio of natural 
lighting to artificial lighting in the 
building, the reflectivity of the 
roof, the energy efficiency of the 
air conditioning system and the 
amount of waste that leaves the 
site, Doll said.
The facility in Gainesville will 
provide a state-of-the-art, eco-
friendly learning environment 
for students and faculty. But its 
downtown presence will offer 
even more, SF spokesperson Jay 
Anderson said.
“This is really establishing in 
the heart of Gainesville a presence 
here that, again, will be a conve -
nient location for people to get 
to,” Anderson said.
Students will be able to travel 
to their classes at the downtown 
campus with ease — something 
that was not always the case at 
SFC’s northwest campus.
“I’m most excited for just hav -
ing somewhere more in the middle 
of Gainesville and having a place 
that I can go to study closer to 
where I live,” wrote Emma Mesku -
nas, an 18-year-old SFC business 
student, in an email.
Blount Hall will also offer vari -
ous student services including ad -
missions, financial aid, academic 
advising and library spaces, An -
derson said.
The building will roughly dou -
ble the business incubation space 
previously at the Blount Center for 
SFC’s Center for Innovation and 
Economic Development (CIED). 
It will also serve as a convenient 
location for students to complete their degree and certificate pro -
grams in business and information 
technology and offer full A.A. de -
grees for students looking to trans -
fer, Anderson said.
SFC’s Business Incubation Pro -
gram supports start-up companies 
by equipping entrepreneurs with 
the tools they need to grow their 
business, according to the SFC 
website.
Terri Bailey launched her non -
profit Bailey Learning and Arts 
Collective — a community out -
reach and education organization  
— with the help of SFC’s CIED 
program. 
“[CIED] gave me the space and 
the support needed to make those 
dreams become a reality,” Bailey 
said.
Her collective hosts film screen -
ings, selfcare and activism work -
shops and arts events. 
“With [Blount Hall] being lo -
cated close to UF’s innovation hub 
and the innovation district, I hope 
that it will bring more traffic into 
the SFC CIED and that people will 
see it as not only a viable option 
but recognize it as the first stop on 
the entrepreneurial journey,” Bai -
ley wrote.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 21 Santa Fe’s Blount Hall nears completion, looks 
to expand the college’s downtown presence
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
A cyclist passes by the new Santa Fe College Blount Hall building in downtown Gainesville on Friday, 
Jan. 28. It's located on the northeast corner of Southwest Sixth Street and West University Avenue.
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
THERE'S NEVER BEEN A MORE
IMPORTANT TIME TO QUIT!
 
Start the year oﬀ right and make a plan to quit all forms of tobacco.
For more information on Group Quit classes, contact: 
352-273-5224
*If medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 Smoking can cause a higher risk of getting lung and chest infections, and using 
e-cigarettes can increase your odds of developing respiratory disease by 95%.
Tobacco Free Florida oﬀers in-person or virtual Group Quit sessions for all 
Florida residents. Upon class completion, participants are eligible to receive 
free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches, or lozenges.*  
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools
and services at tobaccofreeﬂorida.com/quityourway.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022“Every night, every election, 
we're always on pins and needles 
waiting on results to come in,” 
Barton said. “It’s always exciting 
but it's always a wait game. 
We've got to focus on the 2022 
election and redistricting, of 
course. We've got to now turn 
our hearts towards that.”
To prepare for her term, 
Chestnut plans to attend City 
Commission meetings as a 
member of the public before 
her swearing-in ceremony Feb. 17. She will meet with city staff 
to be brought up to speed on 
current issues the commission is 
discussing, she said.
“I want to have a good 
understanding of the 
infrastructure monies and how 
they can be used and to look 
at ways that we can help our 
citizens,” she said. 
She attended her first City 
Commission meeting as a 
commissioner-elect on Thursday. 
UF political science and 
sustainability major Anton 
Kernohan was a member of Chestnut’s campaign staff. 
Three years ago, the 22-year-
old interned with Chestnut and 
the Alachua County Democratic 
Party. 
“I didn't know if I wanted to 
dive into politics or not but it 
was under her leadership … that 
I realized this is what I wanted to 
do,” Kernohan said.
When Chestnut won the 
election, Kernohan was happy 
for her. 
“I've worked on a lot of 
different campaigns before and some of them win, some of 
them have lost,” Kernohan said. 
“But seeing her win and seeing 
somebody that's been a mentor 
for me, it was actually a really 
heartwarming experience.” 
Chestnut hopes to continue 
her efforts toward the initiatives 
and issues she discussed during 
her campaign. 
“I'm going to be busy 
working with the community 
on voter education, educating 
the community on issues that 
the commission is dealing with 
and trying to get people more 
involved in the electoral process,” 
she said.
Howland will also continue his work on elections. However, 
this time he’ll be conducting 
electoral research rather than 
campaigning. He plans to 
resume his studies in a political 
communications research 
program in Washington D.C.
“I actually research 
misinformation and 
disinformation and its effect on 
voters,” he said. “The interesting 
thing is I might be able to use 
data from my campaign in my 
studies as well, which is pretty 
cool.”
Howland is thankful for 
his time as a City Commission 
candidate and feels the challenges 
thrown at him during the race 
only made him more resilient and 
patient.
“My mother passed away 
three weeks before the election,” 
he said. “One of my best friends 
passed away two weeks before 
the election. It was really difficult 
down the stretch but I definitely 
grew throughout the process.”
He’s now making it a goal to 
help further the careers of those 
that helped him on his campaign.
“My first priority is to 
find opportunities for all the 
incredible people that worked on 
my campaign that want to go on 
to work on other campaigns,” he 
said.
Claudia Tio-Cartagena, 
Howland’s 23-year-old campaign 
manager, is now working 
with District 3 Congressional 
candidate Danielle Hawk.
She’s proud of the work 
Howland’s team accomplished 
and hopes to continue organizing 
campaigns.
“I think we ran a really 
positive campaign — we ran a 
grassroots campaign,” she said. 
“We knocked on almost 8,000 
doors all over Gainesville.”
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgELECTION,  from pg. 1Chestnut will begin her term Feb. 17
Reagan Knight / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
City Commissioner-elect Cynthia Chestnut (center) stands with Gainesville NAACP President Evelyn Foxx (left) and School Board 
member Tina Certain (right) at her election watch party at Cypress and Grove Brewing Company on Tuesday, Jan. 25.
there was a little more hype surrounding 
this event since there was [a] casino and 
stuff.”
Gator Nights and SG contracted with 
Everything But the Mime, Inc. for the 
poker tables, 3-D photo booth and other 
attractions in the ballroom, said Drew 
Baker, the UF assistant director of campus 
traditions.
One floor up, the Rion Ballroom hosted 
a Gator Gala exclusively for juniors from 7 
p.m. to 8 p.m. 
The juniors’ hour was meant to unify 
the class, celebrate accomplishments 
and empower students for senior year — 
especially after the pandemic, Junior Class 
President Blake Robinson said. 
Bringing students together was a main 
motivation behind SG’s Class Councils’ 
choice to host the gala in general, said 
Senior Class President Jacob Van De Car. 
“The best way to describe it is like 
college prom,” he said. “Our mission is to increase class identity and also boost 
alumni participation rate.” 
The gala represented a redemption for 
some students who missed their high school 
prom due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Some students like Rebecca Herschberg, 
a 20-year-old UF second-year criminology 
major, said her high school didn’t offer an 
event like this.
“High school didn’t have prom,” she 
said. “It’s just something random and 
different to do for a Friday night.”
The Gator Gala has been in the works 
since the middle of the Fall semester, 
as the project required Class Councils 
members Van De Car and Robinson to 
work alongside each other to organize the 
gala, which included securing a venue, 
food and marketing. 
“In 30 years, I want Gator Gala to still be 
a thing,” Van De Car said. “It's really cool 
to have the opportunity to start something 
like this and put that in motion.”
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgGALA,  from pg. 1About 400 students attended the free event
Lillian Lawson / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
A group of students play poker at the inaugural Gator Gala in the Reitz Union 
Grand Ballroom on Friday, Jan. 28.
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
A SPORT AND EXERCISE FOR SOME, A LEISURE 
ACTIVITY FOR OTHERS, YET THE DANGERS 
REMAIN THE SAME
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville cyclists are ready for long-awaited changes to 
keep them safe on the roads.
The Gainesville City Commission approved a speed reduction 
plan on Jan. 20 to improve safety for pedestrians and cyclists 
around the city. The commissioners looked at studies of different 
traffic safety in other cities and found that speed was the number 
one determinant when it comes to fatalities and injuries.
The plan would include reducing speed limits to 30 mph 
on city roads, not including University Avenue, 34th Street and 
13th Street, and to 20 mph on neighborhood streets to combat 
cyclists’ deaths and encourage safer driving. However, some cy -
clists believe the changes won’t make a difference. 
Fatalities of cyclists involved in crashes have increased in 
Alachua County since 2019. There were zero reported bicycle 
fatalities on the Florida Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles’ 
website in 2019, two in 2020 and four in 2021. 
Eliot Spector has been hit by cars multiple times since he 
began cycling with Team Florida Cycling more than a year ago. 
He believes the issue goes beyond just reducing drivers’ speeds. 
The 25-year-old UF health outcomes and biomedical infor -matics graduate student’s worst experience was biking past 
Rawlings Hall. An oncoming car turning left caused him to col -
lide with the curb and launch off his bike. 
“I’ve seen this happen to multiple friends over and over, 
and immediately when it happened, the driver started yelling at 
me,” Spector said. “It’s very frustrating as a cyclist when it hap -
pens obviously because you know that they’re in the wrong but, 
they’re somehow still blaming you.”
One of the most recurring collisions and close calls for cyclists 
is when a car making a right turn doesn’t check the bike lane 
and cuts the rider off.
“This just happens a lot,” Spector said. “It’s almost complete -
ly predictable.” 
Spector and his friends expect the worst when riding and 
have a constant feeling of danger, especially on University Av -
enue, 34th Street and Archer Road, which are not safe for bikes. 
“If you actually need to bike to commute, you have to ei -
ther intersect or go directly on roads with dangerous bicycle 
infrastructure,”Spector said.
City Commissioner David Arreola said reducing speed limits 
citywide has sparked a large public debate with support and op -
position to the plan. Arreola views the discussion as a question 
of justice.
“Are we going to prioritize people’s convenience behind the 
wheel to go faster speeds?” Arreola said. “Or are we going to say: 
‘Enough is enough?’” 
He argued the inconvenience of lower speeds is incompara -
ble to the safety and lives of pedestrians and cyclists but encour -
ages an ongoing debate until the speeds are lowered. 
This is not the final solution, though, Arreola said. 
“I believe that it is time for Gainesville to invest in a bike road -
way infrastructure so that people can ride their bikes throughout 
the city to get where they need to go,” Arreola said.  
The new speed reduction plan will not affect roadways 
maintained by state, county or federal governments — meaning 
University Avenue, 34th Street and 13th Street speed limits will 
remain the same.
Pegeen Hanrahan was Gainesville mayor from 2004-2010 
and a city commissioner from 1996-2002. She rode her bike to 
work every day during her time in politics. 
Although the speed tables on University Avenue were a step 
in the right direction, Hanrahan said this is a temporary fix. 
A major road project or reconfiguration is a complex process 
that could take 15 to 20 years, involving multiple levels of gov -
ernment to achieve, Hanrahan said.
Hanrahan said some of the issues go beyond the road’s de -
sign.
A large portion of Gainesville’s population is students. The young, inexperienced drivers don’t fully understand how vulner -
able pedestrians and cyclists are, Hanrahan said.
“People send their children here thinking they’ll be safe,” 
Hanrahan said. “Sometimes they’re not. It’s heartbreaking.”
University Avenue poses an issue for everyone, not just cy -
clists. Nearly a year ago, two students lost their lives within less 
than a month of each other, Maggie Paxton, Dec. 9, and Sophia 
Lambert, Jan. 16. Recently, Sabrina Obando was hit by a pickup 
truck and killed trying to cross Northwest Eighth Avenue. 
Andrew Millford, a 35-year-old UF student pursuing a doc -
torate degree in education, works in UF Student Government’s 
Bike Repair shop in the J. Wayne Reitz Union building. He said  
roughly once a month a student comes to the shop for repairs 
who was involved in an accident with a car.  
He’s been biking to class for years and relies on cycling for 
his job at Jimmy John’s, where he’s noticed why some cyclists 
might feel threatened by drivers, and vice versa. 
“They don’t know how to communicate and work with each 
other with traffic laws,” Millford said. “You’ll need to know 
rules of the road.”
Although Millford said some places in Gainesville are set up 
well for cyclists — like one-way streets and dedicated bike roads 
— he believes the city could use improvements. 
At the bike repair shop on campus, Millford meets new cy -
clists often and offers his own advice. 
“I try to tell kids that are not good at biking, haven’t done it 
in a while or don’t know their bike to just stay off University, 
stay off 13th, stay off 34th — even though they have those bike 
lanes,” Millford said. “It’s a deathtrap.”
Spector supports the City Commission’s plan to reduce 
speeds throughout Gainesville and wants residents to embrace 
the possibility of a more inclusive city design.
“You step out of your house, and then you have the only 
place you can really walk is within 10 feet of a 50 mph, two-ton 
piece of metal,” Spector said. “It’s just absurd.”
It comes down to an argument about humanity and quality 
of life, Spector argued. 
While Spector understands cars are essential for some, he ad -
vises other cyclists — and drivers — to view the other through a 
human perspective, that nobody is intentionally trying to injure 
or cause a dangerous situation. 
Millford and Spector want a more cyclist-friendly city in the 
future, but Hanrahan said these things would take time, maybe 
even decades.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.org
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
Two Student Government 
parties announced their 
candidates for executive positions 
three weeks before elections start.
UF students can cast their 
votes for a new Student Body 
president, vice president and 
treasurer Feb. 22 and 23. Students 
will also choose 50 new senators 
to take over seats organized by 
college and credit hours. 
All parties running this 
election must be registered with 
the Supervisor of Elections by 
Jan. 27 at noon. 
Campaign season officially 
began Tuesday night.
Within 17 hours, Gator Party 
announced its executive ticket 
in the Plaza of the Americas 
Wednesday morning. Gator Party 
currently holds the SG executive 
office and the majority of the UF 
Senate.
In 50-degree weather, roughly 50 students crowded around a 
lectern to meet the candidates. 
Around 11 a.m., party 
president Timothy Shin 
introduced the party’s ticket: 
Lauren Lemasters for Student 
Body president, Daniel Badell 
for vice president and Sierra 
Kantamneni for treasurer. 
“I will be only the ninth 
woman to serve as Student Body 
president,” Lemasters said. “It’s 
been a while, and I do not take 
lightly the responsibility that 
comes with this.”
All three candidates currently 
hold positions in SG offices. 
Lemasters serves as the chief 
of staff to the Student Body 
president, Badell as the SG 
transition cabinet chair and 
Kantamneni as the chief of staff to 
the Student Body vice president.
Student Body President 
Cooper Brown looks forward to 
the candidates’ bid for office, 
he said. He wants to shift the 
public’s focus from himself to the new executive ticket’s leadership 
and campaign. 
The Communist Party, led by 
President Aron Ali-McClory, also 
has their executive ticket planned 
out. 
Alfredo Ortiz will run for 
Student Body president, Izzy 
Myers for vice president and 
Anthony “Ant” Conde for 
treasurer, Ali-McClory wrote in 
an email. 
“Candidates will come from 
a diverse set of backgrounds, 
bringing their unique sets of skills 
to the table to help realize our 
ambitious platform,” he wrote.
Change Party did not respond 
to a request for comment in time 
for the Alligator’s publication.
It is unclear whether other 
parties will run. The Alligator 
submitted a request for the list of 
registered parties once it has been 
finalized.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgPedestrian deaths spook Gainesville’s cyclists who want safer streets
Gator Party, Communist Party announce executive tickets for Spring 2022 elections
Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
Lauren Lemasters, Gator Party’s nominee for Student 
Government president, walks up to the podium outside of 
Library West at the announcement of the party’s executive 
ticket on Wednesday, Jan. 26.
Election season began Tuesday evening and 
parties have until Jan. 27 at noon to registerMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
As Animal Resources and Care 
— formerly known as Alachua 
County Animal Services — be -
comes increasingly overpopulated 
and understaffed, more animals 
are going into the no-kill shelter 
than coming out, volunteers said.
Alachua County Animal Re -
sources and Care euthanized 168 
animals in 2021, and they could 
have euthanized 149 more last 
year and still held their “no-kill” 
title.
The goal of no-kill shelters is to 
only euthanize animals who are 
extremely unhealthy, according 
to Maddie’s Fund — a nationwide 
no-kill advocate organization. But 
that isn’t always the reality. 
Shelters are still allowed to eu -
thanize up to 10% of the animals 
they intake each year. This isn’t 
a government regulated title but 
rather an “honor code” that shel -
ters are expected to follow with a 
90% live release rate.
Melanie Bracewell, a 44-year-
old Gainesville resident, volun -
teered at ACAS from 2019 to 2020.  
“I don’t think people under -
stand that no-kill means that 
you’re still euthanizing hundreds 
of dogs a year at the shelter be -
cause of the overpopulation prob -
lem,” Bracewell said. “I just wish 
people knew that.” 
The shelter euthanized 87 dogs 
and 81 cats, according to its 2021 
report.
The recent canine distemper 
virus outbreak puts shelter dogs 
at greater risk of euthanization 
because those in quarantine are 
not eligible for adoption. Five dogs 
have been infected with distem -
per, according to a Jan. 25 press 
release.
Solitary Confinement
The shelter has about 110 ken -
nels all in varying conditions. 
Some kennels include cots while 
other dogs sleep on the concrete 
floor. Three walls of the kennels 
are concrete, confining dogs to 
only see those who walk past. 
When all the kennels are full, staff 
puts the remaining dogs into wire 
crates.
Bracewell compares the con -
crete kennels to jail cells. The 
dogs’ mental health takes a toll 
in this stressful environment, she 
said.
“It’s almost like solitary con -
finement for every dog,” Bracewell 
said. “It’s just a really scary place 
for them because they’re constant -
ly in a state of agitation and they 
don’t really get to interact with the 
other dogs in a positive way.”
Limited staffing at the shelter 
means workers leave dogs to sit 
in their own feces, reducing their 
odds of going for a walk, Brace -
well said. Dogs can become ag -
gressive in this type of confine -
ment — a behavior that leads to 
euthanization.
Dr. Amy Stone, a clinical as -
sistant professor at the UF Small 
Animal Hospital, wrote in an email 
that isolation can cause animals to 
get stressed and may lead to pac -ing or chewing.
“We don’t really understand 
all of the behaviors long term that 
can stem from this stressful time,” 
Stone wrote. “Some dogs toler -
ate this just fine. It is going to be 
dependent upon the dog and the 
dog’s experience.”
‘Who can help us save these dogs?’
Bracewell’s first email to Coun -
ty Commissioner Anna Prizzia on 
May 23 was a call for help. She 
asked officials to investigate the 
shelter’s conditions. She received 
no response.
“They don’t even care what the 
volunteers think at that point,” 
Bracewell said. “They want the 
volunteers to help them walk their 
dogs and clean up and do whatev -
er, but they don’t really want the 
volunteer input of who can help us 
save these dogs.”
Animal Resources and Care 
puts little effort into reaching out 
to the community for support, 
she said. There are only adoption 
events when the shelter is full. It 
doesn’t promote fostering opportu -
nities and has yet to replace many 
of those who have quit in the past 
year — both staff and volunteers.
“At that point they just want 
everyone just to not say anything 
and just deal with it while this 
dog that you’ve fallen in love with 
months ago is gonna be killed,” 
Bracewell said.
Bracewell wrote to Prizzia again 
Jan. 5, asking for regular inspec -
tions of the shelter and its lead -
ership. She pointed out that the 
playgroups — which give the dogs 
time to interact with each other 
outside of the kennels — weren’t 
well executed or maintained.
She again received no response 
from Prizzia. Her message was 
forwarded to Ed Williams, the di -
rector of Animal Resources and 
Care Jan. 7. Bracewell found this 
counterproductive as Williams 
brushed off her concerns and said 
playgroups have continued to hap -
pen up until the dogs’ quarantine. 
He also pointed to Bracewell’s ab -
sence from the shelter.
“I just felt like he seemed to be 
more concerned about how the 
shelter looked to the commission -
ers,” Bracewell said.
Bracewell hasn’t volunteered 
since August after she felt the 
shelter was only looking for labor 
rather than caring for the animals’ 
well-being. The shelter wasn’t put -
ting effort into finding these dogs 
foster care or forever homes, she 
said.
On Jan. 11, Prizzia requested 
a review of the shelter’s standard 
operating procedures and policies 
by the board. 
Prizzia didn’t respond to The 
Alligator’s multiple requests for 
comment by phone and email in 
time for publication.
‘ Adoptable one day, 
euthanized the next day’
A current volunteer, who has 
worked there over five years, re -
quested to be anonymous — fear -
ing Williams would kick her out of 
the shelter. Despite Williams’ response to 
Bracewell’s email, the playgroups 
have been erratic and disorderly, 
the volunteer said. Many of the 
staff who attended the Animal Re -
sources and Care playgroup train -
ing in June have since then quit 
due to various reasons.
“Ed is good at making things 
sound like progress is happening, 
but if you dig deeper, you realize 
it’s all a facade,” she said.
The shelter lacks the proper 
training on understanding dog be -
havior, the volunteer said. Not all 
dogs are guaranteed to be taken 
out due to limited staff and disor -
ganization. 
The shelter has trouble keep -
ing track of which dogs have 
been walked and which have not 
because most go unrecorded, she 
added. Now that dogs are staying 
at the shelter for months on end 
without being handled for days, 
there is a rise in behavior issues. 
“There definitely are dogs and 
cats that are euthanized without 
letting the public know,” the vol -
unteer said. “There are also dogs 
that were adoptable one day and 
then euthanized the next day.”
The volunteer emailed the 
county commissioners and talked 
with County Manager Michele Li -
eberman about her concerns with 
the shelter and started reaching 
out more frequently, sending page-
long emails in October, November 
and December. Emails were left 
with no response, except for one 
thanking her for her feedback and 
hardwork.
“Volunteers and kennel staff 
were talking as early as mid-No -
vember that things at ACAS were 
the worst we’ve seen in years and 
yet commissioners seem to ignore 
our pleas for help,” the volunteer said.
Williams encourages volun -
teers with concerns or questions 
to speak to the volunteer coordi -
nator, a supervisor or himself. 
“Things may look a little more 
disorganized to a volunteer right 
now then they would normally 
look because different areas of the 
shelter are segregated off, having 
to separate the population,” Wil -
liams said. 
The shelter tried to transfer 
more than 40 dogs to partnering 
rescue groups but did not get a 
large response. Only one or two 
dogs were pulled from that group, 
Williams said.
“We’re seeing the light at the 
end of the tunnel, Williams said. 
“We just did another round of test -
ing and we’re beginning to get re -
sults back. We just want to make 
super sure that before we reopen 
[dog adoptions] that we’re com -
pletely clear of all the distemper 
and any other respiratory things 
we might have from time to time.”
Cutting ties
In 2019, two nationally award -
ed animal control experts from 
Hillsborough County Pet Resourc -
es, director Scott Trebatoski and 
managing director of operations 
David Morton, conducted an eval -
uation of the Alachua County shel -
ter. They criticized Ed and made 
it clear that the shelter was under 
bad management.
“Ed lacks a clear sense of ur -
gency and drive to get things done 
now,” the two wrote in their final 
report. “His staff have little to no 
respect for him because they feel 
he lacks follow through and does 
not drive changes and improve -
ments needed in a visible way.”
The Humane Society of North 
Central Florida cut ties with Ala -
chua County Animal Services in 2020 after their more than 20-year 
partnership due to multiple issues 
with dogs coming out of ACAS. 
The Humane Society was a 
place the shelter could transfer 
animals once ACAS became over -
crowded. This was stopped par -
tially because many dogs the Hu -
mane Society was pulling from the 
shelter became sick and endan -
gered other dogs in their program, 
said Margot DeConna, director of 
advancement.
The society’s Executive Di -
rector Heather Thomas wrote an 
email to the County Commission 
requesting an intervention.
“Our coalition has been fighting 
for years to create a higher stan -
dard of care for the animals in our 
county shelter,” Thomas wrote. 
“Our cries have been ignored and 
the most powerful thing we could 
do was to stop taking in sick and 
mentally unwell animals from Ala -
chua County Animal Services.”
The county gave no direct re -
sponse. Today, the two organiza -
tions’ interactions are minimal, 
but they still lead to concerns.
Animal Resources and Care’s 
report in 2021 referenced that 21 
animals had been transferred to 
the Humane Society. However, 
DeConna said they only received 
seven.
“We have pulled reports before 
that have been incorrect,” DeCon -
na said.
The shelter is hoping to open 
up for dog adoptions the second 
week of February at the latest.
Despite the public’s concern, 
the Alachua County shelter’s 2021 
report claims it killed zero healthy 
animals. Until an intervention 
proves otherwise, the shelter’s re -
cord remains clean.
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.orgShelter volunteers speak out about the harsh reality at Animal Resources and Care
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
The Animal Resources and Care building is seen on Friday, Jan. 28.
Euthanasia for overcrowding, lack of resources continuesKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
After six years and two surgeries, Garrett Milchin is 
still living the dream
UF baseball’s oldest player has seen it all, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Indepe nde nt Florida Al liga tor 
news racks have be en 
STOL EN. We are off ering a 
$300 reward for information 
leading to the ARREST and 
CONVICTION of anyone w ho has 
either taken or participate d in 
taking a rack, or w ho has a rack 
in their poss ession.
CONTACT:
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPTARTMENT  
(352) 955-1818$300 REWARD
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsUF ALUM AND CURRENT 
STUDENTS SPEAK ON 
REPRESENTATION IN THE 
DISNEY FILM
By Jared T eitel 
Avenue Staff Writer
As “Encanto” spotlights the vi -
brance of Colombian culture on the 
big screen, the Gainesville Colom -
bian community celebrates its own 
magic. 
The 2021 Disney film tells the 
story of the magical Madrigal fam -
ily who resides in the mountain -
side of Casita, Colombia. When the 
Madrigals lose their powers, the 
only family member without mag -
ic, Mirabel, makes it her mission to 
save her family.  
“Encanto” is Disney’s first 
musical to represent the Colom -
bian community. The musical’s 
soundtrack by Lin-Manuel Miranda 
reached No. 1 Jan. 15 on Billboard 
200. The film’s discussion of im -
migrant family dynamics reached 
Gainesville, warming the hearts of 
local Colombians. For one Gainesville restaura -
teur, expressing her Colombian 
culture through her craft has been 
her lifelong mission. 
Sara Puyana lived in Colombia 
until she was 3 years old, when her 
family migrated to the Miami area 
to seek refuge after her father’s 
jewelry store was robbed four 
times. Aside from growing up in a 
Hispanic family, her frequent trips 
to Chico’s restaurant in Hialeah, fu -
eled her passion for Latin cuisine.
Puyana moved to Gainesville 
to attend UF in Summer 2000 and 
brought the food she grew up eat -
ing to a place that was missing it. 
The 40-year-old entrepreneur 
continues to leave her mark on the 
community with her two restau -
rants — Flaco’s and La Cocina de 
Abuela. 
Inspired by her godparents and 
Miami’s Cuban culture, Puyana 
opened Flaco’s Cuban Bakery in 
2006. She opened La Cocina de 
Abuela, a Colombian eatery, in 
2018.  
Puyana’s representation of 
central Colombia is evident in her bandeja paisa. The dish is tradi -
tionally served with steak, chorizo, 
pork belly, rice with a fried egg, red 
beans, avocado slices and a white 
arepa.
In sharing her thoughts on “En -
canto,” Puyana laments her ap -
preciation of lyricist Lin-Manuel 
Miranda’s focus on mental health 
and the hard-working nature of the 
Colombian community. 
“It touched my heart so much,” 
she said. “He does such a good job 
of showing how we really value 
ourselves.” 
UF also captures a portion of 
Gainesville’s Colombian popula -
tion through its student organiza -
tions. 
When Isabella Montoya, a 
22-year-old UF information sys -
tems senior, moved to UF, she felt  
culture-shocked after growing up 
in a city that lacked Latin represen -
tation. 
“It was crazy to see … how big 
the Colombian community was,” 
she said about UF. “It really helped 
me get back into listening to more 
Colombian music, Spanish music, celebrating traditions and holidays 
that we have.” 
After seeing “Encanto,” Mon -
toya gushes over the justice she felt 
it served her community. As a fan 
of Latin music, she was quick to 
catch the film’s use of Colombian 
music styles. “It’s really inspiring and nice to 
see Colombia in a really positive 
light,” she said. “It was just really 
nice seeing representation in the 
film industry.”
@jaredteitel
jteitel@alligator.orgGainesville’s Colombian community celebrates its own “Encanto”
MOVIESMOVIES
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Marta Puyana, namesake of La Cocina de Abuela, hugs her 
three grandchildren (left to right) Otis Puyana Darnell, 6, 
Valentina Peña Rey, 5, and Lucielena Puyana Darnell, 4, at 
La Cocina de Abuela on Friday, Jan. 21.
LUNES, 31 DE ENERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Luego de seis años y dos cirugías, Garret Milchin 
todavía está viviendo el sueño
El jugador de béisbol más viejo de UF lo ha visto todo,  pg. 11El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
LA CONSTRUCCIÓN SERÁ 
COMPLETADA A FINALES 
DE ESTA PRIMAVERA Y LOS 
ESTUDIANTES Y PROFESORES 
SE MUDARÁN PARA EMPEZAR 
EL SEMESTRE DEL VERANO
Por Lily Kino 
Escritora del Caimán 
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
Después de un año y medio de 
construcción, Santa Fe abrirá las 
puertas de su expansión del campus 
en el centro de Gainesville para fines 
de semestre.
Se espera que la construcción 
del centro educativo de 87,366 pies 
cuadrados esté terminada para fines 
del semestre de la primavera, y el 
colegio Santa Fe planea abrir su edi -
ficio de tres pisos a los estudiantes y 
profesores poco después, Steve Doll, 
gerente de proyectos de Parrish Mc -Call. Constructores LLC dijo. 
El Centro Charles L. Blount sirvió 
anteriormente como centro educa -
tivo y de divulgación de la univer -
sidad en el centro de Gainesville. El 
nuevo Blount Hall de $36,5 millones 
de dólares tiene los mismos benefi -
cios de ubicación pero expandirá sus 
servicios al convertir el centro en 
un campus, ofreciendo todo lo que 
un estudiante universitario necesita 
desde su primer día de clases hasta 
su graduación, según el sitio web de 
la universidad.
Parish McCall Constructors está 
esperando los últimos equipos de 
audio y visual necesarios para finali -
zar las aulas en el centro educativo, 
dijo. La entrega de estos toques ha 
sido atrasado debido a problemas de 
suministro relacionados con el CO -
VID-19.
“Todas las clases están configura -
das para que puedan transmitirse en 
línea también”, Doll dijo.
La nueva instalación está dis -
eñada para ser respetuosa del medio 
ambiente y está en camino a lograr la certificación LEED (Liderazgo en 
Energía y Diseño Ambiental) Plata 
del U.S. Green Building Council por 
su sostenibilidad y eficiencia de re -
cursos, dijo.
La certificación LEED considera 
factores como la proporción de ilu -
minación natural e iluminación ar -
tificial en el edificio, la reflectividad 
del techo, la eficiencia energética del 
sistema de aire acondicionado y la 
cantidad de desechos que salen del 
sitio, Doll dijo.
La instalación en Gainesville pro -
porcionará un entorno de aprendiza -
je ecológico y de última generación 
para los estudiantes y profesores. 
Pero su presencia en el centro de la 
ciudad ofrecerá aún más, dijo el por -
tavoz de Santa Fe, Jay Anderson.
“Esto realmente está establecien -
do una presencia aquí en el corazón 
de Gainesville que, una vez más, 
será un locación mas conveniente 
para la gente”, Anderson dijo.
Los estudiantes podrán llegar a 
sus clases en el campus del centro 
con facilidad, algo que no siempre fue el caso en el campus del noroeste 
de SF.
Emma Meskunas, una estudiante 
de negocios de SF de 18 años, es -
cribió en un correo electrónico: “Es -
toy muy emocionada por tener un 
lugar más en el medio de Gainesville 
y tener un lugar al que pueda ir a es -
tudiar más cerca de mi casa”. 
Blount Hall también ofrecerá 
varios servicios para los estudiantes, 
incluidos los servicios de admisio -
nes, de ayuda financiera, de asesora -
miento académico y espacios de bib -
lioteca, Anderson dijo.
El edificio duplicará aproximada -
mente el espacio de incubación de 
empresas que hubo anteriormente 
en el Centro Blount de Innovación 
y Desarrollo Económico (CIED) de 
SF. También servirá como un lugar 
conveniente para que los estudiantes 
completen sus programas de grado y 
certificado en negocios y tecnología 
de la información y ofrezcan servi -
cios completos de A.A. grados para 
estudiantes que buscan transferirse, 
según Anderson.El Programa de incubación de 
empresas de SF apoya a las empre -
sas emergentes equipando a los em -
presarios con las herramientas nece -
sarias para hacer crecer su negocio, 
según el sitio web de Santa Fe.
Terri Bailey lanzó su Bailey 
Learning and Arts Collective sin fines 
de lucro, una organización de edu -
cación y alcance comunitario, con la 
ayuda del programa CIED de SF.
“[CIED] me ofreció el espacio y el 
apoyo necesario para hacer realidad 
esos sueños”, dijo Bailey.
Su colectivo organiza proyeccio -
nes de películas, talleres de autocui -
dado y activismo y eventos artísticos.
“Con Blount Hall ubicado cerca 
del centro de innovación de UF y el 
distrito de innovación, espero que 
traiga más tráfico al SF CIED y que 
la gente lo vea no solo como una 
opción viable, sino que lo reconozca 
como la primera parada en el viaje 
empresarial”, escribió Bailey.
ikino@alligator.org 
@Lily_kinoCHESTNUT SE PREPARA PARA 
SU NUEVO CARGO COMO 
COMISIONADA DE LA CIUDAD 
MIENTRAS HOWLAND REGRESA A 
UN PROGRAMA DE POSGRADO
Por Melanie Peña 
Escritora del Caimán 
Traducido por Marian Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
Gainesville votó por su nuevo comisio -
nado de la ciudad el 25 de enero, finalizando 
cinco meses de elecciones especiales, cam -
pañas y segundas vueltas.
En los días posteriores a la elección, la 
comisionada electa, Cynthia Moore Chestnut 
se preparó para su puesto como comisionada 
general de la ciudad en el asiento B.
El candidato opositor Matt Howland 
regresará a sus estudios, viajará entre 
Gainesville y sus clases en la Universidad 
George Washington en Washington, D.C.
El enfrentamiento de los dos candidatos 
comenzó en noviembre después de que Gail 
Johnson renunciara al puesto. Se enfren -
taron a otros tres candidatos durante esta 
primera elección especial, pero ninguno re -
cibió más del 50% de los votos, lo que re -
sultó en la necesidad de una segunda vuelta 
de elecciones. 
Chestnut y Howland fueron los únicos 
candidatos de la elección especial inicial que 
avanzaron a la segunda vuelta. El martes por la noche, Howland concedió una vez que le 
dijeron que no había suficientes votos para 
su triunfo. Chestnut ganó por 244 votos.
La oficina electoral del condado de Ala -
chua bullía de entusiasmo la noche de las 
elecciones. 
Tres precintos tuvieron que traer sus tar -
jetas de memoria debido a problemas elec -
trónicos, y un precinto tuvo un problema de 
energía al final de la noche, dijo el supervi -
sor electoral del condado de Alachua, Kim 
A. Barton.
“Todas las noches, cada elección, siem -
pre estamos ansiosos esperando que lleguen 
los resultados. Siempre es emocionante, pero 
siempre es un juego de espera”, Barton dijo. 
“Tenemos que centrarnos en las eleccio -
nes de 2022 y en la redistribución de distri -
tos, por supuesto. Ahora tenemos que volver 
nuestros corazones entorno a eso”.
Para prepararse para su mandato, Chest -
nut planea asistir a las reuniones de la 
Comisión de la Ciudad como miembro del 
público antes de su ceremonia de jurament -
ación el 17 de febrero. Se reunirá con el per -
sonal de la ciudad para ponerse al día con 
los temas actuales que la comisión está dis -
cutiendo, dijo.
“Quiero tener una buena comprensión 
de los fondos de infraestructura y cómo se 
pueden utilizar y ver maneras en las que 
podemos ayudar a nuestros ciudadanos”, 
dijo.
Ella asistió a su primera reunión de la 
comisión de la ciudad como comisionada 
electa el jueves.El estudiante de ciencias políticas y sus -
tentabilidad de la Universidad de la Florida, 
Anton Kernohan, fue miembro del personal 
de campaña de Chestnut. Hace tres años, 
el joven de 22 años hizo una pasantía con 
Chestnut y el Partido Demócrata del Con -
dado de Alachua.
“No sabía si quería sumergirme en la 
política o no, pero fue bajo su liderazgo… 
que me di cuenta de que esto era lo que 
quería hacer”, dijo Kernohan.
Cuando Chestnut ganó las elecciones, 
Kernohan se alegró por ella.
“He trabajado en muchas campañas dife -
rentes antes y algunas de ellas ganan, otras 
han perdido, pero verla ganar y ver a alguien 
que ha sido una consejera para mí, en reali -
dad fue una experiencia realmente conmove -
dora”, Kernohan dijo.
Chestnut espera continuar sus esfuerzos 
hacia las iniciativas y los temas que discutió 
durante su campaña.
“Estaré ocupada trabajando con la co -
munidad con respecto a la educación de los 
votantes, educando a la comunidad sobre 
los temas que la comisión está tratando ac -
tualmente y tratando de involucrar más a la 
gente en el proceso electoral”, dijo.
Howland también continuará su trabajo 
con las elecciones; sin embargo, esta vez re -
alizará investigaciones electorales en lugar 
de hacer campañas. Él planea retomar sus 
estudios en un programa de investigación de 
comunicación política en Washington D.C.
“De hecho, yo investigo la información 
errónea y la desinformación y su efecto en los votantes”, dijo. “Lo interesante es que 
también podría usar datos de mi campaña 
en mis estudios, lo cual es genial”.
Howland está agradecido por su tiempo 
como candidato a la comisión de la ciudad y 
siente que los desafíos que se le presentaron 
durante la carrera solo lo hicieron más resis -
tente y paciente como persona.
“Mi madre falleció tres semanas antes de 
las elecciones. Uno de mis mejores amigos 
falleció dos semanas antes de las elecciones. 
Fue realmente difícil en la recta final, pero 
definitivamente crecí a lo largo del proceso”, 
dijo.
Ahora tiene como objetivo ayudar a pro -
mover las carreras de aquellos que lo ayuda -
ron en su campaña.
“Mi primera prioridad es encontrar opor -
tunidades para todas las personas increíbles 
que trabajaron en mi campaña y que quieran 
seguir trabajando en otras campañas”, dijo.
Claudia Tio-Cartagena, la directora de 
campaña de Howland de 23 años, ahora está 
trabajando con la candidata al Congreso del 
Distrito 3, Danielle Hawk.
Está orgullosa del trabajo que realizó el 
equipo de Howland y espera continuar orga -
nizando campañas.
“Creo que realizamos una campaña real -
mente positiva-realizamos una campaña de 
base. Tocamos casi 8.000 puertas en todo 
Gainesville”, dijo.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.org
El Blount Hall de Santa Fe está a punto de ser completado, la 
universidad busca expandir su presencia al centro de la ciudadCynthia Chestnut y Matt Howland continúan con su labor en el proceso electoralBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       
1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
the  alligator "
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS 
EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11..    CCoonnffiirrmm
11..    OOccuullaarr55..    LLoouudd  oouuttccrryy
22..    AAdduulltt  mmaallee  cchhiicckkeenn  66..    BBeennggaall  ________
33..    TTiirreeddnneessss  77..    NNeeiigghhbboorr  ttoo  AAllbbaanniiaa    
44..    PPooiinntt  ooff  ssuuppppllyyFFYYEERRVVII
AAIIVVSSUULLUUOOTTSSHH
RRTTEEGGII
RROOSSRREETTOO
AAIITTUUFFEEGGEECCGGEERREE
CCRRSSEEUUOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--VVeerriiffyy    55AA--SShhoouutt    66AA--TTiiggeerr    77AA--GGrreeeeccee
11DD--VViissuuaall    22DD--RRoooosstteerr    33DD--FFaattiigguuee    44DD--SSoouurrccee    BB--SSoouutthh  AAffrriiccaa11--3311--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  iiss  hhoommee  ttoo  mmoorree  tthhaann  
550000  rreeggiisstteerreedd  wwiinneerriieess.. BONUSThe surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds13 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Will Tobias
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/31/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/31/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, January 31, 2022
ACROSS
1 Relaxing retreat
4 Picket line 
crosser
8 Tied, as 
sneakers
13 Work like heck
15 Arrived
16 Old piano key 
material
17 European car 
brand that 
sounds sort of 
like a Western 
greeting
18 Ordered like 
dictionary words
20 *The Bible’s 
golden calf, e.g.
22 Sound of fear
23 Roadside haven
24 About 1/2000th of 
a euro, in 2002
26 *Giving a higher 
mark than 
students deserve
33 Slimy substance
34 Dolphin family 
“killer”
35 Inventor Otis
36 Roman moon 
goddess
38 Tease
40 Site of 
Napoleon’s exile
41 Where Amin 
ruled
44 Puffin relatives
47 Geological time 
span
48 *It’s not always 
the same as 
one’s assigned 
sex at birth
51 What a coach 
gives a base 
runner
52 Corn unit
53 Suffix with script
56 *Intuition, often
62 Cape Cod and 
Baja
64 Former Neet  
rival
65 Two in a deck
66 Evening, in ads
67 Required bet
68 Rubbed out, 
gang-style
69 NBA conference
70 USO show 
audience ... 
and a hint to 
the answers to 
starred cluesDOWN
1 Male deer
2 Serve the wine, 
say
3 Verdi classic
4 Medical 
diagnostic device
5 Colombian 
metropolis
6 Alarm clock 
toggle
7 On __ of: 
representing
8 Loose, like a 
translation
9 D.C.’s 
Pennsylvania, 
e.g.
10 Pigeon shelter
11 Shallowest Great 
Lake
12 Flemish painter 
Sir Anthony  
van __
14 Wife of Augustus
19 Light-footed
21 Prefix with scope
25 “It’s __”:  
“Nobody wins”
26 Charge triple, say
27 Journalist Farrow
28 “Disgusting!”
29 Water nymph
30 Speck in the 
ocean31 “That’s exciting!”
32 Indian bread
33 Water cooler 
sound
37 “No ifs, __ or 
buts”
39 Payable now
42 Condescended
43 Jason’s 
shipbuilder
45 Israeli  
parliament
46 RBI or ERA
49 On key50 Russian 
supermodel 
Shayk
53 High hairstyle
54 Great Barrier __
55 Plenty, 
phonetically
57 Pelvic bones
58 D.C. baseball 
team
59 Vietnam’s Da __
60 Banking giant
61 Uno y dos
63 Rapper __ Cube
By David Poole
(c)2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/25/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/25/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 25, 2022
ACROSS
1 Uber alternatives
5 Thyroid, e.g.
10 Managed music 
for a wedding 
reception, briefly
14 Sword handle
15 Lasso wielder
16 Olympic sport 
with two accents
17 Biblical birthright 
seller
18 Tylenol competitor
19 Warning from a 
reckless driver?
20 Lost traction
21 Runs out of 
steam
22 MP3 player
23 “__ now!”: 
“Seinfeld” mantra 
spoken by Frank 
Costanza
25 Many an IRS 
worker
27 Artemis program 
org.
28 Storm warning
32 Medicare section 
for ambulance 
services
35 Rossini’s “William 
Tell” has a 
famous one
36 Tavern tipple
37 Freight train 
components ... 
or a hint to each 
group of circled 
letters
40 911 responder, 
briefly
41 Its trill begins 
“Rhapsody in 
Blue”
43 D sharp 
equivalent
45 Singing, dancing 
and acting
46 Draped dress
48 “Yuck!”
49 Really botched
53 Sous-chef’s job
56 Decree
58 __ song: cheaply
59 Wild West Wyatt
60 Back biter?
61 Far from flashy
62 Gallic gal pal
63 Carne __: taco 
filling
64 Manet medium
65 Ilk
66 Designed to 
punish67 Pole on the 
Bounty
DOWN
1 “The Queen’s 
Gambit” game
2 Flier’s seat option
3 Major’s 
successor
4 Nero, to Seneca
5 On the house
6 Nabokov title girl
7 Mimic’s forte
8 Actress 
Campbell
9 Fran of “The 
Nanny”
10 Insubordinate
11 Genre for some 
Tokyo-based 
bands
12 Designer 
Saarinen
13 Monopoly card
24 Apprehending
26 Maritime money 
handlers
28 FDR power 
project
29 “Hamilton” 
climax
30 Funny Bombeck
31 Remainder
32 Treaty
33 Penne __ vodka34 Actual
35 Canadian 
Thanksgiving 
mo.
38 In a position of 
fame
39 Ballot marks
42 Signed on for 
another tour
44 Feudal lord’s 
domain
46 Cuban-born 
Grammy winner 
Jon47 Starlike
49 Italian fashion 
center
50 Ill-fated ship 
Andrea __
51 Eurasian range
52 Blue Ribbon 
brewer
53 Pinnacle
54 Malek of “Mr. 
Robot”
55 St. Patrick’s 
home
57 Medicine amount
01/18/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 14 Help Wanted
Little Guys Movers
Now Hiring $14/hr. Plus TIPS
352-329-4040
1-31-22-5-15
Home school coach for a bright 14 y/o girl with 
mild Autism enrolled in online FLVS. No be-
havior or learning issues but needs help with 
motivation & time management. Prefer fe-
male coach seeking experience working with 
ASD children. About 3 hrs most schooldays, 
monitoring schoolwork and motivating her to 
be more active. Flex hrs, $20/hr neg. Email 
Chef3dr@hotmail.com                1-31-22-2-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Summer Camp Counselors Wanted
Oak Hall School in Gainesville is seeking en-
ergetic, creative, and enthusiastic individuals 
with a love for children to staff its summer 
camp program. For a complete listing of 
positions visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment. Interview process begins February 7th        
2-7-22-3-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Math Tutor & HW Coach for 5th Grader
Math tutor and Homework Coach for 5th 
grader with ADD, speech sound disorder, and 
reading comprehension disorder. Assistance 
in 5th grade common core math concepts, 
establishing executive function skills, and 
motivation and managing ADD symptoms 
preferred. Excellent opportunity for anyone 
interested in working with children with learn-
ing disabilities. $25/hr, hours flexible. Email 
qualifications to: mhefron@hotmail.com                        
1-31-22-4-14
15 Services
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!           1-31-4-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532      
1-31-4-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                
1-31-3-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
Stickelers  answer
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
I have learned over the years that when one's mind is made up, this diminishes 
fear; knowing what must be done does away with fear. —Rosa Parks
solution  belowCareer Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          1-31-4-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         1-31-4-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                         1-31-4-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
Use Happy Jack® ToneKote® on dogs & 
cats to insure a warm winter coat, prevent 
shedding & eliminate doggy odor. At Tractor 
Supply® (www.happyjackinc.com)      
1-31-2-24OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Beautiful Rhodesian Ridgeback puppies, 
born Dec. 16th, will be weaned and ready 
for a forever home on Feb. 12th! Health 
Certification and vaccinations included! Call 
352-665-7062.                                2-7-22-5-24
answers below1. LANGUAGE: In British English, what is a singlet?
2. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a murmuration?
3. MOVIES: Which 1951 adventure film 
features a character named Charlie Allnut 
(played by Humphrey Bogart)?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president cam -
paigned for reelection with the slogan, 
"Don't change horses midstream"?
5. HISTORY: Where did the St. Valentine's 
Day massacre (murder of seven gangsters 
and associates) take place?
6. TELEVISION: How many seasons did the 
original "Star Trek" series run?
7. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the basic 
currency used in Kenya?
8. MEASUREMENTS: What is a furlong?
9. GEOGRAPHY: What is the longest river in 
Europe?
10. ANATOMY: What is the basic component 
of hair, skin and nails?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.
1. An undershirt
2. The flight of a large flock 
of starlings in a coordinated, 
swooping pattern.
3. "The African Queen"
4. Abraham Lincoln, 18645. Chicago
6. Three
7. Kenyan shilling
8. An eighth of a mile
9. The Volga
10. Keratin
1. Lillehammer.
2. Lindsey Jacobellis.
3. Nordic combined.
4. Apolo Ohno.5. Herschel Walker.
6. Kristi Yamaguchi.
7. Great Britain, with nine.
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answers24 Pets
answers below1. What city in Norway hosted the 1994 Winter 
Olympic Games?
2. At the 2006 Turin Winter Olympics, what 
U.S. snowboarder blew a three-second lead and 
settled for the silver medal in the snowboard 
cross final after a method grab caused her to fall?
3. East Germany's Ulrich Wehling won three 
consecutive Olympic gold medals from 1972-80 
competing in what sport? 
4. At the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, 
South Korean short track speed skater Kim Dong-
Sung was disqualified in the men's 1,500-meter 
final. What U.S. Olympian won the gold medal 
as a result?
5. Name the Heisman Trophy winner who com -
peted for the U.S. bobsled team at the 1992 
Albertville Winter Olympics.
6. In 2000, NHL and U.S. Olympic hockey player 
Bret Hedican married what U.S. Olympic figure 
skating gold medalist? 
7. As of the 2018 Winter Olympics, what country 
has won the most total medals in skeleton?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.BASEBALL
MEET THE OLDEST MEMBER OF 
FLORIDA BASEBALL’S EXTREMELY 
YOUNG ROSTER
By Ethan Budowsky
Sports Writer
A lot has happened at UF since the Fall of 
2016. 
Florida football has had three head coach -
es, construction on Florida Ballpark started 
and finished, and UF teams have won seven 
combined national championships.
Only one member of Florida’s baseball 
team, Garrett Milchin, has seen it all, includ -
ing the program’s lone national title his fresh -
man year.
“It’s not like holy cow this is easy,” Milchin 
said. “But you kinda become spoiled at first.”
Milchin, 24, who is in his sixth year as a 
Gator and can opt for a seventh due to CO -
VID-19 eligibility rules, is now a graduate stu -
dent at UF after earning a bachelor’s in eco -
nomics in 2019.
His career started on the highest of highs, 
but it has not been easy since. 
Milchin has had Tommy John surgery 
twice since he arrived on campus to repair the 
ulnar collateral ligament in his elbow. The re -
covery period is usually a year at minimum 
and any pitcher that undergoes it faces a cross -
roads in their career when they do.
“There’s a lot of hard days in the training 
room,” head coach Kevin O’Sullivan said. “It’s 
hard enough coming back from one Tommy 
John and now he’s coming back from two.”
What Milchin has done in his career is 
highly uncommon. Out of more than 500 MLB 
players to receive the surgery since 1974, only 
49 of them have had it more than once. The 
recovery is one of the most difficult in sports — certainly more difficult than an ACL recov -
ery — and presents an enormous challenge to 
a pitcher’s career.
Milchin made it back for 2021 after three 
years away from the mound due to the sur -
geries and the COVID-19 pandemic cutting 
the 2020 season short. He made six starts last 
year, all in midweek games, and posted a 4.98 
ERA in 21.2 innings while striking out 20 and 
walking three.
Now, he returns as the oldest player on 
the roster to try and lead the Gators back to 
the promised land. Florida has an extremely 
young roster in 2022, and Milchin is the only 
player listed as older than a junior. 
Milchin said his experience is a huge help 
in guiding the younger players, especially at 
the beginning of a season.
“I just kinda know what to expect at this 
point from this time of year, getting started 
with practice and opening day, you’ve been 
through it before,” Milchin said.
He said while he can guide underclassmen, 
he does not want to get in the way too much.
“It’s not about telling everybody what to 
do,” Milchin said. “It’s kind of just helping 
them learn through experience on their own 
and if they have questions make them feel like 
they can come to you.”
O’Sullivan said that Milchin leads by ex -
ample and is a key member of the team’s lead -
ership group. His head coach had extremely 
high praise for his character, calling him a fa -
vorite on the team.
“He exemplifies everything that we want in 
this program,” O’Sullivan said. “I hope that he 
has a great year for us — I really do.”
Milchin is part of a group of holdovers 
from 2021 looking to respond to a disappoint -
ing season. Florida came into the season as 
the consensus top team in the country, but 
crashed and burned in the Gainesville Region -al. He said those high expectations created 
some complacency heading into the season.
“I think somebody called us ‘the best col -
lege baseball team ever assembled,’” Milchin 
said. “Which obviously you hear that and you 
wanna let your guard down which you really 
can’t do in [the SEC].”
After a disastrous 19-1 loss to South Ala -
bama ended their season, the Gators look 
ahead to 2022 with newfound motivation. 
“With how things ended last year I think it 
left everyone with a sour taste in their mouth,” 
Milchin said. “Everybody was humbled pretty 
significantly from last year and going into this 
year I think we’ve got more of a chip on our 
shoulder.”
Nobody in the locker room knows the 
standard of the program as well as Milchin. 
While a lot has changed since the Fall of 2016, 
“Omaha or bust” remains the mantra in the 
locker room.
“I think that’s the way you gotta look at 
it every year.” Milchin said, “You go into it 
wanting to win it, so that’s gotta be your ul -
timate goal.”
As for Milchin, he is focused on staying 
healthy and being available to his team to 
help them reach the mountain top. He is also 
thankful for where he is at and having fun is 
at the top of his priority list.
“Not many people are able to still be play -
ing college baseball at 24 years old,” Milchin 
said. “Still living the dream.”
Florida will need the experience of Milchin 
and other veterans on this young team if they 
want to reach their dream and get back to the 
top. The Gators’ road to redemption begins 
Feb. 18 when they kick off their season against 
the Liberty Flames.
@EthanBudowsky
ebudowsky@alligator.orgAfter six years, two surgeries, Garrett Milchin is still living the dream
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
MEN’S BASKETBALL
JU-RAY KUO SPENT THE 
LAST SIX YEARS PROVIDING 
FREE HAIRCUTS TO 
PLAYERS AND THE 
GAINESVILLE COMMUNITY
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
As the cheers of 10,000 Florida 
men’s basketball fans crescendo into 
a deafening roar, the quiet insight 
from their team manager rings 
loudest through the players’ heads. 
Ju-Ray Kuo, a UF applied 
physiology and kinesiology master’s 
student, has become the unofficial 
barber of the Florida Gators men's 
basketball team — Kuo has cut every returning player on the 15-player 
team at least once. 
The Stephen C. O’Connell Center 
and the Florida Basketball Practice 
Complex double as Kuo’s makeshift 
barbershop. The 24-year-old not only 
prepares the players physically with 
stretches and drills for game days, 
but stylistically too.
“Sometimes I just bring my 
clippers to the facility and then on 
my free time there, I’ll just cut the 
guys up and make sure the guys 
have a good time,” Kuo said. 
As a team manager, he works in 
the weight room with the players, 
running drills and helping coaches 
with the flow of practice. 
For Kuo, it’s about connecting 
with the person sitting in his chair, tuning in to their mindset and 
learning their story. That’s why 
every cut is free of charge. 
How’d you get to where you are 
today?
Kuo listens to his clients answer 
this staple conversation starter 
whenever they sit in his chair. It’s 
how he forms deeper connections 
during the 30 minutes to an hour cut, 
he said. 
“The haircuts will fade, but 
the conversation is what will last 
forever,” he said. 
Kuo’s haircuts are more like an 
experience, making his services 
unique from a regular barber, said 
Anthony Duruji, a 23-year-old men’s 
basketball forward. 
Duruji got his first cut after seeing how well his teammate’s hair turned 
out. 
“One of my former teammates, he 
had got a cut from him at first, and 
then I just hopped on,” Duruji said. 
Kuo has been cutting Durujii’s 
hair for more than a year and a half. 
He said Kuo is lively and carries out 
rich conversations. 
In the locker room, the two 
friends discuss their faith and how 
religion is an integral part of both 
their lives. 
“Being a basketball player is only 
one part of [Duruji’s] life,” Kuo said. 
“A lot of people only define him as 
a basketball player, but to me he’s a 
servant of God. He’s a leader in every 
aspect.” 
Because he sees the players day in and day out, the relationship he 
shares with each of them makes the 
hair cut memorable, said Kowacie 
Reeves, an 18-year-old men’s 
basketball guard.
“You usually don’t know your 
barber on a personal level,” Reeves 
said. “You see [Kuo] every day, you 
know him, and you just have more 
in common.”
Kuo has been associated with 
UF’s basketball program since 2017 
when he started as a practice player 
for the women’s team. In following 
years, he took on a manager role 
helping set up the court for every 
game, participating in various 
practice and warm-up drills and Gator basketball’s team manager gives players free haircuts
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 1212   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREElena Barrera / / Alligator Staff
Shahmir Memon, a 21-year-old business administration junior, receives a 
fresh cut on the Plaza of the Americas lawn on Friday, Jan. 14.
helping the players during prehab — 
a preparation that reduces chances of 
injury. 
Ever since he started working in 
the weight room with the men’s team 
in 2019, the basketball manager and 
strength and conditioning graduate 
intern said the heart-to-hearts are 
what made him fall in love with 
being a barber. However, the initial 
fascination to snip and style hair 
began with a friend’s referral. 
“One of my closest friends came 
into class one day with the freshest 
haircut, and I started asking him: 
‘Where’d you get your cut from?’” 
Kuo said.  
After Kuo learned the barber had 
cut hair for some of the Jacksonville 
Jaguars, Kuo decided to let him style 
his hair.  
“I went to go see [the barber], got 
the cut, and I was like: ‘Man this is 
the freshest cut I’ve ever gotten from 
anybody,’” he said. 
With the blade of a straight razor, 
Kuo tried trimming and maintaining 
his hair himself, hoping to prolong 
the cut.
After his friends started letting 
him cut their hair, one person led 
to another, building his clientele by 
word-of-mouth.
Consistency and lots of failures 
shaped Kuo’s skills into what they 
are today. He remembers a time when he 
butchered one of his friend’s hairdos 
before an event, and his friend had 
to wear a hat and hoodie to hide it. 
Although undesirable, there is 
value in failure, Kuo said. If you 
aren’t failing then you aren’t trying to 
push yourself outside your comfort 
zone.  
His athletic clients and friends 
account for the majority of his reach, 
but Kuo also makes a point once or 
twice a month to set up in various 
locations around Gainesville, such as 
UF’s Plaza of Americas, to give free 
trims to strangers. 
A part of his personal mission 
is to help those less fortunate than 
him. As a way to work toward this 
goal, he also volunteers his time at 
Grace Marketplace, a local homeless 
shelter. 
Kuo has dedicated time to the 
people staying at the shelter for 
more than three years, said Abigail 
Perret-Gentil, the shelter’s 36-year-
old assistant director of community 
engagement. 
It means a lot to the people at 
the shelter to get a fresh cut and feel 
good about themselves, Perret-Gentil 
said. They are often shunned from 
public spaces, so having contact with 
Kuo is also important, she said. 
“Whenever Ju-Ray comes 
out, he’s just so kind and trauma 
informed,” Perret-Gentil said. “It 
brings people some normalcy aside from the need to have good hygiene.”
He does stylish cuts, not just 
simple buzz cuts, she said. He knows 
how to trim hair in ways that are 
relevant to different cultures, which 
she doesn’t see often.  
If they want specific designs, he 
happily obliges. If they are trying to 
get a job and have an interview, he 
does a clean-cut, professional look. 
When his homeless clients take a 
final look in the mirror, he receives 
an outpouring of thanks and jaws 
drop to the floor. They are so grateful 
for his service, he said, for some it 
was their first haircut in five years.
“I just want to make sure that I 
can make people’s day,” Kuo said. “I 
really feel like if God gives you a gift 
it’s up to you to know how to use 
that gift to glorify Him.” 
His friend who kickstarted his 
passion and led him to his strong-
rooted faith all those years ago has 
since passed away. Every haircut 
done is in honor of what he did for 
Kuo as a way to keep paying the 
blessings forward, Kuo said. 
“Life is about giving without 
limitations,” Kuo said. 
The young barber plans to 
continue his mission of giving back 
to his community through thoughtful 
conversations, one free haircut at a 
time.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgMEN’S BASKETBALL , from pg. 12Basketball barber volunteers at Grace