We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -COVID-19 financial aid
UF students doubt aid will continue this semester,  pg. 6
Santa Fe Gallery reopening
The gallery hosts its first show since the pandemic,  pg. 8Gator basketball's twin players
The sisters came in strong their freshmen 
year. Find the story on pg. 12.
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 20
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
When Juan Esquivel, a 19-year-
old freshman, tested positive 
for COVID-19 Jan. 12, he wasn’t 
offered a quarantine option. UF told 
him he didn’t have an alternative 
to leaving campus.
Esquivel said he distinctly 
remembers the disrespectful tone 
of the UF housing and residency 
employee’s voice. 
“I let her know that I'm going 
to try to find a place to stay, and I 
get told that trying is not enough,” 
Esquivel said. “I need to get out 
of there by 5 p.m. or there'll be 
serious consequences.” 
As cases rise and a UF study 
forecasted a January peak in the 
state’s reported cases, students have 
expressed their disenchantment 
with the current on-campus policy 
regarding COVID-19 positive 
students. 
UF will no longer provide 
isolation dorms for students who 
live on campus for a “proper 
quarantine or isolation length,” 
according to UF Health’s Screen 
Test & Protect. No further 
information on how long these 
periods last is available. 
Isolation dorms are only 
available in extenuating 
circumstances, wrote Sara Tanner, 
director of the Division of Student 
Affairs. A limited number are 
provided to students on the basis 
of availability, she wrote.
“When needing to isolate, 
students may communicate 
a variety of extenuating 
circumstances, including distance from home, financial difficulties 
and medical concerns at home,” 
Tanner wrote. 
Tanner and UF spokesperson 
Cynthia Roldan did not respond 
to questions regarding a recent 
Tweet by @AprilMRubin detailing 
an experience at an isolation dorm 
this semester and whether it is an 
accurate representation of current 
policy in time for publication. 
They also did not respond to The 
Alligator in time for publication 
regarding isolation statistics and 
policies. 
Scrambling to find a place to stay 
after UF kicked him out, Esquivel 
said his 21-year-old friend had to 
check him into a hotel because 
he couldn’t find one that allowed 
people under 21 to check-in.
He had a scheduled flight the 
next day to Tennessee to stay with 
family, he said. He slept for a single 
night at a hotel and caught his 
flight the next morning.
Because he was COVID positive, 
he used two masks and washed his 
hands constantly, he said. No one 
around him tested positive after 
interacting with him, so he doubted 
that he would infect strangers. And 
he didn’t have a choice. 
“By my second day in 
Tennessee, the time recommended 
to avoid contact would’ve ended,” 
he wrote in a text.
Instead of catching up on work 
the day he was kicked out, he had 
to deal with the situation that had 
sprung upon him. 
“It is a very huge inconvenience 
that can become a major block in COVID-19 positive students locked 
out of dorms, left frustrated
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Jackson Jensen, 10, rides the carousel at the second weekend of the Hoggetowne Medieval Faire on 
Sunday, Jan. 23. The three-weekend event was hosted at a new location this year at 9409 SW Archer Rd.
CASSIDY KLEIN TEACHES 
STUDENTS WITH 
EMOTIONAL AND
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH 
ISSUES
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer
The outline of Cassidy Klein’s 
smile crinkled her mask as she 
spoke of her English students 
at the A. Quinn Jones Center. 
Behind her, a small letterboard read, “It’s not where you came 
from, it’s where you’re going 
that counts” — a mantra her 
classroom embodies.
Klein, a 25-year-old high 
school English teacher, received 
the 2022 Division for Emotional 
& Behavioral Health teacher of 
the year award. The DEBH is 
an international community of 
educators that dedicates itself to 
the success of students with or at 
risk of emotional and behavioral 
disorders. Klein traveled to Orlando Monday to receive her 
plaque. 
Klein won out of the seven 
states that make up region 8: 
Florida, Georgia, Alabama, 
North Carolina, South Carolina, 
Tennessee and Mississippi. 
For the last four years, 
Klein has built long-lasting 
relationships with her students 
at the center. 
Handwritten posters hang on English teacher received regional award 
for dedication to special education
SEE TEACHER,  PAGE 4SEE COVID DORMS,  PAGE 4UF sparingly provides isolation dorms, 
as opposed to initial pandemic responseT oday’s WeatherJUDGE MARK WALKER 
ISSUED A PRELIMINARY 
INJUNCTION FRIDAY 
MORNING
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
A federal judge prohibited 
UF from enforcing its conflict-
of-interest policy, which the 
university had used to bar 
professors from testifying in court, 
Friday morning.  
District Judge Mark Walker, 
a double Gator, granted six 
UF professors requests for a 
preliminary injunction, an order 
to end UF’s policy. In November, 
the professors filed a lawsuit 
against UF for barring them from 
providing expert testimony in 
court cases against the state. 
Professors must gain approval 
from the university to engage in 
outside activities, like giving expert 
testimony in court, according to 
the policy. The conflict-of-interest 
policy allows UF to bar professor 
testimony and other outside 
activities that conflict with their 
university duties.
After receiving criticism from 
the United States Congress, 
university accreditors and the 
general public, UF President 
Kent Fuchs appointed a task 
force to review the policy. The task force presented Fuchs with 
recommendations to improve the 
policy, and he accepted all of them 
Nov. 23. In his order, Walker 
wrote that the policy chilled 
professors’ speech. 
Walker cited Board of Trustee 
Chairman Morteza “Mori” 
Hosseini's statements made during 
a Board of Trustees meeting Dec. 3 
as a reason for ruling in favor of 
the professors’ motion. 
During the meeting, Hosseini 
demanded an end to faculty 
members taking advantage of their 
positions and advocating personal 
political viewpoints. 
Hosseini credited UF’s 
accomplishments within the last 
five years to state leaders. He 
said these leaders were fed up 
with the waste of state money 
on the professors misusing their 
positions. 
“Chairman Hosseini’s remarks 
made plain that UF was beholden 
to the Florida Legislature and that 
it would not permit its faculty to 
continue offending lawmakers in 
Tallahassee,” Walker wrote. 
The second part of the 
professors’ motion challenged 
the university’s amicus brief 
policy, which oversees written 
expert statements in a court case; 
however, Walker denied this. The 
school’s conflict-of-commitment 
policy, which prohibits faculty 
from devoting too much time to outside activities, will remain in 
place according to the order. 
Walker’s decision to block 
UF from enforcing its conflict-
of-interest policy is a major step 
towards protecting professors’ 
contributions to democracy, David 
O’Neil, the professors’ lawyer, 
wrote in a statement. 
“The decision sends a clear 
message to public universities 
across the country – and to 
politicians who would try to 
interfere with them – that they 
too must honor the constitutional 
principles that make the college 
campus a vital engine of a free 
society,” O’Neil wrote.
UF is reviewing the judge’s 
order to determine its next 
steps, Hessy Fernandez, a UF 
spokesperson, wrote in an email.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 20 Judge prevents UF from enforcing 
its conflict-of-interest policy
Melanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayAllessandra Inzinna, ainzinna@alligator.orgJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.orgMONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
THERE'S NEVER BEEN A MORE
IMPORTANT TIME TO QUIT!
 
Start the year oﬀ right and make a plan to quit all forms of tobacco.
For more information on Group Quit classes, contact: 
352-273-5224
*If medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 Smoking can cause a higher risk of getting lung and chest infections, and using 
e-cigarettes can increase your odds of developing respiratory disease by 95%.
Tobacco Free Florida oﬀers in-person or virtual Group Quit sessions for all 
Florida residents. Upon class completion, participants are eligible to receive 
free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches, or lozenges.*  
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools
and services at tobaccofreeﬂorida.com/quityourway.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022somebody’s semester if it lines up 
wrong with something,” he said.
Alternatives to this policy should 
include housing for students who 
come back positive or financial 
help to those that need to stay in 
a hotel, Esquivel said. This would 
grant students some time to figure 
out where they can go.
“Arranging to leave Gainesville 
in five hours is probably not 
something a lot of people can 
afford … or do,” he said.
Other students, like Sam Curry, 
found a way to leave Gainesville 
before UF could tell them their 
dorm key fob would be disabled.
Curry, a 19-year-old public 
health freshman, first lost her 
sense of taste and smell on Jan. 14.
UF did not have tests available 
until Jan 18., Curry said. Her mom 
had to drive up from Deerfield 
Beach to bring her an at-home rapid 
test, which came back positive.
She immediately packed her 
bags and left her Lakeside Complex 
dorm the same day without 
notifying UF. 
Curry received an email last 
week from the College of Public 
Health and Health Professions 
informing that students who take 
COVID-19 tests off-campus should 
call and let them know if it comes 
back positive.After getting settled at her home 
in Deerfield Beach, Curry called 
UF’s DOH COVID Operations on 
Jan. 17 informing the representative 
of her positive status.
During the call, the 
representative told her it was her 
responsibility to tell students they 
were exposed, she said.
“I asked them if I needed to 
provide names for contact tracing, 
and they told me that due to the 
volume of cases, the school is not 
doing contact tracing,” Curry said. 
“And that is on the people who are 
positive to tell everybody.”
A spokesperson for UF DOH 
COVID Operations refused to make 
a statement about this aspect of 
their policy and did not provide 
their name.
Matthew Cupelli, a 19-year-old 
media production management 
and technology freshman, came 
back positive for COVID-19 
Wednesday and received an email 
the same day that outlined isolation 
requirements. 
The email read that students 
must monitor their symptoms 
for 14 days. If the student stays 
symptom-free through day six, one 
can schedule a test and be released 
on or after the eighth isolation day 
or when the lab result comes back 
negative. 
However, UF did not require 
a negative test for his campus 
clearance, Cupelli said. After calling UF for guidance on getting 
back to campus, he immediately 
received a cleared status. 
Cupelli and his girlfriend, 
18-year-old freshman Jamie Beach, 
tested twice. Their first test, which 
they both took Jan. 14, was an 
Abbott at-home test that was being 
distributed at the Graham Area 
Help Desk. Cupelli tested positive, 
but Beach did not. 
To receive the tests, the couple 
had to show their UF ID. Once 
home, the couple downloaded an app called Navica and got on 
a video call with a representative 
who guided them throughout the 
test-taking process. 
After Cupelli’s test came back 
positive and Beach’s negative, they 
decided to test at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium. This time, both tests 
came back positive. 
Soon after their second test, 
Beach and Cupelli received emails 
Jan. 19 saying they needed to leave 
campus immediately, but they had 
already left. The email also stated that UF is not required to and does 
not provide alternative housing, 
Beach said.
“I also find it interesting … the 
school does send out regular emails 
telling you where to get tested, 
reminding you to get vaccinated 
and wear masks,” Beach said, “But 
the school doesn't tell you what to 
do after that.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
the walls, desks with the chairs attached 
fill the room and a single bean bag chair 
rests in the back corner. A typical high 
school classroom scene, except only four 
students sat in Klein’s sixth period and 
only one in her seventh. These students 
weren’t always there year-round. 
The center serves students who need to 
make up credits, were kicked out of their 
previous school due to behavioral issues 
or have been in and out of the juvenile justice system. Students grades six 
through 12 must stay for a minimum of 45 
days. Nearly 60% of the center’s students 
require Exceptional Student Education, a 
curriculum for students with disabilities 
and conditions that affect their ability 
to learn in a conventional classroom. 
Many students have an emotional and 
behavioral disorder diagnosis, Klein said. 
Some days include crying, stomping 
or being cussed out, but you can’t take it personally, Klein said. Instead, you focus 
on what the students need. 
Klein adapts the district curriculum to 
better accommodate her students.
“I put a big emphasis on writing your 
story,” Klein said. “So we do a lot of very 
personal writing about past, present, 
future.”
She assigns an essay at the end of each 
year — a legacy story. Students write 
about their hopes for the future and the 
obstacles that shaped them. 
Aunesti Debose, an 18-year-old at the 
A. Quinn Jones Center, is the only student 
in Klein’s seventh period on Thursday. 
Out of all the chairs in the room, she sat 
on Klein’s black bean bag chair.
“She actually wants to help us become 
somebody in life,” Debose said. “When 
I come to her class, she’s always happy. 
She’s the same person every day. You can 
tell she actually wants to help you.” 
Klein graduated from the dual 
certification master’s program at UF and 
earned a degree in general education and 
ESE K-12. One of her professors and special 
education graduate program coordinator 
Ashley MacSuga-Gage nominated Klein 
for the award. 
“She, right off the bat, asked and 
wanted to work with our students who 
truly struggle the most and who tend to 
get the least resources,” MacSuga-Gage 
said. 
Because Klein chose to work with students with emotional and behavioral 
disorders and thrives in that environment, 
MacSuga-Gage felt she embodied the 
criteria for this award. 
“She doesn’t boast about what she 
does, but she certainly deserves it because 
she is more than qualified and she really 
goes above and beyond,” MacSuga-Gage 
said. “She’s just honestly a rockstar.”
Other teachers at the center recognize 
her effort too.
Klein gave up her planning period to 
start a new reading program for students, 
runs the school’s journal and stays in 
touch with students who have left the 
program years later, Jane Wilson, A. 
Quinn Jones art teacher said. 
But Klein doesn’t see these acts as 
going out of her way — providing a well-
rounded education is what she loves. 
Running into a student who now 
succeeds at a traditional school or 
watching a student walk dressed in cap 
and gown fills her with joy, Klein said.
She learns from her students as 
they learn from her. She admires their 
resilience and determination to graduate 
high school despite past traumas. 
“They’ve kind of taught me that no 
matter what you went through in your 
past, there’s always more,” Klein said. 
She repeated the quote on the 
letterboard behind her, “It’s not where 
you came from. It’s where you’re going 
that counts.”
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgCOVID DORMS,  from pg. 1
TEACHER,  from pg. 1UF offered conflicting guidance
Klein dedicated four years to the center
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
English teacher Cassidy Klein from the A. Quinn Jones Center being interviewed 
on Thursday, Jan. 20. Klein was named the 2022 Division for Emotional and 
Behavioral Health Teacher of the Year.Alligator File Photo
Beaty Towers is seen in a file photo from 2017.
MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
I didn’t choose The Alligator Opinions Editor position for the money. It’s 
shocking, I know. 
I took this job because I think the Opinions section is underrated. The 
submissions on this page are a measure of what people in our community 
care about, what they believe in, what makes them tick. 
Right now, our community cares about COVID-19. Students and faculty are 
sick, scared of getting sick or sick of the situation in general. And there’s no end 
in sight. 
Despite widespread symptoms of pandemic burnout, UF continues to imple -
ment a laissez-faire leadership style when it comes to the virus. UF leaders ex -
pect masks but won’t mandate them, online class alternatives are rarely offered 
and simple social distancing protocols in classrooms seem to be a thing of the 
past.
To mitigate the danger students face every day by going to school, UF representatives 
roll up their sleeves and continue to do what they do best — send out vague, insulting 
emails. 
And on Jan. 14, they outdid themselves. 
Vice President for Student Life Dr. D’Andra Mull sent out an email with the intention 
of helping students “navigate COVID-19” with “healthy behaviors.” The intention? Lovely. 
The application? Not so much.
First, Mull recommends the obvious: staying home and self-quarantining if you’re sick. 
If you have COVID-19, you should report your positive test to DOH COVID Operations “for 
further guidance” (I said it was vague). 
The email goes on to say professors don’t have to use this information to provide accom -
modations for missed classes. If they want to provide “additional attendance options,” they 
can, but only if they want to. Unsurprisingly, this isn’t very comforting considering many professors allow for one to two absences before your grade begins to suffer. 
So we’re going to campus to pack into lecture halls full of masked people — if 
they feel like it that day — for hours at a time, several times a week. If we want 
to graduate, we have no choice in doing this. 
And then when we — almost inevitably — contract COVID-19, we’re not al -
lowed on campus. While doing the right thing and staying in quarantine, we’re 
potentially missing class without the ability to attend virtually or catch up on 
work. We could miss entire lesson plans, assignments — even exams. 
Another frustrating aspect of this is that the infrastructure for online classes 
already exists — we’re just not utilizing it. But if your professor won’t accom -
modate you, what are you supposed to do? Is UF expecting students to choose 
between keeping others safe and maintaining their GPA? 
With these policies (or lack thereof), UF is indirectly pushing students to attend classes 
knowing they have COVID-19, if not avoiding testing altogether. 
I worked hard to get here, and I know you did, too. We deserve to feel safe on our own 
campus. We deserve more than patronizing emails and policies that force us to endanger 
each other. Students pay thousands of dollars and go into massive debt for their education, 
and we chose UF for a reason. But the bond between UF and its students means nothing 
if the college’s leadership can’t prioritize our safety over profit — over “Top Five” status. 
We chose UF to be our school. Let’s hope we’re not made to regret it.
Sara Lindsay is the Spring 2022 Opinions Editor for The Alligator and a senior 
journalism major. She is currently a Pulitzer Fellow at the CJC and spends her free time 
at the park with her dog Sequoia. Sara can be reached at Lindsay slindsay@alligator.org. 
Follow her on Twitter @slindsay_.
I am a retired member of the UF faculty — College of Busi -
ness. Although these are my own views, I write this based 
on my experience as co-chair of the COVID Task Force of 
the United Faculty of Florida - UF Chapter and UF Gradu -
ate Assistants United. 
The task force was formed in Spring 2020 to provide a fo -
cal point for concerns over the then-new (and not well un -
derstood) coronavirus. We hoped to be equal partners with 
the college’s administration and government leaders. Through 
surveys and interviews, we learned a great deal about how fac -
ulty members personally experienced these challenging times.
The administration had to devise an appropriate campus management strategy, which led to students studying remote -
ly. Faculty and graduate assistants quickly pivoted to online 
instruction, and staff stepped up to support the new workload 
(not easy). At that time, for better or worse, we were “all in this 
together.” Later, not so much.
As Fall 2020 progressed, there was increasing divergence on 
many issues between faculty/GA requests and demands and 
the response of the UF administration. UF announced Spring 
2021 plans to return to on-campus learning, offering as many 
(or more) in-person class sections as were originally scheduled 
— even though there was no vaccine available at the time. 
Faculty and GAs raised grave concerns about the spread of virus on campus. Their requests for 
accommodation or exemption from 
teaching in-person were often denied, 
and considerations of effective teaching 
requirements were regularly ignored. 
Faculty and GAs rightfully felt ignored 
and disenfranchised.
A foundational concept of a “univer -
sity” is that of a community of schol -
ars (and students) sharing governance 
with an administration. Many faculty 
feel that this shared governance covenant has been violated 
in favor of an increasingly expansive administrative structure, 
apparently beholden to corporate and political interests.
Faculty are also disappointed about what they see as unful -
filled expectations after joining UF.  This is a common theme 
among both new faculty and long-term members. They have 
expressed a sense of isolation, obviously exacerbated by neces -
sary COVID-19 protocols (or sometimes a lack thereof).
Several experienced faculty members say they are actively 
looking for positions at other institutions — ones that are seen 
as more participative and open. UF cannot afford to lose droves 
of valuable faculty members. They provide quality and sub -
stance to a school that wouldn’t be successful without them 
— “Top Five” status or not.
 People are, simply put, tired. This has been an extraor -
dinary time, and faculty/GAs have been asked to make ex -
traordinary shifts in instructional design and plans, including 
reversals — even against their own advice and concern. While 
faculty/GAs have tried to do what is needed for both students 
and their own professional commitment, exhaustion takes a 
toll.
Finally, faculty were profoundly offended by the remarks by 
the UF Chairman of the Board of Trustees. He publicly berated 
faculty members as selfish and disloyal, mixing issues of fac -
ulty freedom of speech and COVID-19 policy compliance. This 
further compounded a sense of exclusion from faculty’s role 
in policy and governance, leading to an added sense of being 
disrespected.
UF’s reputation is under threat. There is a serious break -
down of trust and faith in the school’s academic governing 
process, the very concept of collegiality and respect for the role 
of faculty.
It will take years to repair the damage.We chose UF to be our school for a reason — have they given us enough to choose it again?
Are we REALLY all in this together?Column
Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Sara Lindsay
@slindsay_
slindsay@alligator.org
Steven Kirn
opinions@alligator.org
By Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
Four teams, four shiny new facilities.
Phase three of the UF athletic facilities 
master plan is expected to be completed 
this Spring, fostering a fresh start for four 
Gator sports teams.
The final stage of the nearly eight-year 
plan includes the creation of the James W. 
“Bill” Heavener Football Training Center 
and a soccer team facility. There will also 
be upgrades to the lacrosse facility and 
tennis complex.
Women’s soccer and lacrosse
About 8% of the plan’s $93 million 
budget will go towards an upgrade for 
the women’s soccer and lacrosse teams’ 
shared facility.
The soccer team will upgrade in April 
from a portable trailer to their own wing 
of the lacrosse facility, Donald R. Dizney 
Stadium, Howard wrote. The $7.4 million 
will add 13,800 square feet to the building 
and renovate 2,000 square feet of existing 
space.
The lacrosse facility developments will 
include a reception area, lounge, storage, 
team film room and coaches’ offices.
The soccer facility will be an addition 
to the current lacrosse building. It will 
provide the soccer team with coaches’ 
offices, a locker room, a training area, 
equipment storage, a lounge, a film room 
and other program spaces. 
The women’s soccer team currently 
shares the Lemerand Athletic Center on 
Gale Lemerand Drive with three other UF 
teams. 
They’ve used the center as a locker 
room, meeting hub and rehabilitation 
facility for many years, Cameron Hall, 
defensive midfielder on the women’s 
soccer team said.
For practice and games, the team 
traveled to the Donald R. Dizney Stadium 
on Hull Road, 1.4 miles away from the 
Lemerand Athletic Center.“It was kind of inconvenient because 
that’s all on-campus,” Hall said, “And our 
fields are out by the baseball stadium.”
Because of the commute, the Gator’s 
soccer team uses the women’s lacrosse 
team facility — a space created over ten 
years ago — during practice.
“It does get kind of hectic in there, 
especially right now, because we both 
have morning practices,” Hall said. “They 
are in season, and we are not in season, 
so technically they have the upper hand 
because they need it. But it’s not like we 
don’t need it, so it is a little bit of a mess. 
We make do with what we can, and we try 
to get out of their way.”
The women’s soccer team does have a 
space of their own out by their facility, 
however. It’s a portable trailer that 
doubles as a locker room.
“Imagine an empty room … that has 
one bathroom and a bunch of chairs 
around it. It has cubbies that we put our 
cleats in,” Hall said.
While her team was able to still make 
memories in their locker room on wheels, 
Hall said she is most excited about having 
an actual space that feels like theirs.
Football
The other 91% of the budget will go 
towards the football Gators team.
“I think we are all going to be grateful 
for what we have and understand that ‘to 
whom much is given, much is expected,’” 
Kyle Engel, a Gators quarterback said.
The Gators football team is looking 
forward to a new beginning in the 2022 
season, welcoming Billy Napier — the 
former Louisiana coach — into The 
Swamp and making use of their upcoming 
state-of-the-art football training center.
“It’s kind of ironic how everything 
is going to be new: new coaching staff, 
new facility. I think it’s going to help the 
new staff bring their own culture into this 
program,” Engel said.
The $85 million dollar Heavener 
Football Training Center will feature a locker room, weight room, rehabilitation 
center, sports medicine area, nutrition 
house, meeting areas and coaches’ 
offices, Chip Howard, Executive Associate 
Athletics Director for Internal Affairs, 
wrote in an email.
“The facility will serve as the new daily 
home of the Florida football program,” Howard wrote.
There will also be the addition of a 
dining hall in this complex, along with 
indoor and outdoor amenities for all 500 
Gator student-athletes.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
Courtesy of University Athletics Association 
Florida Gators Athletic Department ambassador Steve Spurrier autographs the 
final steel beam at the James W. “Bill” Heavener Football Training Center at the 
facility’s topping-out ceremony on Tuesday, June 8.
Four Gator athletic teams will receive new or revamped facilities
podcast
streaming
now!
The University of Florida’ s $93 million athletic facilities master plan is expected to be finished in the next few monthsLUNES, 24 DE ENERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Gator hoop's predictions
Bracketology expert weighs in on Gators,  pg.11El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
CASSIDY KLEIN, MAESTRA DE INGLÉS 
DEL CENTRO A. QUINN JONES 
RECIBIÓ UN PREMIO REGIONAL 
POR SU COMPROMISO CON LA 
EDUCACIÓN SOBRE LA SALUD 
EMOCIONAL Y CONDUCTUAL
Por Emma Behrman 
Escritora del personal del Caimán 
Traducido por Marian Hernandez
Escritora del Personal del Caimán
El contorno de la sonrisa de Cassidy Klein 
arrugó su mascarilla mientras hablaba de sus estudiantes de inglés en el Centro A. Quinn 
Jones. Detrás de ella, un pequeño cartel decía 
"Lo que cuenta no es de dónde vienes, sino 
hacia dónde vas", un mantra que encarna su 
salón de clases.
Klein, una maestra de inglés de secundaria 
de 25 años, recibió el premio al maestro del 
año 2022 de la División de Salud Emocional 
y Conductual. El DEBH es una comunidad 
internacional de educadores que se dedica 
al éxito de los estudiantes con o en riesgo de 
trastornos emocionales y del comportamien -
to. Klein viajó a Orlando el lunes para recibir 
su placa. Klein ganó, de los siete estados que 
conforman la región 8: Florida, Georgia, Ala -
bama, Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, 
Tennessee y Mississippi.
Durante los últimos cuatro años, Klein 
ha construido relaciones duraderas con sus 
alumnos en el centro. 
Carteles escritos a mano cuelgan de las 
paredes, escritorios con las sillas adjuntas 
llenan la habitación y una sola silla puff des -
cansa en la esquina trasera. Una escena típica 
del salón de clases de la escuela secundaria, 
excepto que solo cuatro estudiantes se sen -
taron en el sexto período de Klein y solo uno 
en el séptimo. Estos estudiantes no siempre 
estuvieron allí durante todo el año.
 El centro atiende a estudiantes que necesi -
tan recuperar créditos, fueron expulsados   de 
su escuela anterior debido a problemas de 
comportamiento o han estado dentro y fuera 
del sistema de justicia juvenil. Los estudiantes 
de sexto a duodécimo grado deben quedarse 
por un mínimo de 45 días. Casi el 60% de los 
estudiantes del centro requieren Educación 
para Estudiantes Excepcionales, un plan de 
estudios para estudiantes con discapacidades 
y condiciones que afectan su capacidad de aprender en un salón de clases convencional. 
Muchos estudiantes tienen un diagnóstico de 
trastorno emocional y conductual, Klein dijo.
Algunos días incluyen llantos, pisoteos 
o ser maldecido, pero no puedes tomarlo a 
pecho, Klein dijo. Al contrario, te enfocas en 
lo que los estudiantes necesitan.
Klein adapta el plan de estudios del distrito 
para acomodar a sus estudiantes.
“Puse un gran énfasis en que escriban su 
historia”, Klein dijo. “Así que hacemos bas -
tantes escritos muy personales sobre el pasa -
do, el presente y el futuro”.
Ella asigna un ensayo al final de cada año: 
una historia heredada. Los estudiantes es -
criben sobre sus esperanzas para el futuro y 
los obstáculos que les dieron forma a estas 
esperanzas.
Aunesti Debose, una joven de 18 años del 
Centro A. Quinn Jones,es la única estudiante 
en el séptimo período de Klein el jueves. De 
todas las sillas de la habitación, se sentó en la 
bolsa puff negra de Klein.
“Ella realmente quiere ayudarnos a con -
vertirnos en alguien en la vida”, dijo Debose. 
“Cuando yo llego a su clase, ella siempre está 
feliz. Ella es la misma persona todos los días. 
Puedes darte cuenta de que ella realmente te 
quiere ayudar”.
Klein se graduó del programa de maestría 
de doble certificación en la UF y obtuvo un tí -
tulo en educación general y ESE K-12. Una de 
sus profesoras y coordinadora del programa 
de posgrado en educación especial, Ashley 
MacSuga-Gage, nominó a Klein para el pre -
mio.
“Ella, desde el principio, pidió y quería tra -
bajar con nuestros estudiantes que realmente 
enfrentan mayores dificultades y que tienden 
a obtener la menor cantidad de recursos”, MacSuga-Gage dijo.
Debido a que Klein eligió trabajar con estu -
diantes con trastornos emocionales y conduc -
tuales y ella prospera en ese entorno, Mac -
Suga-Gage sintió que encarnaba los criterios 
para este premio.
“Ella no se jacta de lo que hace, pero cier -
tamente se lo merece porque está más que 
calificada y realmente va más allá”, MacSu -
ga-Gage dijo. "Ella es honestamente una es -
trella".
Otros profesores del centro también recon -
ocen su esfuerzo.
Klein renunció a su período de planifi -
cación para comenzar un nuevo programa de 
lectura para los estudiantes, dirige el diario 
de la escuela y se mantiene en contacto con 
los estudiantes que salen del programa años 
después, dijo Jane Wilson, maestra de arte de 
A. Quinn Jones.
Pero Klein no considera que estos actos 
sean demasiado peso para ella: brindar una 
educación integral es lo que a ella le encanta.
Encontrarse con un estudiante que ahora 
tiene éxito en una escuela tradicional o ver 
a un estudiante caminar vestido con toga y 
birrete la llena de alegría, Kelin dijo.
Ella aprende al compás de sus estudiantes. 
Ella admira su resiliencia y determinación 
para graduarse de la escuela secundaria a 
pesar de los traumas que ellos han pasado.
“Me han enseñado que no importa lo que 
hayas vivido en tu pasado, siempre hay más”, 
Klein dijo.
Repitió la cita en el cartel detrás de ella, 
“No se trata de donde vienes, sino adónde 
vas”
@emmabehrmann 
ebehrmann@alligator.org
EL JUEZ MARK WALKER 
EMITIÓ UNA ORDEN 
JUDICIAL PRELIMINAR EL 
VIERNES POR LA MAÑANA  
PARA EVITAR QUE LA 
UF PROHIBIERA A SEIS 
PROFESORES EL TESTIMONIO 
DE EXPERTOS
Por Elena Barrera 
Escritora del Personal del Caimán
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Personal del Caimán
Un juez federal prohibió que UF 
refuerce su póliza de conflicto de in -
terés, la cual la universidad ha usa -
do para prohibir que los profesores 
testifiquen en corte este viernes por 
la mañana Los  profesores de UF que de -
mandan a la universidad por la lib -
ertad académica y los derechos de 
la primera enmienda pidieron que el 
juez de distrito, Mark Walker, quien 
fue un “double Gator”, un estudi -
ante de la universidad en dos oca -
siones, emitiera una orden judicial 
preliminar, una orden que detuviera 
la póliza de UF 
Los profesores deben recibir 
aprobación de la universidad para 
comprometerse en actividades fuera 
de ella, como dar testimonio experto 
en la corte, de acuerdo con la póliza. 
La póliza de conflicto de intereses 
deja que UF prohíba que sus profe -
sores sirvan como testigos y se com -
prometan en otras actividades que 
estén en conflicto con sus deberes 
en la Universidad. 
En noviembre, seis profesores 
demandaron a la Universidad por 
prohibirles dar testimonio de testigo 
experto en un caso contra el estado. Luego de recibir críticas por parte 
del congreso de los Estados Unidos, 
acreditadores universitarios y el pú -
blico en general, el presidente de 
UF, Kent Fuchs, nombró un grupo 
de trabajo para revisar la política El 
grupo de trabajo presentó a Fuchs 
recomendaciones para mejorar la 
política, y él las aceptó todas el 2 
de noviembre. En su orden, Walker 
escribió que la política enfrió el dis -
curso de los profesores.
Walker citó las declaraciones del 
presidente de la Junta de Síndicos, 
Morteza “Mori” Hosseini, hechas 
durante una reunión de la Junta de 
Síndicos el 3 de diciembre como una 
razón para establecerse a favor de la 
moción de los profesores.
Durante la reunión, Hosseini ex -
igió que se acabe con el hecho de 
que los miembros de la facultad se 
aprovechen de sus cargos y aboguen 
por puntos de vista políticos perso -
nales.Hosseini atribuyó los logros de 
UF en los últimos cinco años a los 
líderes estatales. Dijo que estos lí -
deres estaban hartos del despilfarro 
de dinero estatal gastado al los pro -
fesores comprometerse en el  mal 
uso de sus posiciones.
“Los comentarios del presidente 
Hosseini dejaron en claro que UF 
estaba en deuda con la Legislatura 
de Florida y que no permitiría que 
su facultad siguiera ofendiendo a 
los legisladores en Tallahassee”, es -
cribió Walker.
La segunda parte de la moción 
de los profesores impugnó la políti -
ca de los informes amicus curiae de 
la universidad, que supervisan las 
declaraciones escritas de expertos 
en un caso judicial; sin embargo, 
Walker lo negó. La política de con -
flicto de compromiso de la escuela, 
que prohíbe a los profesores dedicar 
demasiado tiempo a actividades ex -
ternas, permanecerá vigente de acu -erdo con la orden.
La decisión de Walker de impe -
dir que UF haga cumplir su política 
de conflicto de intereses es un paso 
importante para proteger las contri -
buciones de los profesores a la de -
mocracia, escribió David O'Neil, el 
abogado de los profesores, en un 
comunicado.
“La decisión envía un mensaje 
claro a las universidades públicas de 
todo el país, y a los políticos que in -
tentarán interferir con ellas, de que 
también deben honrar los principios 
constitucionales que hacen del cam -
pus universitario un motor vital de 
una sociedad libre”, O'Neil escribió.
UF está revisando la orden del 
juez para determinar sus próximos 
pasos, escribió Hessy Fernández, 
portavoz de UF, en un correo elec -
trónico.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgLa maestra de inglés A. Quinn Jones recibió un premio regional por su dedicación a la educación especial
Juez previene que UF refuerce su póliza de conflicto de interésAshleigh Lucas / / Personal del Caim án
Maestra de inglés Cassidy Klein es vista 
dentro del A. Quinn Jones Center el 
jueves 20 de enero. Klein fue nombrada 
Maestra del Año 2022 por la División de 
Salud Emocional y del Comportamiento.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
By Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
The Santa Fe Art Gallery made 
its grand re-opening Friday night 
after nearly two years of being 
closed, attracting more than just 
inspired young artists. 
About 100 people gathered 
Friday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for 
the opening night of the show. The exhibit, No Day Without 
a Line: New Plein Air and 
Life Drawings, features works 
by Steven Edgar Bradbury. 
Bradbury is a Florida-based 
artist who works with graphite 
and pastels to create a variety of 
art, including landscapes, figure 
drawings and anatomy drawings, 
said Kyle Novak, SF Art Gallery’s 
manager.The gallery closed in March 
2020 and wasn’t able to host 
in-person events due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, Novak 
said. It was used as a life-
painting and drawing studio 
because it was the largest space 
where social distancing could be 
accommodated. 
“We’re really excited just to 
have the art gallery be an art 
gallery again,” Novak said.
Sage Morrow, a studio art 
sophomore at SFC, said she came 
to the gallery mainly because 
her art class required it. But, 
after hearing the show featured 
Bradbury, an artist that came in 
to demo for one of her classes, 
she knew she couldn’t miss it. 
“He showed us how we were 
supposed to draw the anatomy. 
We got to watch him go through 
the process of drawing a nude 
model,” Morrow said.
Novak encourages everyone to 
stop by the gallery to physically 
see art — an activity that many 
people have been deprived of 
since March 2020.
“It’s important now more than 
ever kind of as we’ve all had a bit 
of a restrictive experience these 
last few years,” Novak said. “I 
think that even before that, but 
even now more so, we’ve kind of 
experienced imagery … through 
our phones — through a screen 
— and I do think that it is really 
important to get out and see art 
in person. There’s just something 
different about it.”
AJ Williams, a SFC digital 
art technology student, said she also came because of the class 
requirement. Yet, when she got 
there, she was glad she had 
come.
“I love the skeleton drawings,” 
Williams said. “And the horse 
over there — it just looks so 
detailed.”
Other SFC art professors 
gave their students the chance 
to get extra credit by coming to 
Bradbury’s show.
“They don’t need to do 
anything for me, like write 
anything. They just need to come 
here and see the environment,” 
said Mario Mutis, art studio 
professor at SFC. “It’s a place 
for students to look at what they 
see in class in a more real-life 
context and to apply a lot of the things they learn here and just to 
socialize.”
Art is not something Mutis 
wants students to associate with 
grades and pressure. He even 
encourages UF students to take 
leisure art classes at the Reitz 
Union.
“You can take classes for fun. 
There’s not that stress of needing 
to be there,” Mutis said. “If 
there’s a day you can’t make it, 
you can’t make it.”
The SF Art Gallery’s Bradbury 
exhibition is open from 10 a.m. 
to 4 p.m., Monday through 
Friday until March 4.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.orgSanta Fe Art Gallery reopens after nearly two years
Lily Kino / / Alligator Staff
Attendees browse Gainesville artist Steven Bradbury’s art at the 
Santa Fe Art Gallery opening on Friday, Jan. 21.
Lily Kino / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville artist Steven Bradbury’s drawings of anatomy are 
seen at the Santa Fe Art Gallery opening on Friday, Jan. 21.
Students were drawn to the exhibit by the promise 
of extra credit points but left with much more
IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER STUDENTS 
WILL RECEIVE THE HIGHER 
EDUCATION EMERGENCY RELIEF 
FUND FOR A FOURTH SEMESTER
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
For four semesters, UF offered federal 
COVID-19 aid to help students financially 
amid the pandemic. 
Yet, that option hasn’t come to fruition 
for Spring, leaving some students stressed 
about finances.
Hunter Becker, a 23-year-old UF eco -
nomics master’s student was laid off from 
his Chipotle job when the COVID-19 pan -
demic first hit. 
The aid he received from the Higher 
Education Emergency Relief Funds for the 
last few semesters lessened the blow. The 
grant made it possible for him to comfort -
ably continue paying his rent without tak -
ing out more student loans.
Cynthia Roldan, a UF spokesperson, 
could not answer if a new grant would be 
available for students in 2022 as of Friday.As a new HEERF grant and other forms 
of federal emergency aid are not yet avail -
able to UF students for the Spring se -
mester, Becker worries that they’ll never 
come. 
“This semester, I’m no longer a TA, 
and my jobs have really kind of dwindled 
down so I had to take out a little bit more 
in loans,” he said. “If I would have gotten 
the aid that I got in the last two semesters, 
I just wouldn’t have really had to worry 
about rent.”
While he is fortunate to be able to live 
even without the aid, he believes it will 
have an impact on lower-income students. 
On Thursday, the U.S. Department of 
Education announced more resources for 
universities and students. This announce -
ment included an additional $198 million 
in American Rescue Plan funds for institu -
tions with the greatest need. 
The federal HEERF III aid was estab -
lished March 11 and funded by the ARP, 
which allocated $44.6 million for student 
funds to UF on June 8, according to the UF 
Student Financial Aid site. 
An estimated 60,407 students were 
potentially eligible to receive Emergency Financial Aid Grants. This federal emer -
gency financial aid grant helped students 
cover expenses related to emergency situ -
ations like unexpected travel or technol -
ogy requirements. 
The HEERF III funds helped students 
cover expenses related to emergency situ -
ations like unexpected travel or technolo -
gy requirements. The funds were original -
ly available to undergraduate, graduate, 
professional, online, non-degree and with -
drawn students that submitted a FAFSA. 
Students had to complete a Federal Emer -
gency Aid Certification Form.
Later, funds were made available 
through an online Federal Emergency Aid 
Application to UF enrolled students who 
hadn’t submitted a FAFSA, international 
students and DACA students.
As of Dec. 31, about $36,531,165 was 
disbursed as HEERF III funding to 28,501 
students, according to the UF Financial 
Aid site. This was more than double the 
amount provided by the HEERF II aid. 
However, a new federal grant has not 
been funded for Spring, causing some stu -
dents to worry as they continue to face im -
pacts from the pandemic.Tanvir Chowdhury, a 26-year-old infor -
mation systems and operations manage -
ment master’s student, wrote in an email 
that the grants he received in the Spring 
and Fall of 2021 were a huge relief to his 
living expenses as well as additional ex -
penses he has as a master’s student.
“The federal emergency grants in both 
semesters really alleviated the stress of 
paying my rent for a long time, and I could 
fully focus on my courses and professional 
development,” Chowdhury wrote. 
Chowdhury wrote that he would be dis -
appointed if no further emergency relief 
aid is offered this semester. 
“This omicron variant has impacted 
many students at UF, and even faculty,” 
he wrote. “Many students have had to 
miss classes, live far from home, and had 
to fend for themselves while ill.”
His family, he wrote, has also struggled 
with fewer work hours. The extra money 
would help to cover the cost of living ex -
penses.
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgUF hasn’t offered any federal emergency relief this semesterBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office : 
   2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail
: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDA Y, JANUARY 2 4, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors: Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
   2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax
: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. Sorry, no cash by mail. Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALEMATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS $149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST $199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & LeaseHorse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925   4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,vehicles & more. All individuals interested inbidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,Best Jewelry and Loanyour requests we will heed. 523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
●We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
Cash for Your Collections-Lladro, Hummel, Armani, Disney, Herend, Boehm, Cybis, Dorothy Doughty, Royal Doulton, Swarovski, Lalique, Baccarat, Lenox and similar. Call Bob at 843-385-5097.                     1-24-2-131For Rent
furnished
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632 4-18-15-2
★★ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 352-215-4991 12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM orMatt Price, University Realty, 352-281-35514-18-15-5
Say: "I FOUND IT IN
the  alligator "
6 Furnishings
You need the moneyto do what you will.Rich at Best Jewelry and Loanhas the cash for those bills.523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
ALLIGATOR CLASSIFIED ADS
GET THE JOB DONE!
REACH MORE THAN 50,000 READERS EACH PUBLICATION DAY
11..SSpprriinnttiinngg,,  ccoommppeettiinngg
11..MMoovviiee  ________55..VViieeww
22..PPiinn  ________66..PPeerrffeecctt
33..CClloosseesstt77..TTooggeetthheerr
44..AAttttaacchheedd,,  aanncchhoorreeddCCGGAANNRRII
WWEEEEVVRRIIAAVVSSIITT
LLAAIIEEDD
NNOOUUSSHHIICC
EENNAAEERRTTSSTTNNEEIIDDUU
LLAAIIEEDDNNAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--RRaacciinngg    55AA--VViissttaa    66AA--IIddeeaall    77AA--UUnniitteedd
11DD--RReevviieeww22DD--CCuusshhiioonn33DD--NNeeaarreesstt44DD--NNaaiilleeddBB--IIssaaaaccNNeewwttoonn11--2244--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWERANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinnggtthheeaannsswweerrss..WWhheenntthheeppuuzzzzlleeiissccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbblleetthheecciirrcclleeddlleetttteerrssttoossoollvveetthheeBBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: QQuueeeenn  AAnnnnee  ccoonnffeerrrreedd  kknniigghhtthhoooodd
oonn  ________  ________  iinn  11770055.. BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"we're all making the scene.If you're in need go see Rich,Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
Collector buying old Baseball, Football, Basketball and Hockey Cards. Pre-1980 pre-ferred. Willing to buy your entire collection. Call Steve 508-932-4095     1-18-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Jerry Edelstein(c)2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC 01/24/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/24/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Monday, January 24, 2022
ACROSS
1 Baghdad is its 
capital
5 Really slow 
parties
10 Bloke
14 Hindu spiritual 
adviser
15 Latin for “gold”16 British nobleman 
below a marquess
17 Rifle range 
rounds
18 Failure to 
exercise appropriate care
20 Nicholas II was 
the last one
22 Nod up and 
down
25 Enjoy the slopes26 Nav. rank27 Bath bathroom28 “To make a __ 
story short ... ”
32 Jessica with two 
Oscars and three Emmys
34 Hopping western 
rodents
38 Jai __39 Formal “Door’s 
open”
40 Green Hornet’s 
sidekick
44 Meteor47 Glide on a rink50 Soon, in 
Shakespeare
51 Well output52 Tic-__-toe53 __ Lingus56 Submit a résumé 
(for), as a job
58 Tasks in music, 
painting, etc.
63 Like hastily made 
plans
64 Berra or a bear68 Dip __ in: test the 
water
69 Meeting leader70 Enjoy, as gum71 Well-mannered 
man
72 Works at, as a 
bar
73 __ sapiens
DOWN
1 Supermarket 
initials
2 Mojito liquor3 Chair’s elbow 
rest4 Repeat exactly
5 Scully on “The 
X-Files”
6 Regretful sort7 2012 Affleck film 
that won Best Picture
8 Large bodies of 
water
9 Smug grin
10 Chicken 
cacciatore quintet
11 “Dear Evan __”: 
2015 musical
12 Curving, like the 
sun crossing the sky
13 Polite request 
starter
19 What a plea deal 
concedes
21 Ward of “House”22 __-Seltzer23 Objective24 Barrett of gossip29 Creme-filled 
cookie
30 It’s forbidden31 Have to, in slang33 Questions35 Main point36 Horse rider’s 
strap37 Florence’s river
41 Where division 
leaders sit, vis-à-
vis the standings
42 What a dog 
wags
43 Paris airport45 Jalopies46 Tiny biting insect
47 WWII prison 
camp
48 Self-defense 
technique49 Responds to, as 
a tip
54 Build
55 Tamiflu producer57 “Fooled you!”59 Editor’s “keep it”60 Folk singer Baez61 Oklahoma city62 Some USN 
officers
65 “I get it now!”
66 Diamond, for one
67 __ Jima
By David Poole
(c)2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/19/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/19/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE:Release Date: Wednesday, January 19, 2022
ACROSS
1 Breaks in
relations
6 Update
cartographically
11 Adorns with
Charmin, for short
14 Basketball Hall
of Famer __
Thomas
15 Sherlock Holmes’
younger sister
as depicted ina recent NancySpringer bookseries
16 Hot temper17 Using any
available means
20 He broke Babe’s
record in 1974
21 Tulip-to-be
22 Kitchen protection
23 Rocks in a bar24 “Miss Saigon”
setting
25 Clear out
26 A college
applicant may
have to write one
28 City on the Ruhr
31 Roman 151
32 Ella’s forte34 Strain35 Swiss Army
knife’s assortment
36 Dashboard
gauges
39 Go for a rebound42 Generation __43 Opportunity
metaphor
45 Ike’s WWII
command
46 Heathcliff’s love48 Future docs’
exams
51 Cassiterite, e.g.53 A-lister55 Govt. mortgage
agcy.
56 Golf goof57 Slangy sweeties59 Stern’s opposite60 Novelty piano
piece of 1921 ...
and a hint to this
puzzle’s theme
63 Skater Midori64 Old Venetian coin65 Havana’s __
Castle
66 Leb. neighbor67 Soliloquy site
68 Elizabeth of
“WandaVision”DOWN
1 Singer Lionel
2 Jason of “Harry
Potter” films
3 Exercise goal4 Thumb-pressed
nail
5 Theater rebuke6 Continue7 Ltr. insert8 Utah city with a
Biblical name
9 __-rock: music
genre
10 Game with
ghosts and amaze
11 Tiny breath mints12 Talk nonsense13 Martial arts
instructors
18 Attorney’s gp.19 Juice box brand24 Long-distance
swimmer Diana
25 Perturbed27 “Rent-__”: 1988
film
29 Curry of the
NBA’s Warriors
30 Warmed the
bench
33 Senate cover-
ups?35 Dream Team
org.
37 Yoga surface
38 Frolic39 Kawasaki
watercraft
40 The U in “SUV”41 Hall pass
checker
44 Roof supports46 Belief systems47 “The Big Fib”
host __ NicoleBrown49 “And __ off!”50 Biblical
strongman
52 Fall mo.54 Suffix like -like57 Fla. resort58 Toilets for T.S.
Eliot?: Abbr.
59 Vodka brand that
sounds like atoast
61 Trail mix morsel62 Fall Out Boy
genre
01/18/2022
solution  on page 10
answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Guest Services
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille's looking for some -
one to manage our phone calls & reserva -
tion requests. Great phone manners a must. 
Email andrew@spurriers.com to learn more 
about this opportunity!                1-24-22-2-14
Little Guys Movers
Now Hiring $14/hr. Plus TIPS
352-329-4040
1-31-22-5-15
Home school coach for a bright 14 y/o girl with 
mild Autism enrolled in online FLVS. No be -
havior or learning issues but needs help with 
motivation & time management. Prefer fe -
male coach seeking experience working with 
ASD children. About 3 hrs most schooldays, 
monitoring schoolwork and motivating her to 
be more active. Flex hrs, $20/hr neg. Email 
Chef3dr@hotmail.com                1-31-22-2-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Summer Camp Counselors Wanted
Oak Hall School in Gainesville is seeking en -
ergetic, creative, and enthusiastic individuals 
with a love for children to staff its summer 
camp program. For a complete listing of 
positions visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment. Interview process begins February 7th        
2-7-22-3-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter -
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Math Tutor & HW Coach for 5th Grader
Math tutor and Homework Coach for 5th 
grader with ADD, speech sound disorder, and 
reading comprehension disorder. Assistance 
in 5th grade common core math concepts, 
establishing executive function skills, and 
motivation and managing ADD symptoms 
preferred. Excellent opportunity for anyone 
interested in working with children with learn -
ing disabilities. $25/hr, hours flexible. Email 
qualifications to: mhefron@hotmail.com                        
1-31-22-4-14
15 Services
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!           1-24-3-15Stickelers  answer
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
The answer is Figure D.
solution  belowDirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan -
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532      
1-24-3-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                
1-24-2-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          1-24-3-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 1-24-3-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         1-24-3-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov -
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                         1-24-3-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
Use Happy Jack® ToneKote® on dogs & 
cats to insure a warm winter coat, prevent 
shedding & eliminate doggy odor. At Tractor 
Supply® (www.happyjackinc.com)      
1-24-1-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Beautiful Rhodesian Ridgeback puppies, 
born Dec. 16th, will be weaned and ready 
for a forever home on Feb. 12th! Health 
Certification and vaccinations included! Call 
352-665-7062.                                2-7-22-5-24answers  below1. ANATOMY: How many ribs are in the 
human body?
2. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What kind of animal 
is a flying fox?
3. GEOGRAPHY: In which body of water 
does the island of Malta lie?
4. U.S. STATES: What animal is featured on 
the state flag of Louisiana?
5. TELEVISION: What was the name of the 
fictional airline whose jet crashed on an 
island in "Lost"?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president ran 
on the slogan "Vote Yourself a Farm and 
Horses"?
7. MOVIES: What is the name of Thor's 
hammer in the earlier "Avengers" movies?
8. FOOD & DRINK: The "Iron Chef" TV 
cooking show originated in which 
country?
9. HISTORY: In what year did the Cold War 
end?
10. SCIENCE: What weather condition is 
measured in millibars?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE. 1. 24
2. A type of bat
3. Mediterranean Sea
4. A pelican
5. Oceanic Airlines6. Abraham Lincoln
7. Mjolnir
8. Japan
9. 1989
10. Atmospheric pressure
1. Reebok.
2. Jessica Simpson.
3. Ebbets Field.
4. Dick Button.5. Chip Ganassi.
6. King Clancy.
7. The fumblerooski.
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answers21 Entertainmentanswers  below1. Name the NASCAR Hall of Famer who 
in 1963 became the first Black driver to 
win a race in NASCAR's premier Grand 
National Series.
2. What Panamanian jockey amassed 
9,530 career wins, including one at 
the Kentucky Derby (1984) and three 
straight at the Belmont Stakes (1982-
84)?
3. What NFL franchise played its first 
season in 1967 but did not have a 
winning campaign until it finished 12-3 
in the strike-shortened 1987 season? 
4. What New York Yankees lefthanded 
pitcher was named AL Rookie of the 
Year in 1981 and threw a no-hitter on 
July 4, 1983?
5. What name did the NBA's Washington 
Wizards franchise have when it was 
established in 1961? 
6. Federation Internationale des Echecs 
(FIDE) is the global governing body of 
what game?
7. Name the Denver Nuggets coach 
who was fined and suspended for 
ordering his team to stop playing 
defense during a 156-113 loss to the 
Sacramento Kings in November 1983.1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALLTHE FRESHMAN ACCEPTS AND EXCELS 
IN HIS NEW ROLE
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Spending most of your season on the bench 
can be emotionally draining for athletes.
Freshman Kowacie Reeves averaged fewer 
than 10 minutes per game this season. He 
spent more than two months witnessing sea -
son-changing moments from the bench, like 
UF’s. 71-55 domination over bitter rival Flor -
ida State or Tyree Appleby’s 30-foot heave 
against Ohio State. 
The season went on and Reeves’ time on 
the court trickled in, earning 24 minutes dur -
ing the Gators’ 87-62 victory over Stony Brook 
Dec. 22. 
The Macon, Georgia, native maintained 
his patience while Florida slipped to 9-5. His 
teammates said he’d get his chance and told 
him to keep his hustle, Reeves said.
“They just always believed and never gave 
up,” Reeves said. “They never doubted me. 
They always said, ‘Just keep your head down 
and work. Eventually, everything will fall into 
place.’”Reeves impacted the Gators offense from 
the moment his sneakers stepped foot on the 
hardwood Jan. 12.
The freshman’s release is now smooth as 
butter, and he’s used it to shoot 45.8% from 
beyond the arc in five starts.
Reeves kept his humility as the Gators en -
tered a home tilt against the Vanderbilt Com -
modores. The Gators are on the bubble for 
the NCAA tournament, but Reeves feels that 
Florida is on the come up.
“I think we’re slowly but surely getting 
back to our same physicality, edge and com -
petitiveness like we were in the beginning 
of the season,” Reeves said. “I think it's just 
good for us off the court as well. We’ll worry 
less about all the other outside stuff. We just 
focus on winning, staying together and trying 
to come up with wins.”
Head coach Mike White only speaks high -
ly of Reeves regarding his attitude on and off 
the floor.
“Kowacie has got a high level of maturity 
beyond his years,” White said. “He's been the 
same exact kid every day since he's been on 
campus.”
White had similar praise in a press confer -
ence Jan. 18, but also refers to Reeves having 
to earn more time on the court. “He’s got a ways to go,” White said. “His 
future is really bright. If he continues to work 
and remains with his level of humility, which 
will be shocking if he doesn’t because he’s 
about as consistent, despite being the young -
est.”
The team found a way to stick together 
Jan. 19 when Florida remarkably built a 14-0 
run to climb back and topple Mississippi State 
80-72. The Gators then downed Vanderbilt 
61-42 Saturday to stack three-consecutive SEC 
wins.
Challenges continue to pile up for Florida, 
but Reeves and the team know to take it week 
by week.
“I try not to look too far in the future. I 
try to just focus on the present. If you just 
do what you’re supposed to do, everything 
should take care of itself,” Reeves said. “You 
got to take it one game at a time, as a team, 
and just be prepared to compete.”
Florida takes on the Ole Miss Rebels in -
side the Stephen C. O’Connell Center Jan. 24. 
Tipoff is set for 7 p.m. and will broadcast on 
SEC Network+.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.org
JOE COOK-SHUGART 
SITS DOWN WITH 
ALLIGATORSPORTS TO 
DISCUSS FLORIDA’S 
TOURNAMENT CHANCES
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
The suffix -ology is generally re -
served for disciplines that tackle the 
most complex and integral problems 
in our society. 
Virology, psychology and brack -
etology — essential -ologies that help 
us make sense of our baffling world. 
Bracketology, which is the pro -
cess of using analytics and machine 
learning to predict NCAA tourna -
ment seeding and results, entered 
the public lexicon as a result of in -
creased public scrutiny and confu -
sion around the NCAA basketball 
tournaments’ selection process. 
These predictions are usually gener -
ated on a frequent basis, starting as 
early as December.
The Gator men’s basketball team 
has generally avoided the dreaded 
NCAA bubble — UF has qualified for 
18 of the last 22 tournaments, earn -
ing a seed higher than seven only 
twice. 
But Florida’s current odds teeter on a knife’s edge. BartTorvik, one 
of the leading databases dedicated 
towards predicting tournament seed -
ing gives the Gators them a 57% 
chance of making the tournament 
fewer than two months from Selec -
tion Sunday. 
Joe Cook-Shugart of 1-3-1Sports, 
the eighth-most accurate Brack -
etology expert according to popular 
database Bracketmatrix, gives an in-
depth look at his approach:
alligatorSports: What is Bracketology 
at its core?
Cook-Shugart:  It’s really a grow -
ing area of interest and it’s still cer -
tainly being refined. Data science 
and machine learning are kind of 
the buzzwords people use. Where 
machine learning comes in is, from 
a statistical standpoint, you set up an 
algorithm that you want the machine 
to execute, and then the machine 
learns. 
It learns from data that you feed 
it, and iterates over that data and 
makes predictions about what's go -
ing to happen based on what hap -
pened in the past, essentially.
alligatorSports: What data goes into 
the projections, and how are these 
points weighted?Cook-Shugart:  Based on my 
model, five features that really stand 
out as really driving how a team will 
be seeded: 
One, it's unsurprising, it's the rea -
son that [the NCAA selection com -
mittee] made it, the committee really 
leans into the NET Ranking. [The 
committee] got to put in mostly team 
performance but then have some el -
ements of how a team should have 
performed based on advanced ana -
lytics, like your Kenpom, that feeds 
into the NET. 
Second, is actually the amount of 
points the team is receiving in the AP 
Poll. That is essentially the best way 
to sort of fledge or quantify an eye 
test because that’s where you get the 
opinions of AP voters.
Those are your top two, then 
quadrant one wins. The committee 
talks about it every time they inter -
view the tournament selection com -
mittee chair. He says, ‘Well, they 
had a lot of quad one wins and a lot 
of quality wins.’ 
Number four is quadrant four 
losses. Unfortunately for Florida, 
because when you're on the bubble, 
that's about the worst thing that 
you can have. Essentially you need 
more good wins than bad losses. The 
last thing is strength of schedule. Strength of schedule as a whole is 
more indicative of how a team's go -
ing to be seeded than any quad two 
or quad three wins or losses.
alligatorSports: Florida currently 
ranks 39 in NET with one quadrant 
four loss to Texas Southern and one 
quadrant one win over Ohio State.
alligatorSports: Where does Florida 
stand in these data points?
Cook-Shugart:      Florida will have a 
lot of opportunities to play their way 
in or out of the tournament. The SEC 
is strong, at least the tournament 
caliber teams, but the bottom of the 
SEC is not great. You need to kind of 
avoid losing to the, you know, like 
the Ole Miss-Georgia-Missouri con -
tingent, and you'll be fine there.
[Florida is] literally my last team 
in, but I wouldn’t want Florida fans 
being mad at me if they ended up 
being the first or second team out if 
Selection Sunday was today. They’re 
right there.
alligatorSports: What does Florida 
have to do to cement themselves as 
a tournament team?Cook-Shugart:  They kind of con -
trol their own destiny because the 
SEC is pretty strong at the top and in 
the middle.
I think 19 wins in this conference. 
You know, like that's not hard and 
fast. Eighteen might do it, it might 
take 20, but about 19 wins just based 
on the remaining schedule that they 
have and the strength of the SEC. 
And, regular season wins are more 
important than conference tourney 
wins.
Regular season performance 
tends to be weighed a little bit heavi -
er [than the conference tournament]. 
You have to take care of bad teams. 
After that, other games are just op -
portunities to sneak a couple more 
good wins in. I think a good finish 
would be 21 wins. 
I think anything less than 18 wins 
is kind of a disaster. Florida fans 
should be mad at the team and not 
the committee if they leave them out 
with 17 wins or something. I’d say 
best case would be [the nine seed], 
worst case is out of the tournament 
and my best guess is they’ll be one of 
the last four in, right where they’re at 
right now.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgKowacie Reeves stays humble through three starts
Q&A: Gators men’s hoops through the lens of Bracketology expertSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Freshman Kowacie Reeves rises for a 
layup before Florida’s Nov. 14 game 
against Florida State. Reeves has 
averaged 9.5 points per game since his 
first start of the season on Jan. 12.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREFEATURE
TATYANA AND TALIYAH WYCHE’S 
FAMILY GIFTED THE SISTERS THEIR 
DRIVE ON AND OFF THE COURT
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
A flurry of Gators women’s basketball play -
ers lined up for their final preparations just 30 
minutes before facing Ole Miss, a familiar SEC 
foe. The UF team donned royal blue warmup 
shirts as the clock ticked down to tip-off Jan. 6.
Single file, each player dashed to the basket 
before outstretching their hands to guide in a 
smooth layup.
At first, Florida’s pregame routine looked unremarkable to the sparse crowd of college 
basketball fanatics at the O’Connell Center. 
It’s when 18-year-old freshmen forwards 
Tatyana and Taliyah Wyche sprinted and el -
evated to rattle the rim that passing fans took 
a collective gasp.
The Wyche twins always enjoyed tremen -
dous athletic gifts — it’s hard to bluff your 
way into four consecutive high school state 
titles. But while most twins take on the world 
in pairs, this dynamic duo battles with a third 
presence by their side: their stepmother. 
When the twins were eight-years-old, Jo -
anna Wyche worked at the same elementary 
school as their father, Bennet Wyche, while 
they attended the neighboring school. One 
day, Bennet introduced her to the twins as his 
friend. The three strangers took a liking to one 
another instantly.
“They would come to my classroom and 
try on my shoes,” Joanna said. “Eight-year-old 
girls just walking around the classroom with 
my six-inch heels. It was just super cute.”
In that moment, they clicked into an instant 
closeness, she said. When she married the 
twins’ father, the term stepmom didn’t define 
the kind of relationship the trio fostered.
“I don’t look at them as my stepdaughters 
and they don’t look to me as their stepmom,” 
Joanna said. “Those are my daughters.”
As a team, Joanna and Bennet helped their 
daughters the best way they knew how. While 
she helped the twins get ahead in the class -
room, Bennet instilled his daughters with pride 
on the basketball court. 
“She really helped us academically,” Taliyah 
said. “She was a middle school teacher, and we 
were in third grade doing middle school work.”
The twins’ father played basketball recre -
ationally but utilized his playing experience to help them follow their dreams on the hard -
wood.
“If we didn’t do the little things like box out 
or play defense, my dad would always say it’s 
about heart,” Taliyah said. “If you have heart 
you can do it.”
Heart played a major role in the Wyche sis -
ters’ dominance at the high school level.
American Heritage High School Head Coach 
Greg Farias fell in love with the twins as soon 
as he saw them taking a tour of the school in 
Plantation, Florida. Taliyah stood at a towering 
6’1 and Tatyana measured in at 6’2. He saw the 
raw potential hidden underneath the surface.
Farias witnessed the untapped athletic abil -
ity of Tatyana and Taliyah firsthand. They were 
rim-running machines, but their tremendous 
success did not stop them from working on the 
fundamentals.
“They started developing inside moves that 
were amazing,” Farias said. “Their junior year 
they both developed a mid-range shot.”
Under the guidance of Farias, the twins 
grew into unrivaled conquerors of the painted 
area around the South Florida circuit. Tatyana 
averaged 15 points and 17 rebounds per game, 
and Taliyah compiled almost identical numbers 
with 15 points and 11.3 rebounds.
Coaching the Wyche sisters was a pleasure 
for Farias, not because of their stellar perfor -
mance on the court, but their character off it.
“I was hard on them, but at the same time 
I always loved them and that never changed,” 
Farias said. “They were loyal and they love me 
to death.”
When the twins decided where to continue 
their basketball and academic careers, UF was 
the obvious choice.
Current interim head coach Kelly Rae Finley 
attracted the twins to the school. Finley rou -tinely called the twins for life updates and emo -
tional check-ins, developing a bond that made 
the choice to stay instate an easy one.
“She was always so honest,” Tatyana said. 
“We had conversations that went further than 
basketball.”
Tatyana and Tailyah signed on to pursue 
their basketball careers and criminology de -
grees at UF November 2020.
Junior and fellow forward Faith Dut em -
braced the South Florida sisters. The lanky, 
transition-minded Canadian has been an excel -
lent model for Taliyah and Tatyana on-and-off 
the court.
Following their arrival at UF, Dut made sure 
the girls were keeping up with their condition -
ing. The junior went out of her way to be there 
for the freshmen in their transition into Division 
I basketball.
The Wyche sisters continue to mature as 
Florida looks poised to make a legitimate run in 
the SEC tournament this March. After dropping 
the first two games of conference play against 
Georgia and Ole Miss, the Gators have gener -
ated momentum with a four-game winning 
streak. 
But the twins are not looking ahead that far 
just yet. They are taking each contest one at a 
time, focusing on the task ahead and putting 
heart in everything they do.
“I always want to focus on what’s next,” 
Taliyah said. “After we take care of that, then 
we can move on to the next thing.”
As her daughters blossom on the basketball 
court, Joanna looks forward to seeing her girls 
graduate and accomplish their goals on the 
court and in the classroom.
@bogle_brenda
bbogle@alligator.org‘If you have heart you can do it’: Twin Gator basketball stars rise at UF
Courtesy of University Athletics Association
Tatyana Wyche protects the ball from 
a swarm of Ole Miss players looking to 
snatch it out of her hands.
