We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#East side sports complex continues
Commissioners will evaluate practicality and profitability of 
planned upgrades,  pg. 5
Turtle talk
UF researchers develop ability to track species without physical 
interaction,  pg. 4SEC football meetings held in Destin
Billy Napier and Scott Stricklin represented 
Florida as conference discussed NIL, the 
sport’s future . Read more on pg. 11
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 36
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
SHOOTING SURVIVORS RECOUNT 
FRUSTRATIONS, QUESTION 
LEGISLATIVE ACTION
By Carissa Allen & Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writers
As tragedy after tragedy saturates the media, 
Giancarlo Rodriguez finds himself numb to gun 
violence — a scary confession, he admits.
The normalization started when Rodriguez, a 
20-year-old UF anthropology junior, witnessed 
Orlando mourn after the Pulse nightclub 
shooting June 12, 2016. He said it was an attack 
on his people: his hometown peers and the 
LGBTQ community.
The Pulse shooting, which killed 49 people 
and injured 68, remains the second deadliest 
mass shooting by a single gunman in modern 
U.S. history, but the devastation and mourning 
Rodriguez felt six years ago became cyclic. 
His frustration grows with every shooting, he 
said. Seventeen lives lost in Parkland in 2018. 
Ten lives in Buffalo last month. Twenty-one 
lives in Uvalde two weeks ago. Three lives in 
Philadelphia Saturday night.
“You see all this stuff happening and then the 
people in charge and in government do the bare 
minimum or don't do anything at all to solve 
these problems,” he said. “It’s just unacceptable. 
We as Floridians and Americans, we should not 
accept that.”
Gabriela Montes didn’t understand the reality 
of gun violence in America until police shattered 
her Marjory Stoneman Douglas classroom door 
on Valentine’s Day four years ago. She didn’t 
realize it was more than a routine active shooter 
drill until 17 people — including three of her 
friends — were dead. 
Students returned to class at the Parkland 
high school weeks later, but the nation’s grief 
persisted, surging after each mass shooting that 
ensued. 
After the massacre, Florida legislature passed 
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 
Public Safety Act, which outlined reforms to 
make schools safer and restricted firearms from 
people who are younger than 21 or mentally ill. 
It has revisited the subject every year since 2018. 
Florida ranks No. 4 nationwide in school 
shootings with 74 incidents since 1970. 
Former Gov. Rick Scott signed a law banning 
bump stocks — the rifle attachment allowing 
gunmen to quickly fire bullets — expanding 
background checks and imposing a three-
day waiting period between the purchase and 
delivery of a firearm.
“While it is unfair to say for certain,” Rep. 
Chuck Clemons, R-Newberry, wrote in an email, 
“It is quite possible that had Texas implemented 
our policies wholesale, the tragedy in Uvalde 
could have been averted or, in the very least, Students, residents reflect on gun violence epidemic
Cariss Allen / / Alligator Staff
About 50 people march from Westside Church of God in Christ to Maude Lewis Park to protest gun violence and 
honor victims  during the We Wear Orange campaign June 4, 2022.
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government Senate pro -
posed a resolution honoring the 21 lives 
lost at the Texas elementary school shoot -
ing that incorrectly identified the date of 
the tragedy and the victims’ names.
Four names were spelled incorrectly, 
one victim’s first name was missing in fa -
vor of a nickname and 13 middle names, 
nicknames and suffixes were missing from 
the initial document. 
Deputy Minority Party Leader Mo -
hammed Faisal and CLAS Senator Gabri -
ela Montes, a Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
shooting survivor, authored an amend -
ment correcting the errors.
“When I see something on a document 
that is meant to honor these lives and me -
morialize these lives and it appears to be 
done within the span of just a few min -
utes, it upsets me,” Montes said. “Because 
I know there is no document that can undo 
what has been done to these families.”
Montes said the resolution felt rushed. 
It cited an article with incorrect informa -tion about the victims and did not match 
the quality demanded of SG legislation, 
she said.
“We care that these resolutions 
be the last of their kind. I love the 
intent with which this was done. The 
execution was absolutely lacking.”
-Sen. Gabriela Montes
Senate Pro-Tempore Olivia Green and 
Senate President Elizabeth Hartzog au -
thored the legislation. Green said Wednes -
day the errors in the resolution were cleri -
cal.
Senators voted on the amendment 
Tuesday, correcting the errors and add -
ing information about the nationwide 
March for Our Lives event June 11. It also 
promoted local mental health resources 
in light of the Uvalde gunman’s mental 
health issues. 
The Judiciary committee, which re -
views all proposed legislation, edited the 
document to say the Robb Elementary 
school shooting in Uvalde, Texas, hap -
pened on May 24, not May 25, before it approved the resolution for Senate consid -
eration Sunday.
The uncorrected resolution passed by 
the committee was still on the SG website 
as of Sunday night. 
Three other resolutions were passed 
Tuesday; one recognizing LGBTQ Pride 
Month, one recognizing the end of Asian 
Pacific Islander Desi American Heritage 
month in May and an endorsement of a 
potential Reitz Union parking garage digi -
tal tracker. 
Senate approved Joshua Zalkan as the 
executive Student Honor Code Administra -
tion Chairman and elected its new Mem -
ber-at-Large, Senator Jacey Cable, who 
will serve on the Replacement & Agenda 
Committee. Senate also authorized a spe -
cial request for a carryover of funds to the 
next fiscal year due to construction delays. 
The next Senate meeting will be held 
in the Reitz Union Senate Chambers June 
7 at 7 p.m.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgStudent Government Senate incorrectly 
identifies Texas school shooting victims  
SEE GUN VIOLENCE,  PAGE 6The resolution required an amendment to fix missing ages, misspelled names and wrong datesT oday’s WeatherTHE RULES AND ETHICS 
COMMITTEE VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY THAT SENATE 
PRESIDENT ELIZABETH 
HARTZOG DID NOT ABUSE 
POWER BY CANCELING MAY 
17 SENATE MEETING
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
Senate President Elizabeth 
Hartzog was unanimously ex -
onerated from abuse of power 
charges Thursday. 
The UF Student Government 
Rules and Ethics committee, 
which is composed entirely of 
Gator Party senators, said there 
was not enough evidence to in -
dict Hartzog over her cancellation 
of the May 17 Senate meeting. It 
was allegedly canceled to prevent 
senators attending a trip to Israel 
from facing unexcused absences, 
according to a petition written by 
Senator Jonathan C. Stephens on 
behalf of Change Party.
In a livestreamed hearing last -
ing just over 35 minutes Thurs -
day, both Stephens and Hartzog 
were given 12 minutes for open -
ing and closing statements and 
testimony. 
Stephens said Hartzog over -
stepped her jurisdiction by can -
celing the meeting to help sena -
tors avoid unexcused absences. 
He said the Rules and Ethics 
committee, which approves or 
denies absence requests, simply 
appealed to Hartzog’s authority 
to cancel the meeting rather than 
considering whether the cancella -
tion was justified.
In two 2019 opinion articles, 
former UF senator Zachariah Chou wrote about an emerging 
annual pattern of SG officials 
going on trips to Israel that co -
incided with a canceled Senate 
meeting. 
Judiciary Chairman John 
Brinkman, who was subpoenaed 
as a Senate rules and procedure 
expert, testified Thursday that 
Hartzog’s cancellation met all 
constitutional requirements. Sen -
ate rules and procedures give 
Hartzog power to discretionarily 
cancel meetings.
Brinkman would have been 
forced from his Senate seat due 
to absences if not for the can -
celed meeting. Two unexcused 
absences or three total absences 
per semester prompts automatic 
removal from the seat in Summer. 
Senator Mason Solomon, who 
also serves as vice-chair of the 
Judiciary Committee with Brink -
man, said Hartzog’s timeline 
showed there was no ill intention 
in canceling the meeting. 
Hartzog said she registered for 
the Israel trip in February. She 
was elected to her current posi -
tion in March. 
Senator Lilliana Clark said 
there was no evidence of collu -
sion because the trip was vol -
untary. The Senate pPresident 
affirmed her seat on the trip was 
not contingent on her election.
“I think President Hartzog 
exercised some common sense, 
some understanding of the value 
of our time, and realized that it 
wasn’t plausible to make every -
one come when we most likely 
would not have met 51 at the 
meeting,” Senator Ryan Marcus 
said. 
If quorum, or the condition of 
51 or more present senators, is not met at a Senate meeting, the 
meeting cannot be held.
Hartzog said she and Senate 
President Pro-Tempore Olivia 
Green told Minority Party Leader 
Faith Corbett they decided to can -
cel the May 17 meeting because 
they anticipated a lack of quo -
rum. 
Corbett, who does not have 
power to object to Senate being 
canceled, said Hartzog empha -
sized the importance of all 11 
Change members’ presence to 
meet quorum May 10. If quorum 
was not met, Senate would have 
been forced to hold a meeting  
May 17 without Hartzog, Green 
and other Gator Party leadership 
who were in Israel. 
Hartzog said Corbett did not 
voice concerns until May 18, but 
Corbett said evidence was pre -
sented out of context. She did 
not agree with the investigation’s 
conclusion.
“It’s not that these decisions 
were ran by me, it’s that they 
were told to me,” Corbett said.  
Corbett did not comment on 
her next steps regarding the in -
vestigation’s conclusion.
Namari Lock contributed to this story.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 36 Senate President exonerated 
of all abuse of power charges
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
By Lillian Lawson
Alligator Staff Writer
UF marine researchers recently 
discovered a new way of collecting DNA 
from sea turtles; a flipper print trail in the 
sand gives them all they need.
Researchers at the UF Whitney 
Laboratory for Marine Bioscience in St. 
Augustine are the first in the world to 
collect and use environmental DNA, 
otherwise known as eDNA, to track sea 
turtles without direct interaction with the 
species.
Their findings, published April 4, created 
a milestone in sea turtle conservation. The eDNA research comes shortly after UF 
IFAS announced its findings on the growth 
of plants in moon soil for the first time; 
both are major accomplishments for the 
university.
With this new method, scientists use 
only water and beach sand to uncover 
small amounts of genetic material from 
sea turtles — enough to determine their 
travels, origin and subpopulation. 
Jessica Farrell, a 26-year-old post-
doctoral student at Whitney Laboratory, 
has worked in the lab for five years and 
assists with eDNA research. 
She said current biological sampling 
methods — such as blood draws and skin biopsies — are stressful for sea turtles, 
especially nesting mothers. Farrell hopes 
this breakthrough will allow researchers 
to collect eDNA with the least amount of 
harm and disruption.
“You don’t have to be there on the 
beach at 6 a.m. in the morning 
distracting all of the mothers. You can 
go down at lunchtime, there aren’t any 
moms there, and we’re able to get really 
good information from that sand.”
-Jessica Farrell, Student
She said she wants the laboratory to eventually identify and track individual 
sea turtles after they’ve traveled over the 
sand and made nests.
The project started in 2016 using water 
samples from the lab’s tanks to detect 
Fibropapillomatosis (FP), a herpes-based 
virus creating tumors in sea turtles. 
Results of the lab’s initial research found 
FP was transmitted through water, and it 
was detectable in eDNA water samples.
Volunteers and scientists from all over 
Florida collaborated with the Whitney 
Laboratory. They sent water and sand 
samples from beaches across the state.
David Duffy, a UF assistant professor of 
Wildlife Disease Genomics who’s worked 
in the lab since 2020, said this technology 
has never been applied to sea turtles. 
“When you show people, it doesn’t 
sound like science, it sounds like it’s 
make-believe that you can really take a 
small amount of water from the ocean and 
tell what species are there,” Duffy said.
Brooke Dekle, an 18-year-old UF marine 
science freshman, said this research 
allows scientists to track endangered 
species without taking direct samples from 
the animals. The development may also 
provide additional data to find a potential 
cure for the FP virus or treat it in a less-
invasive way than surgery.
She said eDNA collection benefits 
her desired field — shark research and 
conservation — because it allows sharks 
to be monitored without physical implants 
or tissue samples.
“This is a solution to make conservation 
research a lot less invasive and a lot more 
effective for the animal,” Dekle said.
Since anyone can collect eDNA samples 
and send it to laboratories, this method 
will make environmental science more 
accessible in low-income areas, Dekle 
said.
“You do not even have to be a scientist 
to get samples and send it off to people 
who can do the research,” she said. “So 
pretty much anyone can be included in 
this, which I think is a really, really good 
step forward.”
@LillianLLawson
llawson@alligator.orgUF researchers first in the world to collect sea turtle eDNA
By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
A UF alumnus who altered the 
agricultural world has returned 
to teach students how to combat 
the effects of climate change on 
crops. 
Carlos “Charlie” Messina, a UF 
horticultural science professor, 
returned to Gainesville after 
more than 15 years in the crop 
modeling and plant breeding 
industry. With new knowledge 
on drought-tolerant crops, he 
wanted to work where he could 
improve the health of crop returns 
while teaching UF plant breeders efficiency. 
Jim Jones, a 78-year-old 
professor who was one of the first 
people to develop models and 
genetically modify crops in the 
1960s, mentored Messina as he 
pursued his Ph.D. He said Messina 
was one of the first professionals 
brave enough to tackle plant 
breeding with technological and 
mathematical modeling.
“If you really want to advance 
the science frontiers, you’ve got 
to be a little bold. And he does 
that.”
-Prof. Jim JonesJones said Messina’s 
work could help farmers and 
greenhouse growers best choose 
what crop varieties to plant.
Messina said UF is the best 
place for him to figure out ideal 
growing conditions, increase food 
production, lessen environmental 
impacts and improve human 
health. 
Messina’s Spring course, 
“Survey of Breeding Tools 
and Methods,” focused on the 
combination of AI and plant 
breeding. He said artificial 
intelligence is used to better 
understand the details in the 
crop DNA that result in desired qualities. 
Julie Cromie, a 24-year-
old Ph.D. student in the plant 
molecular and cellular biology 
program, said the course gave 
her a glimpse into the tools being 
used by professionals.
She said normal crop 
systems are starting to face less 
predictable problems, like climate 
change and artificial intelligence. 
She said Messina’s experience 
and methods will allow students 
to answer relevant biological 
questions with an accuracy 
they’ve never had before.
He will show students 
how to analyze data sets and understand new modeling styles 
in Fall. Crop modeling — the 
use of mathematical equations 
to describe crop genetics, 
management and its interaction 
with the environment — helps 
determine crop growth.
Mathematics, quantitative 
thinking and technologies 
combining genomics and crop 
models are the future and 
upcoming professionals need to 
understand how to use them, 
Messina said.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.orgUF professor set to lead next generation of plant breeders
Charlie Messina, a UF professor, has returned to Gainesville after spending 
over 15 years in the crop modeling and plant breeding industryEmma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
UF Whitney Laboratory researchers are first in the world to collect eDNA to track sea turtles.
Researchers at the UF Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience in St. Augustine 
are the first in the world to collect and use environmental DNA to track sea turtlesMONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
A sculpture dedicated to a 
Gainesville activist and African 
American studies professor will re -
place a confederate soldier statue that 
used to sit downtown.
Patricia Hilliard-Nunn died Aug. 
5, 2020, at 57 years old. She lived by 
the principles of rediscovering one’s 
history, embracing it and putting it 
to present use — principles signified 
by the West African Sankofa bird. A 
Sankofa statue will memorialize Hill -
iard-Nunn and fill the space where a 
confederate soldier statue once sat. 
City commissioners voted to re -
move the statue, which was donated 
by the United Daughters of the Con -
federacy in 1904, in 2017. Replacing 
it with a Sankofa statue will change 
the visual narrative, UF African 
American Studies professor Rik Ste -
venson said.
Stevenson, who taught alongside 
Hilliard-Nunn since 2019, said stat -
ues symbolize significant events and 
people — they memorialize contribu -
tions and commemorate ideas, con -
cepts, experiences.
“For a Black woman to have that kind of honor — especially in a place 
like Gainesville — that’s rather sig -
nificant,” he said. 
Hilliard-Nunn was committed 
to uncovering racial injustices in 
Alachua County. She extensively 
researched and spotlighted the New -
berry Six lynchings, African Ameri -
can History and West African dance, 
film and media.
Hilliard-Nunn’s husband, UF law 
professor Kenneth Nunn, said she 
always mentioned the Sankofa bird 
— which is often depicted moving 
forward and looking backward at its 
tail — symbolizing the importance of 
remembering one’s past and making 
better decisions for the future. It was 
frequently featured in class lectures, 
public speeches, daily conversations 
and even her outfits.
“It’s a perfect symbol to 
represent what she stood 
for. We’re talking about the 
importance of recovering the 
history of racial oppression in 
Alachua County and putting 
it forward so that people could 
see it.”
-Prof. Kenneth NunnAlachua County is allocating 
$75,000 toward the project — $25,000 
of which came from an anonymous 
donor. The statue will be built on a 
144-square-foot concrete slab on the 
west lawn of the county administra -
tion building, located at the south -
east corner of University Avenue and 
Main Street. It will include Hilliard-
Nunn’s photo, biographical informa -
tion and tie to the Sankofa. The fam -
ily also hopes to build a protective 
railing to prevent vandalism.
After the county released news of 
the project, its arts council selected 
four artists for consideration. The 
commission selected George Gadson, 
who has created sculptures since the 
1980s and built a similar Sankofa 
statue in Fort Lauderdale in 2016.
When memorializing art pieces, 
Gadson said he better understands 
the individual through research, fam -
ily members and historical societies.
“Art is a way in which history 
can be memorialized, so that when 
I’m not here and others are not here, 
there are individuals who can read a 
portion of history,” Gadson said.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.org
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Commission voted 
unanimously Thursday to forge ahead with 
the proposed East Gainesville sports complex.
Commissioners approved analyses that 
will evaluate the complex’s practicality and 
profitability.
The vote paves the way for the commis -
sion to understand the approximate cost, rev -
enue and impact on the economy and traffic 
for the potential upgraded facility on Eighth 
Avenue and Waldo Road.
Roxana Gonzalez, director of parks, rec -
reation and cultural affairs for the city, em -
phasized the proposed renovations do not in -
tend to compete with Celebration Pointe but 
facilitate community-building and allow city 
residents an opportunity to usecity property.
Public reaction was mixed when the com -
plex was first proposed. Some East Gainesville 
residents hoped a new facility could stimulate 
economic prosperity in the area, while oth -
ers were concerned commissioners’ priorities 
were out of line and pleaded for them to sup -
port existing business and housing instead.
Commissioners said discussion about the 
east side landmark, which has long been in 
need of attention, should revolve around 
neighbors living in the area. Residents’ input 
is a priority, commissioners agreed — they 
are the ones who use the complex every day 
to get outside, walk their dogs or toss a base -
ball around.
Jonathan Stephens, a 19-year-old UF food 
science and agricultural communications 
sophomore who volunteers on the east side, 
said the sports complex would enrich the east 
side of Gainesville but echoed the uneasiness 
of sportsplex adversaries.
“Is this the biggest priority that we need to 
focus on?” he asked.
He recognized the east side is full of his -
toric districts and homes, and he hopes the 
new complex will not disrupt those commu -
nities.The city proposed the MLK building — cur -
rently 19,000 square feet — should expand to 
a minimum of 60,000 square feet. The center 
could double its full-sized indoor basketball 
courts from two to four and include locker 
rooms, showers and fitness classrooms in a 
second floor fitness center.
The presentation detailed a centralized 
covered pavilion, a paved fitness trail and 
an outdoor hallway extension with access to 
the renovated pool. It also pitched an indoor 
stage and second-floor perimeter track and 
viewing area. 
Gonzalez said Citizens Park could fit six 
multi-use rectangular fields for sports like 
soccer, rugby, lacrosse and ultimate frisbee. It also recommended a stadium with a 
minimum of 8,000 to 10,000 seats. The sta -
dium would feature an outdoor high school-
sized track, ticket booths, two locker rooms, 
a press box, a concession stand, PA system 
and digital scoreboard.
The feasibility study must project the 
complex’s one- to five-year plan of event op -
portunities, estimate the number of visitors 
and detail its revenue and economic impact. 
It should also include funding sources, poten -
tial grants, sponsorships, partnership oppor -
tunities and naming opportunities.
The assessment will review existing ho -
tel availability and estimate growth in the 
area surrounding the complex. Many East Gainesville residents also await traffic impact 
evaluations.
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe and the rest 
of the commission were cautiously optimistic 
for the future of the sportsplex. 
The city will give companies about 30 to 
45 days to offer their services after the re -
quest for proposal is made public this month. 
City Manager Cynthia Curry estimated the 
commission would have an evaluation rec -
ommendation to hire a firm by September.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgFlorida artist to memorialize UF professor and replace Confederate statue
Gainesville City Commission moves forward with East Gainesville sports complex proposalCourtesy to The Alligator
A similar Sankofa statue was made by artist George Gadson in 
Fort Lauderdale in March 2016. Gainesville’s Sankofa statue will 
replace a confederate statue downtown.
George Gadson will build a Sankofa statue to commemorate Patricia Hilliard-Nunn
Alligator File Photo
Citizens Field, pictured above, is included in the city’s proposed renovation to the MLK Center and Citizens Field. The plan 
recommends expanding the stadium to 8,000 to 10,000 seats.
The Gainesville City Commission voted unanimously Thursday to forge ahead with the proposed East Gainesville sports complex6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
dramatically limited.” 
Alachua County’s 
congresswoman, Rep. Kat 
Cammack, R-Fla., staunchly 
supports Second Amendment 
rights and opposes legislation 
that would limit gun ownership 
by law-abiding people, she 
wrote in a tweet in 2021. She is 
outspoken in disputing a federal 
gun registry, saying it is an 
overreach of government. She 
did not respond to The Alligator’s 
request for comment.
Florida’s response to the 
tragedies in Buffalo and Uvalde 
have not been enough, though, 
Rep. Yvonne Hayes Hinson, 
D-Gainesville, wrote in an email. 
“Necessary legislation should 
have been enacted long ago, and 
we owe the victims and their 
families sensible gun legislation,” 
she wrote.
But Florida law limits city 
governments from reforming 
regulations. Any municipality 
that issues a local ordinance 
regulation on ammunition 
and firearms inconsistent with 
statewide statutes faces a $5,000 
fine.
David Arreola, a Gainesville 
city commissioner running to be 
the next mayor, is a plaintiff in 
a lawsuit challenging the state 
law. But for now he looks to the 
capitol for solutions to the gun 
crisis.
“The only government 
more powerful than the state 
government is the federal 
government, and they need to 
step in,” he said.
Commissioner Harvey Ward, 
who is also a mayoral candidate, 
advocated beyond banning the 
sale of firearms. He said a return 
to the Clinton administration’s 
assault weapons ban would be most appropriate.
Amid nationwide discourse 
on how to best handle the gun 
violence epidemic, Montes, now 
a 19-year-old UF psychology 
sophomore, reflects on the 
anxiety — but also the hope — 
she felt after tragedy struck her 
Parkland high school. 
“I think that sense of 
community and the sense of 
love that we would feel from 
one another was something that 
really kept me going,” she said.   
The Alachua County 
community banded together, 
finding solidarity while protesting 
in orange Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday.
Orange, the color hunters 
wear to protect themselves in the 
woods, is now the defining color 
of the Wear Orange movement. 
The annual three-day event 
began on June 2, 2015 in honor 
of Hadiya Pendleton, a 15-year-
old who was shot and killed on a 
Chicago playground in 2013. 
“This is a weekend where we 
remember the people that have 
been taken from us, we honor the 
people who are surviving, who 
are moving forward with that 
kind of trauma and we join our 
voices to demand a future free of 
gun violence,” Marnie Wiss said.
Wiss, a Moms Demand 
Action Gainesville leader, helped 
organize one of Friday evening’s 
Wear Orange events. A theme of 
community solidarity radiated 
through about 50 attendees 
highlighted in orange clothes, 
trees wrapped in orange lights 
and the Depot Park’s orange-
tinted fountain.
Seventeen miles away, about 
two dozen community members 
gathered in Alachua’s Maude 
Lewis Park to commemorate 
recent gun violence victims. Rev. 
Gregory Pelham spoke as children populated the playground near 
the basketball court, serving as a 
stark reminder of how often the 
youngest are at the front lines of 
the gun violence epidemic.
He believes churches play a 
role in mitigating the crisis.
“All of us come together under 
one common goal, and that’s 
stopping the violence and saving 
lives of our young people,” he 
said.
About 100 people gathered in 
the park again Saturday for an 
event to draw attention to gun 
violence and memorialize four 
local victims who were killed in 
Alachua in the last five years.
Among the attendees was 
Susan, a 68-year-old Gainesville 
resident, who preferred not to 
share her last name. She lost her 
16-year-old grandson, Stoney 
Shine Jr., on Oct. 31, 2021 when 
he was gunned down in the 
park. He was one of the victims 
honored Saturday, and his name 
was displayed on a white cross 
memorial presented to his family 
at the end of the event.
Susan fondly recalled her 
grandson’s ambition to become 
a football player to be able to 
support her.
“That’s the Stoney dream,” 
she said. “Stoney was a smiling 
child. He smiled all the time. He 
loved his family.”
Saturday also provided Robin 
Lillie, a Gainesville resident, a 
chance to honor her son, Tyler 
Pearson, who was fatally shot in 
his apartment in 2019. He was 29 
years old. 
She spoke to about 50 
attendees who wiped tears from 
their cheeks outside Porters 
Community Center. The event 
was organized by Moms Demand 
Action and Faye Williams’ 
M.A.M.A.’s Club as part of the 
local We Wear Orange campaign.“People say it takes a village to 
raise a child — it takes a village 
to continue to get you through 
when you've lost that child,” she 
said.
Each time Lillie catches 
wind of another shooting, she 
immediately thinks of grieving 
parents like Stephanie Scott.
As the one-year anniversary 
of the death of Scott’s son nears, 
the Gainesville resident found 
solace in carrying on the voice 
and legacy of her 13-year-old, 
Christopher. He was one of five 
teenagers shot in Gainesville’s 
American Legion Hall June 24, 
but he was the only one to die.
She said she thanks God 
for the years she spent raising 
Christopher, but they were cut 
short: a mother’s biggest fear.“No parent should ever have 
to bury their child,” Jennifer 
Dungan, a 43-year-old Moms 
Demand Action volunteer, said. 
“It shouldn't be this way.”
Dungan now worries about 
dropping her son off at school. 
Every morning as he gets out 
of the car, he tells his mom he 
loves her and she is left unsure if 
she will see him in the afternoon 
carline —  a crushing feeling.
She cannot help but wonder 
what each child lost in a 
school shooting would have 
accomplished in their life, had 
they been given the chance.
@carissaallenn
@OAteyah
callen@alligator.org
oateyah@alligator.orgGUN VIOLENCE,  from pg. 1Orange-clad community challenges crises
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Community members watch the lighting of the fountain at 
Gainesville's Depot Park in recognition of gun violence survivors 
June 3, 2022.
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents gather at Depot Park for the We Wear Orange proclamation declaring June 
3-5 as Gun Violence Awareness Weekend June 3, 2022.Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Citizens decorating their Wear Orange posters in Depot Park to 
protest gun violence June 3, 2022.
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
image: Louis Faurer, Ideal Cin ema, New York, N.Y., 1937
Sponsor ed by UF Student Go vernment and the Ofﬁce of the Provost. 
Sponsor ed in part by the State of Flor ida, Dep artment of Stat e, Division 
of Arts and Culture and the Florida Council on Ar ts and Culture. 
THURSDAY
JUNE 9
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Ar t
FREE ADMISSION
BEYOND
WORDS
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
MUSIC W ITH
DJ WAX ATOM
SPOKEN W ORD
WITH 
DOPENMIC
S
SEQUENTIAL 
ARTISTS
WORKSHOP
CIVIC MEDIA CENTER
ZINE ACTIVITY
ART TOURS
FREE FOOD
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
ERIC ROBINSON ALSO 
FACES FIVE MORE YEARS 
IN PRISON FOR EVIDENCE 
TAMPERING
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was recently 
sentenced to 30 years in prison 
for attempted murder and firearm 
possession.
Eric Robinson, 19, was charged 
with attempted murder in October 
2021. Robinson fired multiple shots 
at an acquaintance from his car on 
Northwest 8th Street, according to 
court records. Authorities arrested 
Robinson Nov. 5. 
Days prior, he attempted to rob 
and murder another acquaintance 
at an apartment on Southwest 20th 
Avenue Nov. 2. Robinson shot 
the victim in the chest as he was 
trying to get Robinson out of the 
apartment. He added five years 
to his sentence for attempting 
to destroy a cell phone used to 
communicate with the victim of 
the home invasion.
When the U.S. Marshals Service 
arrested Robinson Nov. 5, he was 
also facing a warrant from the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
for firing a shot at two men at 
Southeast 18th Avenue in June 
2021.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgBy Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police are searching for the 
suspect of an armed robbery near Target 
on Southwest Archer Road early Thursday 
morning.
The incident occurred at 1:40 a.m. at the 
Fast Track convenience store next to the 
Exxon gas station at 3960 SW Archer Road. 
The suspect, armed with a pistol, did not fire any shots but demanded cash from the 
store clerk, Gainesville Police Department 
spokesperson Graham Glover said. After 
taking the money, he left the store.
It is not clear how much money the 
suspect stole from the store, and the store 
management could not be reached for com -
ment. Glover said the incident likely played 
out over a matter of minutes.
GPD is seeking the community’s help in catching the suspect. The department post -
ed surveillance photos of the suspect on its 
Facebook page.
Glover said community members with 
information about the suspect should con -
tact law enforcement through GPD’s Tip 
Line at 352-393-7670. 
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org   Gainesville man 
sentenced to 30 years 
for attempted murder 
and firearm possession
Police search for suspect in Southwest Archer Road armed robbery
Gainesville Police Department seeks community help finding the suspectCarissa Allen / / Alligator Staff
Citizens march to Maude Lewis Park to protest gun violence and honor victims  during the We Wear Orange campaign June 4, 
2022.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gators eliminated from Women’s College World Series
The UCLA Bruins sent Florida home from Oklahoma City in 
mercy rule loss, pg. 12.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE IRISH SPORTS BAR, 
FORMERLY MOTHER’S PUB 
AND GRILL, HAS OPENED 
WITH A CONSISTENT BUT 
IMPROVED ENERGY UNDER 
NEW MANAGEMENT
By Anna Ward 
Avenue Staff Writer
The walls of Mom’s OG, previ -
ously adorned with tongue-in-cheek 
signs and dollar bills during its days 
as Mother’s Pub and Grill, have been 
stripped bare. The newly painted 
black walls signify a fresh foundation 
as the new ownership behind Mom’s 
OG begins its own legacy.
Longtime Gainesville favorite 
Mother’s Pub and Grill reopened as 
Mom’s OG May 23, staying true to its 
Irish sports bar roots and dedicated 
customers. The restaurant temporar -
ily closed its University Avenue doors 
Apr. 30 to begin renovations and 
changes under new management. 
Bartenders Robby Wagner, Cory 
Hudacko, Rachel Hickey and Tim 
Ratliff manage and own Mom’s OG 
— the “OG” a play on the word origi -nal. Wagner bartended at Mother’s 
for two years and Hudacko for sev -
en. Hickey and Ratliff were bartend -
ers elsewhere but longtime lovers of 
Mother’s. 
The four assumed ownership after 
Patrick Schaller, who  — ready for 
a change — shifted his focus to his 
Mother’s north and Mother’s New -
berry locations.
“The offer was on the table and 
I always wanted to be a part of 
that. It just felt like a good fit.”
-Robby Wagner, Owner
New management seeks to reju -
venate, rather than change, the es -
tablishment. Changes include cleaner 
floors, an expanded menu and more 
seating. Menu changes include the 
addition of onion rings, more wings 
sauces like “Mom’s Revenge” and 
“Bangin’ Mango,” cheesesteaks, corn 
nuggets and desserts. 
The newly furnished patio and ad -
ditional seating comes after Wagner 
said he noticed patrons often stood. 
The change reflects the new man -
agement’s style of simply improving 
what they could.
“We didn’t want that original idea to die at this location,” Wagner said. 
“It just needed a little love.”
The restaurant’s regulars said new 
management still maintains the en -
ergy of its predecessor.
“It feels about the same,” Ben Till -
son, a 40-year-old UF counseling and 
wellness center training program as -
sistant, said. He said he noticed many 
small changes, such as cleaning and 
painting.
Valentina Veloza, a 20-year-old 
server manager at Mom’s OG, said 
the new management created a clean -
er environment and a more positive 
atmosphere.
“I think it’s the best thing that has 
ever happened to this building, ” Ve -
loza said. 
But not all patrons feel that way.
Jack Spoone, a 22-year-old UF po -
litical science senior, said he thinks 
Mom’s OG is not as authentic as the 
former Mother’s Pub and Grill. But 
he still looks forward to attending the 
restaurant to see what the new man -
agement has in store
“I’m definitely open to the 
change,” Spoon said. “I come here 
regardless.”
Despite the changes in environ -
ment, the restaurant maintains a close-hearted reverence for the es -
tablishment’s history. Even the new 
name is a tribute to the restaurant’s 
original title.
“We already called it Mom’s,” 
Wagner said. “We were just like, 
‘Let’s just keep calling it what we’ve 
been calling it and keep the original 
idea.’”
That original idea is one of com -
munity — something Wagner ex -
perienced firsthand. During breaks 
in his Albany State baseball days, 
he stayed at a friend’s house across from Mom’s OG when it was still 
Mother’s, taking the short walk to the 
restaurant to party. 
He said Mother’s was how the 
current owners made their livelihood 
and fed themselves. It was where 
they celebrated and spent time with 
friends and family. 
Mom’s OG is their thanks to that 
community.
@AnnaWard_
award@alligator.orgMom’s OG stays true to its roots
FOOD & DRINKSFOOD & DRINKS
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Mom’s OG, formerly Mother’s Pub and Grill, in Gainesville June 5, 2022.
COURTNEY THEOPHIN FILMS SITCOM 
PILOT UNDER SIBLING-OWNED 
MEDIA PRODUCTION COMPANY
By Amanda Friedman
Avenue Staff Writer
What started as three brothers making home 
videos became a sketch-comedy YouTube 
Channel. Now, it’s a media production com -
pany pitching its first sitcom.
Goof Entertainment is a multimedia orga -
nization specializing in photography, videog -
raphy and music production owned by Court -
ney Theophin, 24, and his brother, Kenneth 
Theophin, 26.
The team recently finished filming the pi -
lot for “Courtney,” a show about a struggling 
comedian in his early twenties navigating life 
after a hard breakup. It draws inspiration from 
Courtney’s personal experience balancing his 
previous romantic relationship with his creative 
ambitions.
“When I was in a relationship I wasn’t really 
feeding my creative side,” Courtney said. “I was 
like, ‘Let me make a show about how a person 
finds themselves after getting out of a relation -
ship.’”
Courtney studied nursing at Santa Fe College 
for two years before transferring to UF to study journalism and improve his writing and produc -
tion skills. His goal was to grow Goof Entertain -
ment, which originally started as a sketch-com -
edy Youtube channel with his brothers in 2015. 
The brothers’ collective creativity emerged 
during their childhoods after their father gifted 
them a camcorder. They continued to write, 
film and edit comedy sketches to entertain 
themselves after moving from New Jersey to 
Bronson, a rural city about half an hour from 
Gainesville, in 2006. 
“We just perfected it over time,” Kenneth 
said. “We are YouTube graduates.”
While at UF, Courtney became distracted 
with school and his personal life, leading him to 
take a break from the channel. However, after 
a difficult breakup in 2019, he put all his efforts 
back into it. 
“I had all this extra time on my hands and as 
part of my healing process I picked up that cam -
era and started shooting as much as possible,” 
Courtney said.
The brothers also shifted away from sketch 
comedy and turned Goof Entertainment into a 
media production company to make the busi -
ness more profitable by establishing a broad 
clientele, Kenneth said.
“Courtney” represents Goof Entertainment’s 
return to original video content.
Ricky Theophin, the 23-year-old youngest 
brother, stars as himself in “Courtney.” He is ex -cited to show people they are serious and bring 
wide-spread attention to Goof Entertainment.
“I’ve always wanted to get into the creative 
industry because I enjoy making people laugh 
and smile,” Ricky said. “The most rewarding 
part is knowing I get to do it with my brothers.”
Ricky is a law enforcement officer but also 
acts and writes sketches at Goof Entertainment. 
Kenneth, co-CEO of Goof Entertainment, 
spends most of his time behind the camera as 
a photographer and videographer at the com -
pany. The oldest brother also runs Goof Enter -
tainment’s business and marketing sectors. 
Having grown up with little access to cable 
television and the internet, Kenneth said he is 
proud of how far he and his brothers’ video edit -
ing skills have come.
“It’s always been the goal to do what we’re 
doing now,” he said. “I’m happy that we’re able 
to make things happen together as a family.”
Ashayla Blakely, a 23-year-old UF telecom -
munications alum and the assistant director of 
“Courtney,” met Courtney in 2020 working for 
the UF College Reach Out Program, an initia -
tive dedicated to raising the number of Black 
students admitted to UF. 
Courtney approached Blakely with the 
“Courtney” script and asked her to be his as -
sistant director in January. Blown away by the 
script’s humor, she agreed without hesitation.
Blakely said the plot of “Courtney” is similar to famous writer and actress Issa Rae’s comedy 
web series “Awkward Black Girl,” with a time -
less comedic touch resembling the work of Ed -
die Murphy. 
“I know people are going to love it,” Blakely 
said. “I see this show becoming something that 
my kids are watching.”
For Sabrina Blakney, a 24-year-old UF acting 
MFA junior who played Courtney’s ex-girlfriend 
Lani in the pilot, working with Courtney was 
thrilling. His infectious personality and prioriti -
zation of her comfort put her at ease throughout 
the entire filming process, she said.
Blakney also said Courtney’s directing style 
was supportive and open-minded. 
“He allows you to try to figure it out on your 
own and gives you the room to explore,” she 
said. “That’s an actor’s dream.”
Kenneth and Courtney recently moved to 
Los Angeles to pitch “Courtney” to television 
networks and plan to release the pilot on the 
Goof Entertainment Youtube channel in July.
For Courtney, the sitcom represents his jour -
ney as a content creator and the creative com -
munity he has cultivated living in Gainesville. 
“This project is a culmination of all the time I 
spent and connections I’ve made in Gainesville,” 
Courtney said.
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.org‘Courtney’: The new sitcom started by CJC alum
ENTERTAINMENTENTERTAINMENTBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
BAM POWER BIKE 
ELECTRIC / MANUAL - Like New. 
Black.  Kendra tires. 
Helmet & 2 battery packs included, $1200. 
Call 352-222-9649                        6-13-22-6-11
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953      
6-6-22-5-6
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
11..    WWaakkee,,  wwrriinnkkllee
11..    ________  ccoonnttrrooll55..    VVeennoommoouuss  ssnnaakkee  
22..    AAnncciieenntt  cciittyy  66..    SSttaarrtt  ttoo  hhaappppeenn
33..    GGoo--bbeettwweeeenn77..    TTyyppee  ooff  fflloowweerr
44..    ________  aanngglleePPRRPPEEIILL
EETTRROOEEMMMMAAAABBMM
SSEEUUEENN
EEPPPPIIOOIIMM
LLAAOOIINNIISSZZNNIIAANNII
RRAAAAMMCCEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--RRiippppllee    55AA--MMaammbbaa    66AA--EEnnssuuee    77AA--ZZiinnnniiaa
11DD--RReemmoottee    22DD--PPoommppeeiiii    33DD--LLiiaaiissoonn    44DD--CCaammeerraa    BB--MMeessooppoottaammiiaa66--66--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  iiss  ccoonnssiiddeerreedd  ttoo  bbee  oonnee  ooff  tthhee  eeaarrlliieesstt  
cciivviilliizzaattiioonnss  ttoo  eevveerr  eexxiisstt  iinn  tthhee  wwoorrlldd..BONUSPAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
6-6-14-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
6-6-14-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org10 For Sale
By Craig Stowe
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/06/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/06/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, June 6, 2022
ACROSS
1 Tibetan monks
6 Game with 
drivers and carts
10 __ of gold
13 Eggy brunch 
choice
15 Slender 
woodwind
16 Flightless bird of 
Australia
17 *Take a chance
19 Photographer 
Goldin
20 Squirrel’s discard
21 Pancakes often 
served with 
smoked salmon
23 Archaic “once”
24 *Minnesota 
medical center
27 Blessing ender
29 “Oh, now I see”
30 Mother-of-pearl
33 GI show gp.
34 Quacking bird
37 Slice of history
38 *Mug for the 
cameras
42 Language of 
Southeast Asia
43 Off-white shade
45 Pollen gatherer
46 Arcade pioneer
48 Hole in a tub
50 Covert ops outfit, 
for short
52 *Vatican security 
detail
55 “Hey, you!”
59 Sun porch
60 Float in the air
62 So last month
63 Spot to assemble 
the first parts of 
the answers to 
the starred clues
66 Laudatory poem
67 Area behind an 
altar
68 Hears (of)
69 Chicken __: itchy 
malady
70 Class ring number
71 Wager
DOWN
1 “SNL” producer 
Michaels
2 French love
3 Gets soupy, as 
ice cream
4 Elite athlete5 Late-night host 
Meyers
6 Divine
7 __-Wan Kenobi
8 Opp. of express
9 Without oomph
10 Landform that 
juts into the  
water
11 Resident of a 
Middle Eastern 
sultanate
12 Loose-fitting top
14 Unifying 
feature of many 
crosswords
18 Splashy style
22 Fibbed
25 Hops-drying  
oven in a 
brewery
26 “Mon petit __”:  
French 
endearment
28 “It’s okay, I 
guess”
30 Jill Biden, __ 
Jacobs
31 Rainbow shape
32 Analog catalog in 
British libraries
33 One-eighty
35 Indy 500 racer
36 Colorful pond fish39 “You’re making 
__ mistake!”
40 Feature of 
many restaurant 
websites
41 Actress Grier
44 __ Minor: 
constellation
47 “Let’s see you do 
better!”
49 “To quote  
myself ... ”
50 Team on a film 
set51 Ibuprofen brand
52 Sailing vessel
53 Picture book 
character lost in a 
crowd
54 Birch family tree
56 Brand of  
hummus
57 Smelled a lot
58 To the point
61 Puts frosting on
64 Imitate
65 Super-secret intel 
org.
By Mike Graczyk & Christina Iverson
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/01/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/01/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Wednesday, June 1, 2022
ACROSS
1 Get all mushy
5 Promising 
location
10 Jewelry designer 
Peretti
14 “Then again,” in 
tweets
15 “How nifty!”
16 Just the best
17 Group for 
cardboard toy 
enthusiasts?
20 “My Brilliant 
Friend” novelist 
Ferrante
21 “Breathe Me” 
singer
22 Back in style
23 Gasteyer of 
“Wine Country”
25 eBay sale 
condition
27 Capital of Japan
28 Imminent
32 Filing tool
34 Group for 
Roomba 
enthusiasts?
37 Livens (up)
40 Forestall
41 UFO crew, 
probably
42 Gem weight
43 “Little Girl Blue” 
singer Simone
44 Group for  
big-rig 
enthusiasts?
46 Misfortunes
48 Quaint school 
dance
49 Defense advisory 
gp.
51 Road-trip stops
54 Obi-__ Kenobi
55 Inbox filler
57 Fútbol fan’s cry
59 __ & Gabbana 
fashion house
63 Group for 
Merriam-Webster 
enthusiasts?
66 Yoga pose 
that requires 
balancing on one 
foot
67 San Diego’s __ 
Park
68 Part of an EGOT
69 Wet septet
70 Pallid
71 Noodle that may 
be served in 
dashi brothDOWN
1 Sulk
2 “And so forth” 
abbr.
3 Easy stride
4 Baseball film 
featuring a 
bat named 
“Wonderboy”
5 “Your point is?”
6 Signs of  
summer
7 “Rocky” actress 
Shire
8 Book of maps
9 Milne joey
10 Novel ending?
11 High vantage 
point
12 Skyline  
standout
13 __ Martin: 
“Skyfall” car
18 Went on a quick 
errand
19 Major in 
astronomy?
24 Blazer sleeve
26 Needle
28 Director Reitman
29 Blue-skinned 
race in “Avatar”
30 Picture-perfect 
spot
31 Fencing category33 Online source of 
study guides
35 PIN point?
36 Several CBS 
forensic dramas
38 __ Alto, California
39 Recipe part
42 Insect with a 
17-year life cycle
44 Nine-digit ID
45 Bearer of good 
moos?
47 Country singer 
McCann49 Pond critters
50 Gooey treat
52 Snouts
53 Slow-moving 
creature
56 __ of March
58 Latin “Behold!”
60 Long way to go?
61 Grooming tool
62 “Orinoco Flow” 
singer
64 Pampering  
place
65 Charged particle
05/31/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6-27-22-6-14
Dietary Service Positions - FT, PT and PRN
UF Health Shands Hospital, one of the top 
employers in FL, is hiring FT, PT and PRN 
Cooks, Dining Associates and Nutrition 
Assistants. Multiple shifts available. We of-
fer generous pay and great benefits for FT 
employees.
Apply at https://shands.careers.ufhealth.org/
jobs/266332/
EOE and drug-free workplace.    7-5-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com           6-27-22-12-14
Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy is 
hiring a part-time cashier for evening shift. 
Schedule is 1:00-9:30, 3 shifts per week. 
Starting pay is $11.00/hr. and eligible for 
raise after 90 days. Fast-paced environment. 
Please come in person to fill out application.  
6-6-4-14
HELP WANTED DONUT CONNECTION
COUNTER / DRIVE-THRU SALES
Salary depends on experience.
5205A NW 39th Ave. Text 352-214-1506, 
email donutconnection1@aol.com. 
6-13-22-4-14
15 Services
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      6-6-1-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
6-6-19-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            6-6-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                6-6-14-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
6-6-18-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover-
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                    6-6-2-15
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
16 Health Services
Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816                6-6-1-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen          6-6-19-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Trivia Test  answers
answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: Which country owns the 
Canary Islands?
2. MOVIES: Which movie features the song 
"Moon River"?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin phrase "non 
ducor, duco" mean in English?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a group of 
ducks called?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel fea -
tures a character called Sethe?
6. TELEVISION: What drive-in diner is featured 
in the 1970s TV sitcom "Happy Days"?
7. MUSIC: When did Lynyrd Skynyrd's anthem 
"Sweet Home Alabama" chart in the Top 10?
8. U.S. STATES: Which state's motto is "Eureka"?
9. HISTORY: When did Wyoming give women 
the right to vote, hold public office and own 
property?
10. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president had an 
estate called The Hermitage?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
LAND IS THE SECURE GROUND OF HOME, THE SEA IS LIKE LIFE, THE OUTSIDE, UNKNOWN.
— STEPHEN GARDINER
solution  belowWant to Get Paid Daily?
Work 30 minutes a day.
Watch your PayPal account grow.
Easy fun work!
https://www.clkmg.com/milestones13/usft
6-13-22-4-20
Crypto- Currency!
Learn the Pros and Cons.
Start building your wealth today.
Fully Explained! www.bit.ly/38ybQ1w    
6-27-22-4-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. Spain.  2. "Breakfast at Tiffany's."  3. "I am not led, I lead."  
4. A raft.  5. "Beloved."  6. Arnold's.  7. 1974.  8. California.
  9. 1869.  10. Andrew Jackson10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE
6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE
11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED15: SERVICES
16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES
21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   
alligator.org/ classifieds
classified @alligator.org  
(352)373- FINDMONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
GYMNASTICSFLORIDA DISCUSSED THE 
FUTURE OF SEC FOOTBALL AT 
THIS WEEK'S MEETINGS
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
The annual Southeastern Conference 
spring meetings in Destin, Florida, took 
place May 31-June 3, as the conference’s 
presidents, athletic directors, football 
coaches and other representatives met to 
discuss the future of SEC football.
Historically significant issues crowd 
the college football landscape as the sea -
son draws closer: players compensated for 
their name, image and likeness (NIL), col -
lectives, the transfer portal, possible play -
off expansion and the lack of regulations 
from the NCAA for any of it.
The event marked new Gators head 
football coach Billy Napier’s first time at -
tending since taking his new job.
The agenda of these meetings focused 
on the topics conference leaders could con -
trol, such as scheduling, and how the SEC 
must make legislative decisions without 
waiting for the other Power 5 conferences 
(ACC, Big Ten, Big 12 and Pac-12). The 
discussion also included the possibility 
of in-conference playoffs and which divi -
sion would gain Texas and Oklahoma, two 
schools scheduled to join the conference 
before 2025. 
Wednesday, several athletic directors 
voted to keep playing one non-conference Power 5 opponent if the SEC approves the 
nine-game plan. With all 16 conference 
programs scheduled to play 182 games 
against Power 5 opponents from 2025-
2037 in a new agreement, Florida could 
potentially be forced to play a full 12-game 
schedule against all Power 5 foes if all out-
of-conference games are accounted for. 
No SEC team has ever played such a 
regular season schedule, and the possibili -ty depends on whether the College Football 
Playoff committee favors a Power 5-laden 
schedule.
Stricklin said in a 247Sports article he 
isn’t sure the conference will play 12 Pow -
er 5 teams a year, but refused to rule the 
possibility out. He also expressed frustra -
tion at current scheduling patterns. 
“The fact that we schedule games out 
a decade from now is kind of ludicrous in 
and of itself, but we’re in a model that forc -es us to do so,” Stricklin said. “So you’d 
love to see the model adapt over time, and 
maybe we can make little smarter deci -
sions that are a little bit more current.”
Coaches seemed to agree that they want 
players to benefit from NIL while avoiding 
paying student-athletes as employees. Na -
pier believes that NIL will be a strength for 
the program, but said the legislation still 
provides unknowns to navigate.
“There’s a ton of gray area,” Napier told 
247Sports. “What can you do, what you 
can’t do, there’s no manual, no parame -
ters, no guidelines. We’re living in a land 
with no laws.” 
Napier shared his research with the me -
dia that found, since the 1990s, each SEC 
institution received $1.3 million a year 
from the league, and 13 years ago it was 
around six to seven million. With money 
getting more involved in college football, 
student-athletes will benefit.
“I’m a firm believer that this is a 
positive. It's foolish to say that the 
players don’t deserve a piece of the pie.” 
-Coach Billy Napier
However, time will tell how Florida ad -
justs as NIL approaches its one-year anni -
versary. Either way, the Gators will be a 
part of discussions with the SEC’s future.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.org
By Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
A longtime Florida Gators gym -
nastics assistant coach, who led the 
team to nine Southeastern Confer -
ence titles and three NCAA vault and 
floor championships, will become as -
sociate head coach. 
Head Coach Jenny Rowland an -
nounced Adrian Burde's new role 
Friday. It was the first piece of news 
since the orange and blue took home 
second place in the 2022 NCAA 
Championship.
Burde spent the last 16 seasons 
overseeing the Gators’ uneven bar 
performers before coaching vault and 
tumbling events in 2011.
“His promotion to associate head 
coach is a testament to his loyalty, hard work and integrity,” Rowland 
said in a press release. 
Burde began his 21 years of col -
legiate coaching experience in his 
home country of Romania, where he 
met and coached 2004 Olympic Gold 
Medalist Alexandra Eremia from 
1997-1999.
 He also coached five seasons at 
the University of Nebraska before 
heading to Gainesville in 2007, when 
he was named the National Associa -
tion of Collegiate Gymnastics Coach -
es for Women Southern Region As -
sistant Coach of the Year.
Burde’s eye for talent immediately 
aided the Gators.
He recruited last season’s se -
nior star gymnast Trinity Thomas, 
who claimed the NCAA All-Around 
Championship after she earned a per -
fect 10 during her floor routine. The senior also secured 27 All-American 
honors and was named 2022 SEC 
Gymnast of the Year. 
Since his arrival at UF, 22 Gators 
have claimed 67 All-American hon -
ors and a top NCAA Championship 
score of 49.75 was set in this season’s 
semifinals. UF holds three of the top 
floor totals in NCAA Championships 
history.
“Adrian’s dedication and fearless 
leadership are second to none. 
We are beyond grateful for all 
that he does to help the Gators 
‘win each day’ year after year.”
-Coach Jenny Rowland
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.orgStricklin, Napier visit Destin for SEC meetings
Gators gymnastics promote Adrian Burde to associate head coach  Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Head football coach Billy Napier calls his teammates during a spring practice 
March 29, 2022. Napier participated in the SEC Spring Meetings with athletic 
director Scott Stricklin.
Courtesy of the UAA
Gators gymnast Megan Skaggs celebrates with assistant coach Adrian 
Burde, who was promoted to associate head coach Friday.
The team announced Burde’ s new role Friday12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 6, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRESOFTBALL
By Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
The No.14-seed Florida Gators 
softball team will take the next 
flight out of Oklahoma City as its 
season came to an end after back-
to-back scoreless outings. 
For the second time in under 
24 hours, UF’s offense went cold 
in a win-or-go-home matchup 
against the UCLA Bruins Sunday, 
losing 8-0.
Saturday, No. 7-seed 
Oklahoma State overwhelmed 
Florida behind All-American 
pitcher Kelly Maxwell’s superb 
three-hit shutout. Bruins ace 
Holly Azevedo took it up a 
notch Sunday, allowing just two 
hits while dealing two K’s. The 
redshirt senior helped the 12-time 
national champions advance to 
the semifinal round of the NCAA 
Women’s College World Series 
after retiring the first six Gators 
sluggers.
The Bruins scratched the 
scoreboard first in the second 
inning via a single from redshirt 
junior Kelli Godin. 
The frame kicked off with a 
groundout to second base from freshman Savannah Pola. The 
Santa Ana, California, native got 
the better of UF senior Elizabeth 
Hightower, who started in the 
circle for the Gators. After Pola 
battled through the count to force 
a walk, Hightower managed to 
bounce back with a changeup 
pitch to earn her first, and only, 
strikeout of the day.
Bruins redshirt junior Anna 
Vines singled to right field, 
advancing Pola into scoring 
position. Godin approached the 
plate next, facing a full count; the 
outfielder skipped one to right-
center field, bringing Pola home. 
Although the Gators were not 
able to answer the 1-0 deficit, 
Hightower escaped further 
damage as sophomore Katie 
Kistler highlighted the third frame 
with a home run-saving snag. 
UCLA’s Maya Brady nearly 
claimed the homer of the day with 
a rocket to left field before Kistler 
climbed up the left-field wall, 
robbing the Bruins from adding 
two more runs to the scoreboard. 
 The game got out of hand for 
the Gators in the fourth inning 
due to uncharacteristic errors. 
The frame started with Hightower walking the leadoff 
batter, right fielder Pola, for the 
second straight inning. A sacrifice 
bunt advanced Pola into scoring 
position and forced a pitching 
change. 
Florida junior Rylee Trlicek 
took pitching responsibilities with 
two outs remaining. An errant 
throw put runners on the corners 
before infielder Skylar Wallace 
mishandled a routine ground ball 
to bring in another run for the 
Bruins. 
UCLA continued the scoring 
efforts as senior Briana Perez 
singled to shortstop to force two 
more unearned runs, increasing 
the deficit to 4-0. The sequence 
forced a second pitching change 
in the fourth; right-handed pitcher 
Natalie Lugo got the call and 
capped the inning with a strikeout.
Just one disastrous inning was 
enough to cement the Gators’ 
downfall.
Florida remained scoreless 
through the next two frames, 
only getting two runners on 
base before UCLA landed in the 
finishing blow.
Brady, who was robbed of a 
homer by Kistler earlier in the game, returned to bat in the sixth 
with the bases loaded. Her single 
to right field brought in two runs.
Finally, Pola sent the Gators 
with a single to center field, as 
the eight-run rule closed out the 
game. 
The Gators’ loss signifies the 
end of  Lugo, fifth year infieder 
Hannah Adams and senior 
Cheyenne Lindsey’s collegiate 
careers. The defeat concludes a season marked by inexperience 
throughout the lineup. Florida 
notched its most wins in a season 
since 2019 with 49.
The Bruins will take on No. 
1-seed Oklahoma in the semifinals 
Monday while the Gators enter 
the offseason.
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.orgFlorida softball exits Oklahoma City after shutout loss to UCLA  
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
The Florida softball team huddles on the field to talk strategy against 
Mississippi State March 14, 2022. The Gators were eliminated from 
the Women’s College World Series by UCLA Sunday.
The No.14-seed Gators mustered just two hits