We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Campus COVID-19 cases climb
COVID-19 cases in Alachua County swell as Summer B semester 
starts, but s chool offers no new policy changes , pg. 5
New UFPD mental health initiative
Department one of 14 learning sites for initiative with mental 
health counselors partnering with officers,  pg. 3Talent beyond the track
Alissa Braxton, Flori da triple jump star, 
develops more than her athletic abilities . 
Read more on  pg. 11.
MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 40
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
Florida’s 15-week abortion ban 
went back in effect Tuesday af -
ternoon after the state appealed a 
judge’s injunction blocking the ban, 
nullifying it in less than an hour.
Judicial Circuit Court Judge John 
Cooper said the abortion restric -
tion violated the Florida Constitu -
tion’s privacy prong in a verbal rul -
ing Thursday. The ban could not be 
blocked until he signed an official 
written ruling. The injunction will remain temporarily blocked until the 
District Court of Appeals hears it.
“We knew that that was likely go -
ing to be what was decided in that 
case,” Gov. Ron DeSantis said at a 
press conference Friday. “We knew 
that we were going to have to move 
forward and continue the legal battle 
on that.”
UF Levin College of Law profes -
sor Danaya Wright said she would 
be surprised if the appeals court re -
moves Cooper’s injunction because 
that would overturn state precedent INVESTIGATION COMES ABOUT 2 WEEKS 
AFTER TIKTOK STAR JOSH RICHARDS 
CANCELED HIS JUNE 29 EVENT
By Faith Buckley
Alligator Staff Writer
University police lodged a felony complaint against a 
UF student Friday afternoon after a death threat forced a 
guest speaker to cancel his appearance on campus, po -
lice say.
Ryan Marin, an 18-year-old UF microbiology sopho -
more, shared an edited photo to Instagram June 15 de -
picting “a UF guest speaker” with bullet wounds and 
portraying himself as an anime character, Kaworu Nagi -
sa, standing behind the speaker with a gun, according to 
a UFPD sworn complaint. The image could be viewed as 
a threat to kill, police said.
The threat caused the speaker to suffer “a major fi -
nancial loss” and “was one of the deciding factors for 
canceling his event at UF,” according to the complaint. 
The criminal investigation comes about two weeks 
after TikTok star Josh Richards pulled out of his June 29 
event two days before it was scheduled, citing an unfore -seen family obligation. Marin’s alleged post was reported 
to police June 28.
Richards, a 20-year-old Ontario native with 25.6 
million TikTok followers, was the first guest Student 
Government’s Accent Speakers Bureau recruited since 
Olympic skier Lindsey Vonn spoke March 21. The bu -
reau announced Richards’ $60,000 visit was postponed 
indefinitely in a June 27 Instagram post.
Marin said he was not made aware of the investiga -
tion and denied the allegations he made an Instagram 
post about Richards.
Richards’ contract maintains UF is obligated to re -
schedule, but it is unclear when he will resume plans to 
speak to students.
Accent Chairman Tyler Kahan declined to comment 
on the complaint and directed The Alligator to UFPD.
UFPD Captain Latrell Simmons did not respond to 
two calls, two emails and one voicemail from The Al -
ligator as of Saturday. The police department was closed 
when The Alligator visited Saturday.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.
@_faithbuckley
fbuckley@alligator.orgFlorida appeals controversial 15-week 
abortion law ruling, reinstates banUF student under investigation for death threatTHE STATE ATTORNEY’S 
OFFICE WILL NOT PROSECUTE 
THE FORMER FLORIDA 
BASKETBALL PLAYER  
By Karina Wilson
Sports Writer
The Alachua County State At -
torney’s Office abandoned a sexual 
assault case against Keyontae John -
son Wednesday after a monthslong 
investigation into the former Florida 
basketball player.
The 23-year-old 2020 SEC Pre -
season Player of the Year was under 
investigation after a woman accused 
him of sexually assaulting her while 
she was intoxicated at a Feb. 26 pool 
party at Johnson’s residence in Can -
opy Apartments, less than two miles 
away from UF’s campus. 
“This has been a really difficult 
situation for everybody involved,” 
Johnson wrote in a statement 
Wednesday. “I just hope that we all 
can move forward from here and 
find peace. My goal now is to choose 
a school where I can continue my 
education and basketball career.”
The recent graduate entered the 
transfer portal May 1 amid the in -
vestigation, which lasted more than 
three months. Johnson confirmed 
in a May 2 Instagram post he was 
medically cleared to compete after he 
sought additional opinions.
Johnson collapsed during a De -
cember 2020 game against Florida 
State University and made his first 
appearance on the court since with 
a ceremonial start on Florida’s Se -
nior Day March 5. The alleged in -cident took place one week prior, a 
few hours after the Florida basketball 
team defeated the Georgia Bulldogs 
in Athens, Georgia. 
Johnson admitted he was aware 
of the accuser’s drunken state in 
a phone call monitored by police. 
The two previously had consensual 
intercourse dating back to August 
2021, according to reports, but the 
accuser denied Johnson’s advances 
and made it clear she did not want to 
continue having sex. 
In the last year, the State Attor -
ney’s Office investigated two men 
with ties to UF who faced separate 
sexual assault charges. Michael 
Nanosky Jr., a former philanthropy 
chairman for the Theta Chi fraternity, 
avoided jail time and pleaded guilty 
to aggravated assault, a lesser felony, 
March 17. Oscar Vargas, a 20-year-
old Santa Fe College student and past 
social events chair of the UF fencing 
club, was released from the Alachua 
County Jail on a $100,000 bond and 
pleaded not guilty ahead of his next 
court date July 18. 
Ron Kozlowksi, Johnson’s attor -
ney, said he was confident the state 
attorney’s investigation would find 
more information than initial reports 
reflected.  
“We were confident from the be -
ginning that once the state attorney 
had the opportunity to look hard at 
the facts and talk to a lot of witnesses 
that they would come to the same 
conclusion that we did,” he said, 
“that Keyontae didn't do anything 
wrong here.”
@kk_rinaa
kwilson@alligator.orgSexual assault investigation into Keyontae Johnson halts
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Former Florida basketball player Keyontae Johnson during Florida's game against the Auburn 
Tigers Saturday, Feb. 19, 2022. A woman reported Johnson sexually assaulted her Feb. 26. The 
State Attorney's Office will not prosecute Johnson.
SEE ABORTION,  PAGE 5Judge Cooper ruled the ban was 
unconstitutional, but his temporary statewide 
injunction was scrapped minutes laterT oday’s WeatherDESIRED PRESIDENTIAL 
QUALITIES VARY, 
BUT SECRECY 
REMAINS CONSISTENT  
By Lindsay Schindler 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s ongoing secretive presiden -
tial search follows similar private 
searches at other institutions — a re -
flection of shifting national dynamics 
as search firms encourage confiden -
tiality.  
In the past two years, institutions 
such as Harvard University, State 
University of New York at Oswego, 
Pennsylvania State University and 
Temple University have undergone 
or are undergoing their own presi -
dential searches. While prioritized 
qualifications vary based on the 
community’s needs, the searches’ 
similarities and secrecy can be seen 
across the nation. 
Little is known about UF’s search 
as it enters its fourth month. Public 
record bills passed in March permit 
the names of Florida schools’ presi -
dential candidates to remain private; 
the list of presidential candidates is 
released only 21 days prior to the of -
ficial selection of the new university 
president. 
UF’s search began in March, 
three months after UF President Kent 
Fuchs announced he would resign 
from his position to become a profes -
sor of electrical and computer engi -
neering. 
UF’s Board of Trustees chose 
SP&A Executive Search, a search 
firm specializing in serving higher 
education sectors, because of its ex -
perience conducting Florida State 
University’s and the University of 
South Florida’s presidential searches, 
UF Board of Trustees member Tom 
Kuntz said. Search firms have be -
come increasingly popular in recent years, and they often advise univer -
sities to keep the search confidential 
to recruit candidates without jeopar -
dizing their current positions at other 
universities. 
In a UF presidential search lis -
tening session May 24, Andrew 
Treadwell, Indian River State Col -
lege’s Pruitt Campus president and 
UF alumnus, said UF’s next president 
should have the traditional academic 
background and understand the du -
ties of a tier-one research institution.
The candidate should also have 
interpersonal skills, such as philan -
thropy and fundraising prowess, and 
be an expert communicator with me -
dia, faculty and students, Treadwell 
said.
“You’re looking for a unicorn 
in today’s day and age.”
- Andrew Treadwell ,
Indian River State College
Nina Jablonski, an anthropology 
professor at Penn State and member 
of the search committee, said the 
election process at her university was 
similarly secretive. Everyone on the 
2021 presidential search committee 
had to sign a confidentiality agree -
ment. 
“The search committee took this 
very seriously because we knew that 
a leak could entirely derail and dele -
gitimize the process,” she wrote in an 
email. 
Penn State sought a president 
with a holistic understanding of aca -
demia; it wanted someone equipped 
to deal with multi-campus research 
and teaching institutions, Jablonski 
said. Penn State has 20 undergradu -
ate campuses, and the university 
wanted someone who could suf -
ficiently manage them all. Neeli 
Bendapudi, former president of the 
University of Louisville, was named 
Penn State’s 19th president May 9. Similarly, in February 2021, Tem -
ple’s presidential search committee 
said its ideal candidate should focus 
on students’ needs and have experi -
ence managing large, complex orga -
nizations. Mitchell Morgan, Board of 
Trustees Chairman at Temple, said 
its next president should have signifi -
cant fundraising experience. Jason 
Wingard was selected to be Temple’s 
12th president in June 2021.
SUNY Oswego’s search began 
in November 2021 after President 
Deborah F. Stanley announced she 
would retire in May 2021 after 26 
years in the position. Oswego said its 
next president should be innovative 
and put the students first. Oswego 
has not released a list of candidates. 
Harvard President Larry Bacow 
announced last month he would step 
down from his role, and the names 
of the search committee were an -
nounced Thursday. 
As more students return to cam -
pus for Summer and Fall classes, 
information on UF’s search remains 
hidden, but its rival schools may offer 
an expected timeline. FSU released a 
list of 22 applicants May 10, 2021; 
Richard McCullough, the former vice 
provost of research at Harvard Uni -
versity, was named president two 
weeks later.
@lindsschindler 
lschindler@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 40 Presidential searches around 
the nation reflect UF’s own  
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather 
Bushman, Namari LockIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
THE FLORIDA FIRST DISTRICT COURT OF 
APPEALS WILL DECIDE WHETHER UF MAY 
BE SUED FOR CHARGING STUDENTS FEES 
WHILE COVID-19 CLOSED CAMPUS
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
A former student’s lawsuit arguing UF violated its 
contract when it required the student body to pay for 
on-campus amenities despite COVID-19 restrictions will 
see the Florida First District Court of Appeals in Talla -
hassee July 20.
Anthony Rojas, a UF alumnus, filed the class action 
lawsuit in Alachua County April 2021. 
UF did not provide contracted services like transpor -
tation, athletics, activities and health care, and access to 
bus routes around campus was heavily reduced or shut 
down when UF moved classes online March 2020 per 
the Florida Board of Governors instructions, according 
to the lawsuit. The unavailable services cost students 
$46.21 per credit hour.
Alachua County Circuit Court Judge Monica Brasing -
ton’s decision to not dismiss the case prompted UF to 
file an appeal. The university asked the judge to dismiss 
the charges based on a claim to sovereign immunity, 
a doctrine stating a government entity cannot be sued 
without its consent, but Brasington said Rojas’ class 
schedules, tuition invoice and UF’s Financial Liability Agreement proved there was a contract for UF to pro -
vide services for those fees. 
“When a governmental entity enters into an express, 
written contract that is authorized by the powers granted 
to it by the [Florida] Legislature, it waives its sovereign 
immunity,” Brasington wrote Oct. 18, 2021, in a court 
document referring to a previous Florida Supreme Court 
case decision in Pan-Am Tobacco Corp. v. Dep’t of Corr.
Brasington did not rule whether UF breached the 
contract, only that it could be sued for potentially do -
ing so. 
All three judges assigned to the appeal have ties 
to UF; two are graduates and Judge Scott Makar is an 
adjunct professor at UF’s Levin College of Law. Makar 
disclosed his position to all parties May 17 and said he 
didn’t believe it was a basis for recusal. Neither party 
raised an objection to Makar sitting on the panel. 
Similar cases asked the University of South Florida, 
Miami-Dade College and Florida State University to pay 
back fees charged to students; Florida’s district courts 
have come to different decisions concerning whether 
cases like this should be considered, and some of these 
cases are still in progress.
UF administration discussed reducing fees in 2020, 
but the idea did not come to fruition despite President 
Kent Fuchs and Provost Joe Glover’s approval; the dif -
ference would have been eight cents per credit hour.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgUF appeals class action lawsuit for 
Spring and Summer 2020 fee refundMONDAY, JULY 11, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
image: Ralston Crawford, Overseas High way #2, 194 1
Sponsor ed by UF Student Go vernment and the Ofﬁce of the Provost. 
Sponsor ed in part by the State of Flor ida, Dep artment of Stat e, Division 
of Arts and Culture and the Florida Council on Ar ts and Culture. 
THURSDAY
JULY 14
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Ar t
FREE ADMISSION
CHILLAX
AT THE HARN
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
AMBIENT
EVENING W ITH
KANE POUR
CHAIR MASSA GE
BY SW RE C 
SPORTS
FREE 
FREE FOOD
AWARE STUDENT
AMBASSADORS
OF UF C OUNSELING
& WELLNESS CNTR
ART TOURS
& MORE
By Kyle Bumpers & Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writers
UF’s police department will not change its 
campus safety protocols after recent school 
shootings invoked fear nationwide, but it will 
implement a first-of-its-kind program in Fall: 
mental health counselors will partner with its 
officers. 
The new initiative, called the Behavioral 
Health Co-Responder Support Team, will have 
one or two counselors employed by August, 
according to UFPD’s Assistant Director for Be -
havioral Services Meggen Tucker Sixbey. The 
department hired one clinician and hopes to 
onboard a second by the Fall semester.
“The hope for the future is that 
there will be a counselor 24/7/365 
paired with an officer.”
- Meggen Tucker Sixbey, 
Assistant Director for Behavioral Services
 
UFPD’s model mirrors nationwide city and 
county programs that deploy both a counselor 
and an officer responding to calls. If the situa -
tion is deemed safe, the officer will leave, and 
the counselor will stay as long as needed to 
connect the affected persons with appropriate 
resources. 
UF Co-Responder clinicians respond to calls 
with situations involving a mental health com -
ponent, UFPD Captain Latrell Simmons and 
Sixbey wrote in an email, such as someone 
who is suicidal, appears disoriented or is in an 
escalated emotional state. 
“Police get called for so many non-police 
matters,” Sixbey said. “I think a lot of depart -
ments across the country are saying, ‘What 
else can we do?’”
UFPD Officer Scott Silver declined to give 
specific details about upcoming UFPD tactical 
training but said the recent shooting at Robb 
Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, sparked 
conversation about what did and did not work 
for law enforcement during the tragedy. 
Officers regularly patrol campus and train 
for active shooter situations, Simmons said. The community service department also pro -
vides presentations, active assailant training 
and GatorSAFE app tutorials to professors and 
organizations upon request. 
In the event of a shooting, UFPD would 
need to rule the scene safe before it deploys 
counselors, Simmons said. Co-responder cli -
nicians would work with a larger counseling 
organization, such as the Counseling and Well -
ness Center, to address incidents’ repercus -
sions. 
People should follow the RUN HIDE FIGHT 
protocol, Silver said, which directs people to 
run if the assailant’s location is known, hide if 
the shooter’s location is unknown and fight as 
a last resort in active shooter situations.
Everyone should also take three to five sec -
onds to come up with an escape plan when 
they walk into a new room, UFPD Lieutenant 
Jacob Pruitt, an active shooter training course 
instructor who taught UFPD officers, said. 
Pruitt’s active shooter safety course is a pri -
ority for new UF hires. Library staff is required 
to complete annual training, and every College 
of Medicine employee hired in the last two 
years has taken the course.
Hope Lee, a 20-year-old public relations and 
piano performance senior, said she assumed 
there were resources for active shooter train -
ing, but she wasn’t told about any. She learned 
what to do in “dangerous situations” when 
she trained for her student assistant position at 
Newell Hall in Fall 2021, but she said she did 
not learn what to do with active shooters.
Lee relies on the GatorSAFE app, which 
warns her of potential nearby sexual assaults 
and kidnappings.
“If I didn’t check those, I would have 
never known. For all I know, that could 
have been me or my roommates.”
- Hope Lee, UF student
She said UF is not present enough in con -
versations students regularly have about active 
shooters; students should still try to be aware, 
but the university holds the responsibility to 
inform and protect students, she said.“We have to all put into perspective that 
this can happen anywhere, and we need to 
be vigilant at all times,” Lee said. “I do have 
that subconsciously hiding in the back of my 
head.”
A behavioral consultation team at UF meets 
once a week to discuss any threats to the stu -
dent community. UFPD, the CWC, the Depart -
ment of Housing and Residence Education, 
Human Resources, Ombuds office, Office for 
Accessibility and Gender Equity, the Dean of 
Students Office and the General Counsel’s of -
fice all have representation, Sixbey said.  
UFPD was one of the original six depart -
ments chosen to be a learning site for the U.S. 
Department of Justice’s police-mental health 
collaboration program, which encourages part -
nerships with health care providers and men -
tal health advocates to provide safety for all, 
effectively respond to calls, improve access to 
the services and support people with mental 
health problems.
Today, there are 14 total learning sites, 
including UFPD. Other police departments in -
clude the Los Angeles Police Department, Mi -ami-Dade Police Department and the Salt Lake 
City Police Department. 
The developing counselor program will re -
flect models like the Eugene, Oregon, based 
CAHOOTS, Portland Street Response and Den -
ver STAR, Sixbey said.
The CWC’s staff also worked with officers 
during crisis intervention team programs to 
learn how to better handle students with men -
tal distress living in on-campus housing, said 
Dr. Rosa West, the assistant director of out -
reach and consultation for the CWC.
Dr. West looks forward to spreading the 
word about UFPD’s initiative and reassuring 
students who may need to contact the police 
that they can feel safe doing so.
“I think that’s where UF kind of stands 
above the rest,” West said. “We are innova -
tive, especially around things related to mental 
health.”
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.org
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgUniversity police reevaluate active shooter procedures, launch mental health initiative
Heather Bushman / / Alligator Staff
The University Police Department is located at 1555 Museum Road next to Jennings Hall.
Tactical trainings remain unchanged, new initiative 
strives to better handle mental health issues4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
TREVOR HRUBY WAS ARRESTED 
LAST YEAR FOR SEXUALLY 
ASSAULTING A CHILD
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A federal grand jury indicted a former 
Gainesville preschool teacher on child 
pornography charges June 28.
The U.S. Justice Department announced 
the indictment of Trevor Hruby, a 24-year-
old Gainesville resident, on four counts 
of child pornography production and one 
count of possession July 1. He also faces 
charges for allegedly sexually assaulting 
a child last year at A Child’s Dream 
preschool, where he was a teacher. He 
has been in the Alachua County Jail since 
September 2021.
A judge told him his charges June 29 
before returning him to U.S. Marshals 
Service’s custody. He allegedly possessed 
pornographic material involving children 
younger than 12, according to a U.S. 
Attorney’s Office press release.
The Justice Department said the 
investigation was a joint effort between the 
FBI and the Gainesville Police Department. 
Hruby’s next court date is a case 
management set for July 27. His federal 
trial for the child pornography indictment 
is set to begin Aug. 3, according to the 
Justice Department’s release.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgFederal grand jury indicts 
former Gainesville 
preschool teacher for 
child pornographyNO ONE WAS HARMED
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police are investi -
gating a shooting that happened 
outside the Clarence R. Kelly 
Center Friday. 
Multiple bullets hit the build -
ing, located at 1701 NE 8Eighth 
Ave. near the East Gainesville 
Walmart, but staff and children 
were not harmed, Gainesville 
Police Department spokesperson 
Graham Glover said. It is not 
clear whether the shooter was 
targeting the center as of Sun -
day. 
The community center, which 
reopened after renovations June 
19, declined to comment on the 
shooting. 
A grand jury recently indicted 
11 Gainesville gang members for 
crimes including the Gainesville 
American Legion shoot-out, 
which killed a 13-year-old boy 
last year.
Gainesville police are asking 
anyone with information about 
the incident to contact the Com -bined Communications Center at 
352-955-1818. To remain anony -
mous, contact Crime Stoppers at 
352-372-7867.@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgGainesville police investigating shooting 
outside Clarence R. Kelly Community Center
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A grand jury indicted 11 
Gainesville gang members in 
May for crimes including deadly 
shootings like the Gainesville 
American Legion shoot-out, the 
state attorney announced last 
week. 
The alleged criminal activity 
occurred in a five-year period 
from April 2017 to May 2022. 
The racketeering offenses 
include murder, attempted 
murder, robbery, burglary, drug 
possession and battery. Eight of 
the 11 defendants were indicted 
for firearm or ammunition 
possession by a delinquent.
Ten of the 11 defendants are 
being held at the Alachua County 
Jail. Police are still searching 
for the eleventh defendant, 
18-year-old Elton Banks Jr. 
The indictment accuses Banks 
of burglarizing vehicles and 
fleeing from law enforcement 
on multiple occasions. It also 
accuses him of illegal drug 
possession and shooting at an occupied residence. 
Javari Baptiste, an 18-year-old, 
was indicted for his involvement 
in the June 2021 Gainesville 
American Legion shoot-out that 
led to the death of a 13-year-old 
bystander.
The grand jury also indicted 
two men, 18-year-old Orion 
Davis and 20-year-old Montrell 
Carter, for October 2021 firearm 
possession; the two men were 
allegedly involved in a shooting 
outside Green Apple Liquor at 
that time that injured a woman.                 
Tyree Johnson, an 18-year-
old, was indicted for the alleged 
premeditated murder of Kiontaya 
Presley around Jan. 1. 
The youngest defendant is 
17-year-old Delonte Bing, who 
allegedly sold cannabis at Fort 
Clarke Middle School in 2018, 
according to the indictment. He 
also allegedly participated in a 
2019 theft of a firearm from a 
vehicle, a 2020 assault and a 
2021 shooting.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org11 Gainesville men indicted 
for 5 years of crimes
Fernando Figueroa / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Police Department monitors Clarence R. Kelly 
Center Sunday, July 10, 2022.
Police are still searching for 1 man
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government Senate 
Rules and Ethics Committee will complete 
two censure hearings into legislative body 
members Friday.
Separate censure petitions were filed 
against Senator Jonathan C. Stephens 
and Judiciary Chairman John Brinkman. 
The censures said Stephens acted 
disrespectfully and Brinkman actively 
abused his power.
A potential censure into Senator 
Stephens concerns his behavior during 
Senate meetings. Majority Party Leader 
Emily Pecora alleged Stephens made 
motions mocking disabled people during 
the May 24 Senate meeting and made 
sexist and personal remarks about Senate 
President Elizabeth Hartzog during the 
July 5 meeting, according to the petition. 
Stephens received two warnings from 
Hartzog July 5 for disrupting Senate 
business.
“Senator Stephens’s actions have 
repeatedly disrupted the regular 
business of the Senate and are subject 
to disciplinary action,” Pecora wrote in 
the censure petition. “Furthermore his 
inappropriate actions represent conduct 
that is unbecoming of a University of 
Florida Student Senator and are deserving 
of a formal reprimand.”
Stephens said he didn’t remember 
making any offensive motion during 
the May 24 meeting; he acknowledged his tendency toward loud and dramatic 
physical motions but said it was never 
meant to degrade any community. He 
said the claim was unfounded based on 
his outward advocacy for equal rights for 
women and those with intellectual and 
physical disabilities.
His alleged attack on Hartzog was 
also untrue, he said. He said he tried to 
lighten the mood at the end of the tense 
July 5 meeting by touching on an inside 
joke between members of the Senate. His 
statement, he said, was not made with 
ill intent and was not meant to offend 
Hartzog.
Stephens said moving forward he 
would be more careful with his comments.
“These allegations are very shocking 
because, looking at my record this is 
just not something I stand for.”
- Sen. Jonathoan C. Stephens
A second censure petition alleged Ju -
diciary Chairman John Brinkman actively 
abuses power by allowing his committee 
to avoid citing the five criteria — consti -
tutionality, implication, legality, format 
and clarity — in which it reviews legisla -
tion, incorrectly applying the criteria and 
not informing an author on which criteria 
his or her bills failed. 
Brinkman’s censure is in response to 
the committee’s postponement and sub -
sequent failure of Senator Oscar Santiago 
Perez’s legislation, which would have 
reimbursed students for 50% of contra -ceptives costs, emergency contraceptives, 
abortions, travel costs for abortion care 
in- and out- of- state and post-abortion 
counseling. Brinkman ruled it illegal and 
unconstitutional.
“Once again, we see a situation where 
when Change Party does not get their way 
politically, they result to starting a scene, 
going on a baseless witch hunt, and abus -
ing the Senate procedures for partisan po -
litical gain,” Brinkman wrote on his po -
litical censure in an email to The Alligator 
July 3. “Their claims here are once again 
entirely without merit.” 
Senator Mason Solomon serves as a 
member of the Rules and Ethics Commit -
tee and the vice chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee. He actsserves as an unbiased 
member in both committees, he said, and 
did not believe there was a conflict of 
interest which would constitute recusal. 
As Brinkman’s vice chairman, Solomon 
makes most of the motions to postpone 
legislation indefinitely. 
Rules and Ethics Chairwoman Tanner 
Thompson said Sunday she would check 
the student body codes to see if there 
were rules concerning Solomon’s poten -
tial recusal. 
The hearings are set back-to-back Fri -
day at the Reitz Union starting at 1 p.m.
The next Senate meeting will be held 
in the Reitz Union Senate Chambers 7 
p.m. Tuesday.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgStudent Government considers third censure of the Summer
The UF SG Senate Rules and Ethics Committee will complete two censure hearings 
Friday against Judiciary Chairman John Brinkman and Senator Jonathan C. StephensMONDAY, JULY 11, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
expanding privacy protections to abortions.
Once the case reaches the Florida Supreme Court, which 
would likely take over a year, Wright predicted, the 15-week 
ban would be upheld. The restriction may be an infringement of 
privacy, she said, but it is not an outright denial. 
Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union 
are also prepared to fight the 15-week ban up to the Florida Su -
preme Court.
On behalf of Florida abortion providers, the ACLU, ACLU of 
Florida, Center for Reproductive Rights, Planned Parenthood, 
and Jenner & Block — a law firm — released a joint statement in 
response to the state’s appeal. 
“Everyone deserves the ability to access the abortion care 
they need, and we’ll continue fighting for that right with every 
tool at our disposal,” the release said.
Teetering between the 24-week ban and 15-week ban can 
confuse both patients and health care staff, communications and 
marketing director of Planned Parenthood of South, East and 
North Florida Christina Noce said. Abortion care is still legal in 
the state but can only be provided prior to 15 weeks of preg -
nancy for now.
“Those that oppose safe, legal abortion — they want 
this to be confusing, they want this to be challenging 
and have patients undergo hurdles to get care. And 
that's exactly what's happening.”
- Christina Noce , Planned Parenthood
The state has a 24-hour mandatory delay in place, meaning 
anyone seeking an abortion must visit the doctor twice before 
receiving the procedure — another hurdle elongating and com -
plicating the process of scheduling an abortion.
Bread and Roses and All Women’s Health Centers offer abor -
tion services within three miles of UF’s campus. 
Planned Parenthood will continue to add appointments, ex -
tend hours and even fly physicians into the state to help provide 
care over the coming months.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgABORTION,  from pg. 1Ban resumes
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
More than 100 protesters stand outside a downtown Gainesville courthouse on Tuesday, May 3, 2022 to 
support abortion rights after reports the Supreme Court would overturn Roe v. Wade.
CASES IN ALACHUA COUNTY 
HAVE RISEN SINCE APRIL 8
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Evan Hadam moved into Mallo -
ry Hall at the start of the Summer B 
semester. After two weeks on cam -
pus, the 18-year-old UF computer 
science freshman said more than 
three of his floormates tested posi -
tive for COVID-19.
While he’s had some anxiety liv -
ing in the dorm, Hadam said wash -
ing his hands and making sure his 
room is sanitized helps him feel 
safe.
“As long as I kind of do my 
own thing, I think I’ll be okay.”
- Evan Hadam, UF student
 
Amid a recent uptick of CO -
VID-19 cases, UF’s policy — which 
has been in place since March 23 — 
does not require or expect masks on 
campus, but it does require them in 
all UF Health facilities. The univer -
sity also no longer offers easy-ac -
cess COVID-19 test sites as of June 
17 due to the increased accessibility 
of at-home tests and testing provid -
ed by retail pharmacies. 
Alachua County had 964 new 
positive cases the week of July 1, 
according to data from the Florida 
State Health Department. The coun -
ty saw this year’s lowest number of positive cases — 108 —  just three 
months ago during the week of 
April 8. These numbers do not in -
clude positive cases from at-home 
COVID-19 tests. 
Alachua County’s 22.4% new 
case positivity rate is higher than 
the state’s 19.4%, according to the 
Florida State Health Department. 
The state reported 74,481 cases 
from June 24-30, according to data 
from the Florida State Health De -
partment. Numbers have consis -
tently increased since the state re -
ported 26,533 new cases the week 
of April 22. 
With the county’s COVID-19 
positivity rate on the rise, Hadam 
hopes UF will bring back its testing 
sites instead of relying on students 
to self-test and report through retail 
pharmacies, primary care physi -
cians and at-home test kits. Without 
UF’s guidance, he said, students will 
likely infect others when they opt to 
leave their room to attend class or 
party instead of quarantining.  
Other state universities have also 
relaxed COVID-19 regulations. 
The University of Central Florida 
discontinued updating its websites 
to reflect case numbers at the end 
of the Spring semester. Heather 
Lovett, UCF’s director of media re -
lations, wrote in an email that the 
university still makes hand sanitizer 
and masks available for students. 
Florida State University does not 
require students to wear masks in its buildings, but students can still 
test on campus with a form of pay -
ment or insurance information, ac -
cording to FSU’s University Health 
Services. 
All three universities continue 
to offer vaccines on campus. UF 
students can receive their vaccine 
through the UF Student Health 
Care Center or the Alachua County 
Health Department.
Michael Sullivan, a 22-year-old 
UF economics graduate student, is 
vaccinated and boosted, he said. 
Sullivan comfortably rides the 
Gainesville RTS bus daily, even 
though it ended its mask mandate 
April 19. 
At the height of the pandemic, 
Sullivan said he preferred hybrid 
courses, but he found himself en -
joying in-person classes after getting 
vaccinated. 
Lola Aronovitz, a 17-year-old UF 
family, youth and community sci -
ences freshman, said she feels safe 
in class despite getting COVID-19 
her first week being on campus. 
At some point, UF shouldn’t be re -
sponsible for students getting CO -
VID, she said. 
“We’re adults,” Aronovitz said. 
“You get sick sometimes, so if you 
can prevent it, it’s nice but it's not 
really up to [UF].”
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgCOVID-19 cases rise as UF freshmen arrive
RESIDENTS EXPERIENCE 
RISING UTILITY RATES
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
As inflation continues and gas 
prices soar, Gainesville residents fear 
monthly utility bills.
A Facebook post linking a peti -
tion to lower-climbing Gainesville 
Regional Utilities rates garnered 263 
comments as of Sunday. Angela 
Casteel, a 46-year-old Gainesville 
resident who made the petition, said 
her June bill was about $100 more 
than in previous months. Residents 
can voice concerns during pub -
lic comment at the utility advisory 
board meeting July 19.
David Warm, the director of com -
munications for GRU, wrote that 
while residents' bills often increase 
during summer months because 
they use more power to cool homes, 
a global surge in natural gas prices 
caused higher-than-anticipated en -
ergy bills across the country.
GRU increased the fuel portion of 
its electric bill to keep up with rising 
costs. Due to supplier costs, GRU’s 
fuel adjustment fee more than dou -
bled from 3 cents per kWh-hour to 8 
cents per kWh-hour, he said.
“What people pay at the pump 
is just a fraction of the cost of what 
GRU has to pay to power the natu -
ral gas turbines,” City Commissioner 
and mayoral candidate David Arre -
ola said.
Arreola said the Deerhaven Re -
newable Generation Station, one of 
three energy plants the city bought for $750 million in 2017, is one of 
the top fuel-efficient biomass energy 
plants in the country. 
“Even though GRU is a leader in 
the state, for renewable energy, we 
rely heavily on natural gas, and so 
those prices have just skyrocketed,” 
Arreola said.
GRU’s electric bill has two com -
ponents: a base rate that covers op -
eration costs and the fuel adjustment 
fee that is rising alongside rising nat -
ural gas prices, Edward Bielarski, the 
former GRU general manager, said.
Homes that are not energy-effi -
cient can exacerbate the problems 
with prices. Residents, especially 
students, who rent older houses see 
higher utility rates, Arreola said. 
City regulations requiring land -
lords to abide by and adapt older 
homes to modern energy efficiency 
standards will go into effect over the 
next four years. The city also offers 
payment plans to assist residents 
with their bills. Warm said custom -
ers struggling to pay their utility bills 
should call GRU’s customer service 
department and follow energy sav -
ing tips.
Jasmine Reyes, a 19-year-old San -
ta Fe College dental hygiene sopho -
more who lives at The Nook, works 
overtime to pay her utility bill, which 
she said more than doubled in the 
past month.
“Rent alone is too high for stu -
dents to meet, and utilities being 
nearly a quarter of the rent is even 
more ridiculous,” she wrote.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgGainesville: The Rise of GRUKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Billy Napier lands 4-star trio
The Gators’ class stands 12 commits deep. Read more on pg. 11.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE NOMADIC COLLECTIVE HOSTS 
WEEKLY MEET-UPS, GETS PUSHBACK 
FROM RISING GAS PRICES AND 
POLICE CRACKDOWNS
By Anna Ward
Avenue Staff Writer
The red interior of Max Nagel’s father’s 
fully-restored Oldsmobile Cutlass was mes -
merizing; it awakened his love for cars and 
kickstarted his future fleet.
“He would drive it around and he would 
get looks from everyone,” Nagel said. “I kind 
of made my own bond to it, as I did with all 
my cars.”
The Tires Plus certified technician has 
collected cars since he was 16, starting with 
a $500 1997 Honda Civic coupe. Colorful 
sports cars like the 1999 Mitsubishi Eclipse 
and the 2018 Volkswagen GTI soon followed.
Gainesville’s car scene is his gallery. It’s 
a space where he can display his work and 
appreciate others’. 
Under a weekly Tuesday and Friday night 
sky, attendees liven empty parking lots with 
headlights, car speakers, dogs and drinks. 
Friends park their matching red sedans in 
a row and others open their doors, blaring 
their speakers with chill trap music as admir -
ing eyes devour the sight. 
The meets are a simultaneous social event 
and showcase, but increasing gas prices and 
police presence can pose obstacles for the 
onlookers.Attendee ages range from 17 to 28 years 
old, but some older enthusiasts attend as 
well. Regulars and newcomers show up in 
cars, on motorcycles and on skateboards. 
Trent Withers, a 23-year-old Buchholz 
Paint and Autobody employee who owns a 
gunmetal gray 2013 Hyundai Elantra Lim -
ited, said the environment is welcoming and 
people are generally treated equally for their 
rides. 
“We enjoy coming out here to look at 
other people’s vehicles,” he said. 
His friend, Michael Stewart, a 27-year-old 
parts associate at Buchholz Paint and Auto -
body who owns a black and red 2013 Chrys -
ler 300 S, said cars are judged on the time, 
money and labor put into them. 
Soaring gas prices can put a damper on 
the drivers and limit how much they can in -
vest.
“It hurts so much to go to the pump,” 
Nagel said, noting he now has to limit his 
racing. “It definitely has limited some of my 
contact with people I’ve met here.”
Colton Maddux, a 19-year-old Hyundai 
automotive technician who drives a blue 
2017 Ford Focus RS Hatchback, said he 
doesn’t attend meets if they’re far away and 
he’s more cautious with his driving.
Others find the prices draining — a frus -
tration expressed through tongue-in-cheek 
Facebook posts. A June 6 post in “Gainesville 
Car Friends” depicts a siphoning gas with 
mouth image with the text: “Cute date ideas” 
above it. Another depicts a car made of rocks and logs with the text: “My car if gas prices 
keep going up” above.
“When gas used to be $1.60, I used to 
drive around to clear my mind, now these 
thoughts are livin with me lol,” the caption, 
posted by Ra’ed N Ayoub said.
But the packed “Park ‘n’ Chill” provides 
evidence that high prices can’t stop the com -
mitted. Nagell said the prices have not been 
able to dial back the community. Some mem -
bers opt to enjoy their more practical rides.
“I ride a motorcycle now,” said Hector 
Jayson Crespo, a 28-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering graduate student and the driver 
of a yellow, gray and blue custom wrapped 
Honda CBR 600 f4. “The fuel economy is 
pretty good.”
David Glass, a 20-year-old Murray Ford 
mechanic, said variety is valued.
Some keep their cars in their original con -
dition, while others customize theirs, even 
“murdering them out” — a term for stylishly 
blackening a car. The process covers every 
detail down to the windows and tire plates.
Facebook groups “Alachua County Car 
Meets” and “Gainesville Car Friends” pro -
vide the main communication for Gaines -
ville’s decentralized car scene. There, motor 
enthusiasts get the latest updates for where 
to meet. 
The “Friday Night Park ‘n’ Chill” meets 
are a constant, but the location isn’t. Ac -
cording to attendees, police have shut down 
meets, so they often shift spots.
“We’re like nomads,” Stewart said. “We go wherever the parking lots take us.”
Everyone got their start somewhere.
Gainesville Police Department spokesper -
son Graham Glover said he was not aware of 
reported incidents, but there aren’t any filed 
reports referencing the meets. Attendees said 
police intervention can shut down a spot and 
force the scene to find new locations. Noisy 
revs, pulls and pops and smoked-out-lots 
create conflict for the community.
PSA posts about police presence aren’t 
uncommon in the Facebook groups, which 
also implore members to behave when they 
pull up to meets.
“Please respect the spot we do not want 
to get booted,” a capitalized May 27 Alach -
ua County Car Meets admin Facebook post 
read.
“They like to hate,” Crawl said about the 
police. “They think we’re going to do crazy 
stuff.” 
Burnouts, donuts, spinning tires, smoked-
out-lots and exhaust-pipe flames-remain.
The car scene has maintained its current 
locations, the Electronics World, located at 
1261 NW 76th Blvd., and Harbor Freight 
Tools, located at 2520 N Main Street, for the 
past few meets. 
To outsiders, it’s just another car-filled 
lot. To the scenes’ supporters, it’s a starlit 
showcase of the streets.
@AnnaWard_
award@alligator.orgGainesville car scene thrives amid gas prices and noise complaints
CULTURECULTUREBy Averi Kremposky
Avenue Staff Writer
Even with a couple of Bill -
board Alternative chart-toppers, 
a history of playing prominent 
festivals, more than three million 
monthly listeners on Spotify and 
a new album on the horizon, Matt 
Maeson’s success hasn’t steered 
him away from small venues. 
Armed with only his acoustic 
guitar, the Virginia-native singer 
commenced a small-scale tour of 
independent venues July 7. Mae -
son, known for his hit song “Hal -
lucinogenics,” will play six shows 
across Florida, including a stop at 
the High Dive Thursday. 
The laid-back, isolated string of shows contrast Maeson’s typi -
cal show atmosphere, which will 
be seen in his 26-show fall tour 
for his new album, “Never Had 
To Leave,” backed by a full band 
and large crowds. 
“I came to the realization of 
like, ‘Dude I don’t have to sit 
here and plan out this extrava -
gant tour,’” Maeson said. “I can 
just take my acoustic guitar, hop 
in my car and drive to venues.” 
Maeson’s appearance at the 
High Dive coincides with Inde -
pendent Venue Week, a national 
campaign highlighting the im -
portance of small venues to local 
communities. This year’s celebra -
tion will occur from July 11-17. 
Independent venues have more character than corporate 
venues, Maeson said. Even in his 
daily life, the choice between pre -
tentious and homely is easy. 
“I’d much rather go to some 
shitty dive bar than go to a Dave 
& Buster’s,” Maeson said. 
The High Dive, which is com -
memorating its 11-year anniver -
sary in July, is a registered Inde -
pendent Venue Week participant. 
Local venues should be cel -
ebrated as a hub for new talent 
and a sanctuary for fans to get 
close to artists who might one 
day play stadiums, according to 
the Independent Venue Week’s 
website. 
Local venues’ close quarters 
help Maeson and his fans feel more present during performanc -
es, he said. In a small crowd, 
people remain more attentive to 
Maeson’s lyric-driven songs. 
“As soon as you get to a thou -
sand people, that’s a big crowd, 
and it’s a lot harder to keep ev -
erybody’s attention in one place,” 
Maeson said. 
Small shows also give artists 
more creative freedom, he said. 
Major tours with complicated 
production and thousands of at -
tentive eyes keep artists on a 
rehearsed schedule. The rigidity 
can create a stressful environ -
ment, Maeson said. 
Alone on a modest stage, Mae -
son can control his performance 
and even change his setlist on a whim. It’s one of the reasons the 
singer doesn’t mind packing his 
large-scale success into a small 
venue. 
During Independent Venue 
Week, Maeson is looking forward 
to the culture each Florida venue 
cultivates, including the High 
Dive. Doors open at 8 p.m. Thurs -
day and tickets are available for 
purchase on the venue’s website. 
“If you like an experience 
where you’re able to enjoy the 
music but also be able to feel con -
nected and look at yourself, it’s 
a perfect show for you,” Maeson 
said.
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgMatt Maeson to appear at the High Dive amid Independent Venue Week
MUSICMUSIC
The singer’ s acoustic set Thursday will highlight the allure of local venuesMONDAY, JULY 11, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
By Amanda Friedman
Avenue Staff Writer
Dennis Walton Jr., a 29-year-old 
local musician who goes by Azazus, 
began watching anime in middle 
school to escape the tribulations of 
his low-income upbringing in Ala -
bama. The underdog archetype com -
monly portrayed in anime inspired 
him to power through his struggles.
After he relocated to Gainesville 
to study business at Santa Fe Col -
lege in 2013, Azazus eagerly looked 
for a sense of community in a new 
city. He found it in Gainesville Nerds 
United (GNU), a local Facebook 
group of Black cosplayers and anime 
fans who participate in anime-relat -
ed activities together. He immediate -
ly joined the group and attended his 
first anime convention, Omni Fan -
dom Expo in Orlando, within a year.
“I had no idea it was that huge 
of a community,” he said. “That was 
my first time seeing a whole commu -
nity of people becoming these char -
acters that a lot of us look up to.”
Gainesville anime convention, 
SwampCon, has decreased in popu -
larity since the COVID-19 pandem -
ic, so Azazus is thankful to have a 
group of people to travel to conven -
tions or watch anime with, he said.
With recent anime conventions like Anime Festival Orlando 2022 
and Metrocon 2022 happening 
across Florida, groups like GNU at -
tempt to get a piece of the action. 
The collective often attends these 
conventions to participate in panel 
discussions and cosplay — where 
people dress in costumes depicting 
characters from anime, video games, 
television shows and film.
In 2013, a group of broke, anime-
obsessed Santa Fe College students 
banded together to find a way to 
attend anime conventions for free. 
They also found a family. 
Devon “Verglas Prince” Cham -
bers, a 30-year-old cosplayer and 
GNU co-founder, started the group 
when he and his friends discov -
ered they could receive free tickets 
to anime conventions through host -
ing group panel discussions. He 
is thrilled that the group has blos -
somed into so much more.
“I wouldn’t change it for 
the world.”
- Devon “Verglas Prince” Chambers, 
GNU co-founder
The Gainesville native began 
watching anime during his child -
hood and has cosplayed his favorite 
anime and television characters for 
roughly eight years. He also hosts panel discussions and judges cosplay 
competitions at conventions.
Chambers participated in several 
cosplay events around the state and 
the world, including Clara Cow’s Co -
splay Cup, a cosplay competition in 
the Netherlands. Along with his best 
friend and fellow cosplayer and co-
founder of GNU Porsha ‘“Fudgie” 
Stiglich, the pair cosplayed as char -
acters Esmeralda and Frollo from 
Disney’s “The Hunchback of Notre 
Dame.” They were the competition’s 
first contestants from the United 
States.
The timeline for creating cosplay 
costumes varies from a few days to 
months. Chambers learned to sew 
and build props through Youtube 
videos and Stiglich’s mentorship. 
Although he polished his skills 
over time, Chambers remembers 
anxiously throwing together cos -
tumes on the day of conventions.
“You are frantically making cos -
tumes, styling wigs, making props 
and making sure you have every -
thing,” he said. “You can go through 
a couple of sleepless nights.”
As a Black, plus-size individual, 
Chambers prioritizes highlighting 
the discrimination of marginalized 
communities in anime culture. He 
tries to host panels on body positiv -
ity in fashion and racism within an -ime culture at every convention he 
attends to spread awareness and en -
act change. He recently hosted both 
panel discussions at Tallahassee’s 
FreeCon, which took place March 
26-27.
“If I can instill just a little bit of 
confidence into somebody and have 
them be whatever character they 
love,” he said, “That’s pretty much 
all that I’m trying to do.”
Original GNU member Deon 
Durr, 28, like his brother Chambers, 
also recognizes the racism and fat -
phobia within anime culture. 
Scrutiny of Black cosplayers for 
portraying non-Black characters and 
Blackface among non-Black cosplay -
ers are common issues in the com -
munity, Durr said. He is thankful for 
the support system GNU provides 
him when tackling these concerns, 
he said. 
“I feel like that’s what Gainesville 
Nerds United was — a platform for 
Black voices in the nerd culture co -
splay community,” Durr said.
Durr does not cosplay, but he 
loves hosting panels on different 
debatable topics in anime culture, 
like the “anime big three,” which 
describes the debate about the cur -
rent three best anime shows. He also 
enjoys spending quality time with 
his GNU friends and engaging with other anime fans throughout the 
country.
Although many of GNU’s original 
members have left Gainesville, the 
group continues to grow and wel -
come all talents and backgrounds. 
Durr credits many of his happiest 
memories to the friendships he fos -
tered through GNU.
“We have grown from friends to 
family,” he said. “It’s been a won -
derful ride.”
Azazus credits like-minded cre -
atives in GNU and at the conven -
tions with motivating him to fuse 
his passion for urban culture and 
hip-hop with anime to create anime 
rap: a genre of hip-hop inspired by 
anime characters and storylines. 
Many members of the central Florida 
anime rap community credit him for 
popularizing the genre, he said.
Over the last year, Azazus shifted 
from visiting anime conventions to 
performing his anime rap on stage as 
a featured artist. He drew an almost 
40-person crowd at Anime Festival 
Orlando, which took place June 24-
26.
“These shows are made for ev -
erybody,” he said. “It’s ok to be 
Black … and nerd out.”
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.orgGainesville Nerds United: a local platform for black voices in anime culture
CULTURECULTURE
Taking a look at the diverse, local collective that frequents anime conventions across FloridaBy Kristine Villarroel 
Avenue Staff Writer
The spirit that drove Gainesville — the 
former punk hotspot of Florida — to its local 
prominence transmuted. Embracing its re -
sourcefulness by any means necessary, it did 
not lose its decentralized creative community 
after the ‘90s. It thrives in the form of DIY art -
ists and venues. 
By definition, the “do-it-yourself” philoso -
phy focuses on rallying resources to create a 
product. Artists use the resources already at 
their disposal and collaborate to put on shows 
at unconventional venues, like houses, storage 
units or bookstores. Buildings and businesses, 
like Roadhouse DIY, How Bazar and the Mois -
turizer Gallery, offer non-traditional spaces for 
local creatives to explore their art. 
For musicians, this can look like indepen -
dently recording music and booking shows, 
while for visual artists, it can look like using 
affordable materials as the base of their craft.
This scene, while supportive and interest -
ing, hides within underground venues and 
word-of-mouth promoting. Advertisements re -
stricted to flyers posted in local small business -
es or social media promotion sometimes limit 
newcomers’ access — finding the trenched 
treasures is a matter of following the right peo -
ple and going to the right places. 
It’s all about showing up, Roadhouse DIY 
event coordinator Bri Reed said.
Reed’s home houses an independent or -
ganization and live music space, which puts 
on about six live shows — from punk, rock 
and folk to rap and indie pop — every month. 
Some attend for the music, while others attend 
for the community of it.“I want to give everybody that plays 
music a chance to showcase that,” Reed 
said. “Just get in here. Just play a show, 
just see what happens. And that’s I feel 
like a big part of DIY, too; just figure it 
out. Let’s roll with it, no pressure.”
- Brian Reed , Roadhouse DIY
House shows’ intimate, homey feel breaks 
the ice for new visitors who might not be famil -
iar with playing or attending live shows. Reed 
often approaches new faces to help them feel 
welcome. 
This same close-knit atmosphere also keeps 
disrespectful concertgoers away from the 
shows. After all, no one wants to cause trouble 
at someone’s house, and Reed doesn’t wel -
come trouble either. 
At Roadhouse shows, accessibility is a pri -
ority. The shows operate on sliding scale door 
fees to make sure they’re affordable to anyone 
interested in having a good time.
Flyers, stickers and chalk art unveil DIY 
events to patrons paying attention to the dates 
and locations on display.
Owned by Phillip “Worm” Harris, Books 
and Music, Wormhole offers a hand-curated 
selection of about 10,000 books, records and 
art displays on 1801 NE 23rd Avenue, near 
local favorites Satchel’s Pizza, the Repurpose 
Project and spiritual shop Blu Crystal. 
“The rule of thumb for me is if I think it’s 
something that I would read, I try to put it out 
there,” Harris said. “More than anything, I try 
to curate.”
The bookstore exemplifies how the DIY ap -
proach looks in local creative spaces. Visual artists display and sell their art, with all the 
proceeds going directly to them. Local or state-
based authors can sell their books and have 
them displayed in a section at the front of the 
shop, and poets can read their work for a live 
audience. 
Its live music events feature different 
genres, from eccentric electronic sounds to 
laid-back jazz performances.  
The Civic Media Center also offers space for 
creative events among a collection of books. 
Workshops, gatherings, discussions and read -
ings foster community building and social ad -
vocacy on 433 S. Main Street. 
Four blocks away, The How Bazar regu -larly hosts arts markets and other live events 
focused on the display of local arts and music. 
The creative community exists beyond 
physical spaces; media, either online or print -
ed in zines, discuss creative, cultural and po -
litical topics, and outline upcoming events.
The Ashtray rallied for its roots with its lat -
est front page announcing Fox Lounge and the 
Hardback Cafe’s recent closures. A proclama -
tion for the future of the scene sprawled across 
the edition’s typical photocopied collage of il -
lustrations and words.
“Now is the time, more than ever, for 
house/DIY shows if you have the ability to or -
ganize,” the Ashtray wrote.
@ktnedelvalle
kvillarroel@alligator.orgAn introduction to Gainesville’s DIY arts scene
CREATIVITYCREATIVITY
How local creativity thrives in an ever-changing scene
Julia Coin / / Alligator Staff
Daniel Villamil crowd surfs at a performance by local punk band The Real 
You at DIY venue The Moisturizer Gallery Wednesday, Dec. 11, 2019.
LUNES, 11 DE JULIO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caimán, síganos en línea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.All-American Florida gymnast returns
Nya Reed elects to stay in Gainesville for a fifth year,  pg. 12 .El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caimán en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
Por Carissa Allen
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido por Ana Trias
Escritora del Caimán
La prohibición del aborto de 
más de 15 semanas de Florida 
volvió a entrar en vigencia el 
martes por la tarde después de 
que el estado apeló la orden ju -
dicial de un juez que bloqueó la 
prohibición, anulándola en me -
nos de una hora.
El juez del Tribunal del Circui -
to Judicial, John Cooper, dijo que 
la restricción del aborto violaba la 
vertiente de privacidad de la Con -
stitución de Florida en un fallo 
verbal el jueves. La prohibición 
no podía bloquearse hasta que 
él firmara un fallo oficial por es -
crito. La medida cautelar quedará 
bloqueada temporalmente hasta 
que sea escuchada por la Corte de 
Apelaciones.
“Sabíamos que probablemente 
eso sería lo que se decidiría en ese caso”, dijo el gobernador Ron 
DeSantis en una conferencia de 
prensa el viernes. “Sabíamos que 
íbamos a tener que seguir adel -
ante y continuar la batalla legal 
al respecto”.
Danaya Wright, una profesora 
de la Facultad de Derecho de la 
UF, dijo que le sorprendería si la 
Corte de Apelaciones elimina la 
orden judicial de Cooper porque 
eso anularía el precedente estatal 
que amplía las protecciones de 
privacidad a los abortos.
Una vez que el caso llegue a la 
Corte Suprema de Florida, lo que 
probablemente tomaría más de un 
año según Wright, se mantendría 
la prohibición de 15 semanas. 
Ella dijo que la restricción puede 
ser una violación de la privacidad 
pero no es una negación absoluta.
Planned Parenthood y la Unión 
Estadounidense de Libertades Ci -
viles (ACLU, por sus siglas en 
inglés) también están preparados 
para luchar contra la prohibición 
de 15 semanas hasta llegar a la Corte Suprema de Florida.
La ACLU, la ACLU de Florida, 
el Centro de Derechos Reproduc -
tivos, Planned Parenthood y Jen -
ner & Block, un bufete de aboga -
dos, emitieron una declaración 
en conjunto como respuesta a la 
apelación del estado en nombre 
de los proveedores de servicios 
de aborto de Florida.
“Todos merecen la posibilidad 
de acceder a la atención médica 
de aborción que necesitan, y 
continuaremos luchando por ese 
derecho con todas las herramien -
tas a nuestra disposición”, dice el 
comunicado.
Christina Noce, la directora 
de comunicaciones y marketing 
de Planned Parenthood del sur, 
este y norte de Florida, dijo que 
titubear entre la prohibición de 
24 semanas y la prohibición de 15 
semanas puede confundir tanto 
a los pacientes como al personal 
de atención médica. La atención 
medica para el aborto sigue sien -
do legal en el estado, pero por ahora solo se puede brindar antes 
de las 15 semanas de embarazo.
“Aquellos que se oponen al 
aborto legal y seguro, quieren 
que esto sea confuso, quieren que 
sea un desafío y que los pacien -
tes se enfrenten a obstáculos para 
recibir atención y eso es exacta -
mente lo que está sucediendo” 
dijo Noce. 
El estado tiene un retraso ob -ligatorio de 24 horas, lo que sig -
nifica que cualquier persona que 
busque un aborto debe visitar al 
médico dos veces antes de recibir 
el procedimiento, otro obstáculo 
que alarga y complica el proceso 
de programar un aborto.
Planned Parenthood continu -
ará agendando citas, extenderá su 
horario e incluso traerá médicos 
de otros estados para ayudar a 
brindar atención en los próximos 
meses
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.org
FUNCIONARIO DE SALUD DE LA UF 
COMENTÓ QUE LA UNIVERSIDAD NO 
ES RESPONSABLE DE LAS DECISIONES 
SANITARIAS DE LOS ESTUDIANTES
Por Kyle Bumpers & Troy Myers
Escritores del Caimán
Traducido por Ana Trias
Escritora del Caimán
En las semanas posteriores a la decisión de 
la Corte Suprema de los EE.UU de anular a Roe 
v. Wade el 24 de junio, la UF permanece en 
silencio mientras los líderes del campus per -
manecen estancados en el cambio de política.
La UF no ha emitido una declaración sobre 
la decisión de la Corte Suprema desde el 4 de 
julio y no tiene intención de hacerlo, escribió 
la directora interina de comunicaciones estra -
tégicas de la UF, Cynthia Roldan, en un correo 
electrónico a The Alligator. Otras universi -
dades, como la Universidad de Michigan y la 
Universidad de California, comentaron oficial -
mente sobre el fallo tras la decisión.
El Comité Judicial del Senado del Gobierno 
Estudiantil de la UF también bloqueó un po -
sible proyecto de ley del Senado del SG que 
proponía reembolsar a los estudiantes el costo de anticonceptivos y otras formas de atención 
médica reproductiva.
Los estudiantes deben hacer su propia in -
vestigación para ver qué forma de anticon -
cepción es mejor para ellos, dijo el Dr. John 
Smulian, presidente del departamento de ob -
stetricia y ginecología de la facultad de medic -
ina de la UF, y no es función de la UF invadir 
las decisiones de atención médica de los estu -
diantes.
“El sistema de educación sexual de Estados 
Unidos es terrible”, dijo. “Es interesante que 
el hospital [UF Health] no haya dicho nada, 
porque siento que eso sería algo más prob -
able”.
UF Health recibe fondos para investigación 
del gobernador Ron DeSantis, quien respaldó 
la legislatura contra el aborto.
Algunos estudiantes creen que la adminis -
tración de la UF no hablará sobre la revocación 
para evitar una clara afiliación política.
La universidad puede temer la pérdida de 
posibles estudiantes y solicitantes, dijo Gray -
son Sweeney, un estudiante de 18 años que 
cursa el primer año de biología en la UF.
“Esa [declaración] puede causar mucha 
controversia para ellos mismos”, dijo. “Pueden 
perder estudiantes, especialmente si se ponen 
de un lado”.
Si la UF fuera una universidad privada, dijo, podría darse el lujo de afiliarse de una forma 
u otra, pero no le convendría hablar dada su 
dependencia financiera al gobierno.
Un proyecto de ley del Senado del SG de la 
UF, pospuesto indefinidamente por el Comité 
Judicial el domingo, habría reembolsado a los 
estudiantes el 50% de los costos de anticon -
ceptivos, anticonceptivos de emergencia, abor -
tos, costos de viaje para la atención del aborto 
dentro y fuera del estado, y asesoramiento pos -
terior al aborto.
El Senador Oscar Santiago Pérez (Cambio - 
Distrito D) fue el autor del proyecto de ley en 
respuesta a la anulación de Roe v. Wade.
“Esta es la forma en que quería mostrar es -
encialmente que el Senado Estudiantil puede 
y debe hacer algo sobre este tema”, dijo San -
tiago.
El comité judicial votó unánimemente para 
impedir que el proyecto de ley llegase al Se -
nado. El presidente del Poder Judicial, John 
Brinkman (Gator - CLAS), dijo que el proyecto 
de ley violaba la separación de poderes entre el 
legislativo y ejecutivo al obligar a la presidenta 
del Cuerpo Estudiantil, Lauren Lemasters, a 
ejercer su autoridad ejecutiva para nombrar a 
los directores de cada agencia.
Horas después de la reunión del Poder Ju -
dicial del domingo, Santiago presentó una in -
vestigación de censura contra Brinkman por abuso de poder, negligencia y mala conducta. 
También presentó un caso ante la Corte Su -
prema del SG el domingo, que abordará el caso 
cuando se reúna nuevamente en otoño.
Santiago dijo que Brinkman abusa activa -
mente del poder al permitir que su comité evite 
citar los cinco criterios (constitucionalidad, im -
plicación, legalidad, formato y claridad) en los 
que el comité puede revisar la legislación, apli -
car incorrectamente los criterios y no informar 
a un autor sobre qué criterios fallaron en su 
proposición.
"Una vez más, vemos una situación en la 
que cuando Change Party no se sale con la 
suya políticamente, dan lugar a una escena, 
a una cacería de brujas sin fundamento y a 
un abuso de los procedimientos del Senado 
para obtener ganancias políticas partidistas. 
Sus afirmaciones aquí son, una vez más, to -
talmente sin mérito”, escribió Brinkman en un 
correo electrónico a The Alligator el domingo 
por la noche.
Lea el resto en linea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.org
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgFlorida apela el fallo de ley controversial sobre el aborto tras 15 semanas y restablece la prohibición
La administración de la UF está estancada, SG bloquea la 
legislación anticonceptiva después de la anulación de Roe v. WadeHeather Bushman / / Personal del Caimán 
Alrededor de 40 personas se reunieron a las afueras del tribunal penal 
Stephan P . Mickle, Sr., el viernes 24 de Junio del 2022, para protestar el 
fallo que revoca Roe v. Wade.
El juez Cooper dictaminó que la prohibición era inconstitucional, pero 
su orden judicial temporal en todo el estado se eliminó minutos despuésBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
7-11-18-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Got a place for rent?
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    FFrriigghhtteenneedd  
11..    BBee  iinn  ppaaiinn55..    EEtteerrnnaall  ________
22..    AACC  ________66..    SSwwaapp
33..    VVaarriieettyy  ooff  bbeerryyll77..    BBeedd  ffoorr  aa  bbaabbyy
44..    HHiinnddeerrAARRDDCCSSEE
UUFFSSFFRREEMMAAFFEELL
TTAAEERRDD
AARREEPPAADDTT
MMEEAADDEERRLLDDRRAACCEELL
DDEEMMIIEEPPAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSccaarreedd    55AA--FFllaammee    66AA--TTrraaddee    77AA--CCrraaddllee
11DD--SSuuffffeerr    22DD--AAddaapptteerr    33DD--EEmmeerraalldd    44DD--IImmppeeddee    BB--EEllmmeerr  FFuudddd77--1111--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: HHiiss  ffiirrsstt  aappppeeaarraannccee  wwaass  iinn  11993377..
BONUS
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.10 For Sale
By Justin Daneau
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/11/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/11/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 11, 2022
ACROSS
1 Apple discard
5 Cash dispensers
9 Edinburgh 
resident
13 Highest point
14 Metal corrosion
15 Novelist 
Tokarczuk who 
won the 2018 
Nobel Prize in 
Literature
16 Where to watch 
pillars and 
frames?
19 Professional org.
20 Big name in 
ridesharing
21 Observe
22 “Rugrats” dad
24 “Almost Famous” 
director Cameron
26 Low-scoring tie
29 Guzzles (down)
32 Serious hwy. 
crime
33 One-sixth of 
an inch, to a 
typesetter
35 Uncommon
36 Where to watch 
Stonehenge and 
Big Ben?
40 Bengay target
41 Smell
42 Ultrasound goop
43 “Onwards!”
46 Put a hex on
48 Play idly, as a 
guitar
50 Stitching target
51 “Frankly,” in texts
53 Coup d’__: 
sudden regime 
change
55 Modern 
creatures that 
are technically 
dinosaurs
59 Where to watch 
tracks and 
tunnels?
62 Facts and figs.
63 Egg on
64 Volcano on Sicily
65 “The Martian” 
actor Damon
66 Writes the wrong 
ZIP code, say
67 Filter (through)
DOWN
1 Spanish house
2 Magnum __: 
masterpiece3 Gym sets, briefly
4 Tell-all news 
story
5 Flight update 
abbr.
6 Ballet skirt
7 “The Beat With 
Ari Melber” 
broadcaster
8 Has the wheel
9 Female pig
10 From a short 
distance, with  
“at”
11 Big, mean giant
12 Help oneself to
17 Ocean floor 
dwellers with 
many arms
18 Sci-fi film with 
light cycles
23 Aussie colleges
25 Wave a red 
flag at
26 Postal scale unit
27 Workforce  
during the  
wee hours
28 Amazon gadget 
activated by 
saying “Alexa”
30 Set loose
31 Unload for cash
32 Start a card 
game34 Rock band 
with the album 
“Powerage”
37 “__ we forget”
38 Length of many 
TV dramas
39 Joyful Spanish 
shout
44 Mushroomed
45 Power 
interruption
47 Treats with petty 
malice
49 City hall bigwig51 Barbershop 
request
52 “Dirty John” actor 
Eric
54 Ruler of 
imperialist  
Russia
56 Solemn 
observance
57 “All finished!”
58 One of the Rice 
Krispies trio
60 “Thanks a __!”
61 QB stats
By Karen Lurie
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/05/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/05/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 5, 2022
ACROSS
1 Seat that may 
swallow the 
remote control
5 U.K. soccer teams
8 Tappable 
symbols
13 Happy kitty sound
14 Washer capacity
16 Krispy Kreme buy
17 Thing
18 “Pitch Perfect” 
actress Kendrick
19 Residence
20 *Financial plan 
followed by a 
mayor
23 From square one
24 “Totally!”
25 “It’s __-win 
situation”
26 Breakfast syrup 
choice
28 *Nests, as a set 
of measuring 
cups
32 Olympian’s goal
35 Technical sch.
36 Big primate
37 Words that clarify 
spelling
38 Some postgrad 
degs.
39 Bermuda shorts 
endpoint
40 Automobile
41 Way out there
43 No longer vivid
44 *Achieve one’s 
specific goal
48 Repeated slogan
49 Frying liquid
50 Some laptops
53 Fish often grilled, 
on menus
55 “Seize the day!,” 
and what the 
answers to the 
starred clues 
literally have
58 Odds partner
60 Take five
61 Score in a tennis 
shutout
62 Royal domain
63 Fill until full
64 Scissors sound
65 Annual cable 
sports awards
66 Drug used in 
microdosing 
therapies, for 
short
67 Snakelike 
swimmersDOWN
1 Like hot wings
2 Belly button  
type
3 Guitar neck 
features
4 West Point  
team
5 Show off 
shamelessly
6 Time-share units
7 Participated on 
karaoke night
8 Mont. neighbor
9 Bright blue 
pigment
10 How some tots 
count to five
11 Ready for  
skinny-dipping
12 Instant Pot dish
15 Mailer-__: 
programs that 
send automated 
messages
21 Skip out (on)
22 License plates
27 Vet’s patient
28 Autograph 
seeker
29 Wonder 
Woman’s 
headpiece
30 Fencing blade
31 Woodwind insert32 Name associated 
with supersonic 
speed
33 Actor Morales
34 Really 
inexpensive
38 Holds weight
39 Kit __ Klub: 
“Cabaret” setting
41 “I see now!”
42 __ shui
43 Perceived
45 How prosciutto is 
sliced46 Cooks in an  
oven
47 Talented
50 Naturally inclined 
(to)
51 Courteous
52 Pedometer units
53 For a __ pittance
54 St. crossers
56 Color named for 
a duck
57 Besides
59 Texting format, 
briefly
07/04/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Looking for student to help keep up home / 
yard. Move in / live RENT FREE, in furnished 
efficiency apt. Close to UF. No pets.
● OR ● Part-time job $15/hr. 
Short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com
8-1-22-4-14
HELP old retired dude needs help with web-
site for an online bookstore. It seemed like 
a good idea when set up with GoDaddy . 
Still have one month for free tweaks. Would 
like to work with like-minded person. Active 
website: inspirationpointers.com. Contact 
tomprahl@outlook.com, 352-481-3322    
7-18-22-2-14
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in-
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
15 Services
PROTECT YOUR HOME from pests safely 
and affordably. Pest, rodent, termite and 
mosquito control. Call for a quote or inspec -
tion today 888-498-0446                   7-11-3-15
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      7-11-6-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
7-11-23-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            7-11-6-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                7-11-17-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
7-11-22-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover-
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                    7-11-6-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
7-11-3-15
16 Health Services
Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816              7-11-5-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       7-11-23-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or feesDRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Counseling that is Professional
Afforable, Adults and Couples
Telehealth or in person
LMHC harrisdk1012@gmail.com
352 642-5176                             7-25-22-5-16
817 NW 57th Terr, Ste B
Gainesville, Florida 32605
            ● Urgent and Primary Care
            ● Walk-Ins Welcome
            ● Minimal Wait
            ● Rapid Molecular Covid Testing
            ●**24hr STD Test Results**
Phone 352-554-5977
Website: 1stchoiceicc.com
8-1-22-4-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
WHEN IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO MAKE A DECISION,
 IT IS NECESSARY TO NOT MAKE A DECISION. — LORD FALKLAND
solution  below
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
The Child’s Garden
The Importance of Math in the Classroom
Welcome back to another great school year. I 
would like to take this opportunity to talk about 
the importance of incorporating math in the 
early education setting. Many schools get lost 
in the idea that literacy is the most important 
feature in a preschool setting. Here at The 
Child’s Garden, we believe in a well-rounded 
program that promotes all areas in early edu-
cation.
It can be overwhelming when searching for 
a preschool. Many schools focus on literacy, 
reading and writing.  While this is, of course, 
extremely important, numeracy skills are 
equally important too.
Children who participate in math at an early 
age develop critical thinking and problem 
solving skills, which are important for all aca-
demic areas of growth. The University of Irvin 
California conducted a study which shows chil-
dren who do well in math entering into school, 
generally continue to do well throughout school
It has been estimate that children receive up to 
1000 hours of literacy before entering school. 
Whereas mathematics is sometimes just rec-
ognizing numbers 1-10., rote counting, and 
sorting, we like to incorporate math into every 
area of our busy day. While reading, children 
are encouraged to count the number of items 
on the page.  While building with blocks, we 
talk about structure and shapes. In housekeep-
ing, we count baby dolls, plates, utensils, food, 
etc. We discuss who has more, less or the 
same. At cleanup, we count to see how long it 
takes us from one day to the next. Sometimes 
we switch it up and count backwards.
Other area we continue to promote math are 
at snack time, children are snack-monitors, 
they count the number of friends to set snacks 
out for and how much to give each friend so all 
have equal amounts. Pouring water into cups 
to promote measurement skills. We partake in 
cooking class, which uses measurements and 
science skills. We focus on all shapes, includ-
ing 3D shapes, looking at size, shape, and 
sides. We ask open-ended questions: Where?, 
What?, Why?, to help improve critical thinking 
skills. 
Preschool mathematics is much more than 
counting to ten. Preschool math is the doorway 
to the growth of future scientists, engineers, 
architects, chefs, etc. We are proud to give all 
children the correct tools they need to help suc-
ceed in school and live
Louise Crisp
7-11-1-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for in -
jury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.Trivia Test  answers1. Sweden. 2. Goldfish crackers. 3. "Up". 4. Pam Beesly.
 5. Russia. 6. Pink Floyd. 7. "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo"
. 8. Lava. 9. Vermont. 10. Larynxanswers below1. GEOGRAPHY: Which country has the most islands?
2. AD SLOGANS: Which product is advertised with the 
slogan "The snack that smiles back"?
3. MOVIES: Which animated movie features more 
than 10,000 balloons?
4. TELEVISION: Who did Jim Halpert marry in the 
long-running sitcom "The Office"?
5. HISTORY: Which country sold Alaska to the United 
States (1867) for $7.2 million?
6. MUSIC: Which rock group had an album titled 
"Dark Side of the Moon"?
7. LITERATURE: Which novel introduces a character 
named Lisbeth Salander?
8. SCIENCE: What is the name for magma after it 
has erupted?
9. U.S. STATES: Which state was the first to join the 
union after the original 13 colonies?
10. ANATOMY: What is also known as the voice box 
in human anatomy?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.20 Events/Notices
MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
FOOTBALLTHE SOPHOMORE’S OTHER 
TALENTS INCLUDE SINGING AND 
GRAPHIC DESIGN
By Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
Florida track and field triple jumper 
Alissa Braxton stood in the middle of the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center’s court. Her 
guest appearance away from the track 
showcased a hidden talent. With her right 
hand over her heart, she faced the crowd 
to sing the national anthem before Florida 
women’s basketball game against Tennes -
see Feb. 3. 
Braxton's captivating vocals provided a 
passionate performance in front of a famil -
iar sea of orange and blue. Braxton excels 
in both athletics and performing, as well as 
graphic design.
She comes from a long lineage of pow -
erful and soulful vocalists.
The Braxtons, a collection of five sisters 
who filled stadiums and venues across the 
world in the 1990s, set the foundation for 
one of the best-selling female R&B artists in 
American history: Alissa’s cousin, Gram -
my-award-winning singer Toni Braxton. 
The talented group became famous for 
their soothing melodies and high-pitched 
sound.
As a child, Alissa always enjoyed the 
opportunity to perform, her father, Dirk 
Braxton, said. Dirk and Vannessa Braxton, 
Alissa’s mother, both noticed their young -est child’s urge to venture out and let her 
voice be heard.
“She would always do solos,” Dirk said. 
“When we moved to California, we joined 
a church, and she became the lead at the 
little kid's choir.” 
Off the mic, Alissa did not shy away 
from being a multi-sport athlete. She 
watched her father coach her older broth -
ers’ little league baseball and basketball 
teams, and Alissa played soccer, basket -
ball, baseball and danced.
She finally found her niche, however, 
while watching her brothers launch them -selves into the triple-jump sandpit. Her 
oldest brother competed in the long and 
triple jump, and her other brother compet -
ed in the high jump. Dirk said she would 
watch them practice and, afterward, she 
would jump.
“When I got to middle school, I basi -
cally forced my parents to let me do track,” 
Alissa said.
Dirk is proud of all his daughter has ac -
complished so far but knows she isn’t done 
impressing. He’s excited to witness Alissa’s 
growth during her forthcoming junior year, 
not just in the sand pit, but through her 
singing and artwork as well.
Alissa's interest expanded beyond the 
track once she entered high school. The 
now-graphic design major explored Photo -
shop and found a love for digital art. 
Vanessa noticed her daughter’s artistic 
growth and presented her with a challenge: 
designing the packaging for her vodka 
company, “Black Momma Vodka.”
“My mom was like, ‘You're really good 
at this, you need to start making things for 
me,’” Alissa said. 
While progressing as an artist, Alissa 
made strides in her track and field career. 
She began to compete in the triple her ju -
nior year of high school and broke an 18-
year New York state record, making her a 
highly sought-after college recruit. Schools 
like UF, Florida State University and Loui -
siana State University showed interest, but 
Alissa’s relationships with jumps coach Nic 
Peterson and head coach Mike Holloway 
pulled her to Gainesville. Peterson mes -saged Alissa on Instagram to congratulate 
her on her early-career record, Dirk said. 
Accompanied by her parents and 
Sargeant, the family dog, Alissa signed to 
continue her track career and artistic pur -
suits at UF Nov. 13, 2019. 
Alissa made her collegiate debut at the 
2021 indoor season opener in Columbia, 
South Carolina. She competed in four out -
door meets her freshman year, recording a 
personal record of 19 feet and 5.5 inches in 
the long jump at the Florida State Relays.
Alissa’s stint was stunted when an ankle 
injury from the relays rolled over into the 
beginning of her sophomore campaign. She 
recovered with an impressive year, high -
lighted by a new personal best of 13.16 me -
ters/22-5.25 in the triple jump at the LSU 
Invitational.
The sophomore competed in the triple 
jump at the SEC Outdoor Championships, 
catapulting herself 12.56 meters to help 
the outdoor women’s track and field team 
win its first conference title in program 
history. Alissa returned to the sand-pit at 
the NCAA Outdoor Championships, and 
her 12.83 meter jump in Eugene, Oregon, 
helped Florida bring home its first outdoor 
program title.
“I was able to compete, and just push 
as hard as I can and actually jump, without 
fear of pain,” Alissa said. “For me to go as 
far as NCAA, which I didn't even think was 
gonna happen, is amazing to me.”
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.org
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
Florida’s football program gained three four-star com -
mits for the class of 2023 last week. 
Quarterback Marcus Stokes and running back Treyaun 
Webb committed to UF Thursday, followed by athlete Eu -
gene Wilson III Friday. 
Stokes, a Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, native, an -
nounced he flipped his commitment to the Gators after 
originally committing to Penn State on Twitter April 9.
The quarterback is entering his senior year at Nease 
High School, the alma mater of former Florida Heisman 
Trophy winning quarterback Tim Tebow. He led his team 
to the regional finals in the Sunshine State’s second-high -
est classification.  
Webb tweeted his commitment to the Gators 38 min -
utes after Stokes. 
Webb, a fellow four-star recruit, is ranked fifth na -tionally among 2023 running back recruits, according to 
247sports. He officially visited Gainesville June 3. 
Wilson, a 5-foot-11-inch and 165-pound prospect, ran 
an 11.36 100-meter dash, according to 247Sports. He is 
the son of former NFL cornerback Eugene Wilson, who 
won two Super Bowls with the New England Patriots dur -
ing his eight-year NFL career.
Wilson is the 10th-best athlete in 247Sports’ 2023 
rankings and the 30th-ranked recruit in the state of Flor -
ida, making him the highest-ranked recruit in Florida 
head coach Billy Napier’s 2023 class. He also courted of -
fers from Alabama and Texas A&M before landing on the 
Gators.
Following the latest players’ pledges, Florida’s 2023 
class now sits at 12 commitments.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgTriple jump star Alissa Braxton proves to be triple threat
Gators football lands 3 4-star commits from class of 2023Courtesy to The Alligator
UF track and field athlete Alissa Braxton 
competes in Eugene, Oregon, June 11, 
2022. Photo by Isabella Marley.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Head football coach Billy Napier calls his teammates 
during a spring practice March 29, 2022. Napier 
added three four-star commitments to the 2023 
class this week.
Football prospects Marcus Stokes, Treyaun Webb, Eugene Wilson III committed to UF this week12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 11, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRE
WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY
LADIES nightLADIES night
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE DRINKSFREE DRINKS   
For the ladies!For the ladies!
FRIDAYFRIDAY
Beat the clock!Beat the clock!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
(WELLS & DRAFTS(WELLS & DRAFTS
START @ 25¢START @ 25¢  and go up and go up ))
SATURDAYSATURDAY
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE FREE WELLS & DRAFTSWELLS & DRAFTS   
For EVERYONE!For EVERYONE!
@Grog.House@Grog.House @groghouse@groghouse www.groghouse.comwww.groghouse.com 1718 West University Ave1718 West University Ave
GYMNASTICS
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer 
Fifth-year gymnast Nya Reed will 
return to the Gators and wear the orange 
and blue for one more year.
Reed announced her return for the 
upcoming season via Twitter Friday with 
a video of her highlights from last season 
captioned “Last ride.” UF also announced 
former Gators gymnast Megan Skaggs as a 
new assistant coach July 7.
The Maryland native was an All-
American in the floor exercise last season. 
Reed was also a first-team selection for 
the Women’s Collegiate Gymnastics 
Association regular-season awards and 
second-team on the vault her senior year. The highest scores of her collegiate 
career came during Florida’s nationally 
televised meet against Alabama last 
season, when Reed earned a perfect 10 on 
the floor and a 9.975 on vault.
Reed’s decision to come back for a 
fifth year came less than a month after 
teammate Trinity Thomas announced 
she would return for one final season in 
Gainesville. 
Thomas and Reed’s return reload a 
Florida team that finished only .112 points 
shy of the Oklahoma Sooners for the 2022 
national championship.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgUF gymnast Nya Reed to return for 1 more season
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Nya Reed competes in a home meet against Missouri Jan. 11, 2019. 
Reed announced she will return for her fifth year Friday.
The news comes the same week Megan Skaggs 
was named to the 2023 coaching staff