We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  
pg#Disabled students struggle to navigate an unfriendly campus
Construction, outda ted buildings make campus inaccessible , pg. 6
Teaser headline
Spring 2022 staff bids goodbye to The Alligator , pg. 5Javelin throwing, 
strawberry growing
PhD candidate plays for UF team in 
spare time. Read more on pg. 12
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 31
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
AN INTERNAL 
INVESTIGATION 
CONCLUDED THE “USE OF 
FORCE” WAS JUSTIFIED
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Family members of Courtney 
Smith ‚— currently an inmate at 
the Alachua County Jail — are 
accusing correctional officers of 
abuse. 
The family said officers beat, 
tased and choked Smith while in 
custody, causing him to miss his 
first appearance before a judge. 
ACSO has been accused of ne -
glect in the past, including the in -
cident when Erica Thompson gave 
birth in prison and lost her baby 
hours later at UF Health Shands 
Hospital. 
The internal investigation be -
gan on April 1 and was completed 
on April 5.
On March 7, Smith was arrested 
after he had a mental health crisis. 
His fiance, Tamara Thomas, 
called Meridian Behavioral Health -
care asking for help, and they re -
ferred her to the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office non-emergency 
number, she said. 
Smith has a history of mental 
health concerns and takes medica -
tion to help, Thomas said.  
“His mental health had gotten 
so out of control that he thought 
people were surrounding the 
house,” Thomas said. “That they 
were out to get him.”
ACSO officers arrived and went 
into the house to speak with Smith 
and calm him down. During the 
conversation, Smith stood up off 
the couch, and the officers saw he 
was sitting on a “white, crystal -
lized substance,” the arrest report 
said. 
Smith was arrested and charged 
with possession of a controlled 
substance — about four grams of 
methamphetamine — according to 
the arrest report. 
Thomas said the drugs found 
underneath Smith the day he was 
arrested were not his and she was 
only looking for help for her fian -
ce’s mental health.
“I think the family alleged that 
he had some mental health is -sues,” ACSO spokesperson Art 
Forgey said. “When law enforce -
ment arrived and found an illegal 
substance, then that is going to 
take precedence.” 
Smith’s first appearance before 
a judge was on March 8. Thomas 
was confused when her fiance 
didn’t show up, and the hearing 
proceeded without him.
The internal investigation re -
port shows Smith didn’t attend the 
hearing due to “mental health is -
sues and behavior.”
On the morning of Smith’s first 
appearance, booking officers tried 
to process him with fingerprinting, 
photographs and a medical screen. 
During this process, the internal 
investigation report claims he re -
fused commands and tried to walk 
past the officers.
Officers tried to redirect Smith 
back into the holding cell for be -
ing uncooperative, but he grabbed 
a nearby wall and the frame of the 
cell door to avoid going back, ac -
cording to the internal investiga -
tion report. 
“Smith was placed on the floor 
to gain control,” the internal in -
vestigation report reads. “Smith 
began to kick and thrash his body, 
placing his hands under his body 
in an apparent attempt to avoid 
handcuffing.”
Multiple officers restrained 
Smith, and a taser was used to get 
control of his hands. 
The internal investigation re -
port says Smith bit an officer’s fin -
ger and left ligament damage. The 
officer that was bitten didn’t wish 
to charge Smith, citing his “appar -
ent mental status and suspected 
narcotics influence,” the report 
reads. 
In the first appearance hearing 
documents, the judge ordered the 
mental health unit of the jail to in -
terview Smith. He was housed in 
the jail infirmary until March 10, 
when he was taken for processing 
again. 
Thomas said she received her 
first phone call from Smith the 
morning of March 10, two days af -
ter he had missed his hearing.   
“He called me crying, stat -
ing that he had been beaten and 
choked unconscious,” Thomas Alachua County inmate alleges 
abuse by correctional officers
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Florida Gators defensive lineman Justus Boone greets a young fan at the Orange and Blue 
football game at the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Thursday, April 14. Find more photos on pg. 11.
VICTIMS DEMAND CHANGE 
IN RESIDENCE HALLS
By Marinna Stopa 
Alligator Contributing Writer, 
Editors note: This article 
contains graphic language 
about sexual assaults.
Four months after a 24-year-
old snuck into UF residence hall 
bathrooms and recorded women, 
UF Housing installed additional 
locks on bathroom doors. But 
residents remain uneasy about 
their safety.
Deontre Donnell Mason snuck 
into female-only floors in Mur -
phree Hall and Thomas Hall 
and took videos of at least nine 
residents as they showered, used 
the bathroom and walked up the 
stairs. 
UF Housing plans to install new locks on the bathroom doors 
in Murphree Hall, Thomas Hall 
and Buckman Hall starting May 
2, shortly after the Spring semes -
ter ends, according to Chad Doer -
ing, the director of facilities man -
agement for on-campus housing.
The $14,000 project is esti -
mated to be completed in about 
12 weeks, UF spokesperson Sara 
Tanner wrote in an email.
UF Housing is making safety 
changes, but for the victims it 
comes too late.
Four victims said, when en -
tering their dorm building, they 
pulled the heavy front door 
closed behind them because they 
would rather it shut faster than it 
would on its own for their safety. 
They said they are conscious 
of what they are wearing and 
how much skin is exposed. With 
every footstep in the stairwell, 
they snap their heads to make sure no one is behind them. 
Using the bathroom, they said 
they can not absentmindedly play 
on their phones. Their minds are 
consumed with keeping a watch -
ful eye for potential cameras 
above their heads. 
Taking a shower, they said 
they make sure the curtains are 
taut along the pole, covering ev -
ery centimeter of space possible. 
They hate that not every hole is 
attached to a hook. They try to 
stay as close to the cover as pos -
sible, but their hearts can’t help 
but drop when a sliver of space 
between the curtain and the wall 
appears. 
On Dec. 2, the then-24-year-
old Illinois man entered the Mur -
phree Area dorms by tailgating, 
which occurs when an unauthor -
ized individual enters a resident 
hall by following closely behind UF to install additional locks following voyeurism case
SEE JAIL ABUSE,  PAGE 4SEE VOYEURISM,  PAGE 4T oday’s WeatherBy Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
Emma Bissell thought a 
frisbee whacked her head outside 
Normal Hall. But frisbees don't 
leave talon marks.
The 20-year-old UF 
telecommunications sophomore 
was attacked by a hawk in 
January. On Wednesday morning, 
UF’s College of Education sent 
an email warning students to 
be wary when walking in the 
Norman Hall area.
The hawks are back for their 
annual mating season, ready to 
dive-bomb anyone near their 
babies. This is the third year that 
the same set of hawks has nested, 
UF’s Assistant Vice President of 
Facilities Services Mark Helms 
said. They come every spring for 
six weeks and leave once they 
have their babies.
On Jan. 27, a bird flung 
itself at the back of Bissell’s 
head, concussing her. She was 
rushing to her Dance Marathon 
headshots.
Shocked and confused, she 
trudged to the meeting, where 
one of her friends cleaned up 
her wounds. The hawk left three 
gashes on the back of her head.
“I was already having a 
bad day, and it was 8:50 in the 
morning,” Bissell said. 
Three hours later, her 
roommate urged her to go to the hospital. After waiting seven 
and a half hours in the Shands 
Hospital Emergency Room, 
Bissell was seen by a nurse and 
found that the nurse was just as 
confused as Bissell at what had 
happened.
“She didn’t even know how to 
list it,” Bissell laughed. “She was 
like, ‘I guess I’ll put that under 
attack?’”
The nurse gave Bissell a 
Tetanus shot at the hospital and 
told her she had a concussion.
Bissell wasn’t surprised by the 
email Wednesday because she 
had heard of several students 
getting attacked in the last month.
“I don’t think [the email] will 
do anything because students 
still have to walk that way for 
class and to get home,” Bissell 
wrote. “Also, an email doesn’t 
stop a hawk.”
While the birds typically 
return every spring in late March 
or early April, Helms said their 
mating cycle is unpredictable, 
explaining why Bissell was struck 
months ago.
After receiving UF’s warning, 
students have taken to TikTok to 
express their concerns about the 
hawk hostilities and share their 
own stories.
Several users commented that 
they, too, have been attacked 
by hawks. Others used humor 
to make sense of UF’s warning 
email.Hawks attack humans when 
they feel they are getting too 
close to their offspring.
“When they lay eggs and the 
eggs hatch, then they become 
very aggressive like mommies 
and daddies sometimes do,” 
the vice president of facilities 
services said. “We will continue 
to monitor it, and when they 
move on for their summer season 
and the little ones are gone, we 
will take it all down and wait for 
them next year.”
UF wildlife ecology and 
conservation professor Mark 
Hostetler presumes the bird 
that attacked Bissell was a red-
shouldered hawk, but many other 
birds can attack humans.
“If you get attacked by a 
mockingbird, you're just kind of 
annoyed, right?” Hostetler said. 
“There's not really huge talons 
on them that could hurt you.”
But regardless of the bird, 
be on the lookout and bring an 
umbrella to hold over your head 
when passing through the area, 
he said.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 31 Hawks plunge at pedestrians 
in the Norman Hall area
 352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
Parts of the walkway in front of Norman Hall are blocked off due to aggressive attacks from hawks 
on pedestrians. A sign with safety tips is seen on Sunday, April 17.
The nesting birds strike the heads of humans 
when they get too close to their babiesMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
For more info visit
commencement.ufl.edu
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022said. 
Smith also said his shoulder 
had popped out of place, his ribs 
were bruised and it felt like he had 
been choked. He told Thomas his 
tongue was swollen from biting 
down on it after being tased so 
many times, she said. 
“It’s not true,” Forgey said. 
Smith missed his first appear -
ance hearing before the judge in 
order to hide the alleged abuse he 
accused correctional officers of, 
Thomas said. 
“My brother — Courtney Brian 
Smith — is in need of a wellcare 
check,” Smith’s sister Von Smith 
said. “The involved Alachua 
County Correctional officers need 
to be investigated, fired and ar -
rested.”
Kevin Scott, project director 
of Just Income GNV and Florida 
Prisoner Solidarity organizer, re -
members witnessing inmate abuse 
during his time in prison. When 
prisoners tried to speak out against 
the abuse, they were punished.
“Someone reporting that the guards abuse them, I 100% be -
lieve that, because I witnessed 
that with my own eyes, count -
less times,” the 47-year-old said. 
“Guards will take that person into 
the laundry room, because there's 
no cameras in there, and they'll 
beat the hell out of you. That is 
common practice.”
Scott now advocates for people 
currently and formerly incarcer -
ated through the many organiza -
tions he’s collaborated with. He 
believes incarceration removes 
people from an environment 
where they can receive humane 
treatment.
“There are people in prison 
who have no business being in 
prison. They need to be receiving 
mental health treatments, not put 
in a cage where they are neglected 
and abused,” Scott said.
Thomas was housed in the in -
firmary for one more night until 
March 11, when he was trans -
ferred to general population — the 
main group of prisoners within a 
jail that are not separated for disci -
plinary measures or for their pro -
tection. While Smith was in the in -firmary for those days, there were 
no reports, entries or complaints 
about any injuries after force was 
used to gain control of his hands, 
the internal investigation report 
said.
“If he is in need of any type 
of mental health medications or 
mental health treatment, then he 
would receive that,” Forgey said. 
When Thomas visited her fian -
ce for the first time on March 11, 
she saw visible bruises, bite marks 
on his tongue, taze marks on his 
back and a black eye with cuts on 
his face. 
Smith’s family members re -
member him not having any cuts 
or bruises anywhere on his body 
the day he was arrested. 
In Smith’s correctional photo, 
he has a black eye. 
“He was beaten by numerous 
Alachua County correctional offi -
cers while being handcuffed at the 
wrists and shackled at his ankles,” 
Von said. 
In the report, it states the video 
of the incident was reviewed, and 
Smith was resisting officers’ ef -
forts and commands. “At no time during this incident 
did any of the involved officers 
use excessive force,” the internal 
investigation report reads. “The 
force used to get inmate Smith un -
der control was justified and with -
in ACSO policies and procedures.
Chanae Jackson, a 42-year-old 
Gainesville criminal justice ac -
tivist, believes Smith should not 
have been taken to jail. Instead he 
should have gone through a cen -
tral intake facility, where people 
in mental health crisis go to be 
evaluated and treated, especially 
if the family called Meridian. 
“If a person is in a mental 
health crisis, stabilizing that crisis 
should be what is first,” Jackson 
said. 
Often, when family members 
call a mental health facility, they 
refer them to law enforcement. 
Law enforcement officers then 
have the power to Baker Act some -
body if deemed necessary, Forgey 
said. The officers who responded 
to Smith could have done so if 
they didn’t find the illegal drugs 
that take precedence over mental 
health issues. 
Today, Smith is still being held 
at the jail with a $10,000 bond 
amount. His arraignment date is set for May 2.
“My family is concerned that 
they may beat Courtney again 
or murder Courtney while he is 
housed in solitary confinement,” 
Von said. 
Smith’s sister has reached out 
to ACSO’s Sheriff Clovis Watson 
Jr. and Alachua Police Depart -
ment’s Chief Jesse Sandusky ask -
ing for help, she said. Watson 
never responded and Sandusky 
told her he would notify the Office 
of Professional Standards. 
“Jail may not be the right place 
for him,” Forgey said. “But that’s 
not for me to decide; that’ll be for 
the courts to decide.”
Unless the court orders Smith 
to be moved due to mental health, 
he will go through the court sys -
tem with his felony charge of a 
controlled substance. A judge will 
make the ultimate decision on 
how long Smith will serve, or if 
he will be taken to a mental health 
facility.
Melanie Peña contributed to 
this report.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgresidents as they enter, William Robinson, 
the UF residence hall director, wrote in an 
email. 
Jaclyn, a 19-year-old UF biochemistry 
sophomore, said the incident made her 
nervous to do the simplest of things in her 
own dorm, like using the bathroom or tak -
ing a shower. Jaclyn’s last name is being 
withheld to protect her privacy as a victim 
of sexual violence. 
Before coming to Gainesville, Mason 
committed similar crimes at the University 
of Minnesota on Oct. 13 and the University 
of Central Florida on Nov. 29, according to 
arrest reports. The year prior, he was ap -
prehended in a women-only dorm at Palm 
Beach Atlantic University and banned from 
campus. 
He was arrested at UCF on Dec. 7 and 
was released on a $10,000 bond the same 
day. 
Mason said he invaded the women’s pri -
vacy to feel the “rush of being caught,” ac -
cording to the Orange County arrest report. 
Mason victimized multiple female Mur -
phree Area residents. He tried to do the 
same at Library West.
He was charged in Alachua County with 
nine counts of video voyeurism, a third-
degree felony sex offense.
Penalties could include up to five years 
in prison, five years probation and a $5,000 
fine per charge. 
Since December 2014, UPD reported 10 
cases of video voyeurism — five in the last 
five years — according to UF public safety 
data. Four of them resulted in an arrest, in -
cluding Mason. 
Four of the 10 cases occurred in on-cam -
pus residence halls, but this case was the 
first since October 2016. 
In the months following the incident, women involved feel their trauma doesn’t 
matter to UF and the housing department.
A timely warning was sent to the UF stu -
dent body by the public safety department 
Dec. 3, the day after the incident, describ -
ing the incident and the suspect. 
A 19-year-old biology freshman, who 
agreed to identify herself as a victim of Ma -
son’s actions if her real name was not used, 
said the email “brushed off this crime as 
no big deal,” despite the fact so many resi -
dents were directly violated.
In a follow-up email, Murphree Area 
residents were told to not let people follow 
them as they entered or exited their resi -
dence hall and to be “mindful of maintain -
ing a safe environment for all residents.”
“It felt as if we were being blamed for 
this incident with no responsibility taken 
by the school,” she said. 
On Feb. 16, a follow-up warning was 
sent out, reminding students of the initial 
incident and informing them the suspect 
had been identified. The email also men -
tioned there was a warrant out for his ar -
rest on the charges of burglary and video 
voyeurism and he is banned from UF prop -
erties. 
Megan Caufman, a 19-year-old wildlife 
ecology and conservation freshman, has 
been afraid to live in Murphree Area since 
the incident.
Entering her dorm building, she pulls 
the heavy front door closed behind her, 
trusting her strength to shut it quicker than 
it would on its own. Walking up the stairs, 
she is conscious of what she is wearing and 
how much skin is exposed. Every footstep 
in the stairwell causes her to turn her head 
and verify no one is behind her. 
She feels like those affected had to reach 
out to UF and beg them to do something 
about the situation. 
“Since the guy who did it is gone, it’s kinda like UF forgot about it and therefore 
forgot about the victims,” she said. 
Along with other structural changes to 
the residence hall itself, such as replacing 
the existing double shower curtains with 
solid doors, victims said they wished there 
was more consistent police presence out -
side the dormitory. 
Uniformed officers patrol campus 24 
hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a 
year, Captain Latrell Simmons said.
The Student Community Oriented Police 
Effort, also known as the SCOPE program, 
assigns officers to specific residential areas — Murphree Area being one of the largest 
and busiest. 
Educating students and the faculty and 
staff that serve them is a top priority, espe -
cially in crimes like video voyeurism, Sim -
mons said. 
No matter how many officers patrol 
campus, they can’t do it all themselves, he 
said. He stressed the importance of the “see 
something, say something” initiative.
Marinna Stopa is a contributing writer 
for The Alligator.
JAIL ABUSE,  from pg. 1VOYEURISM,  from pg. 1
Investigation shows no wrongdoingStudents still feel unsafe
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Murphree Hall is seen during Spring 2022.
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
Unlike many early career 
journalists, I never heard 
the obnoxious key clicks 
from neighboring reporters 
or the laughter from inside jokes 
that echoed across the newsroom. 
The fragrant smell of Five Star Piz -
za or the cranked volume of song 
classics was not a reality I knew. 
I had joined The Alligator Sum -
mer 2020 as a transfer student, 
about four months after the onset 
of the pandemic. As a digital news assistant, I 
reported remotely from my Miami home, and 
my interactions consisted strictly of text and 
video calls over Zoom. It wasn’t until I became 
a features and investigations editor in January 
that I began to feel the sense of community 
that a true newsroom fosters. I began to see 
The Alligator as a second home.
It’s worth acknowledging that I didn’t envi -
sion myself as a newspaper gal. Growing up, I 
hoarded Teen Vogue magazines in my dresser 
and other beauty and fashion papers my mom 
snagged from the hair salon. During my ear -
ly years in undergrad, I wrote and edited for 
student-run publications like HerCampus and 
Rowdy Magazine. These papers ignited the 
fire for arts and style that still flare inside me, 
but I craved more. I desired to produce pieces 
that uplifted marginalized communities. Too 
often are Black and Brown faces presented in 
mugshots and tied to violence, and I dreamt of 
changing that narrative.
As a general assignment reporter Fall 2020, 
I had an opportunity to do just that. I authored 
a piece that spoke to Black UF professors, stu -
dents and alumni who after experiencing hair 
discrimination, further embraced their curly 
textures. I spoke with close friends and former 
students of the late Patricia Hilliard-Nunn who 
served as a social justice warrior and an inte -
gral part of the Black UF experience. I inter -viewed community organizer and 
powerhouse Faye Williams, who 
has worked relentlessly to remove 
symbols of hatred in Gainesville. 
But I would be lying if I said my 
path didn’t have hiccups. 
Clumsy misspellings and attri -
bution errors haunted me. After 
volunteering to cover my first live 
virtual event, I struggled to identify 
quotes or pinpoint a strong lede. 
Thirty minutes turned to an hour 
and my page remained blank. The 
incessant texts from my editor and unshake -
able disappointment I felt pushed me to the 
brink of leaving The Alligator for good. But 
through the encouragement of fellow Alligator 
staffers, I didn’t quit.
After a one year hiatus from the newsroom 
and a couple internships under my belt, I lis -
tened to calls to reapply. I had the honor of 
spearheading the first Black History Month 
package, “Living History,” as the features and 
investigations editor, recounting stories of Por -
ters Quarters gentrification to the first Black 
Gainesville mayor. 
The girl who never envisioned herself 
working for a newspaper found solace in the 
impactful stories published and the lifelong 
friends she made along the way. I still cher -
ish the moment I stepped foot into the Alliga -
tor office, a cramped hallway-sized room with 
comma puns and newspaper clippings stapled 
to the wall. I smile reminiscing on the way too 
long phone calls spent writing and rewriting 
stories with reporters. Beyond the stories and 
The Alligator office, my three semesters here, 
although short-lived, have been remarkable 
and cemented the foundation for the journalist 
I’ve always aspired to be.
Kalia Richardson is a senior journalism 
major. She is a lifelong Alligator and was the
Features and Investigations Editor.The Alligator newsroom is lined with its 
history. 
The best issues, framed, hang over 
editors’ desks. The sagging couch where 
I nestled for the past 16 print nights seems 
pulled out of an estate sale, or an abandoned 
frat house. Closets contain stacks of our recent 
issues and proud collections of novels written 
by Alligator alum.
A back room holds shelves of bound yel -
lowed pages from September 1962 until Janu -
ary 2011. The folding spines mark the year we 
went from “Florida Alligator” to “The Inde -
pendent Florida Alligator.” 
Black and white photos show the faces of 
our legends, the editors that led us to indepen -
dence, the laughing faces over loose pages of 
copy, the focused eyes over clunky typewriter 
keys. 
That newsroom smells like history, a li -
brary of student journalism. Some old white 
boards still hold messages from past Editor-In-
Chiefs, scrawled with the dates of Spring 2020. 
The print nights of my predecessors stay 
frozen in the time capsule that our newsroom 
has become.
The day after I was picked as Spring 2022 
EIC, I stepped into the newsroom with Asta 
and Anna at my side. I felt like a stranger. A 
tourist craning to see the homes of the people 
who lived where I’d fallen in love with. 
I looked at my old, sparse bylines drown -
ing in a page of words. 
I thought I would never become part of 
the beast that is The Alligator. I’d always be a 
small tick on the back of the reptile charging 
through Gainesville.
I didn’t know that from the moment I 
joined staff, The Alligator already had me. 
When you work at The Alligator, you are 
part of our history. No matter how few the 
bylines, how small the photo, how short the 
stay. Your work gets tucked into the wall of 
volumes. 
One day a curious young reporter, or a 
stressed editor will open your pages and find your small name, read 
your article and see 
something of them -
selves in you.
I’ve watched five 
Editor-In-Chief’s speak 
from the Zoom screen 
to me and the rest of 
staff. Everyone has 
left their mark on my 
reporting and writing. 
Whether it’s the gram -
mar rules drilled in 
my brain, the needed 
advice when I couldn’t break the story or the 
pick-me-up when elections weighed me down.
Every staff I’ve seen at UF has been full of 
the passion and drive that student journalists 
pulse with, the kind that stops a university in 
its tracks. The Alligator focuses that into the 
structure and accountability that’s informed 
our community for decades and built up some 
of the best journalists I’ve ever known.
The Alligator also had the reputation for 
being a closed circuit. Despite cycling through 
a new staff every semester, the same tight knit 
clique ends up hiring each other.
Our staff this semester could not look more 
different.
Over half of our staff are newcomers ⁠— 
first-time Alligators. Staff meetings were about 
getting people caught up, to the idiosyncrasies 
of Alligator style and staff traditions. 
I couldn’t be prouder of what they’ve man -
aged to create this semester. I’m honored they 
trusted me to introduce them to The Alligator. 
Even those who feel like stray comets are al -
ready pulled into the ring. 
The Alligator is now up to them. Up to 
what they choose to do next semester and the 
semester after that, what they want to keep 
and what they need to change. The Alligator 
is yours and I wouldn’t trust anyone else with 
it more.
Once an Alligator, always an Alligator.
Lianna Hubbard is a senior women’s 
study major. She is a lifelong Alligator and 
was the Editor-In-Chief.
II’ve been obsessed with words for as long as I can remember. The way they can make you feel, 
what art you can create or how they shape you. 
And I love words, for I grew up having trouble arranging them in my speech the way I could on 
paper. So I gobbled them when I could, whether that was reading or writing elementary books 
before I understood what world I lived in. 
People say the eyes are the windows to the soul. Words, these stubborn intangible puzzle pieces, 
are mine.
Journalism, especially student journalism, is powerful and it matters. No matter what your reser -
vation is, places like The Alligator must be saved, for journalism is the preservation of truth and 
accountability, and we are its future.
I’ve thought a lot about this column, The Alligator’s somewhat pretentious and traditional way of 
saying goodbye. I’ve stressed about what my message would be or how this would come across. 
But that doesn’t matter. In journalism, the truth does. That’s why I’ll be honest. 
Frankly, this paper is frustrating. It’s tiresome, and we do really hard work. But just like words, 
what lovely soulful puzzles, this newsroom saved me. 
As a wide-eyed transfer student who stumbled into this somewhat cult-like paper, it took a little 
time to find my footing. But I didn’t need to be stuck on the ground. Here, as a Black, biracial 
woman (with several other marginalized identities), The Alligator has given me a space to be my -
self. And it is here that I’ve flown. 
The best editor I’ve ever had dragged me into this paper during the Summer of 2020. It was then 
that the world kept descending into chaos. And for a time, I did too. I didn’t believe in myself, even 
though I had been an editor-in-chief prior to coming to UF. I felt like a fraud. 
But Grethel Aguila gambled with my imposter syndrome, and published my first story, one that I 
wrote through a UF reporting class. It detailed a vigil and march for Oluwatoyin “Toyin” Salau, a 
longtime classmate of mine who was missing and then murdered in my hometown of Tallahassee. I 
saw her name and picture flash across the TV, with each headline and story, I breathed anger. The 
former Black Lives Matter activist deserved respect and honesty. So, I did my best to observe and tell the news with the viewpoint of the 
people who knew her. 
I filed the story with Grethel and it was then that she became my advocate. 
“It’s a moving, well-written piece,” she said in a text message that night. 
“You’re very talented. We’re all learning as we go along. The Alligator is a 
great place to learn and grow as a journalist.” 
“I’m kinda new to this so my writing isn’t perfect lol,” I messaged back. 
I shrugged off her sentiments initially, but she was right about this paper. 
When an editor here tells you you’re a good writer, trust them. 
I contributed more pieces that summer and after she made a few attempts 
to convince me, I applied for her desk on the Metro team (I’m biased, but 
it’s the best desk here). The editor that Fall called me and offered me the 
position. I was shocked. 
“This is like the best student paper in the country,” I shouted to my parents on a sticky August 
night. “And he called me.”
I continued to work with Grethel who saw my potential on Metro and after three weeks, she pro -
moted me to the Criminal Justice and Breaking News position. Then, she pushed me to take her 
place as Metro Editor. 
At this paper, I’ve grown from an anxious, self-doubting student to someone who loves spending 
nights that welcome the dawn calling writers about their stories and their lives. With Lianna and 
Anna, I have tried to help bring diversity and become an advocate for students just as that editor 
did for me. 
It is here that I’ve refused to listen to past put downs from teachers about my ability to be a “natural 
writer.” It is here that I’ve discovered a newfound confidence — one that is unapologetic. 
It is here that I’ve grown from the young journalist who stuttered through phone calls with the g’s 
when I said good morning or goodbye.
But I can say goodbye now. I can say a lot of things thanks to the heroes in this student paper.
Asta Hemenway is a senior journalism major. She is a lifelong Alligator and was the 
Engagement Managing Editor.The Alligator: An unexpected second home  Part of history
Gambling with imposter syndromeGoodbye Column Goodbye Column
Goodbye Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Lianna Hubbard
@HubbardLianna
lhubbard@alligator.org
Asta Hemenway
@astahemenway
ahemenway@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson
@kaliarichardson
krichardson@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez & 
Lydia Parker 
Alligator Staff Writers
Even before Jacob Frisch was 
diagnosed with autism in middle 
school, his classmates often hurled 
ableist slurs at him. 
The negative language stayed 
with him through college. When 
browsing UF’s autism support group 
SOCIAL Gators online, he was dis -
appointed with the outlook of au -
tism as something to overcome.
“There is this kind of reinforce -
ment of autism as being negative … 
rather than being a sort of self iden -
tity that’s part of you and part of 
who you are — something that can 
be positive,” Frisch said.  
For Frisch and four students 
who share their experiences on col -
lege campuses, challenges associ -
ated with a lack of accessibility are 
commonplace. At UF, barriers send 
a message that they don’t belong 
— such as construction, neglect of 
funds, hurtful language and class -
room inaccessibility. 
Campus Barriers 
Though the UF Disability Re -
source Center has been helpful, 
students feel like more needs to be 
done. 
Frisch has a friend with cerebral 
palsy, Connor Panish, who he knew 
requested housing for Cypress Hall 
too late and wasn’t able to get in. 
Cypress Hall is the only hall at UF 
with a lift system for students with 
mobility needs, but other accessibil -
ity features can be implemented in 
other halls with accommodation re -
quests. 
“ADA compliance system doesn’t 
equal full accessibility,” Frisch said. 
“We should aim to have a fully ac -
cessible university.”
To people without disabilities, 
construction work might be a mi -
nor inconvenience. But for Connor 
Panish, a 19-year-old UF statistics 
freshman who relies on routines and 
accessible routes, it’s made life on 
campus more difficult. When Con -
nor decided to attend UF he took 
accessibility into consideration like 
his brother, who has the same diag -
nosis. However, the deciding factor was 
the quality of the math department, 
not accessibility.
Connor gets around using a 
knee brace, while his brother uses 
a walker and has less function in his 
hands. 
As a Hume Hall resident who re -
lies on Gator Lift, a shuttle service 
for UF affiliates with mobility needs, 
road closures due to construction 
have made it difficult to navigate. 
Despite this, he has hopes that the 
construction and future projects will 
take people with disabilities into 
consideration and build a more ac -
cessible campus with more eleva -
tors, accessible pathways and ramps 
to replace needless stairs.
“If you’re doing so much con -
struction anyway — that obviously 
impedes accessibility,” Panish said, 
“You have a huge benefit of being 
able to redesign the campus.”
People deserve options and more 
than one route to get to point A to 
B, he said.
Carlos Dougnac, assistant vice 
president for UF College of Planning, 
Construction and Design, and Rus -
sell Froman, assistant vice president 
for UF Office of Accessibility and 
Gender Equity, declined to comment 
on issues regarding construction.
Chase Panish, Connor’s twin 
brother and Florida Gulf Coast Uni -
versity history freshman, applied to 
all of the public universities in Flor -
ida. After reviewing all of the cam -
pus’ accessibility, he chose FGCU 
over UF. 
“I wasn’t just thinking ‘Is this 
school the best academic pro -
gram?,’” Chase said. “But I had to 
think, ‘Will I be able to get around?’”
His main concerns about UF had 
been the sidewalks that are older 
and more battered and ramps incon -
veniently placed around campus —  
specifically those that lead to halls 
as their main entrance. 
FGCU’s campus was required to 
comply with ADA since it was built 
in 1991. The Americans with Dis -
abilities Act of 1990 gives civil rights 
protections to individuals with dis -
abilities. 
“You can be retroactively compli -
ant, but it’s much harder to be retro -
actively compliant than actually be -
ing compliant when you’re building a place,” Chase said. 
Since UF was built long before 
ADA compliance was mandatory, 
its older buildings are less accessible 
due to limited amounts of work that 
can be done on them now.
Chase is able to use a scooter 
to get around FGCU’s smaller cam -
pus rather than use the busing ac -
commodation that UF provides but 
during the first week of Fall 2021, it 
broke and he was driven around in a 
golf car provided by FGCU.
Though FGCU has a much small -
er campus, the transportation ser -
vices they provide for students with 
disabilities are similar to those at UF. 
Accessibility Resources and Housing
Jenna Gonzalez, the director of 
the UF DRC, believes that awareness 
of disabilities is key. 
The Disability Ambassadors, an 
organization within the DRC, is a 
student-led group at UF that aims 
to spread awareness and empower 
people with disabilities. 
This semester, the DRC piloted a 
two-day academic advising drop- in 
to build a connection with academ -
ics. Students registered with the 
DRC and liberal arts and sciences 
majors were able to comfortably 
meet with advisors who understood 
their accommodation needs. 
“Accommodation and academics 
have to work together,” Gonzalez 
said. “There has to be communica -
tion.” 
Sometimes professors don’t un -
derstand how to handle student’s 
accessibility requests, so the DRC 
is partnering with UF to bridge that 
gap, Gonzalez said.
Some buildings on campus are 
historical so they’re unable to have 
full accessibility measures. For ex -
ample, if a student gets injured and 
lives in Murphree Hall, which has 
no elevators, the DRC would move 
them elsewhere. 
“We technically do not have to 
provide by law an accommodation 
for housing,” Gonzalez said. 
When Molly Wagner, a 20-year-
old electrical engineering freshman, 
decided to attend UF, accessibility 
was a huge factor in her choice.
She has muscular dystrophy and 
uses a wheelchair to get around, but 
she never wanted to let accessibility 
limit her education. After touring the 
campus, she decided that UF pro -
vided the best in terms of education 
and accessibility.
“There are very few colleges that 
have a dorm set up like Cypress Hall 
that is so accommodating to some -
body in my situation,” Wagner said. 
However, after living on cam -
pus for a week, she realized the 
very accessible and accommodating 
campus she toured is different from 
what she has experienced. 
On her tour she spent much of 
her time in places that were acces -
sible including Cypress Hall, Reitz 
Union and Broward Dining but not 
classrooms. Classrooms need more 
accessible entrances and less stairs 
so that all students can interact with 
professors, Wagner said.
Some smaller classrooms, such 
as some in Little Hall and Matherly 
Hall, are too crammed with tables 
and chairs to have room for wheel -chairs. If a student needs a class -
room accommodation, they can 
complete a classroom accessibility 
form on the UF DRC website.
“I feel very independent at Cy -
press Hall, but with other buildings 
on campus I don’t feel as acces -
sible,” Wagner said. “I don’t feel as 
independent because the accessibil -
ity is not to the same level.”
Having the independence to get 
around is important to her, and the 
changes she would like to see are 
based around this. Having a push-
to-open button in all classrooms is 
one change she would like to see 
implemented.
There have been times when 
no one is around to help her open 
doors to her classrooms, and even 
by elevating her wheelchair, it still 
isn’t enough to get her classmates’ 
attention. 
“Sometimes I have to wait like 
20 minutes before someone hears 
the door because they can’t see me,” 
Wagner said.
It takes her longer to complete 
other daily routines than others, so 
timing her day is already very dif -
ficult. 
“Then they’re gonna make me 
take 10 more minutes to get to class 
because you can’t make the front 
entrance accessible,” Wagner said. 
Anne Allen, manager for IT ac -
cessibility at UF, declined to com -
ment. 
If the university wants to claim to 
be inclusive they have to do a better 
job of spreading accessibility every -
where on campus, she said.
Recent construction near Cypress 
and Yulee Halls has limited the area 
to only one accessible path. When 
there are a lot of people walking it 
gets hard to not bump into people, 
she said. 
When using buses, the construc -
tion also became an issue. On her 
way to the Florida Natural History 
Museum for an assignment, Google 
Maps had not taken into account the 
construction that was present, mak -
ing her late. 
Once there, finding an acces -
sible entrance required assistance 
from staff that explained that the only way she would be able to enter 
would be through a back entrance. 
Calls for additional funding
Not only do students with dis -
abilities struggle with accessibility 
but there are also financial difficul -
ties. 
For students like Paige Fultz, 
20-year-old Santa Fe College nursing 
junior, her deafness is something 
she’s learned to view as unique. 
Fultz was born deaf and before 
age two2 got a cochlear implant 
with support of non-profit organi -
zations to curve the $10,000 cost. 
Cochlear implants sit behind the ear 
with a portion surgically inserted 
under the skin for sounds to be sent 
to the brain to process.
She attended speech therapy 
from kindergarten to seventh grade 
and continued to meet with her au -
diologist to help with her devices 
and accommodations, but now the 
DRC is that support for her. 
She wishes the process of regis -
tering with the DRC was made easi -
er and smoother.
“I think it’s important to make 
UF students aware of the services 
that are available for them and that 
it’s easily accessible,” Fultz said. 
As a SFC student hoping to trans -
fer to UF in the Fall, Fultz said her 
transition has been more difficult 
because she has to re-set her accom -
modations. Though UF provides 
classroom technology, she has to 
buy specialized equipment for her 
nursing clinicals, such as a $350 am -
plified stethoscope. 
Fultz believes that since UF 
has more students than SFC, they 
should have a better system in place 
for students because of additional 
resources and funding.
“Funding should probably go 
more toward the Disabilities Re -
source Center and other avenues 
that college students need more 
than game day or all these other ath -
letic events,” Fultz said.
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.org
@lydiagparker
lparker@alligator.orgStudents with disabilities question UF’s accessibility efforts
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Molly Wagner, 19, UF freshman, poses for a portrait outside of 
Anderson Hall. Wagner is diagnosed with muscular dystrophy.
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Paige Fultz, 20, nursing student at Santa Fe College, poses for a 
portrait in Plaza of the Americas on Sunday, April 17. Fultz, who 
is deaf, wears a cochlear implant.
Lack of funding, construction perpetuates struggleMONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
American Medical Program Tel Aviv University
American Medical Program/Tel Aviv University/Sackler Faculty of MedicineSackler Faculty of Medicine
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our websiteoffers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York and 
is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. One of 
these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 
hospitals around the world for the last three years.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,100 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about the Program. 
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
BOOK SALE
APRIL 23 –– 27, 2022
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH, CHECKS & CREDIT CARD
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
*We recommend masks and social distancing for the protection of vulnerable shoppers.UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
Download the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
THE RECENT MORTUARY 
SCHOOL GRADUATE IS 
TIKTOK FAMOUS FOR 
TALKING ABOUT DEATH
By Jiselle Lee
Alligator Staff Writer
Miranda “Mimi” Mythen wants to 
revive the dying deathcare industry.
Under her TikTok account @
mimithemortician, Mythen has more 
than 1.3 million likes and 59.8 thou -
sand followers. She has been inter -
viewed by Allure and Refinery29 and 
she has been featured in the Daily -
Mail and the New York Post about 
her viral videos on funeral service.
On social media, Mythen is lead -
ing the conversation for Gen-Z in her 
industry. But in Gainesville, she’s just 
another 20-year-old. Only instead of 
attending UF or Santa Fe College like 
the rest of her peers, she’s working 
at Milam Cremation and Funeral Ser -
vices, where her co-workers are old 
enough to be her grandparents.
Mythen moved to Gainesville in 
January after graduating with an as -
sociate in science degree from the 
funeral services program at Florida 
State College in Jacksonville. By then, she already had an established 
social media presence.
“I downloaded TikTok in quar -
antine like everybody else,” Mythen 
said. “I had made other random vid -
eos before I started mortuary school. 
But I really felt like there was no rep -
resentation of deathcare and funeral 
directors on there.”
After starting mortuary school in 
2020, Mythen began making videos 
about her day as a mortuary school 
student.
As her account began to gain a 
following, people asked Mythen why 
she wanted to study funeral services 
straight out of high school and asked 
her for advice on how to begin a ca -
reer in the industry.
Howard Beckham, the FSCJ fu -
neral services program director, said 
Mythen was one of nine students 
who graduated from the program in 
December 2021.
Beckham, 66, said Mythen was 
the youngest student he’s taught 
since he joined the program as an 
educator in 2020.
The funeral services industry is in 
desperate need of funeral directors 
and FSCJ’s funeral services program 
is one of three programs offered in 
Florida, Beckham said.“Most people aren’t focused at 
her age into something like this, 
unless they’ve come from a funeral 
home background,” Beckham said. 
“I was impressed with her success, 
her abilities and skills.”
People are surprised that my fam -
ily isn’t in deathcare, Mythen said.
Mythen’s mother, a librarian at 
FSCJ, watched Caitlin Doughty’s 
TED Talk about turning your body 
into human compost after you die, 
and instinctively thought of her 
green-thumb daughter, who was in 
high school at the time.
“I didn’t know what to make of 
that,” Mythen joked.
But after doing some research 
into natural burials, Mythen knew 
what her mother meant.
“I love nature,” she said. “I love 
giving back. I like recycling, com -
posting, all that kind of stuff. I was 
really amazed that you could give 
back to the environment when you 
die because the environment does so 
much for you when you’re alive.”
One person who has helped her 
explore her fascination with the 
green side of funeral services is Mi -
lam funeral director Jane “Weed” 
Roy.
Roy administers all of Milam’s natural burial funeral services at 
Gainesville’s local natural cemetery, 
Prairie Creek Conservation Cem -
etery.
“Green burials are how I fell in 
love with becoming a funeral direc -
tor,” she said. “I was a volunteer at 
Prairie Creek. It was really an eye 
opener for me, and I said ‘I want to 
do this all the time.’”
Milam’s funeral director Mickey 
Milam told her to go to school and 
get her license. She did at age 55.
Mythen recognizes the genera -
tional gaps between her and her co -
workers and sometimes jokes about 
the typewriters in her office on her 
TikTok page.
She uses social media as an outlet 
to connect to people her age, espe -
cially after moving away from her 
friends and family in Jacksonville to 
Gainesville this year.
Carlos Gonzalez, the 33-year-old 
Prairie Creek executive director, is 
one of the youngest people working 
in funeral services in Gainesville.
He said there are a few reasons 
why young people may not see a 
career for themselves in funeral ser -
vice.
“People who are still at early stag -
es of their lives are trying to figure 
out what they want to do,” Gonza -
lez said. “But I think end-of-life care 
practices or any kind of industry that 
deals with taking care of our dead isn’t really attractive to a lot of folks.”
He knows that people might be 
hesitant to join the funeral services 
industry, but he said it’s more wel -
coming than they might think.
“I think what Mimi is doing and 
what we’re trying to do is have peo -
ple see that regardless of age, race, 
background, heritage — whatever 
form of identity and wherever you’re 
at in life — it can be meaningful 
work,” he said.
Another issue is that not many 
students who graduate from mor -
tuary school can pass the national 
board exams to get their license, said 
FSCJ funeral services program direc -
tor Howard Beckham.
Mythen paused her internship at 
Milam in March after a few deaths in 
her own family, and plans on spend -
ing the summer studying for her sec -
ond board exam.
“I am the first person from our 
group who graduated from the pro -
gram to take a national board exam,” 
she said. She passed her first board 
exam in March.
Mythen is trying to destigma -
tize the funeral services industry in 
hopes that someday she can work 
with others around her age — pos -
sibly in an office where they have 
laptops instead of typewriters.
@Jiselle_Lee
jlee@alligator.orgMimi the mortician: Gen-Z in death care
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Miranda Mythen and Jane “Weed” Roy stand in front of Milam Funeral and Cremation Services in 
Gainesville on Wednesday, March 23.Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Miranda Mythen films a TikT ok in her apartment in Gainesville 
on Wednesday, April 6. Her TikT ok account @mimithemortician 
has accumulated over 1.3 million likes.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Rugby coach encourages student players
The small, mighty team persists, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
GAINESVILLE ARTISTS AND 
ORGANIZATIONS UPLIFT 
MINORITY VOICES
By Amanda Friedman
Avenue Staff Writer
Gainesville artists and organizations are 
working to uplift people of color, queer 
and female voices in the local music scene.
In a town previously viewed as a hub 
for white, indie-rock music, now people of 
color, queer and female artists are break -
ing into the Gainesville scene with more 
experimental sounds inspired by hip hop, 
ska, funk and Latin music. 
Although a study from the University of 
Southern California found that 86% of the 
top music industry executives are white 
males, members of the Gainesville music 
community have been working tirelessly to 
make the city’s music scene more inclusive 
of different sounds, people of color, wom -
en and the queer community. Local artists, 
music organizations and live music venues 
represent the leaders of this movement. 
Artists using their voices
Jeremy Hunter, 26, skyrocketed to fame 
at the end of 2016 when they started posting 
ska covers on Facebook from their bedroom 
under the name Skatune Network. Now, in 
addition to Skatune Network, they also make 
their own ska-punk music as JER, garnering 
a niche following of over 200,000 subscribers 
on Youtube. 
“I don’t have as big of a following, but 
the following that I do have is very dedicat -
ed and very supportive,” they said. “That’s 
more important than having a million fol -
lowers who could care less about what I do.”
Hunter discovered their love for ska mu -
sic in seventh grade through listening to the 
soundtrack of the popular Japanese media 
franchise Digimon. Once they started diving 
deeper into different ska bands, they were 
instantly hooked by the catchy and colorful 
genre.
To be closer to Gainesville’s vibrant mu -
sic community, Hunter moved from Broward 
County in 2017 to pursue his passion. 
Even though multiple notable ‘90s ska 
bands originated in Gainesville like Less 
Than Jake, many of today’s Florida ska-
punk bands have broken up — giving ska a 
reputation as a dying genre. Because of this, 
Hunter has continued to be denied opportu -
nities to tour or be featured in publications, 
which has been tough, they said.
As a Black and queer artist, Hunter has al -
ways felt supported by the local music scene. 
One source of support they mentioned was 
The Civic Media Center, located at 433 S. 
Main St, a public library that platforms artists 
of diverse backgrounds through live music 
events and art shows. 
Spearheading the expansion of hip hop 
and R&B in Gainesville is artist Israel Jones, 
22, from Waldo. Influenced by artists like 
Kendrick Lamar, Jones described his music as a vulnerable reflection of the Black expe -
rience.
Jones signed with local hip-hop-focused 
record label Dion Dia last year and is thank -
ful to be a part of an organization platform -
ing so many artists of diverse backgrounds. 
Dion Dia has also fostered an organic en -
vironment for him to grow musically with 
people who look like him, he said.
However, Jones said he’s disappointed 
by the local venues that have only recently 
started curating hip hop events. ‘Dia Days’, 
which took place at Bo Diddley Plaza on 
March 17, was one of the first hip-hop shows 
at the venue, he said.
“There are Gainesville venues that are 
still living in the 20th century,” he said. “I 
wish venues could realize that hip hop is 
a culture and movement. Everything is hip 
hop.”
Hip hop isn’t the only music genre that’s 
been historically overshadowed in the 
Gainesville community — Latin music has 
been another. For Latino musician Elio Pie -
dra, 30, moving to the United States from 
Cuba in 2011 allowed him to share his love 
and passion for Latin music with a new com -
munity, Piedra said. 
Before he was able to make a feasible 
income in music, Piedra washed dishes at 
the now-closed Sabore Restaurant when he 
moved to Gainesville. 
“It was a great opportunity to grow as a 
citizen, to understand the system, to save 
money to buy my first instruments and start 
making connections,” Piedra said.
Eventually, he moved on to working as 
a drum instructor at local music stores and 
met Grammy award-winning Latino artist 
Chuchito Valdés, who he started accompa -
nying as a drummer for Valdés’ local shows. 
He then connected with a producer based in 
California and spent several years touring 
across the country.Today, Piedra runs Bringing The Fiesta 
to You, a one-man show in which he DJs, 
sings, dances and plays live instruments. 
Piedra’s early career was marked by rac -
ism and xenophobia in the surrounding ar -
eas of Gainesville. He struggled to find work, 
as many local restaurants weren’t open to 
booking Latin music acts. 
Although Gainesville’s Latin music scene 
is not as vibrant as other areas in Florida, 
Piedra has felt embraced by the local com -
munity since starting his business. His com -
mitment to spreading messages of love and 
positivity has remained constant.
“We need to showcase our authenticity 
and show that we are genuinely trying to en -
gage and embrace the community and share 
the richness of our culture,” he said. 
Within Gainesville’s music community is 
also a severe lack of female representation. 
Bianca Maesa, 25, plays sousaphone in the 
Sooza Brass Band — a six-piece brass band 
that started as a few college friends jamming 
out together. 
The Sooza Brass Band has been playing 
together for over four years. They describe 
their sound as acoustic dance music or brass 
funk, Maesa said.
When she was six years old, Maesa 
moved to Gainesville from the Philippines af -
ter her mother got a job at UF Health Shands 
Hospital. Her love for music began in middle 
school when she was assigned to play the 
tuba in band class. She then proceeded to 
study music at UF, being one of four female 
tuba players out of 30 in the Gator band at 
the time.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.orgBy Darwin T ortorella
O’ gilded lady of the golden snow
Your twinkling eyes jewels of the night
To the solar winds your love you need 
not throw
Through your body the cosmos flow
Through your limbs, this lustrous light
O’ gilded lady of the golden snow
Forget not the Hunter, who bows his 
head low
He bathes in your beauty, so brilliantly 
bright
To the solar winds your love you need 
not throw
The trees of the Earth reach up and grow
For your warm embrace they’d take 
flight
O’ gilded lady of the golden snow
The bear, the lion, the scales, Virgo
They all back you with all their might
To the solar winds your love you need 
not throw
But still it seems you do not know
All of the beings that swoon at your 
sight
O’ gilded lady of the golden snow
To the solar winds your love you need 
not throw
Biography:
Currently a first-year English student at 
UF, I spend a lot of time writing poems about 
the world around me, and I plan on writing a 
collection in the near future. I also really like 
cats, and I hope to soon rescue one.
Poem’s meaning:
 This is a poem I wrote late at night, 
while I was looking at the stars. I really 
wanted to personify the stars; they seemed 
to be especially bright that night because a 
street lamp was out. I did a bit of research, 
and I wrote this villanelle about Virgo, the 
constellation, and based it off of one of her 
origin stories, in which she hangs herself after 
her father is killed by his drunken shepherds. 
I wanted it to be a message to her, explaining 
why she shouldn’t throw her love away, but I 
also wanted it to coincide with her astrological 
sign, as well as how beautiful the stars were 
that night. I wanted it to seem like she was 
the center of the universe, and so the imagery 
I provided and the bright words contrast with 
the setting of dark space to really give her that 
otherworldly, almost mystical feeling, while 
still keeping the poems meaning intact.Diversity on the rise in Gainesville music communityLady of the Night
MUSICMUSIC
 LITERARY CORNERLITERARY CORNER
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets. Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                          4-18-4-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
2009 HONDA REBEL 250 
27 miles on the odometer
Recently overhauled. Tune up, new tires. 
Runs like new. $3500.00
Located in Bronson, FL. Call 407-873-0967    
5-9-22-2-11
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                        4-18-22-8-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                         4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    RReecceennttllyy  
11..    TToosssseedd55..    ________  ppllaayyeerr  
22..  RReeaassoonnaabbllee  66..    MMiixx,,  ccoommbbiinnee
33..    CCeerrttaaiinn  ffeemmaallee  ffeelliinnee77..    ________  ppllaann
44..    MMiicchhaaeell  ________AAYYEETTLLLL
BBDDEELLOOBBJJNNBBOOAA
BBEELLDDNN
EEAANNEEBBTTLL
LLEEIISSNNSSOOSSOOSSEENNLL
RRDDOOJJNNAAAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--LLaatteellyy    55AA--BBaannjjoo    66AA--BBlleenndd    77AA--LLeessssoonn
11DD--LLoobbbbeedd    22DD--TTeennaabbllee    33DD--LLiioonneessss    44DD--JJoorrddaann    BB--BBiillllyy  JJooeell44--1188--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: AAss  aann  aammaatteeuurr  bbooxxeerr,,  ________  ________  wwoonn  hhiiss  ffiirrsstt  2222  
bboouuttss  aanndd  eevveenn  ccoommppeetteedd  iinn  tthhee  GGoollddeenn  GGlloovveess..
BONUSPAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
4-18-9-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Doug Peterson
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/18/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/18/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, April 18, 2022
ACROSS
1 “Thor: Ragnarok” 
actress 
Thompson
6 Traditional dress 
of India
10 Apples reviewed 
on tech sites
14 The NCAA’s 
Huskies
15 Actor Dorsey of 
“Queen Sugar”
16 Sonic rebound
17 *Mobile game 
with a variety of 
blades
19 “Better late __ 
never”
20 Surf’s partner
21 “Looking for,” in 
personal ads
22 Like a 
smokestack
23 *Inked designs 
on one’s chin and 
cheeks, e.g.
27 Convenience 
called a 
“cashpoint” in the 
U.K.
30 Luau instrument, 
briefly
31 Comic Margaret
32 Obedient puppy’s 
reward
34 Mexican cruise 
port
39 *Summer cooler
42 Fit together nicely
43 Venomous snake
44 Big coffee vessel
45 Honeybunny
47 Fr. holy title
48 *Meghan 
Markle’s  
husband
53 Literature 
Nobelist Munro
54 PC “oops” key
55 Approx. landing 
hours
59 Insurance quote
60 New beginning, 
and what the 
first words of the 
answers to the 
starred clues can 
literally have
63 Great Sphinx 
locale
64 Adequately 
skilled
65 Spotted horse
66 Black gemstone
67 Soft drizzle
68 Off-kilterDOWN
1 Small clump
2 Light beige
3 Whiskey cocktail
4 Scratch and __
5 Tiny crumb 
carrier
6 “Evidently”
7 “Are too!” 
response
8 “The Big 
Bang Theory” 
character
9 Nest egg letters
10 Silence-breaking 
women’s 
movement
11 “Bless you!” 
trigger
12 Makes small talk
13 Walkman 
developer
18 One of the Jonas 
Brothers
22 Drop by
24 Pitch-correcting 
vocal effect
25 Pt. of 9-Down
26 Som tam cuisine
27 Just barely
28 The Chicks, e.g.
29 “Jeopardy!” 
creator Griffin
33 Card with one pip
34 Feel rotten35 Verse starter?
36 “My __ are 
sealed!”
37 Tech review site
38 Brute of folklore
40 Cop after  
dealers
41 Eat in style
45 Droopy-eared 
hound
46 St. Louis 
landmark
48 Not fancy
49 Very fancy50 Alpine climbing 
tool
51 Dressy footwear
52 Bigfoot relatives
53 Cornstarch brand 
in yellow-and-
blue containers
56 Aquarium
57 Works in un 
museo
58 Pack away
60 Sibs, ’rents, etc.
61 Stat in softball
62 Self-care getaway
By Jesse Goldberg
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/12/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/12/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, April 12, 2022
ACROSS
1 Chesapeake 
shellfish
5 Swings at a fly
10 Perfect tennis 
serves
14 Can’t stand
15 Band whose 
debut album 
“Dreamboat 
Annie” was 
released in 
the U.S. on 
Valentine’s Day 
in 1976
16 Reclined
17 *__ day: on 
alternating days
19 Thought
20 Raised, as kids
21 What a vocalist 
may drop for 
emphasis
23 “What’s the __?”: 
“So what?”
24 Pallid
25 *Aussie’s “Well 
done!”
28 Historic period
30 Deluge
31 *One with the 
motto “Be 
Prepared”
34 Trait carriers
38 Brazenly obvious
39 Morton 
condiment
41 Determined to 
have
42 *Serves a prison 
sentence
43 Daily record, as 
on a ship
46 Almost on “E”
47 *Part of the 
contract where 
gotchas might be 
found
50 Mantra syllables
52 United
53 Talk incessantly
54 “You’re the One 
That I Want” 
musical
57 Bloody, as steak
59 The first words 
of the answers 
to starred clues 
are a mnemonic 
for this musical 
symbol’s staff 
lines
62 Back up, on a PC
63 Philadelphia 
NFLer
64 Winter wear
65 Extreme disorder66 Struck down, 
biblically
67 Pantry pests
DOWN
1 “Believe” singer
2 “Must-see” review
3 Eroded
4 Quotable Yogi
5 Not barefoot
6 Drenched, e.g.
7 “That feels good”
8 Seismic event
9 Long step
10 Comedian Wong
11 Escalade, 
casually
12 Kids’ song refrain
13 Big blunder
18 Hankering
22 Barrel-shaped 
drums
25 Joint ailment
26 Uneaten morsel
27 A-bomb tryout
28 Recedes to the 
sea
29 Part in a play
30 “An ounce of 
action is worth 
a __ of theory”: 
Emerson 
(probably)
32 Pilfered
33 Suspended cover 
above a bed35 Place for a 
manicure
36 “Tickle Me” 
Muppet
37 Hearty entrée
39 Chimney 
sweep’s target
40 “A mouse!”
42 Cheadle who 
was Basher in 
“Ocean’s” films
44 Fireplace inserts
45 Yoga-as-exercise 
namesake47 Roman place of 
assembly
48 Foolish
49 Brainiacs,  
maybe
50 Valuable deposit
51 Muslim holy city
54 Joy
55 Usher’s offering
56 Young newts
58 Dawn goddess
60 Alter __
61 Three-letter 
sandwich
04/11/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 24 Pets 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
4-18-9-13
14 Help Wanted
Yard Help:
Part time, flex hrs, experience necessary, 
$11-$13 hr. SW side of town. 
Mr Z: 352-278-8071                      5-23-22-7-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com             5-16-22-7-14
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING DELIVERY DRIVER w/own truck or 
van. Marketplace business selling & delivering 
quality mattress sets. Reliable, honest person 
of good character. Daily deliveries, flex hrs, 
$20-30/delivery + gas. Mary 850-284-4655       
4-18-22-2-14
House Keeper/Personal Assistant:
Part time, flex hours, will ask for references, 
non covid jab preferred. $12-$15 hr. SW side 
of town. Mr. Z 352-278-8071     5-23-22-7-14
VETERINARY ASSISTANT & RECEPTIONIST
Mon - Thurs. Salary depends on experience 
in vet hospital $20 - $30 / hr. 
River Region Animal Hospital in Crystal River
Email: rrahrecords@yahoo.com   
 4-18-22-3-14
FT Summer Camp Jobs
Now hiring for overnight camp for children 
with serious illnesses. Various positions open; 
lifeguards and male cabin counselors espe-
cially needed. June 11–Aug 5. We provide 
salary, housing, meals, training, interpersonal 
skills. Find more info & apply online at camp-
boggycreek.org. Also seeking volunteers for 
6-day commitments.                   5-23-22-4-14
IS NOW
HIRING
Full Time / Part Time
Positions Available
Housekeepers, Cooks, 
Servers, RN LPN, CNA
Apply online at our website
www.oakhammock.org/careers
EOE/DFWP
4-18-22-2-14
15 Services
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
4-18-14-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                   4-18-9-15Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
4-18-13-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          4-18-14-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen      4-18-14-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-18-22-15-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
$250 DAILY Possible Online!
No Tech Skill Or Experience Required.
Start Now! Go To: www.250dailyincome.com     
5-9-22-4-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Petra Kvitova.
2. Parkour.
3. "Among the Thugs: The 
Experience, and the Seduc -
tion, of Crowd Violence."4. The Duke Blue Devils.
5. Keith Jackson.
6. The Walrus.
7. Neil Lomax.Sports Quiz answers Trivia Test  answersanswers below1. Name the 2011 and '14 Wimbledon singles 
champion from the Czech Republic who was at -
tacked and injured by a knife-wielding intruder at 
her home in 2016.
2. French actor, film choreographer and stunt coor -
dinator David Belle is credited with founding what 
athletic discipline that commonly turns urban envi -
ronments into obstacle courses?
3. What 1990 nonfiction book by American jour -
nalist Bill Buford chronicled his eight years wit -
nessing and studying football hooliganism in the 
United Kingdom?
4. The Cameron Crazies are highly enthusiastic fans 
of what college basketball team?
5. Name the legendary ABC sportscaster who was 
famous for his college football play-by-play calls 
and his signature catchphrase, "Woah, Nellie!"
6. Mustachioed, portly golfer Craig Stadler, winner 
of the 1982 Masters Tournament, was affectionately 
known by what nickname?
7. What Portland State University football standout 
went on to play quarterback for the St. Louis/Phoe -
nix Cardinals from 1981-88?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
answers below1. U.S. PRESIDENTS: How many presidents have 
been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize?
2. MOVIES: Which Disney character's catchphrase 
is "To infinity and beyond!"?
3. GEOGRAPHY: How many permanently inhab -
ited territories does the United States have?
4. MYTHOLOGY: What is the name of the Greek 
goddess of chance?
5. U.S. STATES: How many states call themselves 
commonwealths?
6. HISTORY: How many people worldwide were 
killed by the Black Death pandemic in the 1400s?
7. SCIENCE: What layer of air is closest to Earth 
in the atmosphere?
8. TELEVISION: Which animated TV comedy in -
cludes the fictional school Springfield Elementary?
9. ADVERTISING: A sales clerk named Lily pro -
motes which company in advertisements?
10. LITERATURE: George Smiley is a character in 
which 1974 novel?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
WHAT MARKS THE ARTIST IS HIS POWER TO SHAPE THE MATERIAL OF PAIN WE ALL HAVE.
— LIONEL TRILLING
solution  belowDogs, Pets or Livestock
For yeast infections. Rinse the ear canal 
with Mitex®to kill mites. Apply Ear Canker 
to treat the yeast infection. At Better Farm, 
Feed and Garden Stores. Distributed 
by Florida Hardware. 800-793-0926  
(www.fleabeacon.com)                 4-18-2-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. Four. Barack Obama, Jimmy Carter, Woodrow Wilson and Theodore 
Roosevelt   2.  Buzz Lightyear, "Toy Story"    3.  Five (American Samoa, 
Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam and Northern Mariana Islands) 
4. Tyche   5.  Four (Kentucky, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Virginia)   
6. Estimates range from 25 million to 200 million   7.  Troposphere      
8. "The Simpsons"   9.  AT&T   10.  "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy"MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.RUGBY LACROSSE
THE FLORIDA RUGBY CLUB 
EMBRACES MORE THAN JUST THE 
PHYSICALITY OF THE SPORT
By Vanessa Sanchez
Sports Writer
Rugby is not only physically demanding 
but also takes an emotional toll. 
The Florida men’s rugby club does not 
invoke the biggest chatter on campus. How -
ever, the band of men has slowly started 
to make itself known and share the impact 
rugby can have on the community and play -
ers. 
Established in 1969, the club has strug -
gled to get a fresh batch of recruits each 
semester. Veteran players such as team 
captain Connor Murray have taken it upon 
themselves to welcome new players. 
“I’ve taken my experiences and given 
back the way I see helps best the player and 
the team in the future,” Murray said. 
Emphasizing the importance of recruit -
ment to his team, Murray has played a vital 
role in using both social media and tabling 
methods to gain attention for the club. 
When tabling in Turlington Plaza, their 
most common method of approach is cater -
ing their pitch to each individual, trying to 
see where their interest lies and introducing 
rugby to them. 
Although not every attempt comes up 
successful, the presence in Turlington has 
gotten the attention of some of their most 
dedicated players, including junior Vince 
Duarte.
Promising recruits like Duarte have 
stumbled upon the rugby club by chance. Looking for a new way to improve their ath -
letic ability, rugby seemed like the perfect 
answer. 
Struggling to keep a healthy lifestyle 
between a heavy load of computer science 
courses and a part-time software engineer -
ing internship, Duarte was trying to balance 
school and staying active. Passing through 
Turlington, he saw the rugby club tabling 
and was instantly pulled in.
“[I] met Connor and immediately knew 
I had to do this for sure,” Duarte said. “It 
turned out, when I talked to my dad, he 
played in college as well.”
Although the motivation to stay active 
compelled him to join the club, what kept 
him in was the brotherhood he experienced 
right away. Meeting up outside of class, 
participating in a Bible study and praying 
before every match were the little moments 
Durate cherished. 
Rugby fosters a unique culture of respect 
towards the coaches, teammates, referees 
and opponents unlike any other sport. 
The coaching staff have formed a strong 
connection with the sport and embody the 
culture they have come to know.
Head coach Ken Simmons experienced 
the camaraderie first hand during his years 
as a player. He began his rugby career as 
a senior at the University of Tennessee. Af -
ter falling deeply in love with the sport, he 
could not imagine his life without it.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@_vanessa_sanch
vsanchez@alligator.orgFLORIDA FINISHED A 13-1 REGULAR 
SEASON WITH ITS HIGHEST 
RANKING IN OVER A DECADE
By T opher Adams
Sports Writer
Florida hasn’t won a Southeastern La -
crosse Conference championship since 2010 
and hasn't been ranked in the top-10 since 
2009. The Gators men’s lacrosse club team 
hasn’t played a regular season game in al -
most two seasons. 
Yet, with the buy-in from the players and 
the guidance of head coach Garrett Hanra -
han, Florida has its highest ranking in over 
a decade and are prime contenders not only 
for a conference title, but the program’s first 
ever national championship. 
Hanrahan, a former Gators lacrosse play -
er himself, took over the program in the fall 
of 2016, and looked to elevate it in the ever 
changing Men’s Club Lacrosse Association. 
The MCLA has grown massively over the last 
decade, expanding across the country and 
becoming an increasingly professional orga -
nization.
“We realized at some point that it wasn't 
just about our own program's evolution, it 
was about recognizing that the MCLA as a 
whole was evolving,” Hanrahan said. “The 
reality at the MCLA level is it really does, at 
least at the top, toe the line between club and 
varsity.”
When Hanrahan claimed control, both 
himself and some of the leaders within the 
team recognized the need to elevate and 
professionalize the club. This was a neces -
sary step to reach their competitive goals and build a consistently successful program. 
To fully maximize the potential of the 
club, it requires dedication from the players. 
An aspect especially important at the club 
sports level, where the players hold so much 
power in running and organizing the squad 
each year.
“No team is going to be successful with -
out the commitment and the buy-in of the 
players,” Hanrahan said. “We've worked 
hard every year to find a way to elevate that 
commitment level.” 
Hanrahan also noted how the culture 
couldn’t be manufactured by himself or the 
coaching staff, instead having to be built from 
the ground up by the players. This incremen -
tal growth, development and progress over 
the last five years came to a head in 2020.
The Gators had strong 2017 and 2018 
campaigns, winning at least 10 games both 
years, but they didn’t make waves national -
ly. The 2019 season finished a disappointing 
5-7. In 2020, however, Florida started mak -
ing noise throughout the MCLA. 
UF started the season 8-3, including an 
upset of then-No. 14 Virginia Tech, and 
broke into the national top-25 for the first 
time under Hanrahan. The Gators were 
poised to make a run at their third SELC title 
and potentially get back to the national tour -
nament, but then the COVID-19 pandemic 
ended those dreams.
Read the rest online at alligator.org/
section/sports.
@Topher_Adams
tadams@alligator.orgRugby coaches embody the 
brotherhood the sport represents  Gator men’s club lacrosse player-led 
program reaching historic heights  Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Football coach Billy Napier runs out on the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium field with players at the Orange 
and Blue game on Thursday, April 14.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
UF cheerleaders hype up the crowd outside the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
for the Orange and Blue football game on Thursday, April 14.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRETRACK & FIELD
PORTER STUDIES 
STRAWBERRIES WHILE 
TOSSING THE JAVELIN FOR 
FLORIDA TRACK AND FIELD
By Ethan Eibe
Sports Writer
Mark Porter is done for the day. 
One of the newest members of 
Florida track and field’s javelin team 
stood adjacent to the Percy Beard 
Track at James G. Pressly Stadium 
having just completed his first com -
petition as a Gator at the 2022 Flori -
da Relays April 1. 
Porter finished second out of 14 
competitors, his top throw nearly 
stretching 69 meters. It wasn’t a poor 
effort for an athlete whose situation 
permits limited access to proper 
training grounds.
Porter has swapped out his ath -
letic tank top and shorts for a blue 
tracksuit. He watches relay runners 
sprint by through his orange-tinted 
sunglasses and enjoys spending 
the time watching his fellow Gator 
athletes perform. His short red hair 
is tossed about by a soft afternoon 
breeze. 
It’s not often Porter has the op -
portunity to be in Gainesville. In 
fact, it is only the sixth time he has 
ever stood on his home track. He is 
perhaps the most non-traditional stu -
dent-athlete the University of Florida 
has to offer. Porter, 23, is a plant-breeding 
Ph.D. candidate who spends his 
days at the Gulf Coast Research and 
Education Center in Wimauma, Flor -
ida, one of a dozen such facilities op -
erated by UF’s Institute of Food and 
Agricultural Sciences. Porter attends 
online classes and spends countless 
hours researching strawberry breed -
ing techniques to create the most 
vivid flavors and colors at the Gulf 
Coast REC, which sits 30 miles south 
of Tampa.
Oh, and he happens to be one of 
the best collegiate javelin throwers 
in the nation. 
Porter began his javelin journey 
as a freshman at Reading Memo -
rial High School in his native city of 
Reading, Massachusetts. During his 
time with the Rockets, Porter won a 
state championship in 2016, an all-
state title in 2017 and tossed a per -
sonal best 59.13 meters. 
After high school, Porter found 
himself at Penn State University, 
where he graduated in 2021 with a 
bachelor’s in plant sciences. Porter 
walked on to the PSU track and field 
team his freshman year and set new 
personal records each season, culmi -
nating in a Big 10 javelin champion -
ship last May, where he secured the 
title with a 72.89-meter throw. 
He is the proud owner of the sec -
ond-best javelin throw in Penn State 
history, a 73.94-meter toss achieved 
in March of last year. Porter also par -
ticipated in two NCAA champion -ships, placing 13th in 2019 and 12th 
in 2021.
So, how did a kid from the North -
east find himself chucking 800-gram 
sticks and growing strawberry crops 
in the Sunshine State?
For Porter, it all started with a 
stroll through the grocery store. 
“You see all these different things 
[at the store],” Porter said. “You see 
purple cabbage. You see green cab -
bage. Cabbage that’s different sizes, 
different shapes. I just think that’s 
so interesting, the natural variation. 
Being able to harness that and look 
at all these different strawberries and 
that sort of thing really makes me 
happy.”
Porter found himself at a cross -
roads after graduating from Penn 
State last Spring. 
A plant sciences degree in hand, 
he knew he wanted to continue his 
studies in graduate school and have 
it lead to a career as a breeder. 
He also had one year of collegiate 
javelin eligibility left, granted to him 
by the NCAA after COVID-19 took 
down the 2020 season. 
While considering the plant 
breeding options for a master’s pro -
gram, Porter looked into programs 
at the University of California-Davis 
and the University of Georgia. He 
was on the cusp of committing to 
attend school in Athens, Georgia, when he was contacted by doctors 
Vance Whitaker and Seonghee Lee. 
They spoke to Porter about a new 
Ph.D. initiative that would be of -
fered at UF starting in the Fall 2021 
semester. 
They wanted him to be a part of 
it. 
The strawberry emphasis and 
breeding opportunities stuck out to 
Porter immediately. It was enough 
for him to change his mind.
“I instantly knew I wanted to work in strawberries with them,” 
Porter said. “It is a great program 
and a fantastic setup to study plant 
breeding. There’s enormous support 
for it at Florida and there’s a really 
good central core of plant breeders 
here.”
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@EthanEibe
eeibe@alligator.orgStrawberries and Javelins: The Double Life of Mark Porter
Courtesy to The Alligator / / Gulf Coast IFAS
Porter, 23, is a plant breeding Ph.D. candidate who spends 
his days at the Gulf Coast Research and Education Center in 
Wimauma, Florida, one of a dozen such facilities operated by 
UF’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences.
•   •   •