We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#New Florida food provider
Chartwells set to take over UF dining management contract July 1 
to mixed reactions,  pg. 2
Baby formula shortage
Gainesville moms struggle to find baby formula after major 
callbacks,  pg. 5Gators baseball wins series over Mizzou
Florida secured its third straight 
conference series win. Read more on 
pg. 12.
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 33
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
SOME PARENTS EXPRESSED 
CONCERNS ABOUT THE SCHOOL’S 
HANDLING OF THE INCIDENT
 By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A Fort Clarke middle schooler was arrested 
after he brought a loaded gun to campus Friday.
Jaylan Hillman, a Gainesville resident, stole 
a handgun from his mother before bringing it 
to school, according to an Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office press release. The 15-year-old 
was taken to the Juvenile Detention Center and 
charged with theft and possession at school.
Jackie Johnson, Alachua County Public 
Schools’ spokesperson, said he was isolated and 
in law enforcement’s custody as soon as the 
weapon was found. 
At least two parents said the school received 
prior warning of potential violence on campus. 
Three of Lurenzo Murray’s children attend 
Fort Clarke. He said his 14-year-old daughter, 
Makenna Murray, overheard a conversation be -
tween classmates on Thursday about a potential 
shooting. Makenna, an eighth grader, decided to 
report the matter immediately.
Although Murray was originally skeptical of 
what his daughter told him, he now believes the 
school fell short in mitigating the threat.
“When I see on Facebook this gun was actu -
ally taken and it was loaded and ready, I just 
think everything failed,” he said. “I think the 
school system had failed on that threat.”
Olaolu Ogunlano said his sixth-grade son 
voiced concerns to him April 6 about a potential 
shooting.
Ogunlano said his child heard from a friend 
that two students were planning on carrying out 
a school shooting. He said they had a list of peo -
ple to target and intended to carry out the crime 
before the end of the academic year. 
Ogunlano said he reached out to the father 
of the friend, Fort Clarke’s Dean Daniel Lath -
em and Assistant Principal Brad Hutchinson. 
Hutchinson told him the issue was linked to a 
dispute over a video game. 
Ogunlano said he will not be sending his son 
back to Fort Clarke because of the incident.
“I appreciate the fact that they did catch 
it before it happened, but, at the same time, I 
don’t appreciate the fact that they were just so 
nonchalant about it,” he said.   
Johnson said incidents like Friday generally 
result in a recommendation for expulsion. She 
declined to comment on details pertaining to 
Hillman’s case. Every case is looked at individu -
ally, and factors such as disability determine 
what repercussions would look like, she said. 
In response to parents’ concerns, Johnson 
said ACPS takes such threats seriously and im -
mediately performs a threat assessment.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgFort Clarke student 
arrested after bringing 
loaded gun to school
By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF community fears discussions 
about race in classrooms across Florida 
universities may be stunted come Fall.
On Aug. 1, Gov. Ron DeSantis’ law lim -
iting how race is discussed in workplaces 
and classrooms — known as the “Stop 
WOKE Act” — will go into effect. UF stu -
dents and professors find it difficult to see a 
future where critical thinking and academic 
freedom can still be practiced. 
The WOKE Act’s purpose, according to a 
news release from DeSantis’ staff April 22, 
is to take on “corporate wokeness and Criti -
cal Race Theory.” The bill mandates revis -
ing required instruction on the history of 
African Americans and is meant to protect 
people from the “far-left woke agenda,” ac -
cording to DeSantis. 
The bill exists to deter professors from teaching students about race in a way that 
would make any particular group feel like 
they carry responsibility for the past, say -
ing that it is discrimination. 
UF’s faculty and staff received a record -
ed presentation the first week of May about 
how to stay within the law’s jurisdictions. 
President Kent Fuchs encouraged viewers 
to be objective educators, and the first slide 
cautioned that UF will face financial penal -
ties for violating the WOKE act. 
But to understand Florida history, peo -
ple have to understand race, said Steven 
Noll, an instructional professor in UF’s his -
tory department.
“I thought the bill was an infringement 
upon academic freedom,” Noll said. “The 
notion of what objectivity is, particularly 
regarding race, is really kind of problem -
atic.”
Talking about power dynamics among 
different races throughout history is neces -sary and isn’t meant to make white people 
out as evil, Noll said. 
He said it’s important to consider that 
students didn’t have a say in what they 
thought about the bill before it was passed. 
“They are not just empty receptacles,” 
he said. “They are active participants in the 
learning process.”
Noll said he will not be changing the 
books he uses to teach or the way that he 
teaches.
“I used to say, probably my job in my 
class is to make you feel uncomfortable,” 
Noll said. “Whether you are a rock-ribbed 
conservative or some flaming liberal, I want 
you to think about why you're that way.”
Kavya Sarin, a 20-year-old senior major -
ing in biology and women’s studies, said 
she was concerned the bill was signed in 
the first place. 'Stop WOKE Act' creates academic freedom 
concerns among UF students and professors
More than 600 Gainesville citizens 
join nationwide ‘Ban off our Bodies’ 
rallies on Saturday, May 14th, at the 
6th St. and 2nd Ave. intersection. 
Read more on page 5.
Anna Ward / / Alligator Staff
Gov. Ron DeSantis’ law will limit race discussion starting Aug. 1
SEE HB 7,  PAGE 4T oday’s WeatherTHE TRANSITION MAY BRING 
NEW DINING OPTIONS AND 
JEOPARDIZE STUDENT JOBS
By Julia Cooper and 
Fernando Figueroa 
Contributing Writer and 
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Business Services announced 
recently it will break off its 13-year 
contract with Aramark to hire Chart -
wells Higher Education to handle all 
on-campus food services, including 
catering, residential, retail and ath -
letic dining. 
The new provider is set to take 
over July 1. The transition means 
949 Aramark workers, including 
515 students, will be laid off in late 
June. Each will be given the op -
portunity to interview for a posi -
tion earning equal or better wages 
than what they earn now, UF busi -
ness affairs communications man -
ager AnaLee Rodriguez wrote in an 
email to The Alligator. It is unclear 
if all Aramark positions will be of -
fered with Chartwells. 
Contract negotiations between 
Chartwells and UF have not been 
finalized, but UF has advertised 
renovations and expanded local 
partnerships under Chartwells. A 
document obtained by Food Justice 
Coalition members and shared with 
The Alligator details Chartwells’ 
proposal. It contains data about Gen 
Z’s dining tendencies from its ana -
lytics partner, E15.
The proposal, which has not 
been officially approved, shows the 
Broward Dining Center may trans -
form into “1853: A Florida Food 
Hall Experience.” Gator Corner Din -
ing Center could become the “Gator 
Den” and serve fresh produce and 
protein from local farms including 
Traders Hill Farms, Frog Song Or -
ganics and Fisher Farms. 
Chartwells hopes to bring a 
teaching kitchen to campus, which 
would focus on educational food 
classes and nutrition literacy. 
Reitz Union restaurants, includ -
ing Wing Zone, Pollo Tropical and 
Papa John’s, may be replaced with alternatives. Chartwells proposed 
Sonny’s BBQ, Luke’s New York 
Bagel Shop and Satchel's Pizza be -
come permanent campus fixtures.
Ronan Hart, a 21-year-old UF 
history senior and Food Justice Co -
alition organizer, said the change 
is a win for their cause. The group, 
formed in 2020 by students and lo -
cal activists, called on the university 
to award its new contract to a pro -
vider that does not rely on prison 
labor contracts or commit wage 
violations — scandals Aramark has 
been criticized for. It also demand -
ed a $15 hourly minimum wage, a 
decrease in greenhouse gas emis -
sions and an increase in local food 
sourcing and further transparency 
measures. 
“Aramark is gone, which is a 
pretty big part of what we were ask -
ing for,” Hart said. “We don’t want 
to overlook that.”
He said he is still disappointed 
by unethical practices at Chart -
wells’ parent company, the Com -
pass Group. He disapproved of its 
service with the oil industry, mili -
tary bases and correctional facilities 
outside the U.S.
“UF can’t just buy their way into 
an ethical food system,” Hart said. 
Chartwells has been criticized 
in the past for mishandling its ac -
counts, including D.C. Public 
Schools and its parent company’s 
involvement in the 2013 horsemeat 
scandal. 
Chartwells acknowledged it has 
fallen short in some instances and 
assured it has learned from past ex -
periences to properly manage and 
investigate issues, Meredith Rosen -
berg, the vice president of commu -
nications and creative services for 
Chartwells, wrote in an email to 
The Alligator May 4.
The university based its decision 
on several criteria including fund -
ing, sustainability, involvement in 
the prison service industry, and di -
versity and inclusion policies, staff -
ing and improvement plans. 
UF officials believed Chartwells’ 
proposal was most aligned with 
UF’s vision for campus dining, Ro -
driguez wrote.About three weeks after UF’s 
procurement website published a 
document stating the university’s 
intention to choose Chartwells, Ara -
mark filed a formal written protest 
to UF’s Director of Procurement 
Nicola Heredia. It called for a qua -
si-judicial hearing to overturn the 
decision. Aramark has since with -
drawn the protest. 
Aramark alleged Chartwells con -
cealed its parent company’s ties to 
prison service and UF employees 
unlawfully favored Chartwells dur -
ing the selection process.
Aramark representatives includ -
ed a document that shows Canteen, 
a vending services division of Com -
pass Group USA, entered a contract 
with the Orange County Board of 
Commissioners to provide vending 
machines for its corrections depart -
ment. The contract was signed in 
Sept. 2017 and remains in effect un -
til Sept. 26, 2022. 
While Canteen does currently 
have a contract with the correc -
tional facilities, Chartwells holds no 
contracts with prisons, according to 
Courtney Bryant Hill, a Chartwells 
representative.
“We want to clarify that Chart -
wells Higher Education has never 
managed any
food service operations within 
any correctional facilities,” Rosen -
berg wrote in an email to The Al -
ligator. “In fact, as a first in our in -
dustry, Compass Group USA made 
a conscious decision to divest all 
remaining interest in its prison ser -
vices business, Trinity, in 2014.”
Aramark alleged a UF employee 
openly disparaged Aramark and 
urged its employees to seek employ -
ment with Chartwells instead. Ara -
mark alleged the UF employee, who 
they say oversaw evaluation com -
mittee meetings, would announce 
his prejudice against Aramark in 
front of those involved with con -
tract decision-making.
Aramark declined to comment 
on the written protest and UF 
awarding its dining management 
contract to Chartwells.
UF officials say they stand by 
their decision to choose Chartwells 
as the university’s next dining pro -
vider. 
“Following the selection, Ara -
mark filed a protest in which it 
made numerous allegations,” As -
sistant Vice President for Business 
Services Eddie Daniels wrote in an 
email. “Aramark did not provide 
additional facts or evidence to sup -
port the allegations and subsequent -
ly withdrew its protest.”
@JuliaArinCooper
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 33UF breaks ties with Aramark, hires Chartwells Higher 
Education to manage campus food distribution
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Hope Dean / / Alligator Staff
An employee prepares a cheeseburger at The Fresh Food 
Company.
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
IS NOW HIRING!
Full Time/Part Time Positions Available
EOE/DFWPAvailable positions: Housekeepers, Cooks, 
Servers, RN, LPN, CNA
 Apply on our website:
www.oakhammock.org/careers
UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
THE INVESTIGATION IS REVIEWING ACCUSATIONS 
OF EMPLOYEES’ USE OF EXCESSIVE FORCE 
TOWARD TWO LGBTQ MEN MAY 5
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
GPD opened an investigation after an alleged assault at The 
Social at Midtown May 5.
According to an Instagram story posted May 6 by Carlos 
Zaragoza, 22, he and his partner, Christian Acevedo, 22, were 
in the same stall in the men’s bathroom the evening of May 5. 
Security assaulted them after forcefully removing them from the 
stall, he said.
GPD has made no arrests but is investigating the incident. 
Reports obtained by The Alligator were heavily redacted. It does 
not state the alleged victims’ names or any information given to 
responding officers. Graham Glover, GPD’s public information 
officer, declined to comment on the report.
Robert Zeller, owner of The Social, said the alleged victims 
were violent toward two managers. 
Zeller said the altercation was an enforcement of his estab -
lishment’s rules, not an issue of homophobia. The policy of 
keeping one person to a stall has been standard for the last 27 
years, he said. 
“If there’s two people — it doesn’t matter if they’re male 
or female or what they are — they’re in a stall, they’re doing 
cocaine 99 times out of 100,” Zeller said. “If not, they’re having 
sex.” He said he was unsure what the alleged victims were doing 
in the bathroom.
The Social does not tolerate any violence toward employees 
or customers, he said, and allowing illicit activities on the prop -
erty could lead to The Social losing its liquor license. 
“If I got 600 people in there, I have to look out for the safety 
of all 600,” he said. “I can’t let two people possibly endanger the 
other 598 because if they’re willing to be violent towards a staff 
member, they’re definitely willing to be violent toward another 
customer,” he said.
Acevedo also posted in a Facebook post he entered the stall 
to check on his partner, Zaragoza, before he was then allegedly 
attacked by a security guard. A picture posted to a crowdfund -
ing page shows Zaragoza lying in a bed at UF Shands Hospital 
with multiple monitors attached to his chest where he said they 
remained for nine hours. 
“It’s ridiculous that queer people can’t even check up on 
each other in peace without getting the s--t beaten out of them,” 
Acevedo wrote. “This is exactly why I, AS A QUEER PERSON, 
do not feel safe going into straight places.”
GPD’s redacted incident report lists UF public health gradu -
ate student Victoria Paniagua, 22, as a witness to the alleged 
assault.
Acevedo, Zaragoza and Paniagua all said a lawyer advised 
them to not speak about the ongoing investigation.
“We are confident that the evidence will show that an em -
ployee of the Social, acting in a security capacity, engaged in an 
unprovoked, unjustified and excessive use of force against both 
of my clients with the result that they both sustained signifi -
cant injuries, and are currently undergoing medical treatment for those injuries,” Robert Soraci — Acevedo and Zaragoza’s 
lawyer — said. 
Soraci was unable to give details on the alleged assault but 
said there was evidence nothing illicit or improper occurred in 
the stall his clients occupied together.
“The real tragedy is that both of my clients — Christian and 
Carlos — their intent on May 5, 2022, was to go to The Social 
and have a good time, and this turned into a nightmare for both 
of them.”
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgGPD investigating Cinco de Mayo altercation at The Social 
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Social at Midtown on May 7th.
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A Gainesville man was sentenced to more 
than 24 years in prison on child pornography 
charges Wednesday.
Gainesville Police Department started in -
vestigating Travonta Rivers in 2019 when a 
detective caught him trading child pornogra -
phy. 
The 34-year-old was arrested in St. Johns 
County — where he works — after police ob -
tained his computers with the videos in May 
2020 in Gainesville, according to a GPD press 
release. Homeland Security Investigations 
took up the case, and he was arrested for the 
same offense in December 2020. Rivers was 
convicted on two counts of receiving child 
pornography in July 2021.
The U.S. Attorney’s Office release noted GPD, Alachua County Sheriff’s Office, the St. 
Johns County Sheriff’s Office and Homeland 
Security Investigations were all involved.  
“We will continue to work together to keep 
our children safe from victimization,” Ala -
chua County Sheriff Clovis Watson, Jr. was 
quoted as saying in the U.S. Attorney’s Office 
released. “We’ve been effective in our collab -
oration and will continue to be. We are better 
together.”
Rivers’ criminal history dates back to 2006; 
he has been charged with battery, theft and 
marijuana possession.
Authorities will supervise Rivers for 20 
years after he serves his time in prison, ac -
cording to the release from the U.S. Attorney’s 
Office.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgGainesville man sentenced to 24 
years in prison for child pornography
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
A motorcyclist died Wednesday 
afternoon after crashing into another 
vehicle on Northwest 39th Avenue.     
The accident occurred at the in -
tersection of Northwest 39th Avenue 
and Northwest 24th Boulevard near 
Uptown Village Apartments. The 
male motorcyclist is believed to have 
run through a red light while speed -
ing, Gainesville Police Department 
spokesperson Graham Glover said.
The motorcyclist collided with the 
passenger side of a four-door white 
sedan around 12:45 p.m. Glover said 
it was likely he died immediately. 
The driver of the sedan suffered mi -
nor injuries and was taken to a near -
by hospital before being released.Northwest 39th Avenue was closed 
from Northwest 19th Street to North -
west 34th Street for two hours as a 
result of the accident, Glover said. 
Lori McKinnon Padgett wrote in 
Facebook direct messages she was 
picking up her grandson from Norton 
Elementary School when she saw the 
aftermath of the crash. She said she 
saw a body covered by a sheet and 
noticed the motorcycle was on fire.
Glover said the realities of the 
road are the same for motorcyclists 
as they are for other drivers.
“My counsel to them would be the 
same as my counsel to people who 
drive cars,” Glover said. “Obey the 
speed limit. Follow the traffic laws.”
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgMotorcyclist dies in crash on 
Northwest 39th Avenue
The sentence comes after he was convicted on two 
counts child pornography possession last yearThe accident occurred when the 
motorcyclist collided with another vehicle4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF professors are concerned about Senate Bill 7044, a 
new bill that allows an institute’s Board of Trustees to 
require post-tenure reviews every five years. Gov. Ron De -
Santis signed the law April 19; it will take effect July 1.
Tenured professors, who have been granted permanent 
employment at their university, cannot be fired without 
cause until they decide to leave on their own accord. Hes -
sy Fernandez, UF’s director of strategic communications, 
wrote in an email the law does not affect what defines ten -
ure and does not create a cemented system for post-tenure 
review. Rather, it suggests the Board of Governors may 
develop regulation regarding post-tenure review should 
they wish, she wrote. 
The university will look over its post-tenure review 
process after the Board of Governors provides recommen -
dations on how to do so, she wrote. 
Anna Peterson, a 58-year-old UF religion professor, said 
professors aren’t paid or appreciated enough to stay some -
where that doesn’t give them enough credit.
“We do it because we love it,” Peterson said. “We don’t 
do it because we’re making a million bucks a year.”
Peterson said tenured professors are constantly re -
viewed by peers and students, and she completes annual 
activity reports around 15 pages long. 
“I’m already reviewed,” she said. “The point is, I’m not 
reviewed by the legislation. And I’m not reviewed by Ron 
DeSantis, who does not understand my research and my 
teaching and does not understand what tenure means.”
Peterson highlighted the academic freedom that tenure 
gives professors. She said being tenured gives her the con -
fidence to address difficult topics without fear of being 
punished. 
Stephen Craig, a 73-year-old professor in the depart -
ment of political science, knows he will not be teaching in 
five years but acknowledged the law could present issues 
if not carefully controlled and regulated.
“Given where the law came from and the words of the 
people who supported it, I think we have quite a lot to be 
worried about,” Craig said.
He said the law has potential to be used as a right-wing 
weapon. He said he feared professors could be punished 
for not being conservative. Craig said these conditions 
could hurt the university’s ability to recruit more profes -
sors.
“There’s no question that the University of Florida will 
have trouble attracting and keeping good faculty,” Craig 
said. “People just won’t want to come here under these 
political circumstances.”He said professors should not be worried about being 
reviewed if they have done their job and remained produc -
tive. Some tenured professors have not remained as active 
as they were before they were tenured, according to Craig. 
He said he does not fear an objective review because he is 
an active researcher for the university. 
Lamiya Kudrati, a 21-year-old political science senior, 
felt it would be best for the Board of Trustees to not get 
heavily involved.
“The less interference they have on our professors, the 
better, in my opinion,” she said. “Given that it’s only five 
years, I just don’t see how that’s beneficial to the school 
or to the professors, especially if they get reviewed every 
year anyway.”
Kudrati noticed a different approach in teaching from 
tenured professors compared to non-tenure professors and 
lecturers. She said in her experience, tenured professors 
have been more laid back, while other professors seem to be more by-the-book.
Though she sees tenure being a detriment if professors 
don’t have to worry about losing their jobs, this concern 
has not presented her with issues in the past. She said the 
tenured professors she interacted with have taken their 
jobs seriously enough to earn the title.
Stephanie Smith, a 63-year-old English professor, said 
she could see less students coming to the university to 
pursue degrees. She wouldn’t send her children to UF be -
cause she feels the school would lack academic freedom 
compared to schools across the country.
“So my question back to the governor would be: is the 
goal to simply get rid of UF?” Smith said.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.orgProfessors fear new law will weaken education quality
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
English teacher Cassidy Klein is seen inside the A. Quinn Jones Center on Thursday, Jan. 20 teaching.
“For the state to be a factor of control is 
really alarming,” Sarin said. 
Classes on intersectionality of race, 
sexuality and sexual education can provide 
information on people’s public health, she 
said — information she thinks should be 
common knowledge. 
Nilufer Akalin, a lecturer at the Center of 
Gender, Sexualities and Women’s Studies, 
said discussing race is central in develop -
ing critical thinking and helps students un -
derstand what contributions they want to 
make to society. 
“This act is very dangerous because uni -
versities should be free spaces where people 
learn how to think critically,” Akalin said.  
After watching the university’s presenta -
tion, Akalin said she was insulted. She felt 
like she had been told how to teach a sub -ject she specializes in.  
If the student does not agree with the 
facts that are taught, it is their decision and 
instructors can’t interfere with it, Akalin 
said. 
“It is also our responsibility to talk about 
what has been erased before as part of his -
tory.” 
Akalin finds that whenever she teaches 
classes surrounding race, gender and sexu -
ality, students are the most engaged with 
the material because they have rich discus -
sions.
Akalin said wages for teachers are al -
ready low, and the bill will make teachers 
feel more insecure and afraid of being fired. 
She said she anticipates a change in the 
quality of education at UF.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgHB 7,  from pg. 1Censored classrooms
Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of a teacher having to follow the new HB 7 stop woke act.
A recently signed Florida bill will permit more frequent reviews of tenured professorsBy Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Stephanie Birch was a University of Illi -
nois senior with a 2-year-old child when she 
found out she was pregnant again. She took 
out an emergency student loan from the uni -
versity to pay for an abortion. Her financial 
situation and abusive relationship prevented 
her from financing the procedure herself; she 
said the university didn’t require information 
on what the money was used for. 
Her enrollment in college allowed her to 
access an abortion, she said, as did transpor -
tation and proximity to a clinic. 
Birch was just one of the many people 
who shared their stories and experiences 
with abortions at the Bans Off Our Bodies 
march Saturday morning. A part of Planned 
Parenthood’s string of organized protests 
across the nation, this was the second 
Gainesville protest advocating for abortion 
rights this month after Politico published a 
leaked draft ruling that would overturn Roe 
v. Wade.
Parents, partners and pets began the one-
mile march at Bo Diddley Plaza at about 
10:20 a.m. and headed towards Cora P. 
Roberson Park.About 750 people displayed solidarity 
with those who have a uterus through signs. 
Some read “Abort the court” and “Don’t 
tread on my uterus.”
Birch’s pill-shaped sign, which read 
“Say yes! to safe abortions … I did” aimed 
to destigmatize conversations about termi -
nating pregnancies. Without access to the 
emergency loan, Birch said she might have 
considered dangerous abortion methods or 
carried the child to term, which might have 
prevented her from graduating with three 
masters degrees in history, library science 
and African studies.
Cheers were not limited to protesters. 
People driving cars also showed support by 
honking their horns, which sparked even 
louder cheers from demonstrators. 
Although organizers distributed flyers 
discouraging demonstrators from interacting 
with the opposition, counter-protesters were 
not present. 
Organizations, including Planned Parent -
hood, Dream Defenders, Florida Forward, 
the Civic Media Center, Socialist Alternative 
and National Women’s Liberation, set up 
tables to greet the protesters at the march’s 
end at Cora P. Roberson Park. 
Among them was Chenae Jackson, a 
42-year-old local activist and co-founder of 
Florida Forward, who spoke at the event. 
She said overturning Roe v. Wade will dis -
proportionately affect East Gainesville, pri -
marily because of financial restrictions.
“We have less income,” Jackson said. 
“We have less ability to afford birth control.” 
Access to food also needs to be discussed 
tangentially with reproductive health, Jack -
son said. Healthy pregnancies and maternal 
stability hinge on adequate nutrition, she 
said.  
Gainesville has identified 11 areas as food 
deserts, according to a report from the city. 
Gainesville city commissioners unanimously 
passed a plan to consider creating an East 
Gainesville community grocery store in Feb -ruary. 
Jackson stressed how important birth 
control is for Black women, who experience 
higher rates of intrauterine bleeding. Jack -
son’s daughter was hospitalized for six days 
in October. The remedy was birth control, 
which helped regulate her hormones and ex -
cessive bleeding. 
Lack of available transportation inhibits 
access to abortions, Jackson said. Gainesville 
only has two independent abortion clinics, 
both of which are located in West Gainesville. 
Abortion funds can help improve abor -
tions’ accessibility, Kai Christmas, the 
25-year-old Planned Parenthood regional 
protest organizer, said. They can pay for the 
cost of transportation or arrange childcare 
services for those who have children. 
Kelsey Malles, a 21-year-old women’s 
studies graduate student, emphasized the 
importance of transgender visibility when discussing reproductive health. Malles point -
ed out the lack of representation in the signs 
carried by protesters, which predominantly 
spotlighted women’s rights. 
Overturning Roe v. Wade will affect ev -
eryone with a uterus, Malles said.
The leaked draft puts pressure on men to 
educate their male friends and family about 
reproductive rights, Anton Kernohan, a po -
litical director for Florida Forward Coalition, 
said. 
“You need to educate your sons, your 
male friends, etc., on not only abortion ac -
cess but male birth control,” Kernohan said. 
“If you don’t want to use male birth control, 
then you need to get a vasectomy. And that’s 
point blank, period, hard stop.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.orgMONDAY, MAY 16, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
On her weekend trips to Target 
on Southwest Archer Road, Kami 
Ratliff used to reach for her 1-year-
old daughter’s preferred formula 
without second thought.
Now, when the 23-year-old 
strolls her red cart through the baby 
food aisle, she passes bare shelves 
where one scant powdered formula 
brand lays.
This is the reality for many Ala -
chua County parents grappling with 
the formula shortage and inflation 
— problems created by COVID-
19-related supply chain issues and 
exacerbated by a recall of Abbott 
Nutrition’s Similac, Alimentum and 
EleCare powdered formulas.
Ratliff devised a local solution 
to a national problem Tuesday af -
ter scrolling through Facebook and 
noticing mothers both pleading for and offering formula after the recall. 
Feed Gainesville Babies, a Facebook 
group, helps moms organize swaps 
and find the specific formula brands 
they need. 
As of Sunday, the group had 309 
members. 
Nationwide, 43% of baby formu -
la was out of stock for the first week 
of May, according to Datasembly, a 
retail pricing research firm.
Abbott Nutrition’s countrywide 
recall resulted from at least five re -
ports of infant illness, according to 
the FDA. Two babies died. 
An investigation determined four 
of the infants were infected with 
Cronobacter sakazakii, a rare infec -
tion that can cause dangerous blood 
infections and complications; an -
other complaint linked salmonella 
to the formula. 
The FDA’s teams are working to 
alleviate supply issues and ensure 
the safety of infant formula prod -
ucts, according to a statement re -leased Tuesday. 
While the government scrambles 
to find a formulaic solution to the 
formula crisis, Ratliff’s Facebook 
group is a proactive source of hope 
for Gainesville mothers. 
Although her daughter, Skye, 
has weaned off formula, Ratliff 
said she sympathizes with mothers 
whose newborns still rely on it for 
nutrition. 
“My heart sank thinking about 
what the parents were having to go 
through right now not being able 
to find anything for their babies,” 
Ratliff said.
Within hours of making the 
group, Ratliff saw people get the 
formula they pleaded for. Mothers 
from all around Alachua County 
and neighboring counties have 
joined the group to swap, too.
Other groups, like Gainesville 
Word of Mouth, have been used 
to announce scarce restocks; stores 
without limits on how much for -mula shoppers can buy are raided 
within hours. 
A restock at Sam’s Club in But -
ler North was shared on Facebook 
Wednesday afternoon, but bare 
shelves paralleled aisles just an 
hour later.
“People be trying to hoard these 
things instead of getting what you 
need,” one user commented.
Manufacturers are meeting and 
even exceeding capacity levels to 
meet the demand, according to the 
FDA statement. Despite this over -
time effort, many major retailers 
have been forced to cap the amount 
of formula customers buy.
CVS Pharmacy limited shop -
pers to three formula products per 
purchase both in stores and online. 
Target wrote in an email that it has 
online product limitations in place 
and is monitoring the industry-wide 
supply constraints, too.
Rebekah Villar Mondry called at 
least eight pharmacies over the past 
month and resorted to calling pedia -
tricians’ offices to ask for samples to feed her 4-month-old son, Mateo.
The 28-year-old mother’s pre -
ferred amino acid-based baby for -
mula was already difficult to attain 
before the shortage. 
“I was worried about feeding my 
child,” she said. “He’s allergic to al -
most everything else. His formula is 
PurAmino, and that’s the only one 
he can have.”
PurAmino used to cost $50 or 
$60 per can, which lasts two to 
three days. She now pays $80 or 
$85.
Villar Mondry found two cans of 
PurAmino, four to six days worth of 
food for her son, on Feed Gainesville 
Babies.
“It’s amazing how people are 
coming together,” she said. “All 
moms are scared right now because 
we need to feed our babies. Trading 
with each other, that’s the best we 
can do.”
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgGainesville parents scour for baby formula amid national shortage
Anna Ward / / Alligator Staff
More than 600 Gainesville citizens join nationwide ‘Ban off our Bodies’ rallies on 
Saturday, May 14th, at the 6th St. and 2nd Ave. intersection.
Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of citizens protesting the 
Alachua County courthouse.
Mothers resort to Facebook to find formulas for their babies
Gainesville community outraged over leaked SCOTUS document
Local activists stressed how overturning Roe v. Wade 
will disproportionately affect East Gainesville6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis’ newest legislation 
will require Florida public schools to teach 
students about communist regimes and the 
people who suffered under them. 
The bill, HB395, was signed May 9 and 
will require U.S. government teachers to 
cover communism and those who suffered 
under it for at least 45 minutes on Nov. 7, 
“Victims of Communism Day.” 
DeSantis said he passed the bill to 
honor the 100 million people who have 
been victimized by communist regimes 
across the world. The Board of Education 
must revise curriculum, which will teach 
students about topics such as Zedong and 
the Cultural Revolution, Fidel Castro and 
the Cuban Revolution and Joseph Stalin 
and the Soviet Union, by April 1, 2023. 
Andrew Wasserman, a 49-year-old 
history teacher at Eastside High School, 
said the bill seems unnecessary; it forces 
something that is already taught. He said 
he has taught his students about China’s 
famines and Stalin’s purges for 22 years. 
“These are all good things that people 
should know in history,” Wasserman said. 
“I think it’s curricularly beneficial, but 
again, that’s already being done.” Meir Schochet, a 19-year-old UF 
astrophysics sophomore and president of 
the UF Communist Party, said DeSantis 
continues to demean marginalized groups 
in the state through acts like the “Don’t Say 
Gay” bill and the “Victims of Communism 
Day” bill.
“DeSantis’ goal is to demonize 
marginalized communities and to advocate 
for his own bigoted agenda,” Schochet 
said. “Generally, that means the erasure of 
a lot of cultures and a lot of peoples who 
just don’t fit into his image.”
Aron Ali-McClory, a 19-year-old 
UF political science and anthropology 
sophomore and chair of the UF Young 
Democratic Socialists, said the bill 
actively villainized people who identify as 
communist or socialist. 
The new legislation could impact both 
public schools and could increase UF anti-
communist sentiment as the years go by, 
Ali-McClory said. 
“To single out one — communism — 
and then to only list negative aspects is 
doing a lot of harm to a subject that has a 
lot of nuance,” they said.
@JacksnReyes
jreyes@alligator.org
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
County Commissioner Mary 
Alford plans to resign after a May 
13 Gainesville Sun investigation 
found her in violation of residency 
requirements.
Alford, who represents District 
1, is required to live in the district 
she represents as per state law. 
According to the investigation, Al -
ford lives as a caregiver in District 
4, which is represented by County 
Commissioner Ken Cornell.
“I am going through the pro -
cess of what I need to do to resign 
from office,” Alford said to the 
Gainesville Sun on Friday. “I real -
ize I’m not doing the right thing, 
and I don’t like being a person 
who doesn’t do the right thing.”
Alford ran against Raemi Eagle-
Glenn in the 2020 election and 
won more than 60% of the vote, 
filling the seat previously held 
by Mike Byerly. During her term, 
Alford launched a Plant of the 
Month Program and encouraged a 
safe LGBTQ community.
A candidate’s properties are 
included on a financial disclosure 
they must complete when running 
for office. Alford listed a house in 
District 1 as her primary residence 
despite residing in District 4.
Annie Orlando worked along -
side Alford on the city’s utility 
advisory board after running for an at-large city commission seat 
in 2014. During the election, Or -
lando’s opponents accused her of 
violating the residency require -
ments because she listed more 
than one property on her financial 
disclosure, one being in a retire -
ment community inherited by her 
husband’s mother.
Orlando said she does not un -
derstand why Alford did not move 
to her primary residence.
“That, to me, means that this 
person doesn’t think anybody is 
going to do anything to them about 
it, that they’re above the law, and 
it doesn’t apply,” she said.
Gainesville resident Paul Wolfe 
supported Alford during her candi -
dacy for the seat. 
The 21-year-old said he thought 
Alford made a mistake but still 
considers her to be a stand-up 
member of the community.
“I think that the Supervisor of 
Elections should have conducted 
more rigorous confirmations of 
where candidates are living at 
the time of their election, and 
the county and city commissions 
should be doing the same for all of 
their members,” he wrote.
This is a developing story. 
Check back for updates.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgCITY COMMISSION 
VOTED TO DEMOLISH 
THE HISTORIC THELMA A. 
BOLTIN CENTER DURING 
NATIONAL PRESERVATION 
MONTH DESPITE RESIDENTS’ 
OPPOSITION
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Twenty-one days after city com -
missioners voted 6-0 to demolish 
and replace the historic Thelma A. 
Boltin Center, Mayor Lauren Poe 
deemed “People Saving Places” as 
Gainesville’s theme for National 
Preservation Month 2022. 
Residents are confused with the 
conflicting decisions. 
The Boltin Center, an 80-year-
old building located at 516 NE Sec -
ond Ave., has served as a United 
Service Organization for members 
to socialize, play bingo, dance 
and attend plays since 1942. This 
month’s theme honors those who 
pour their time, energy and re -
sources into protecting places like 
the center. 
Since its last renovation in 
1999, the center has expanded to 
a multipurpose gathering space 
for residents. The center’s struc -
ture has since depreciated due to 
wartime construction methods and 
minimal maintenance during the 
pandemic. 
An April 14 presentation ref -
erenced termite damage, hollow 
walls, an undersized foundation 
and a collapsed roof as reasons to demolish the center. The decision 
has garnered community opposi -
tion for its threat to the building’s 
historical significance. Melanie 
Barr, the secretary of the Alachua 
County Historical Commission, 
said the city failed to consult the 
Historical Preservation Board and 
nearby Duckpond residential area 
before voting to demolish the cen -
ter.
The center represents Boltin’s 
contributions to the community 
and holds historical significance to 
rock ‘n’ roll hall-of-famers, Florida 
folk culture and the dancers, she 
said.
Since the 1980s, the center has 
hosted the Gainesville Oldtime 
Dance Society’s meetings, includ -
ing annual contra dance events 
that drew dancers from across the 
country. 
“They come from all over the 
nation to dance here, so it has 
significance to people now and 
should not be demolished,” Barr 
said.
The dance society’s president 
Albert “Al” Rogers, 73, said his 
non-profit organization is disap -
pointed by the demolition but 
hopes to influence the design of 
the new center, specifically the 
flooring.
A new design would give a 
cohesive flow and better circula -
tion to the building by developing 
a second multipurpose space and 
widening gathering spaces, Eliza -
beth “Betsy” Waite, the director 
of Wild Spaces and Public Places, said.
Waite’s team started designing 
a new building to replace the cen -
ter in late 2019. She said replacing 
the building’s roof is not possible 
because the walls and foundation 
of the building cannot support the 
structure.
Waite estimates demolition 
and rebuilding will cost about $3 
million. She said the new center 
would provide neighbors with bet -
ter access to programs and activi -
ties like dance, theater, concerts 
and yoga.
Barr showed board members 
photos of buildings needing simi -
lar repairs that were eventually re -
stored to fit the needs of residents. 
“If they’re allocating $3 mil -
lion to build a new building, they 
can spend $3 million renovating a 
landmark,” Barr said. 
Kathleen Pagan works as the 
senior planner at Alachua County 
Growth Management and helps to 
document historical structures on 
The Living New Deal website. The 
center, she said, is one of more 
than 450 remaining.
“It’s very important to maintain 
existing buildings,” she said. “The 
greenest building, as you know, is 
the one that already stands.”
City staff is negotiating a con -
tract with the design team for the 
new building. The new center is 
slated to reopen in summer 2024 
following construction next sum -
mer.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgGov. Ron DeSantis institutes ‘Victims of Communism Day’
County Commissioner to resign 
after residency investigationGainesville to demolish historic recreation centerEmma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
Gov. Ron DeSantis addresses a crowd at Clark Plantation Wedding Venue in Newberry, 
Florida, on Monday, Sept. 13, 2021.
The bill will require public schools to cover communist regimes for at least 45 minutes every November
Mary Alford violated residency 
requirements while representing District 1Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
UF lacrosse advances to Elite Eight
Sophomore Danielle Pavinelli scored 100th career goal in 
victory over Jacksonville, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
A NEW BAR WITH A RETRO 
VIBE PLANS TO BRING THE 
LOVE OF JAZZ TO PATRONS
By Alyssa Barnes
Avenue Staff Writer 
Downtown’s newest bar is sure 
to take you back in time to the Jazz 
Age. 
The jazz joint, located at 7 W. 
University Ave., officially opened 
April 26 and has been popular 
among crowds. Tables are filling up 
as more people catch wind of the 
jazz-themed bar.
Baby J’s is open from 4 p.m. to 
midnight Monday through Saturday.
Patrons are greeted by the roaring 
sound of jazz music and the strong 
smell of coffee flowing through the 
air. The cocktails are curated by the 
staff, and every detail is accounted 
for — down to the customized 
matchboxes on the marble tables. 
The menu mixes different appe -
tizers and cocktails, and the drinks 
are as artistic as the interior. With 
gin and tonics, cocktail tray, sea -
sonal and classic cocktails and beer, 
there are plenty of options.
Baby J’s is a prime location for In -
stagram posts — from the baby pink 
walls to the eclectic album collection 
behind the bar. Jay Shuster, Kyle Spor and Grace 
Glennon, co-owners of Baby J’s and 
the well-known Cry Baby’s restau -
rant and bar, noticed the vacant 
space next door to Cry Baby’s and 
saw an opportunity to breed more 
business. They purchased the space 
and began renovating it into what 
would soon become Baby J’s.
“The space was available, so we 
wanted one big cohesive thing,” 
Spor said 
Shuster, 39, said he based Baby 
J’s off of jazz kissatens: Japanese cof -
fee shops that turn into full-fledged 
jazz clubs by nightfall. Bartenders 
would play music while people en -
joyed their favorite brewed or alco -
holic drink. 
Popular in the ‘60s and ‘70s, mu -
sic was the main focus of these bars, 
which is something Shuster hopes to 
emulate in Baby J’s.
“It’s kind of like putting the ritual 
back into listening to music,” Shus -
ter said.
Glennon, 32, grew up in 
Gainesville and wanted to offer a 
chicer option for residents to at -
tend for special occasions. She envi -
sioned a place that was more high 
class and geared towards adults who 
could dress up for an event or spe -
cial occasion. Glennon said she also 
wanted to add to the jazz scene in Gainesville.
She grew up listening to the mu -
sic and has carried a love for the mu -
sic since she was a young girl. 
“My parents are jazz musicians, 
so I grew up with that,” Glennon 
said.
Jazz Baby quartet, formally 
known as Brenda Bayne Trio, is one 
of the two jazz bands that play at 
Baby J’s regularly. As of now, the 
bar only hosts live music on Tues -
days. 
The band performs every Tues -
day between 6:30 p.m. and 8:30 
p.m. Lead singer Brenda Bayne, 69, 
and bassist David Glennon, 63, are 
Grace’s parents, but nepotism did 
not land them the gig. 
“I’m in the club, not through nep -
otism, but just because we’re good,” 
Bayne said.
The band, including piano player 
Robert D’Amico, has played for over 
20 years. They’ve built up a reputa -
tion around Gainesville by playing at 
local places such as Satchel’s Pizza 
and Emiliano’s Cafe. The trio turned 
into a quartet and rebranded recent -
ly with the addition of their drum -
mer Jon Jackson.
The band said they love perform -
ing at Baby J’s, noting the impec -
cable speaker system and stage. Jazz 
Baby quartet enjoys having a place to perform that appreciates jazz the 
way that they do.
“This is much better,” D’Amico 
said in comparison to other places 
the band performed at. “In terms of 
the sound system and the way it’s 
set up.” 
Savannah Blevins, a 23-year-old 
UF plant science senior, found Baby 
J’s by spotting a pack of matches on 
the side of the road. She picked it up 
and then quickly searched up the 
spot on Google.
Blevins, a jazz lover, didn’t hesi -
tate to check the bar out when she discovered it. She said she’s excited 
for a place where she can listen to 
the music she is passionate about.
“I feel like it’s so needed,” Blevins 
said. “It’s so cute. I love the mirrors 
and high ceilings.”
As Baby J’s Bar continues to 
grow, it is certain that more people 
will be aware of the jazz scene in 
Gainesville and have a spot to appre -
ciate the music while also enjoying 
coffee or cocktails.
@alyssabarnes29 
abarnes@alligator.org
GREEN DAY’S HIT ALBUM IS SET TO 
TAKE THE STAGE ON MAY 20
By Averi Kremposky
Avenue Staff Writer
For the first time in several years, a local 
Gainesville theater will ditch its typical family-
friendly shows for a way-out commentary on a 
classic coming-of-age story. 
The Gainesville Community Playhouse will 
debut its rendition of Green Day’s “American 
Idiot” May 20. Showings will continue on select 
dates until June 12.
The show, which is centered around the 
rock concept album released by Green Day in 
2004, focuses on the teenage angst spawned by 
the social state of the United States, the military 
and the media during that time period. 
Audience members can expect a 90-minute 
performance of all the songs from the hit album. 
Dan Christophy, the show’s director, said 
the band intended for the album to be presented 
through another medium rather than in concert.
“[Green Day] intended for it to be performed 
at some point,” Christophy said. “Like as a mov -
ie or something.”
The band ended up discarding that idea until it was approached with the proposal of creating 
a musical.
Full of adult humor and topics revolv -
ing around sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll, the 
Gainesville Community Playhouse is presenting 
something out of the ordinary with “American 
Idiot.”
“The content of this show is something that 
normally is not brought to this particular the -
ater,” Christophy said. “There is a lot of adult 
content because they talk about their lives.”
The production presents themes of unadul -
terated rawness and authenticity; themes that 
are not typical of other shows hosted at the 
playhouse.
The show’s choreographer, Susan Christo -
phy, says the show “Rent” was the last time 
this theater experimented with suggestive con -
tent, and that was 11 years ago. Even though it 
caused some turmoil, Susan Christophy is look -
ing forward to the conversations “American 
Idiot” can start.  
“We are a theater that is more family-orient -
ed,” Susan Christophy said. “But I don’t always 
believe that theater should be about entertain -
ment.”
Instead, Susan Christophy said more plays 
should echo topics apparent in society, which is what this show does. 
Besides its mature content, “American Idiot” 
takes risks in its production by incorporating in -
novative multimedia. 
During the show, several monitors will be on 
display around the stage. While actors perform 
their own parts, the propaganda and war scenes 
displayed on the screens will add another di -
mension to the performance. 
Luke Gilboy, a 19-year-old UF geography 
junior and an actor in the show, is looking 
forward to the way these screens can provide 
depth to their performance. 
“A lot of this talks about real issues, like the 
wars,” Gilboy said. “It’s kind of hard to show 
the reality of it through just the set alone.”
While the show includes short interjections 
of dialogue to advance the plotline, a majority 
of the show is sung in the strenuous rock genre. 
With such a challenging score, Dan and 
Susan brought former UF music student Sarah 
Sawyer as the production’s voice-specific direc -
tor.
Sawyer said that most shows have one musi -
cal director who oversees both vocals and mu -
sic. 
Because it was so important for cast mem -
bers to preserve their voices while singing “American Idiot,” this production includes a 
voice director in addition to a music director. 
“If you don’t have really good vocal habits, 
you can really tear up your voice,” Sawyer said. 
“When you’re doing eight to 10 shows a week 
for several weeks in a row, that could really do 
a number on the cast.”
In addition to vocals, the cast will be joined 
by a live garage band. The band will play from a 
“garage” on stage instead of from the traditional 
orchestra pit.
To emulate the musicality of a real garage 
band, Dan Christophy asked the three main 
characters to learn the guitar before opening 
night. Dan Christophy’s request was originally 
met by shocked faces, but he said they’re get -
ting close to picking it up. 
Strenuous singing and new talents are not 
the only complications cast members had to 
overcome in preparation for the show. 
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgNew jazz bar opens in Downtown Gainesville
The Gainesville Community Playhouse presents Green Day’s ‘American Idiot’
NIGHTLIFENIGHTLIFE
THEATERTHEATERAlyssa Barnes / / Alligator Staff
Jazz Baby quartet plays its repertoire of songs at Baby J’s May 10.
THE AVENUE STAFF PRESENTS AN 
ITINERARY OF FUN EVENTS TO 
LOOK OUT FOR THIS SUMMER
The Avenue Staff
Pull out the sunscreen and pop open 
a cold one because this summer will be a 
scorcher in Gainesville.
The Avenue staff teamed up to present 
an itinerary of exciting activities and events 
slated to happen this summer. From the glis -
tening blue waters of Poe Springs Park to the 
party-centric attitude of the GNV Brew Bus, 
Gainesville residents can turn up their radio 
dial and enjoy their Hot GNV Summer.
GNV Brew Bus
By Kristine Villarroel
Experience the essence of nightlife on 
four wheels and ride the GNV Brew Bus. 
Generally seen as a shuttle party bus, the 
Brew Bus parades around town filled with 
colorful lights, loud music and partying 
people. It can be seen by curious downtown 
pedestrians on its route at least once. With 
routes going from midtown to downtown 
and other stops in the city, the bus solves 
the need for group transportation when go -
ing out. 
Brenna Delong, a UF journalism junior 
and GNV Brew Bus social media assistant, 
said the service is Gainesville residents’ ver -
sion of a party bus. 
Founder Ryan Sheppard said the GNV 
Brew Bus’ business model caters to college 
students by communicating through Snap -
chat, where customers can see a live feed 
of content and message the business directly 
on the platform to ask for a ride from their 
location. 
This summer, Brew Bus will premiere 
Springs Saturdays: a round trip from The Re -
treat apartment complex to Ginnie Springs 
beginning May 28. They will also offer brew -
ery tours June 7. 
Brew Bus will also host summer 
“darties,” or day parties, and a wet T-shirt 
contest where participants can play a “spin 
the wheel” game for a chance to win a T-
shirt. 
Additionally, the bus will offer free rides 
to concerts at The Range, where Sheppard 
will perform under the stage name RAYN 
June 24.
Cade Museum
By Alyssa Barnes
Two new exhibits are coming to the Cade 
Museum right in time for summer.
The Cade Museum, located at 811 S. Main 
St., has more to offer than dull pictures and 
monotonous art pieces. The museum allows 
guests to immerse themselves in exhibits to 
learn more about a specific topic and gain a 
deeper understanding. 
“Animationland,” a traveling exhibit 
from the Oregon Museum of Science and In -
dustry, will allow visitors to draw and trace 
animated characters on a light table. Visitors 
can make a short animated movie and use 
their imaginations to create much more. 
Those interested in making movies or 
wanting to know more about behind the 
scenes of animation should definitely give 
this exhibit a visit. The exhibit opens May 
19.
“It’s a really interactive, hands-on, fun 
look at the world of animation,” Kathryn 
Rohlwing, the senior marketing manager for 
the Cade Museum, said.
The museum’s space-themed exhibit, 
“Voyages: A Trip through Time and Space,” 
will feature the unsung stories of spacecrafts Voyagers 1 and 2 in the exhibit. 
Visitors can “expect to travel from Ju -
piter’s swirling red spot to the icy geysers 
on Neptune’s moon Triton,” according to 
a press release sent by the Cade Museum. 
Exploring space with your best buddies is 
definitely an out-of-this-world experience. 
The exhibit, which opens June 2, is part 
of the overall theme of the museum this 
summer — Wandering the Milky Way: A 
Tour of the Solar System.
Museum-goers will have the opportunity 
to construct a space suit from a plastic egg, 
make galactic slime, learn about potatoes as 
a fuel source and participate in other space-
related activities. 
The Cade Museum is the place to go this 
summer if you are interested in learning 
more about animation or space or just want 
a cool place to escape the scorching heat.
First Magnitude Brewing Company
By Averi Kremposky
Located at 1220 SE Veitch St., First Mag -
nitude Brewing Company is the mingling of 
good beer, good company and a good cause. 
Driven by the desire to bring the com -
munity together and increase sustainability 
efforts, it’s the perfect place for Gainesville 
residents to spend their summer nights — 
whether that be inside or in the brewery’s 
beer garden. 
If you’re looking for something to do on 
top of grabbing a pint, the brewery will host 
a variety of different events throughout the 
summer. 
Open every day of the week except Mon -
day, there’s an event for everyone to enjoy. 
Every Sunday at 1 p.m., First Magnitude in -
vites yoga enthusiasts of all ages and skill 
levels to join a class in its warehouse. 
Participants only need a yoga mat and 
a minimum contribution of $5 for We are 
Neutral, a local non-profit that helps offset 
the brewery’s carbon footprint. 
Typically on the first Sunday of every 
month, First Magnitude partners with the 
Alachua Audubon Society to host “Birds and 
Brews,” an hour-long guided tour through 
Depot Park.
Participants will identify a variety of local 
birds and conveniently end the tour at the 
brewery before closing time for participants 
to enjoy a fresh beer. 
The hosts will welcome bird-watchers of 
varying experience, and provide binoculars 
for participants to borrow. The start time for 
this event will vary by month, so the compa -
ny recommends checking its Facebook page 
for updates. 
In conjunction with The Florida Museum 
and The UF Thompson Earth Systems Insti -
tute, the brewery will host a night of appre -
ciation for the Florida Springs on May 23. 
The event will feature three short documen -
taries focusing on the perceived health of 
the springs over time, followed by a panel 
discussion on the importance of water con -
servation in the state. Of course, beer and 
food trucks will be involved. 
While the event is free, interested partici -
pants should register beforehand. 
If you’re looking for plans this summer, 
try grabbing a beer and getting involved 
with the local Gainesville community.
How Bazar
By Anna Ward
How Bazar’s first summer does all but 
hold back. 
The brand is bringing a fun-filled su -
per series of day parties (darties), weekly 
events, revamped night markets and block 
parties. All events support and supply local 
entertainment.Record label and How Bazar associate 
Dion Dia will host “Goodtimes,” a buzzing 
darty series for those seeking drinks, DJs 
and dancing in the sunshine. “Goodtimes” 
can be found at Depot Village’s live event 
hub Yellow Bar starting May 21 from either 
3 or 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
How Bazar’s weekly events are open mic 
Tuesdays open to all art forms, “Get Down 
Disco” Thursdays with DJs, disco lights and 
slushies, and “Sundaze” Sundays hosting 
DJs, food vendors and artists.
Disco Thursdays begin the series with an 
RSVP-only soft launch May 26 from 10 p.m. 
to 2 a.m., followed by golden hour “Sun -
daze” events set from either 4 or 5 p.m. to 
8 p.m. and open mic Tuesdays, whose start 
time is to be determined.
The bi-monthly Bazar A La Carte night 
market returns June 4 with a summertime-
funtime theme.
The market will pack a dunk tank, vel -
cro wall, bungee ropes and about 70 booths 
with 100 various vendors. Local artist Alix 
Mathis, via freehand work on plywood, will 
compose a blown-up coloring page for at -
tendees to color in.
“We’re going to go kind of crazy,” said 
Bazar co-owner Laila Fakhoury.
Block parties have no set dates yet, but 
they will be similar to the brand’s Jan. 14 
grand opening.
Lastly, How Bazar is available to rent. 
People should expect the unexpected: Ev -
erything from album release parties to fund -
raising chili cook-offs is to come.
Civic Media Center
By Amanda Friedman
For almost 30 years, the Civic Media Cen -
ter has served as a sanctuary for alternative 
ideas underrepresented in most mainstream 
media. 
Located at 433 S. Main St., the center 
has roughly 10,000 books published by in -
dependent, non-corporate media organiza -
tions and the largest collection of zines in 
the southeast, Civic Media Center coordina -
tor JoJo Sacks said. The library’s hours are 
Wednesdays from 2 to 6 p.m. and Saturdays 
from 1 to 5 p.m.
Sacks, 25, started volunteering at the cen -
ter while they were attending UF. They’ve 
been on the team for about four years. 
“A lot of what we do is about building 
community because if we’re interested in 
making the future a better place for all of 
us,” Sacks said. “We need people that we 
feel in community with.”
Instead of aimlessly clicking through Net -
flix, grab some popcorn and attend a month -
ly documentary screening in the center’s 
courtyard. The iconic satirical film “9 to 5” 
starring Dolly Parton will be screened May 
20, followed by Dolly Parton karaoke. The center will also host Poetry Jam, a weekly 
open mic held Thursdays at 8 p.m. and mul -
tiple pride-month-themed events through -
out June.
To raise funds for the non-profit, the 
Civic Media Center plans to host a benefit 
concert at How Bazar May 28. Performers 
include local musicians Levek, 9th Ring, Eu -
glossine and Gregoria. 
Anyone interested in getting involved 
with the Civic Media Center can attend its 
two monthly volunteer meetings on the sec -
ond and fourth Thursdays of the month at 
5:30 p.m.
Springs near Gainesville
By Allyssa Keller
Don’t overheat this hot girl summer — 
Gainesville residents can make a splash at 
local springs. 
Ruth B. Kirby Gilchrist Blue Springs State 
Park, Poe Springs Park and Ichetucknee 
Springs State Park all provide a way to relax 
and escape from the relentless Florida heat. 
At Ruth B. Kirby Gilchrist Blue Springs 
State Park in High Springs, guests can rent 
canoes and kayaks from Anderson’s Out -
door Adventures. Visitors can paddle their 
way through the blue waters of the spring -
head and its surrounding greenery ,and 
snorkeling is allowed in certain areas in the 
park. Those that prefer dry land can reserve 
one of 23 different campsites, according to 
the state park’s website.
If you’re tired of paddling along the wa -
ters of Blue Springs, other springs around 
Gainesville have more relaxed options for 
its visitors.
Bring your swimming trunks and can -
nonball into the waters at Poe Springs Park. 
The largest spring in Alachua County, Poe 
Springs offers places to swim, fish and play 
volleyball.
Float underneath the trees and the beau -
tiful natural scenery of Ichetucknee Springs 
State Park in Fort White. The park offers 
tubing experiences that last from 45 minutes 
to nearly two hours, starting from either 
Midpoint Launch or Dampier’s Landing and 
ending at South Takeout Point . A regular 
inner tube can be rented for $7 and a double 
tube can be rented for $14.
For those who have an appreciation for 
wildlife, Ichetucknee Springs harbors a vast 
array of eye-catching species. 
Ichetucknee Springs is part of the Great 
Florida Birding Trail. From the barred owl 
to the red-headed woodpecker, there are 
plenty of birds to observe. Lucky guests can 
even spot manatees and river otters as they 
make their way around Ichetucknee Springs.
This summer, the springs are perfect for 
any nature-lover or outdoorsman.8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Graphic playing off of Megan Thee Stallion “Hot Girl Summer” song.
An Avenue roundtable: Hot GNV Summer
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLEBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets.  Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                         5-16-1-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
Canoe, kayak, paddleboard & more best offer 
For sale best offer: ● 3-person canoe, ● 
1-person kayak, ● paddleboard, ● chipper/
shredder, ● portable table saw, ● electric 
power washer. Hawthorne. (352) 301-4707 
5-31-22-3-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
Fully furnished former Airbnb house. 38 
blocks from 34th St. Available immediately. 
Sleeps 6. $1750/mo + utils. Contact Angelina 
352-219-6994                               5-23-22-3-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds 
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953      
6-6-22-5-6
11..    ________  ffiirree
11..    BBuurrnn55..    BBllaacckk  ________
22..    SSccoowwll66..    ““FFlloowweerrss  iinn  tthhee  ________””
33..    RReeddiirreecctteedd  77..    DDeelliiccaattee  
44..    AAggrreeeeSSGGAALLIINN
SSRRCCCCOOHHEEVVOOIILL
TTAATTCCII
RRAAMMIIGGEECC
RRVVDDEETTAAEEDDEETTNNEERR
UUOOCCNNRRCCAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSiiggnnaall    55AA--OOlliivvee    66AA--AAttttiicc    77AA--TTeennddeerr
11DD--SSccoorrcchh    22DD--GGrriimmaaccee    33DD--AAvveerrtteedd    44DD--CCoonnccuurr    BB--LLiioonneell  RRiicchhiiee55--1166--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  wwrroottee  aanndd  pprroodduucceedd  
KKeennnnyy  RRooggeerrss’’  hhiitt  ssoonngg,,  ““LLaaddyy..””  BONUSBAM POWER BIKE 
ELECTRIC / MANUAL - Like New. 
Black.  Kendra tires. 
Helmet & 2 battery packs included, $1200. 
Call 352-222-9649                        5-23-22-3-11
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
5-16-11-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-1311Motorcycles/
Mopeds6 Furnishings
By Bruce Venzke
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/16/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/16/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, May 16, 2022
ACROSS
1 Blackjack player’s 
request to a 
dealer
6 Mouth off to
10 Punxsutawney 
celebrity
14 Fairy tale 
monsters
15 Tattoo parlor 
supplies
16 “iZombie” actress 
McIver
17 Response to 
“Thanks”
19 Jazz great 
Fitzgerald
20 Gardener’s 
bagful
21 Penny
22 Milk source
23 Last non-AD yr.
25 Prefix meaning 
“all”
27 Response to 
“Thanks”
33 Bubble bath spot
36 Eurasian border 
river
37 Laugh nervously
38 Festoon
40 Energy
42 Relatively cool 
heavenly body
43 Krispy Kreme 
products
45 Nick at __
47 Slip-__: shoes 
without laces
48 Response to 
“Thanks”
51 Meat Loaf’s  
“Bat Out of __”
52 Big name in 
hotels
55 Iridescent gems
58 Too
61 __ school
63 Muted, as colors
64 Response to 
“Thanks”
66 Self-images
67 Retired tennis pro 
Kournikova
68 “Big Little 
Lies” actress 
Witherspoon
69 Brooklyn NBA 
team
70 Exam
71 Ill-fated Ford
DOWN
1 “You can’t have 
any!” types
2 Aptly named 
cooler brand3 “How to __ Your 
Dragon”
4 Sampling of 
songs
5 Inexact no.
6 Agree (with)
7 Unknown 
composer, for 
short
8 Chairlift 
alternative
9 Former Air 
France jet, for 
short
10 Foretells
11 Wait on the 
phone
12 Cruise stopover
13 Shakespearean 
king with three 
daughters
18 Take place
22 Not probable
24 Generous 
bonuses
26 Bumped into
28 Knock
29 Supreme Court 
justice Kagan
30 “The Simpsons” 
bus driver
31 Cruel
32 Slips up
33 “Look what I did!”
34 Japanese soup 
noodles35 Super skinny
39 Without mercy
41 Avocado center
44 Tee sizes,  
briefly
46 California/
Nevada resort 
lake
49 Comedian 
Boosler
50 Expired, as a 
subscription
53 Brings into 
alignment54 Not long-winded
55 Inviting store 
window sign
56 Numbered book 
part
57 “That was __ of 
fun!”
59 ICU caregivers
60 Picket fence 
piece
62 Take (off)
64 Little rug
65 “You __ My 
Sunshine”
By Julian Lim
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/10/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/10/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, May 10, 2022
ACROSS
1 “High Voltage” 
band
5 Sprang
10 Neaten (up)
14 Cry out loud
15 Lauder of 
makeup
16 Inkling
17 *“In my 
uninformed 
opinion ... ”
19 Russian dynast
20 Not prohibited
21 Biennial games 
gp.
22 Word with fall 
or fill
23 *Challenge 
to someone 
suspected of 
lying
27 Western defense 
gp.
28 “__ queen!”: 
“Work it!”
29 Nowhere to be 
found
33 Member of the 
fam
35 Absorb with 
bread, as gravy
39 Marvin Gaye 
classic, and a hint 
to the last words 
of the answers to 
the starred clues
43 Long-stemmed 
mushroom
44 Director Lee
45 Like gloomy skies
46 Monarch’s reign, 
e.g.
48 Cellist’s need
50 *Become a better 
person, say
58 __ jockey
59 Satisfied sigh
60 “You win”
61 On the ocean
62 *Thoroughly 
refute
65 Entry point
66 More loyal
67 Black-eyed __
68 Celebrity chef 
Burrell
69 Twilled fabric
70 Eyelid bump
DOWN
1 “Where there’s 
__ ... ”
2 Typical Stan Lee 
role3 Wild dog of 
Australia
4 Dagger’s partner
5 Supervillain 
Luthor
6 Second sight, for 
short
7 Dined at home
8 1990s 
presidential 
candidate
9 Easy to set off
10 “Grease,” for one
11 “My take is ... ”
12 “Reading in the 
Dark” Booker 
Prize nominee 
Seamus
13 Three feet
18 Baby-voiced red 
Muppet
24 Lack of difficulty
25 “__ just me ... ?”
26 Sunup direction
29 Elastic bandage 
brand
30 Looking sickly
31 Artist Yoko
32 “Whatever!”
34 Barnyard bleat
36 Part of wpm
37 Can. neighbor
38 Future analyst’s 
maj.40 Lass
41 Elena Delle 
Donne’s org.
42 Aviation  
pioneer  
Sikorsky
47 Moves with the 
times
49 Forsaken child
50 American  
buffalo
51 Apply to
52 Spy-fi great John 
le __53 Go time, in 
military slang
54 Applauds
55 Apartment 
window sign
56 Op-ed piece, e.g.
57 Witherspoon of 
“Wild”
58 Tot’s first word, 
maybe
63 Act like a couch 
potato, with  
“out”
64 Poetic “before”
05/09/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.14 Help Wanted 18 Personals 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
5-16-11-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
Yard Help:
Part time, flex hrs, experience necessary, 
$11-$13 hr. SW side of town. 
Mr Z: 352-278-8071                      5-23-22-7-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6/27-22-6-14
HELP WANTED - PART TIME. 
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $15.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     
5-31-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com             5-31-22-9-14Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy is 
hiring a part-time cashier for evening shift. 
Schedule is 1:00-9:30, 3 shifts per week. 
Starting pay is $11.00/hr. and eligible for 
raise after 90 days. Fast-paced environment. 
Please come in person to fill out application.  
6-6-4-14
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.
House Keeper/Personal Assistant:
Part time, flex hours, will ask for references, 
non covid jab preferred. $12-$15 hr. SW side 
of town. Mr. Z 352-278-8071     5-23-22-7-14
FT Summer Camp Jobs
Now hiring for overnight camp for children 
with serious illnesses. Various positions open; 
lifeguards and male cabin counselors espe-
cially needed. June 11–Aug 5. We provide 
salary, housing, meals, training, interpersonal 
skills. Find more info & apply online at camp-
boggycreek.org. Also seeking volunteers for 
6-day commitments.                   5-23-22-4-14
15 Services
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
5-16-16-16
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                5-16-11-15
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
5-16-15-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          5-16-16-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen      5-16-16-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-18-22-15-16Trivia Test  answers
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: Which country in Africa is 
the largest in land area?
2. MUSIC: What was the original name of 
the punk rock band Green Day?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president for -
mally declared the executive mansion to be 
the White House?
4. ART: In which major city would you find 
the Tate Modern museum?
5. MYTHOLOGY: What is the name of the 
Greek goddess of revenge?
6. U.S. STATES: Which state is the only one 
that doesn't have a mandatory seat belt law?
7. MOVIES: What is the Dude's favorite drink 
in "The Big Lebowski"?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What is albumen?
9. MEDICAL: What is a more common name 
for a transient ischemic attack?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is an ibex?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
IF YOU THINK IT'S HARD TO MEET NEW PEOPLE, TRY PICKING UP THE WRONG GOLF BALL.
— JACK LEMMON
solution  belowWhen you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. Algeria.   2. Sweet Children.   3. Theodore 
Roosevelt.   4. London, England.   5. Nemesis.   
6. New Hampshire.   7. White Russian.   8. Egg 
white.   9. Mini-stroke.   10. A wild goat.MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.SOFTBALL
LACROSSETHE SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE 
TOURNAMENT WAS HELD AT KATIE 
SEASHOLE PRESSLY STADIUM FOR 
THE FIRST TIME IN 17 YEARS
By Madeline Lawson
Sports Writer
From the bayou to the Bluegrass State, fans 
from all over the Southeastern Conference 
showed up to represent their teams, but Woo 
Pig Sooie sang in the end. 
The 2022 SEC Softball Tournament was 
held in Gainesville, May 10-14. Florida last 
hosted the tournament in 2005; since then, Ka -
tie Seashole Pressly Stadium has been renovat -
ed with more amenities to accommodate fans.
“I’m very impressed,” Steve Chiasson, a 
New Orleans, Louisiana, native said. “You’re 
able to move around the stadium, they’re al -
lowing us [fans] to have freedom here. It’s 
been wonderful.” 
Chiasson, one of the Louisiana State faith -
ful, flew to Florida to cheer on the Tigers. 
Donning LSU attire, Chiasson stayed for the 
entirety of the tournament despite his team's 
first-round elimination. As a fan of the sport, 
he enjoys the camaraderie and competition, as 
he began pulling for the top-seeded Arkansas 
Razorbacks to win it all and offered compli -
ments for conference foes. 
“That number 27 from Florida [Kendra Fal -
by] was unstoppable,” Chiasson said. “There’s 
going to be a lot of success here in Florida.” 
Walking around the concourse, 59-year-old 
Kathy Adrian was eye-catching in her orange 
and white tutu representing Tennessee. A 
nanny from Orlando, Adrian is friends with the 
Volunteers’ head coach Karen Weekly and has 
followed the team to tournaments for nearly 
15 years. It wasn’t Adrian’s first visit to Gainesville. 
She visited seven weeks ago for the Tennes -
see series in late March when Weekly and her 
team picked up two wins over the Gators. 
“I love all the players… I think all the girls 
are great,” Adrian said. 
If it were up to the die-hard Volunteer 
fan, she’d crown senior Ashley Rogers as the 
tournament’s most valuable player. The right-
handed pitcher lasted 13 innings against Mis -
souri and secured a win in the longest game 
played in the tournament's history. 
Loren Meadows has subscribed to Gator 
Nation since 1993 and disagreed with Adrian’s 
MVP pick. 
“It’s definitely (Florida infielder) Skylar 
Wallace,” Meadows said. “The fact that she’s 
come in and assimilated herself into the pro -
gram, seems to be a leader on the field and 
leads by example, it’s her for sure.” 
Meadows had never been to an SEC Tour -
nament before this week, and he said it’s a 
treat for it to be held in Gainesville.
“We see the way things are run and the 
overall vibrancy of the conference,” Mead -
ows said. “With it being the top conference in 
softball, I mean it really has been a nice show. 
People from other programs have commented 
on what a beautiful ballpark we have here.”
The speed at which the game is played, the 
interactions with fans and the excitement from 
players are what makes softball Meadows’ sec -
ond-favorite sport after football. 
Young fans covered the berm and admired 
their idols. 
Lisa Cisco, a teaching assistant at Keystone 
Heights Junior/Senior High School, coaches 
the junior high softball team. Her daughter Au -
drey pitches, and Audrey’s best friend Taylor is 
the team’s catcher. 
Audrey started playing T-ball at 3 years old. This weekend, she watched her icon, Alabama 
senior Montana Fouts, pitch against Missouri. 
“I get to experience all the things with [Au -
drey], along with helping her,” Cisco said. 
“When I played ball, I always wished that I 
had somebody that was able to help me like 
that.”
Before the fifth inning in the championship 
game between Arkansas and Mizzou, Audrey 
and Taylor were selected to race each other on 
the field. They started on the right-field foul 
line and raced along the warning track to the 
foul line in left. 
The best friends, both 13 years old, share 
an unbreakable love of competition. Taylor’s 
footing slipped at the start of the race, but by pumping her little legs, she gained on the 
lengthier Audrey. 
By the time the girls hit center field, it was a 
dead heat, but in the last 10 feet, Audrey pulled 
ahead for the win.
“It’s farther than you think,” a winded Au -
drey said to her mother. 
The pair was each awarded a Dr. Pepper 
T-shirt and a memory that will last a lifetime.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@MadsLaws
mlawson@alligator.org
By Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
 
A hat trick etched sophomore 
Danielle Pavinelli’s name into Florida 
lacrosse history books, as her impact -
ful performance helped the Gators 
advance to the Elite Eight.
Pavinelli, the American Athletic 
Conference Attacker of the Year, 
reached triple digits Saturday, scoring 
her 100th career goal. 
“What she’s accomplished is due 
to all the hard work she puts in,” UF 
head coach Amanda O’Leary said. 
“She comes to practice every day pre -
pared, ready to go, gives her best and 
I think we’re seeing all of that come to 
fruition out on the field.” 
The No. 7-seed Florida Gators la -
crosse team defeated the Jacksonville Dolphins 15-10 Saturday in the sec -
ond round of the NCAA Tournament 
at Donald R. Dizney Stadium. 
Accompanied by an assist from 
midfielder Emily Heller, freshman 
Josie Hahn found the back of the net 
to give UF its first goal of the game.  
JU graduate midfielder Megan 
Prescott scored for the Dolphins to 
make it 1-1 with 13:36 remaining in 
the first quarter. O’Leary and Florida 
ended the first period on a 4-0 scoring 
spurt highlighted by team ball move -
ment.
“I thought we really stepped up, 
played hard, played well and got 
some draw controls early,” O’Leary 
said. 
UF continued to force the tempo, 
resulting in high-octane scoring op -
portunities. Off a free position, mid -fielder Bella Palagonia gave Florida 
a 3-1 lead. The Gators finished the 
game 3-for-5 on free positions. 
After Jacksonville regained pos -
session from a Florida misfire, AAC 
Freshman of the Year Emma LoPinto 
swooped in for the steal. The defen -
sive maneuver initiated a sequence 
of great ball movement by the orange 
and blue.  
On the ensuing fast break, LoPinto 
passed the yellow ball to Pavinelli be -
fore she found attacker Maggi Hall. 
The sophomore cut to the cage for 
an acrobatic score, up and around 
two Dolphins defenders to extend the 
Gators’ lead, 4-1. 
The Dolphins ensured the Gators’ 
win was not easy, applying pressure 
coming out at the start of the second 
and third periods, scoring the first two goals of each quarter. The Dol -
phins first two conversions cut the 
deficit, 5-3. Florida pressed the issue 
even more, going on a 5-1 scoring run 
in the second quarter. 
With 7:28 remaining in the second 
period, Pavinelli made the most of a 
Dolphins turnover, scoring her third 
goal of the afternoon and 100th goal 
in her young Gator career. She added 
two more goals the rest of the game, 
enough for 72 this season.
The Gators headed into halftime 
with a 10-4 lead. 
“I owe it all to my teammates, I 
couldn't have done it without them,” 
Pavinelli said. “It means so much to 
me, and every single person I played 
with on the field has done so much to 
get me there.”
Still within striking distance,12-8, Jacksonville could not muster enough 
scoring opportunities to close the gap. 
Just under 4 minutes left until the fi -
nal buzzer, JU's head coach Mindy 
McCord called over goalkeeper Paige 
Pagano to add an additional scorer. 
The desperate attempt to add a fa -
vorable advantage was futile as Flor -
ida goalkeeper Sarah Reznick stood 
firm to end the Dolphins season, tal -
lying 12 saves on the day. 
“[Reznick] has lived up to every 
expectation and exceeded all expec -
tations,” O’Leary said. “I think she’s 
not only a dominant player on the 
field, but just such a leader in the 
locker room, off the field.”
Florida will face off against the 
No. 2-seed Maryland Terrapins. Ear -
lier this year on Feb. 26, UF fell to 
Maryland 18-8. 
Opening draw between Florida 
and Maryland is set for Thursday, the 
time is yet to be announced. 
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.orgSEC fans flock to Gainesville, delighted by Florida’s softball culture
Florida Gators lacrosse advances to quarterfinals   Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
The Florida Gators softball team prepares for a Sunday matchup against the Alabama 
Crimson Tide on April 10, 2022. Florida fell in the semifinals of the Southeastern 
Conference T ournament Friday.
The No. 8 Gators lacrosse team dispatched the Jacksonville Dolphins, adding to a 15-game winning streak12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 16, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREBASEBALL
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
To say Florida baseball has 
struggled with consistency would 
be an understatement to Gator 
faithful. Joined by the typically 
grueling Southeastern Conference 
schedule, the Gators’ shortcom -
ings this season resulted in the 
team’s worst conference record 
since 2019.
This past weekend’s series 
against Missouri perfectly exem -
plified those struggles. 
Florida (32-18, 13-14) defeated 
the Tigers (26-21, 8-18) 4-3 Sun -
day in a victory much too close 
for comfort. 
The Gators arrived in Colum -
bia, Missouri, and got to work 
quickly Friday. After going down 
1-0 out of the gates in the first in -
ning, Florida responded with 13 
runs en route to a dominant win 
over the Tigers. The offensive ex -
plosion and clean bullpen work 
looked to be promising signs for 
the rest of the weekend.
Saturday didn’t exactly meet 
UF’s expectations.
The Gators entered with a solid 
start, grabbing an early 3-1 lead 
thanks to a trio of RBIs from red -shirt junior catcher BT Riopelle. 
Florida looked to be inching to -
wards the series-clinching victory 
before a three-RBI homer from 
Mizzou’s Trevor Austin brought 
the Tigers ahead by one.UF’s sluggish play from there 
led to a 5-3 defeat and set up a 
Sunday afternoon rubber match.
The low scoring energy from 
Saturday carried over. Through 
the first three innings, neither team could get on the board, with 
Florida snagging just one hit. UF 
redshirt sophomore right-handed 
pitcher Nick Pogue got in an early 
groove on the mound. The Mel -
bourne, Florida, native allowed 
zero hits, threw five strikeouts 
and recorded three 1-2-3 innings. 
The game began to crack open 
in the bottom of the fourth. Pogue 
allowed his first hit, a single-shot 
home run once again coming off the bat of Austin. 
His second hit allowed? Anoth -
er homerun. Pogue allowed one 
more double before finally getting 
out of the early jam.
Florida responded emphatical -
ly the next frame, as sophomore 
shortstop Josh Rivera blasted 
a two-run shot into left field to 
bring the score even at 2-2. Pogue 
got back in his groove, sitting 
three straight batters once more 
to close the fifth.
From there, it was all Gators. 
Junior infielder Kris Armstrong 
recorded his third hit of the day, 
driving in two runs to give the 
Gators a 4-2 lead. Pogue let up 
one more run, but freshmen Blake 
Purnell and Ryan Slater took the 
mound in relief to earn the save 
and the Gators’ win. 
With Sunday’s victory, Florida 
has won three straight confer -
ence series and nine of its last 11 
games.
Next up, UF heads home for 
the final game against Florida 
State Tuesday. Florida defeated 
its in-state rival 6-3 in the initial 
matchup, followed by a 5-0 loss 
to the ‘Noles April 12 in Tallahas -
see. 
First pitch is set for 7 p.m. and 
the game will be broadcast on the 
SEC Network.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgGators escape with series victory over Mizzou
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
Redshirt sophomore Nick Pogue pitches in a March 10, 2020, matchup against Florida State. 
Pogue worked 6.2 innings in the Sunday victory over Missouri.
Florida won the series clincher by just one run Sunday