Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
AN AFRICAN AMERICAN 
HISTORY COURSE 
PROMISES BLACK 
HISTORY EDUCATION TO 
HIGHSCHOOLERS
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County Public 
Schools’ curriculum promises 
Black history education to extend 
beyond the month of February and 
the few names repeated in history 
textbooks. However, not every 
classroom fulfills this promise. 
The state awarded ACPS 
an exemplary title in 2021 for 
outstanding African American 
studies curriculum, K-12 social 
studies curriculum specialist Jon Rehm said. 
ACPS set a goal in 2018 to build 
an exemplary African American 
studies curriculum because more 
than a third of its students are 
Black, Rehm said. The district spent 
most of 2019 and the beginning of 
2020 creating a curriculum that 
includes education from Ancient 
Africa to slavery to abolition and 
centers contributions of African 
Americans in areas like art, 
literature and science. 
The curriculum gives K-12 
teachers pre-made guides with 
suggested material, Rehm said. 
Educators retain creative freedom 
and can go beyond those units 
while sticking to the district-wide 
curriculum at each grade level. 
ACPS also offers African American History, an elective 
available at each high school in 
Alachua County. Students who 
take this course get a deeper 
understanding than in an ordinary 
history class.
African American History has 
not always been an accessible 
course. Prior to the new African 
American studies curriculum that 
earned the exemplary title, only 
one high school — Eastside — 
offered the elective. 
Now, each high school has 
one section of the course, and 
each section averages about 25 
students. Eastside, which tends 
to be the district’s largest school, 
typically has two sections. 
“I think we’re having a 
much more robust conversation 
throughout all of our schools 
because of this curriculum,” Rehm 
said.  
Although the curriculum 
earned the title of exemplary, the 
teachers still decide what’s taught 
in their classrooms.
Gaps in Black history education exist 
Students who enroll in the 
African American History elective 
get a deeper understanding of 
Black history through literature, 
film and reflective assignments. 
However, students in elementary 
school, middle school or regular 
history classes still miss out. 
The district can monitor how 
many teachers access Black 
history classroom materials via  
Google Drive. The district also 
conducts school administration 
walkthroughs to ensure students 
learn the material. Despite these assessments, 
some parents don’t believe their 
children are receiving an adequate 
understanding of their own 
history. 
Derora Williams, a parent 
of a second grader and fifth 
grader at Carolyn Beatrice Parker 
Elementary School, said her 
children learn the same names 
every February: Martin Luther 
King, Jr., Rosa Parks and Harriet 
Tubman.
The district’s curriculum 
designates Black history in 
second grade to focus on the 
influence of Africa on North 
American Culture through map 
labeling and topics like tradition 
comparisons. It recommends fifth 
grade classrooms focus on topics 
like the triangular trade and 
famous African Americans in the 
American Revolution.
However, the few figures 
Williams’ children have learned 
about don’t relate to these topics. 
Williams said their knowledge 
of Black history is limited to the 
month of February. 
Carolyn Beatrice Parker 
Elementary’s principal Kelly 
Brill Jones said Black History 
Month is important to her school 
community.
“February is designated Black 
History Month which provides 
our teachers with a time to more 
closely focus on the achievements, 
contributions and struggles of 
Black Americans,” Jones wrote in 
an email.
Carolyn Beatrice Parker 
Elementary is named in honor of 
a female Black physicist, which creates opportunities throughout 
the school year to weave Black 
history into classrooms, Jones 
wrote. 
She conducts formal and 
informal observations of the 
teachers and said she is confident 
they follow the state’s benchmarks 
and district pacing guides. 
Because the school has an ESOL 
program, teaching and embracing 
the history, heritage and culture of 
diverse populations is an integral 
part of the school climate.
However, Williams, a program 
coordinator for the Alachua 
County School Board and former 
eighth grade language arts 
teacher, believes her children’s 
Black history education is lacking.  
“I made sure that I extended 
[Black history] beyond just a 
month,” Williams said of her 
time as a teacher. “Because I 
wanted my students to know and 
recognize that there’s so many 
contributions and so many things 
that they should know.”
What is taught depends on the 
teacher, Buchholz High School’s 
African American History teacher 
Jessica Morey said. 
“If I were to describe the 
county as a whole, I’m sure it’s 
a total hodgepodge,” Morey said. 
“Because it’s honestly what the 
teacher brings to the class.”’
T eachers put their spin 
on the curriculum
Educators are granted creative 
freedom with the district’s 
curriculum, and African American 
History teachers take advantage of 
RESIDENTS REMICISE ON THEIR 
COMMUNITY BEFORE STUDENT 
HOUSING MOVED IN
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
When Denise Burton returned to Porters 
Quarters in 2011, the landmarks that once 
guided her were gone. Burton, who left in 
1980 for Georgia with her husband, called 
a friend asking why she couldn’t find the 
Alachua General Hospital, a mile marker 
she used to get around.
UF demolished the hospital in 2010, a 
year before she returned. 
The new additions to her community 
were just as surprising. 
While growing up, there was no Sixth 
Street. There were no fire hydrants. The 
gravel roads that shook her car as she 
drove were replaced with paved ones. 
“The roads in my neighborhood were 
rocks and sand, not even asphalt,” Burton 
said. “So when I drove up here … it was 
a smooth ride. I’m like, when did this 
happen?”
Although Burton admitted this 
development in Porters was a necessity 
and good to return to, a lot of recent changes weren’t welcomed by the 
community. Burton, along with other 
Porters residents, said it’s important that 
further development be responsible and 
consider the wants and needs of residents.
According to a 2018 UF project called 
Architecture Against Gentrification, 
Porters Quarters was founded shortly after 
the Reconstruction era in 1884 thanks to 
Dr. Watson Porters, a Canadian physician, 
who sold lots exclusively to African 
Americans. He hoped that the community 
would become self-sufficient. 
For a time, it was. 
Property developers are eager to expand 
into the neighborhood conveniently 
situated between UF, Depot Park and 
downtown. Gentrification has crept into 
Porters, stripping the neighborhood of its 
community businesses.
Burton, 65, spent most of her formative 
years in Gainesville. Her father moved 
their family from Louisiana to the Porters 
community when she was just 3 years old. 
At 24, after attending Santa Fe College 
and UF, she got married and hopped from 
Georgia to Germany to Indiana to Ohio.
When Burton returned a decade ago, 
two of her neighbors’ homes were gone. 
She talked to other community members about the changes and discovered 
developers were moving in. They had 
bought homes from families struggling 
with their property taxes or trying to get 
rid of the property. 
She began to understand what was 
happening to the Porters community: 
gentrification.
People from Canada, New York, New 
Jersey and California have called her asking 
to buy homes in Porters, she said, but she 
believes the developers are approaching it 
in the wrong way. Some of the homes sold 
went for less than $260,000, she said. 
“If you’re going to buy the property, 
let’s be a little bit more giving of the money 
because you’re going to make millions off 
of this area,” Burton said.
Gentrification caused by a need for 
student housing makes sense, but it 
shouldn’t displace another group of 
people, she said. 
The apartment complexes being built 
are not for the residents of that community, 
said Michael Hill, a 26-year-old UF history 
senior. 
Studentification, a term used for 
gentrification in college towns, is 
happening everywhere in Gainesville. 
Developers believe in induced demand theory, which means if they build an 
apartment complex, students will come, 
Hill said.
The zoning laws in Porters designate it 
as a residential multifamily five, meaning 
that duplexes, triplexes and quadruplexes 
can be built there.
“I think that what the city should do 
is change the zoning to RC, which is 
residential conservation,” Hill said. “So 
that means that people can’t go in there, 
buy the existing homes, demo them and 
then build some monstrosity, because 
that’s what the issue is.”
City Commissioners seek solutions to support 
Porters Quarters 
City Commissioner Desmon Duncan-
Walker and Interim City Manager Cynthia 
Curry held a meeting Feb. 21 at the Shady 
Grove Primitive Baptist Church to discuss 
solutions for the problems the Porters 
community faces.
The elimination of affordable housing in 
Seminary Lane is a prime example of how 
UF, simply due to its proximity, prompts 
the construction of student housing, she 
said.Alachua County schools’ Black history education extends beyond February
Porters Quarters reckons with gentrification
SEE PORTERS,  PAGE 15SEE ACPS AAH,  PAGE 14Emma Behrmann / / Alligator Staff
Jessica Morey, Buchholz High School history teacher, poses for 
a portrait inside of her classroom on Thursday, Feb. 17. She said 
she’s passionate about teaching African history and working 
with diverse groups of students.
We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Students don’t know enough Black history
Professors push for more resources,  pg. 10
Special Edition: Living History
The editorial board explains this issue of The Alligator , pg. 4Black county leaders incite change
Black women are at the fore,  pg. 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 25
BLACK WOMEN FACE 
MISTREATMENT AND 
DISCRIMINATION IN THE 
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
When Julia Rainer had her first 
daughter, she felt silenced. 
When she asked questions, they 
were ignored. When she brought 
up natural birth, she was told she 
couldn’t handle it. As a young, 
Black mother, she was never asked 
for her consent and her thoughts 
were never considered.
“I feel like I was robbed of the 
experience of it being beautiful be -
cause I had to be on edge advocat -
ing for myself,” Rainer said. 
Rainer isn’t the only one to ex -
perience neglect as a new mother. 
Mistreatment is especially preva -
lent among Black mothers, who are 
often viewed through stereotypical 
lenses as sassy or aggressive, she 
said.
“I don’t think that our wishes 
are always respected,” she said. “It 
always seems like we’re just asking 
for too much or doing too much. 
I think that we’re also expected to 
be stronger as Black women. When 
we’re hurting or when we are in 
pain, it’s not taken seriously.”
Her experience pushed Rainer to 
take action to ensure other moth -
ers didn’t experience what she 
had. She began researching doulas, 
professional labor assistants who 
provide prenatal, birth and post -
partum care. Rainer became certi -
fied about five years ago. She has 
assisted 15 births since.
This mistreatment of Black 
women is a small part of a larger 
healthcare issue, seeping into the 
foundation of systemic marginal -ization and discrimination. 
Black women experience excess 
mortality compared to other wom -
en in the U.S., including a shorter 
life expectancy and higher rates of 
maternal mortality, according to 
the Journal of Women’s Health. 
They are three times more likely to 
die from pregnancy-related causes 
than white women, according to 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. 
They are also disproportionately 
affected by chronic conditions like 
cardiovascular disease and obesity.
In Alachua County, Black peo -
ple face disproportionate access to 
health care, due to a smaller por -
tion of the population having in -
surance coverage or transportation 
compared to other populations, 
according to a 2018 report by the 
Bureau of Economic and Business 
Research.
In July 2020, Melissa White, a 
Black Gainesville mother, hired 
Rainer for her fifth childbirth. Hav -
ing a doula changed her birthing 
experience, she said.
During White’s second child -
birth, she felt decisions were made 
without her consideration. She 
wasn’t talked to about her first epi -
dural, and she felt like she didn’t 
have choices.
However, Rainer guided White 
through her options and supported 
her decisions. She taught her and 
her boyfriend breathing and com -
fort techniques.
“I felt secure, like I was going to 
be okay,” she said. “If something 
went wrong, she knew what to 
do.”
White believes Rainer’s knowl -
edge and blackness can have a 
huge impact on mothers who 
are nervous about hospital birth. Gainesville Doula fights for Black mothers’ voices
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
SEE DOULA,  PAGE 11WITH SFC STUDENTS BACK 
ON CAMPUS, PRESIDENT 
BROADIE’S EFFORTS TO 
COMBAT INEQUITY IS MORE 
IMPORTANT THAN EVER
By Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
 
When Santa Fe President Paul 
Broadie came into office in Feb. 
2020, he promised for his first 
100 days he would do nothing 
but listen.
He walked around campus meeting with faculty and staff, 
asking about the challenges, the 
real issues, the ugly. 
At Broadie’s inauguration, he 
promised to shatter equity gaps, 
enhance workforce development 
initiatives and help as many 
people as possible get a college 
education. He used these goals 
to guide his initial conversations 
with the SFC community.
But when COVID-19 shut 
down the college in the middle 
of March, Broadie’s initial goals 
took back seat to pandemic prob -lems, Broadie said.
“You come in with all these, 
with goals, and you have to 
stay focused on those goals,” he 
said. “But at the same time, as 
a president, you have to be able 
to pivot.”
Two years later, the diversity 
at SFC remains almost identical 
to what it was when he arrived 
一 with a Black population hover -
ing at about 12%. With SFC in-
person again, the issues Broadie 
once aimed to tackle have resur -Despite strides for equity, 
Santa Fe College diversity stagnates
SEE SANTA FE,  PAGE 11T oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 25
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT
Tarot Consultations & Mindset Coaching
IG: @goldlotustarotBlack history is 
Gainesville history. 
Black history is not 
just the names of dead 
figures in textbooks. 
It is not just black and white 
photos. It is not just regurgitated 
trauma documentaries of the 
same three people for 28 days. 
And it should not be sidelined 
for the other 337 days of the 
year. 
Black history is alive. 
Our city’s Black population 
has been ignored for years. It is 
time that we celebrate history as 
it happens in real time and bring 
shadowed stories to light.
We took this month to 
showcase “Living History,” a 
special project that examines the 
untold history of those before us 
and the history occurring on the 
streets of the city today. 
We wanted to share the stories 
of those who are living through 
historical events now, as well as 
those who experienced critical 
periods like integration.
They are, in a sense, living 
historical figures.  
The oldest living resident 
of Porter’s Quarters, Janie 
Williams, 83, spoke with us 
about the neighborhood she’d 
known as a child changing in 
the face of gentrification. We 
shared her stories about closed businesses, abandoned homes 
and suddenly unsafe streets.
Gainesville residents who 
lived through a segregated 
city shared their stories of 
discrimination and hardship 
with us. They showed us the 
bright parts of their lives, 
painting a picture of a tight-
knit Black community, friendly 
streets and family farms. 
We shared the stories 
of Black women who were 
tired of discrimination in the 
birthing process and decided 
to do something about it. We 
talked to teachers who ditched 
an outdated curriculum and 
replaced it with lesson plans 
that featured hidden heroes. 
Our city is going through a 
major demographic shift with 
the rise of gentrification. UF and 
its students expand their reach 
— beyond the campus borders 
and straight to the heart of many 
Black neighborhoods. 
Gainesville is — as always —  
living through history. 
One of our stories delves 
into a historic figure at Santa 
Fe College, Paul Broadie, SFC’s 
first Black president. Elected 
two years ago, Broadie had 
major goals but was handed 
a pandemic. While making 
progress on some fronts, Black 
students have remained a substantial minority on campus.
Some of the subjects of our 
stories are no longer living. 
Neil Butler, Gainesville’s first 
Black City Commissioner and 
Mayor, died in 1992. His family 
holds his often overlooked 
contribution to local history 
near their hearts. His daughter, 
son and niece tell the stories of 
his bravery as a Black politician 
during Reconstruction and 
kindness as a father.
This project is dedicated 
to the people of living history 
who shared their stories. Please 
accept your roses while you’re 
still here.Living History: Shining a light on shadowed storiesEditorial
Anna Wilder
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORSara Lindsay
OPINIONS
EDITORAsta Hemenway
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORLianna Hubbard
EDITOR-IN-
CHIEFMONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
THE CIVIL RIGHTS 
MOVEMENT OF THE 1960S 
AND ‘70S CHANGED THE 
CITY’S RACIAL ATMOSPHERE, 
BUT THE FIGHT FOR EQUAL 
RIGHTS IS STILL ONGOING 
By Carissa Allen and 
Eileen Calub
Alligator Staff Writers
For Paula Sanders, home is a 
quaint one-story, white and red 
accented cinder block house. It’s 
been home for 54 years.
Growing up, she was neighbors 
with Gainesville legends like Judge 
Stephan P. Mickle, the first Black 
federal judge in the First District 
Court of Appeal, and Dr. Cullen 
W. Banks, the first Black person 
with full practicing privileges at 
Alachua General Hospital, which 
was torn down in 2009.
She still lives in her 
childhood home in Lincoln 
Estates, a southeast Gainesville 
neighborhood rich with history. 
It was a model for Black equitable 
access to home ownership amid 
the civil rights movement.
“I know where it came from,” 
Sanders said. “I know what it was 
built from. I know the foundation.”
Over the decades, she has 
watched the city integrate while 
erasing the prominent Black 
culture that once thrived. 
“The true trailblazers are no 
longer here,” she said.In response, multigenerational 
Gainesville residents must take 
it upon themselves to preserve 
their heritage through food, 
photographs and oral histories. 
For some Black residents, they 
experienced the hasty integration 
of schools and the inequitable 
transformation of the city. 
In 1967, Paula Sanders was 
born into a Gainesville where 
racial tensions were high and 
integration was in its early 
stages. The 54-year-old is a fifth 
generation Gainesville resident. 
She attended P.K. Yonge, a K-12 
school, surrounded predominantly 
by white people, she said. When 
she came home, though, her life 
was “very Black”  —  friends, 
family, church and the all-Black 
restaurant she frequented.
She spent weekends roller 
skating with friends at the speed 
rink in northeast Gainesville, 
she said. Over spring break, she 
participated in a dance contest in a 
large annual “sport-a-thon” event 
hosted for thousands of Black 
students in Gainesville.
“It was like the Olympics of 
the best athletes from all the 
Gainesville schools,” she added. 
“This gave us a time to come 
together and celebrate us.”
Growing up in a transitional 
period in United States history, 
Sanders remembers subtle changes 
in Black residents’ lifestyles 
during the civil rights movement 
in Gainesville.Sanders recalled regularly 
walking up to the front door of 
her grandfather’s shoe store on 
the corner of Main Street and First 
Avenue, greeted by the pungent 
smell of shoe dye. When she 
was young, shining shoes was a 
service predominantly provided 
to white people. She noticed Black 
businessmen visitedbegan to visit 
the store more regularly as she 
grew older, though.
“As time went on and I grew 
up, you noticed that the climate of 
the store changed,” she said.
When Sanders attended UF as 
a student in the 1990s, she was 
enrolled in a small, predominately 
white program in the College of 
Health and Human Performance. 
She felt isolated pursuing her 
degree. 
“You got to choose: ‘Am I 
going to hang out with the Black 
students, am I going to hang 
out with the white students or 
am I going to hang out with the 
students that are going to help 
me get my degree and get out of 
school?’” she asked. “It was very, 
very segregated.”
Her father, Bill “Willie” 
Sanders, was the first Black 
faculty member in the UF College 
of Medicine. He started working 
for the Health Science Center in 
1957, a year before the university 
integrated. Students thought he 
was a janitor, his daughter said.
After working as an anatomy 
lab technician at the university for a few years, he applied to become 
an undergraduate student. His 
application was denied because of 
his race, Sanders said.
In 1962, Willie became one of 
the first six Black undergraduate 
students to be accepted into UF.
“He was often overlooked, 
ignored, disrespected by students, 
even though he had on the white 
lab coat,” she added. “They just 
didn’t think he was supposed to 
be in that place. They weren’t 
ready for that.”
Willie faced unbelievable 
stories of blatant discrimination 
outside of UF’s campus, Sanders 
said. Her father told stories about 
his drives to South Florida to 
fetch cadavers for white medical 
students to practice on.
“He would always get stopped 
because he was a Black man 
driving a refrigerated truck,” she 
said. “And it was nine times out of 
10 the same freakin’ cop.”
Willie Sanders had to prove 
his intelligence for white students 
and faculty to respect him. Now, 
the university and faculty honor 
his legacy with a scholarship 
dedicated to making significant 
contributions to a diverse student 
body.
He’s also celebrated by Paula 
and her family every Father’s Day 
in her childhood home. Her family 
gathers to admire old pictures of 
him, teach younger generations 
about his legacy and enjoy soul 
food together. Sanders hosts most annual 
family holiday gatherings in her 
childhood home: Easter, Fourth of 
July, you name it.
“This is our home,” she said. 
“This is where we belong.”
At least 12 other houses line 
Sanders’ street, and each has been 
occupied by the same family for 
about 50 years. Her neighbors are 
her tribe — a community within a 
community.
From the first to the last block 
in her neighborhood, Sanders 
knew every resident. Now, she 
said, it’s not quite the same. 
Low-income white families are 
moving into Black neighborhoods. 
Sanders said her neighborhood 
welcomes and accepts everyone 
in the Lincoln Estates community, 
but the newcomers isolate 
themselves and do not interact 
much with the old-timers.
She said East and West 
Gainesville are two different cities. 
As UF consumes more of 
Gainesville, historically Black 
neighborhoods dwindle. 
UF history professor Steven 
Noll grapples with a Gainesville 
where remnants of a racist past 
endure — in Gainesville’s schools, 
neighborhoods and history.
In Gainesville and the South, 
white developers are continuing 
to impede on and carve up Black 
land, Noll said. Black settlements 
and land ownership in northwest 
Gainesville near Millhopper 
Road have been reduced and 
replaced with upscale housing 
developments.
These complexes are “built on 
the backs of Black labor” following 
the fight for land ownership during 
the Jim Crow era, Noll said. 
“To say: ‘Oh no, we’re past that’ 
is putting our heads in the sand,” 
he said. “We’ve got a ways to go 
still, and I think it’s important to 
understand that.”
Otis Stover, a 70-year-old 
fourth generation resident, said 
these changes have led to further 
disconnect with his family’s 
history. 
Stover lives in East Gainesville 
in a neighborhood called 
Kincaid Road — about two 
miles away from his childhood 
neighborhood. He and most East 
Gainesville residents have been 
firsthand witnesses to the “great 
gentrification” devastating the city 
and its Black culture.
Stover’s ties to Gainesville 
began with a covered wagon — 
transportation that carried his 
ancestors from South Carolina to 
Fort White, then Crystal River and 
finally Gainesville in the thick of 
Reconstruction.
He cherishes documentation 
that recognizes his great-
grandparents settled in the city 
and purchased land around 1904, 
though he believes his roots 
in Gainesville date back to the 
1890s. Today, his children and 
grandchildren continue their 
Gainesville lineage.
As a child living in a segregated 
Gainesville in the late 1950s, there 
were boundaries Stover quickly 
learned not to cross. He recalled 
countless instances where he ‘This is our home’: multigenerational residents recount the evolution of a segregated Gainesville
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Sanders Family left to right: Paula, Billy, Pauletta, Bill “Willie.” Garlenda Greene-Grant’s grandfather lived on an about 100-acre 
property in West Gainesville. Her family has been in Gainesville since 1903.
SEE GENERATIONS,  PAGE 166   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
NEIL BUTLER SR.’S FAMILY 
AND FRIENDS REMEMBER 
HIS REVOLUTIONARY STORY, 
DESPITE HISTORY BEING 
LOST BY SOME AMONG THE 
GENERAL PUBLIC
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
With his lip lifted up to the 
side and a bright twinkle in his 
eye, Neil Butler Sr. ran around 
Downtown Gainesville in a fresh, 
white nurse suit. Despite always 
being in a rush to get somewhere, 
he stopped to talk to anyone who 
said hello.
He was a people person. 
Butler was elected into the city 
commission in 1969, becoming 
the first Black man elected to the 
body since Reconstruction, an era 
marked by post Civil War oppor -
tunities. Later, in 1971, he became 
the first Black Mayor to hold that 
office in 100 years. However, he 
wanted to be remembered for who 
he was rather than being the first.
Butler sent shockwaves 
throughout the city when he won 
the City Commission election. His 
daughter, Annette Butler-Johnson, 
68, was in high school at the time 
and remembers feeling immense 
pride for her father. 
“When he was elected, the city 
of Gainesville was 80% white,” 
Butler-Johnson said.
“That’s a major accomplish -
ment for a Black man to come in 
and win an election with an 80% 
white community.” 
Butler was born in Orange 
Heights, Florida, in 1928 and was 
raised during a time when segre -
gation dominated society. He had 
to use the bathroom in the base -
ment of the courthouse because 
Black people were not allowed to 
use public facilities.He was a World War II combat 
veteran and spent time on Oki -
nawa Island. After his service, he 
studied at Morris Brown College 
in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Butler was a strong believer 
in education and reinforced that 
belief in his children. When But -
ler-Johnson and her nine siblings 
asked him what a word meant, he 
encouraged them to use their dic -
tionaries.
“He would say ‘Get your dic -
tionary, look it up and you will re -
member it more. If you look it up 
and read it, you’re more prone to 
remember it than if I just tell you 
what it is,’” Butler-Johnson said.
Butler pushed his children to 
stand up for themselves and work 
hard for the things they were  pas -
sionate about. One of his sons, 
Danny Butler, built a car with his 
father for a Soap Box Derby com -
petition when he was a young Boy 
Scout. 
The car needed a sponsor, so 
Butler took Danny to the Sun Bank 
to pitch the car. Danny, now 61 
years old, remembers the experi -
ence as one of his fondest memo -
ries of his father.
“That’s the kind of person he 
was,” Danny said. “He wouldn’t 
go do it for you. He would want 
you to do it for yourself and you 
would learn from it.” 
Coincidentally, Danny won a 
mock election at his school at the 
same time his father won the 1969 
city commission election. 
While working two full-time 
jobs, Neil Butler Sr. attended a 
practical nursing class, which was 
operated by the Alachua County 
Board of Education, in 1964. A 
year later, he enrolled in UF’s Col -
lege of Nursing. 
He faced probation at one point 
in his studies, but by the time he 
graduated he made the dean’s list. He earned a bachelor’s and a mas -
ter’s degree in nursing.
He was the only Black male 
student in the Graduate School 
of Nursing at the UF, according 
to a 1971 edition of Ebony Maga -
zine. He was also the first African 
American male to graduate from 
the college, Danny said. 
Butler served as a city commis -
sioner until 1971 when he became 
mayor. During this time, he was 
surrounded by controversy over 
allegations that Butler committed 
a felony.
Butler pleaded guilty to mail 
embezzlement of $9 while living 
in Atlanta in 1959. The conviction 
placed Butler on probation for two 
years, and he lost his right to hold 
office.
In 1972, The Sun published an 
article about the charge.
The day after publishing, Butler 
resigned from his position as May -
or. However, the Florida Board 
of Pardons restored his rights on 
Dec. 16, 1971. 
Butler grew up in church, 
and his community at Mt. Olive 
A.M.E. Church tried to look past 
the incident. Vivian Filer, 83, the 
CEO of the Cotton Club Museum 
and Cultural Center and a now-
retired professor of nursing, was a 
member of the church at the time 
of Butler’s election and described 
their community as close-knit. Ev -
erybody knew each other.
Filer believes the crime was ei -
ther made up or embellished. Dur -
ing this period in American histo -
ry, crimes were fabricated for the 
purpose of targeting Black people.
“That’s not the Neil we know,” 
Filer said. “We knew the real Neil 
so we knew that wouldn’t have 
been something that he would 
do.”
Filer recalls how the church 
celebrated Butler’s election for 
days. He was its pride and joy.
“We talked about it. We spread 
the news. We congratulated him. 
He was constant in our conversa -
tion,” Filer said. “To me, he knew 
a lot about politics, about life, 
about laws, about whatever he 
put his hand to, he perfected and 
that to me was inspirational.”
Butler faced many instances of 
discrimination during his terms as 
mayor and city commissioner. 
Butler-Johnson was in constant 
fear for her father’s life. Martin 
Luther King Jr. was killed when 
she was in elementary school. The 
fear her father could be murdered 
in the same way was always in the 
back of her mind. 
“Him being in that position, 
there was always a chance that 
somebody might try to hurt him 
or to do something,” she said. 
Butler received death threats 
that his home would be shot up, 
Danny said. His father would 
sleep on the floor of their home at 
night to guard the house. 
“He knew going into it that he 
would be facing adversity, but it 
was something that he felt had to 
be done and that he needed to do because there were underrepre -
sented people,” Danny said, “And 
he felt he could do something to 
change that.” 
Butler’s niece Ayesha Solomon, 
42, recalls being told by one of his 
children that they feared he would 
be killed by the white men. Solo -
mon doesn’t have memories with 
her uncle but learned about him 
through family stories. 
“My relatives shared with me 
that he was a man who lived a 
very purposeful life,” she said. 
“Uncle Neil was all about helping 
all people.”
Through research, Solomon dis -
covered details about Butler’s leg -
acy and was incredibly impressed 
by his return to Gainesville poli -
tics after the embezzlement con -
troversy.
In 1972, Butler was declared 
eligible for the March city com -
mission race. Forty-five days after 
Butler resigned, he was elected 
back onto the city commission 
and carried 56% of the vote, ac -
cording to an article by The Sun. 
He served as a City Commissioner 
until 1974 when he was appointed 
to his second term as Mayor-Com -
missioner.
Butler tackled many issues dur -
ing his time as Mayor and City 
Commissioner, including inequal -
ity, utility rates and city struc -
ture. He paved dirt roads in Black 
neighborhoods. He also initiated a 
minority recruiting program that 
increased the number of Black 
firefighters and police officers.
Butler considered continuing 
his career into the Florida Legis -
lature. The Hatch Political Activi -
ties Act prohibited federal employ -
ees from participating in political 
campaigns. Butler’s job at the 
Gainesville VA Medical Center 
made him a federal employee.
To this day, Filer attends Mt. 
Olive A.M.E. Church and greets 
Butler’s children. Filer remembers 
Butler as an inspiration, someone 
who paved the way and changed 
her world. 
“I think people like Neil and 
others doing that kind of work 
certainly was inspirational to all 
of us, who were in the field trying 
to make a difference and facing all 
of the harassment and everything 
that was going on,” Filer said.
Butler-Johnson and Solomon 
followed Butler’s legacy through 
different fields. Butler-Johnson 
became a licensed practical nurse. 
Butler told her to continue her 
education to become a registered 
nurse but she decided against the 
idea.
“I worked as an LPN at the VA 
until my pay scale couldn’t go up 
any higher so I still had to work. 
Why not go back to school?” But -
ler-Johnson said.  “And I thought 
about it and I said ‘Lord if I’d just 
listened to my dad, I’d be way be -
yond this point right now.’”
Solomon became the first Black 
property appraiser for Alachua 
County and first Black female 
property appraiser in Florida. “If Neil Butler was here today, I 
think his advice to me would be to 
focus on your purpose,” Solomon 
said. “My primary objective is to 
be great at serving the community 
and if I so happen to make history 
then so it is.”
Solomon, Butler-Johnson and 
Danny Butler all passed down 
their stories to their children. They 
hope that he won’t be forgotten.
“It’s required to know that 
that’s your lineage and that’s your 
history,” Danny said, “And that 
someone was bold enough to step 
out on those ledges in times when 
it wasn’t very easy to do so.” 
Butler-Johnson asked the chil -
dren at her church about impact -
ful Black leaders. They all knew 
who Martin Luther King Jr. was 
but when she asked them about 
Butler, the room grew silent.
“That’s so important because 
if we don’t pass it onto our chil -
dren and they pass it onto their 
children, he’ll get lost in the lime -
light,” Butler-Johnson said. “I 
think a lot of times he has gotten 
lost in the limelight.”
Butler-Johnson was disheart -
ened to hear Gainesville children 
were unaware of Butler’s legacy 
but felt hope knowing that one of 
Butler’s grandchildren would be 
giving a presentation Feb. 27 on 
his impact at Agape Faith Center 
Ministries.
“I want to make sure that they 
know who he was, and how in -
strumental he was in doing so 
much for the city of Gainesville 
and the community,” Butler-John -
son said.
Solomon believes that 
Gainesville does not do enough to 
celebrate his legacy. She feels that 
there should be a street or build -
ing named after him.
“I wish that Gainesville did a 
better job of acknowledging the 
strides that we’ve made in Black 
history by reminding the commu -
nity of great leaders who served 
before us,” she said. “What does 
that really mean if you don’t cel -
ebrate it, acknowledge it, or honor 
it?”
Despite Gainesville’s lack of 
commemoration for Butler’s lega -
cy, he lives on in the community 
as someone who truly changed the 
city. He wanted to be remembered 
as a strong father, accomplished 
nurse and inclusive leader. 
Butler passed away in 1992 at 
the age of 64. He died of a heart 
attack while attending a friend’s 
wedding anniversary. His legacy 
and impact went beyond his polit -
ical achievements. Butler touched 
the lives of everyone he met. 
“Sometimes one wonders how 
you survive when you’re faced 
with those obstacles, but you 
never give up,” Butler said in 
an archived article by The Sun. 
“Little by little I got more resilient 
by facing those troubles, and that 
strengthened me in the long run.”
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgFirst Black Gainesville mayor since Reconstruction continues legacy through family
Courtesy to The Alligator
Neil Butler’s 1969 campaign ad for city commissioner, pulled 
from Matheson Museum archives.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
Faces of Black Alachua County leaders
Rae Riiska / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Courtney Moore Taylor, African American studies lecturer and faculty adviser for Sankofa Society, speaks 
to members of the Sankofa African American Studies Society on Wednesday, Feb. 23. The club aims to 
support the African American studies program through alumni networking and professional development. 
“To showcase Black learning showcases the possibility that we all as human beings have to excel,” Taylor said.Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Evelyn Foxx, president of the Alachua County Branch of the 
NAACP, poses for a portrait in front of Gainesville City Hall on 
Thursday, Feb. 17. Foxx attended the swearing in ceremony of 
newly elected City Commissioner Cynthia Chestnut. “Personally, 
I celebrate Black History Month 12 months of the year because 
our history is very important.” Foxx said. “I am also very disturbed 
that Black history is not being taught in Alachua County.”
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Roberta Conyers, a Gainesville-based artist, poses with her artwork at the Black Arts & Food 
Market hosted by Student Government’s Change Party outside of the A Rai of Sunshine Thrift  
Store on Saturday, Feb. 19. Her art often centers around all aspects of Black life. “I just want to 
inspire others to create and do what they are passionate about,” Conyers said.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Rachel Grant, UF assistant professor of journalism, poses for a 
portrait in her office at Weimer Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 8. She teaches 
Media, Cultures and Identity — a required journalism major class 
that centers around race, gender and diversity and inclusion topics. 
Grant was the sixth African American to earn her Ph.D from the 
Missouri School of Journalism. “It’s not typical to see people who 
look like me in these positions because of some of the challenges 
we’ve had to overcome due to racism,” Grant said. “I feel as if I am 
helping shape the minds of future communicators.”
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Tina Certain, Alachua County School Board member, poses for a portrait at her podium at the Alachua 
County School District on Wednesday, Feb. 15. Certain, who graduated from Gainesville High School 
and the UF with an accounting degree, is one of two African American women who serve on the School 
Board. “If you’ve seen someone who’s done it, it sparks in your mind that you can do it,” Certain said.Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff  
Cynthia Chestnut, 72, engages with members of the Gainesville 
community after her swearing-in as city commissioner on 
Thursday, Feb. 17. Chestnut was previously elected as the first 
Black, female city commissioner in 1987 and as mayor in 1989. “I 
promise to always listen to you,” Chestnut said at the ceremony. 
“I promise to hear the concerns of the people of Gainesville and 
advocate for them inside the walls of our City Hall.”
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Giovanna Mompremier, UF Student Body Treasurer, sits in her office inside the Reitz Union on Tuesday, 
Feb. 22. “Coming from a post-COVID atmosphere has brought back the overall celebration in knowing 
that we need to still continue to celebrate the strides and milestones that the Black students, faculty 
and Black community in Gainesville has done.” Mompremier said. “I’m just so happy being in this space 
where I can encourage others around me to support and celebrate Black History Month as well.”Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
  David Canton, director of UF’s African American Studies 
Department, teaches his History of Hip-Hop class in Turlington 
Hall on Wednesday, Feb. 16. “In my class we study the history of 
hip-hop music from an African American perspective. We explore 
the political — deindustrialization, technology and institutional 
racism — and cultural  — call and response, DJ’s and funk and 
disco music — forces that created a billion dollar industry.”
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
RIK STEVENSON SAYS UF 
STUDENTS DON’T KNOW 
BLACK HISTORY, HE WANTS 
TO CHANGE IT
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Rik Stevenson likes to challenge 
his students with questions each 
class: “Who is Claudette Colvin? 
How many slave ships remain un -
touched at the bottom of the ocean? 
Who is Bessie Coleman?”
Few students know the answers 
to these questions, signaling to the 
African American Studies profes -
sor that a bigger problem exists: UF 
students lack a proper education in 
African American history. 
“I just think that the under-edu -
cation of our student population is 
doing us much more harm than it 
does good,” Stevenson said.    
Stevenson uses a teaching meth -
odology called critical pedagogy, 
or teaching through inquiry. He 
frequently asks students questions 
about historical people and analyses 
only to find they have never heard 
of them. 
The main problem is that Black 
history is not traditionally taught as 
a part of American history, he said. 
This appears to be a problem that 
extends into the Alachua County 
public schools. Parents have voiced 
concerns about the lack of Black his -
tory integration despite the county 
having a state-recognized African 
American studies curriculum. 
At the individual level, he said 
taking the time you would spend on 
social media and redirecting that at -
tention to research would help close 
the gap of knowledge disparity. 
To combat this lack of education 
from the university level, Stevenson 
believes student advising should 
better market the courses that the 
African American Studies depart -
ment offers. 
“A student who sees African 
American history as integrated into 
the American history context has a 
better perspective of what it means 
to really be American,” he said.    
It is important to learn and ac -
knowledge our past, said Yasmine 
Adams, a 22-year-old English major 
with minors in African American 
Studies and anthropology. History in general is important to under -
stand the context of the present, she 
said.
Most of Adams’ professors in the 
African American Studies program 
are Black, she said, which provides 
an Afrocentric lens that regular his -
tory courses may not have.
“[The classes] are often taught 
from people who have experience 
in things that we are talking about,” 
she said. “I find that a lot of times 
my professors are very engaged and 
it’s very obvious that what they’re 
talking about is so important to 
them.”  
Roughly 73% of the professors 
in the African American Studies 
department are Black, while only 
about 8% are white, according to 
UF’s workforce database. 
There is also no fear the course 
will be whitewashed because Afri -
can American history is what it is, 
and the instructors teaching it are 
genuinely interested in uncovering 
the truth, Adams said. 
Adams feels African American 
history is not emphasized enough in 
UF’s education. Students either do 
not see it as important or the univer -
sity does not take the time to inform 
students about the courses they are 
offering, she said. 
“Our pursuit of Black history is 
because of our experiences,” she 
said. “So we feel the need to be in -
volved and be knowledgeable, but 
when it comes to the academy I 
don’t see that same interest.”
Approximately 79% of students 
majoring in African American Stud -
ies are Black and 6.5% are white, 
according to UF’s student enroll -
ment and demographics database.
The university does not require 
courses that teach African Ameri -
can studies and Black history, but 
its Quest program can expose stu -
dents to equitable courses as a part 
of their general education, said An -
gela Lindner, associate provost for 
undergraduate affairs. 
UF’s Quest courses examine dif -
ficult questions about the human 
condition in our changing world, 
according to the description on the 
program’s webpage. 
Quest replaced the “What is the 
Good Life” course in Spring 2019. It 
was clear that one course was not 
sufficient to create truly well-round -
ed students, Lindner said. Following the murder of George 
Floyd in 2020, the program request -
ed that professors propose courses 
about racism and antiracism.
These requests, she said, prompt -
ed courses like “Acting for Change,” 
“Black Women’s Work in Film,” 
“Dance, Race, Gender” and “Jour -
nalism, Justice and Civic Change,” 
which were offered this Spring. 
Courses like these are a start, Ste -
venson wrote in a text message.  
“I think initially there should 
be more course[s] that highlight 
African[s] before the Transatlantic 
Slave Trade,” he wrote.
UF added a second required 
course for its Quest program this 
year. The goal is to add an experi -
ential learning course by 2027, she 
said.
Lindner approves courses as the 
chair of the university curriculum 
committee and the general educa -
tion committee. But the commit -
tees have no say in course content. 
Instead, they examine the courses’ 
objectives, the weekly course sched -
ule, how students are being graded 
and if they are being graded fairly, 
she said. 
Course content is determined at 
the college and department level, 
she said. 
“The gen-ed committee doesn’t 
push for specific courses; that’s not 
the role of the committee,” she said. 
“We’re not going to tell them they 
can’t teach certain content; that’s 
just not our job. We are here to 
help.”  
UF’s curriculum changes always 
start with the faculty, she said, then 
the committees review their re -
quests to ensure they meet the stan -
dard guidelines. 
Both committees are made up of 
UF Faculty Senate members, mem -
bers appointed by the provost and 
representation from UF’s student 
government, which allows students 
to have a voice in their curriculum, 
Lindner said. 
Lindner encourages any faculty 
members who have questions or 
suggestions to come to them, and 
the committees will support them 
through the process. 
“We all have to have skin in this 
game,” Lindner said. “The commu -
nity cannot rely just on the admin -
istration to make change. We’re on 
this every day, but it’s got to come from students, it’s got to come from 
faculty.” 
While changing and adding to 
the curriculum seems like the obvi -
ous solution, Vincent Adejumo, a 
UF senior lecturer of African Ameri -
can Studies, said he does not believe 
requiring students to take courses in 
African American history is the so -
lution.
Requiring studies in one culture, 
Adejumo said, then poses the ques -
tion of whether studies in other 
cultures like Latin American groups 
and Jewish groups should be re -
quired too. 
“If a person isn’t interested in 
learning it, especially as a college-
age student, then they shouldn’t be 
mandated,” he said. “I think what 
the university can do is be open to 
more programming that is more Af -
rican American centered.” 
On Feb. 8, UF Student Govern -
ment funded a Black History Month 
concert headlined by Roddy Ricch, 
who was paid $350,000 to perform. 
SG funded another Black History 
Month concert two years ago on 
Feb. 24, 2020, that was headlined 
by Tory Lanez. He was paid $91,500 
to perform.
A better allocation of this money 
would be to use the funds for getting 
a series of speakers and scholars to 
come to the school not only during 
Black History Month, but the entire 
year, Adejumo said. 
“At the end of the day [the stu -
dents] want to have fun, and that’s fine,” he said. “But if the universi -
ty is serious, they would look into 
bringing more serious people in to 
talk about these issues.” 
Students have to demand these 
changes because without it the ad -
ministration has no incentive to 
change, he said. 
Students could pay more atten -
tion to what’s going on with the 
faculty even if they are not choosing 
to take courses in African American 
Studies, Adejumo said. Administra -
tion could also do a better job with 
press releases and informing stu -
dents on the inner workings of fac -
ulty members, he said. 
Tackling this issue of educational 
disparity calls for an all-hands-on-
deck approach. 
If the urgency for change begins 
to ripple throughout the student 
body, faculty and administrators, 
then maybe more students would 
know the answers to Stevenson’s 
questions. 
They’d be able to confidently say 
Bessie Coleman was the first Black 
woman to get a flying license, that 
nearly a thousand slave ships rest 
on the ocean floor and that Clau -
dette Colvin, a dark-skinned, preg -
nant 15-year-old, was the first Black 
woman to refuse to give up her 
seat on a segregated bus – not Rosa 
Parks.
@elenabarreraaa 
ebarrera@alligator.org
FAMILY BUSINESS OWNER 
REMINISCE ABOUT THEIR 
RELATIONSHIP WITH THEIR 
CULTURE’S CUISINE 
By Jared T eitel
Alligator Staff Writer
Merriam Fischer was 5 years old 
when she took to the kitchen boiling 
traditional African soups with her 
mother. To her, there was nothing 
more exhilarating than finally pre -
paring the flavorful foods she knew 
all her life. 
She manages Ivoire Delice and 
Market, a West African and soul-
food fusion takeout service. Starting 
her business in 2021, Fischer, along -
side her parents and three siblings, noticed the lack of authentic African 
cuisine in Gainesville. 
Opening up a food service busi -
ness meant more to the 32-year-
old Ivorian than just making food 
Gainesville locals had never seen 
before.
“I want every Black person in 
Gainesville to feel home so that 
[they] know that they have some 
soul food, some comfort food,” 
Fischer said.
Soul food and its African roots 
originate back to the era of slavery 
in the United States. Allocated small 
food rations by their owners, African 
slaves made do with ingredients like 
rice, pork and okra, preparing a va -
riety of recipes native to their home 
countries. 
Since the end of the Civil War, freed slaves and their descendents 
could elevate these dishes to corn -
bread, fried chicken and collard 
greens with affordable ingredients 
found in local markets of the Deep 
South. These dishes eventually got 
their name from newspapers of the 
1960s that synonymized Black cul -
ture with soul. 
Although much of the historic 
legacy of the Black community in 
America is commemorated through 
the work of civil rights trailblazers, 
local African and soul food pop-ups 
in Gainesville celebrate their culture 
through their culinary traditions. 
From Senegambian, Senegalese 
and Gambian, jollof rice and chicken 
to Southern fried catfish and collard 
greens, Fischer’s family recipes are 
meant for Black residents who walk through her doors to taste something 
familiar. 
Her desire for Gainesville resi -
dents to taste the cuisine she knew 
since childhood was confronted by 
a daunting obstacle — Fischer didn’t 
have a restaurant to cook in.
Instead, Fischer and her family 
began Ivoire Delice and Market as a 
plate service, preparing dishes and 
selling them one by one from her 
home. Egusi, sweet plantains, oxtail 
and mac’ n’ cheese are among the 
signature dishes that were boiled, 
baked and sold from the family’s 
kitchen. 
It wasn’t until the 2021 social 
media trend #FufuChallenge reached 
Gainesville that Fischer and her fam -
ily knew they wanted to expand their 
soul food plate venture. Millions of Black Americans across the country 
took to local restaurants to try fufu 
dishes — West African dough balls 
often made of cassava, yams or plan -
tains. 
“People came to buy the food 
[from] us — the fufu and every -
thing,” she said. “So, we found a 
restaurant.”
With the growing popularity of 
African cuisine, Ivoire Delice and 
Market finally found a building, 
opening its doors Feb. 17 on North 
Main Street. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@jaredteite
jteitel@alligator.orgAfrican American Studies professors push for more Black history education
Food that feeds your soul: Gainesville African and soul food cuisine honors local Black communityMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   11 
faced.
Tianna Harris, a 19-year-old 
Black Student Union senator at 
SFC, said as a Black student, she 
is constantly reminded she’s a mi -
nority.
“There are some days when I 
will walk on campus, and I don’t 
even see one person of color,” 
Harris said. “Even when going 
into a building like, student af -
fairs or something, the faculty … 
is not really diverse.” 
But it could be worse, Broadie 
said. Many institutions saw a de -
crease in Black enrollment over 
the past two years, and SFC main -
tained a steady percentage.
“To say that we've continued 
to retain our African American 
students, despite the African 
American population being hit 
very hard by the pandemic, is a 
testament to the work that our 
faculty and staff have done,” 
Broadie said.
SFC’s ability to listen to the 
immediate needs of its students 
was what kept its Black enroll -
ment numbers from dropping, he 
said.
Broadie focused on food inse -
curity, transportation issues and 
increasing the college’s emer -
gency fund that provides finan -
cial assistance to low-income stu -
dents when faced with challenges 
hindering their ability to focus on 
their education.
“We were very intentional in 
our efforts to listen to what the 
needs of our community and our 
students were,” Broadie said.
Yet, SFC’s Black Student 
Union adviser Javan Brown said much of what the college is doing 
is being missed by the community 
because SFC’s intentions aren’t 
clear enough.
“As for Santa Fe College and 
what it’s doing, I think we need 
to be more deliberate, and I mean 
absolutely deliberate, in calling 
out in support to help Black stu -
dents in the Black community,” 
Brown said.
While Broadie was keen on 
listening to the immediate needs 
of SFC’s students during the pan -
demic, he created several long-
term programs during the past 
two years to circle back to his ini -
tial promises. These programs are 
part of three pillars he established 
to accomplish his goals.
The first pillar is creating a 
college-going culture throughout 
Alachua and Bradford County, 
Broadie said, which will be done 
through SF Achieve.
SF Achieve is a pre-college 
prep program launched in No -
vember 2021 where specialists 
work with all students in partici -
pating Gainesville high schools to 
guide them through the college 
process. 
Students that graduate as SF 
Achieve scholars and choose to 
attend SFC will receive a faculty 
member as their mentor and a 
book voucher for up to five se -
mesters at SFC. Low-income stu -
dents are also eligible to receive a 
scholarship that covers whatever 
financial aid does not.
David Durkee, SF Achieve 
specialist, was a first generation 
college student who didn’t know 
how to navigate the college pro -
cess. Lack of resources can be 
a barrier to entry for some stu -dents, he said. 
“The students that we're really 
looking for are those students that 
may not have made that jump to 
college due to a lack of resources 
or a lack of belief,” Durkee said. 
“Those are the ones we’re really 
excited to help.”
Broadie’s second area of focus 
is student success 一 a sector driv -
en by scholarships.
During the 2021-22 academic 
year, the Santa Fe College Foun -
dation approved 670 scholar -
ship awards valued at about 
$1,627,000.
SFC has recently seen that 
a significant portion of its low-
income students are attending 
school part-time because they of -
ten can’t afford a greater course 
load, Broadie said. Almost 60% 
of students at Santa Fe are part-
time.
Increasing scholarship oppor -
tunities will hopefully increase 
the number of full-time students 
at SFC, Broadie said.
Broadie’s last pillar is social 
and economic mobility. He has 
used the Achieve, Conquer and 
Believe Excel Program to work to -
ward that goal, Broadie said.
The ACB Excel Program is a 
seven-month, two-generation pro -
gram designed for unemployed or 
underemployed individuals who 
have young children in the local 
school district, ACB Excel Coordi -
nator Jen Homard said. 
Children and their parents 
gather two nights a week, one 
Saturday a month at Loften High 
School to enjoy a no-cost fam -
ily style meal. After dinner, the 
adults work toward a career cer -
tificate program, while their chil -dren receive childcare from pro -
gram supervisors. 
“We are breaking that cycle of 
any sort of poverty, whatever that 
level may have been for that fam -
ily,” she said.
After completing the program, 
students can enter the workforce 
with the help of SF’s local busi -
ness partners or stay at SFC and 
do a certificate or apprenticeship 
program.
Aaliyah “Chulo” Cheech, a 
26-year-old ACB Excel student, 
plans to do a plumbing appren -
ticeship after she graduates. 
“The teachers that I have right 
now —I know for a fact they’re 
pushing me to be great and 
they’re pushing everybody else,” 
Cheech said. 
ACB Excel Coordinator 
Homard doesn’t expect to see re -
turns on the project immediately.“We will actually never really 
know the true impact of this pro -
gram because we are essentially 
affecting generation after genera -
tion,” she said.
But that doesn’t mean Presi -
dent Broadies’s efforts are going 
unnoticed, SFC’s BSU adviser 
Brown said.
Brown compares Broadie to 
a farmer, tilling the land for his 
first two years, ensuring it’s going 
to be fertile. Once the seeds are 
planted, they will grow, Brown 
said.
“A lot of the work that's going 
on, that you might not see, that 
you cannot hold as tangible,” he 
said, “that’s where the work re -
ally needs to be done in order for 
that seed to take root.”
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org
Childbirth has a huge emotional toll, White 
said, especially for Black women.
“I just feel like somebody there knowing 
what you can do and what the hospital can 
or cannot do … is very beneficial because I 
really do feel like we're not heard,” she said. 
About a year ago, Rainer launched her 
business Create Space. Through Create 
Space, she works as a childbirth educator 
and doula to advocate for mothers who may 
feel nervous about hospital birth. 
Rainer works on home and hospital 
births, including at UF Health Shands Hos -
pital and North Florida Regional Medical 
Center.
While she supports medical intervention 
during birth, she believes the birthing expe -
rience has a negative connotation. 
“I just believe that Western culture has 
made us think that birth needs to be done in 
a hospital and it needs to be done with this 
intervention and that intervention,” Rainer 
said.
While there will be moments of intensity, 
childbirth is meant to be a great experience, 
not a painful one, she said. To prepare for 
it, she gets to know her clients and their sig -
nificant others on an intimate level.“I find out what the mom does like and 
what she doesn't like,” she said. “We focus 
on comfort measures.”
Rainer knows not everyone can afford a 
doula, so she is working to educate more 
people in the Black community. Through 
Create Space, she plans to hold seminars 
on childbirth education. These would teach 
women self-advocacy and labor terminolo -
gies, choices and rights. 
Alyssa Zucker, UF professor and wom -
en’s studies chair, said health disparities are 
the outcome of a society historically cen -
tered around whiteness.
“Dating back to the times of enslave -
ment, Black women were really bred,” she 
said. “So there was this sort of disregard for 
their humanity and their motherhood.”
She believes traces of this attitude exist 
today. Because of this, Black women may 
avoid seeking care, Zucker said. 
“I think when you bring that into a 
pregnancy, it can cause people to overlook 
problems and to not take things seriously 
enough when there are warning flags that 
something’s going wrong in pregnancy,” 
Zucker said. 
Mistreatment spikes stress, which could 
cause difficulties during pregnancy. This 
stress is accumulated over a lifetime, she said.
“They’ve had their whole life as a Black 
woman up until then, living in a society 
that’s really built around whiteness, and so 
that [mistreatment] — this is just an added 
stressor,” Zucker said.
Nilufer Akalin, a gender, sexualities and 
women’s studies professor, researches Hai -
tian immigrants’ healthcare access. As their 
Black, female and immigrant identities in -
tersect, they become victims of microaggres -
sions.
“They are, for instance, infantilized,” 
Akalin said. “They are assumed less knowl -
edgeable because they don’t speak English 
fluently in some cases.”
Some doctors, she said, don’t listen to 
Black patients’ symptom descriptions or 
give sufficient explanation about diagnoses. 
Sometimes they are misdiagnosed.
“Their cases are analyzed from the lens 
of how to treat average white males,” Aka -
lin said. 
Rakeem Robinson, a UF Center for Pub -
lic Interest Communication research fellow, 
said the marginalization of Black women 
in healthcare is a problem for everyone to 
solve.
Healthcare providers should be changing 
the culture of communication, he said.
“Get to know the patient more than just 
the things that they see on the sheet,” Rob -
inson said. Providers should be empathetic and cre -
ate a comfortable space for engagement.
As a researcher, Robinson feels he and 
others in his position can create better pro -
tocols for healthcare providers, equip com -
munities with accessible healthcare knowl -
edge and listen to the needs of Black women 
in the community.
“It’s making sure we’re realizing it’s not 
just seeing Black women as people, but see -
ing them as someone that can help move 
the agenda forward for everyone else,” Rob -
inson said. “Solving this problem for Black 
women leads to solving this problem for 
those of Asian descent, Latin descent, so on 
and so forth.”
This is a collective fight, Robinson said. 
As a Black man, his role isn’t to speak for 
Black women but to share a space with them 
and work for change. Overlapping problems 
based on  gender or race are often not seen, 
he said. People assume it’s the responsibil -
ity of those experiencing these problems to 
solve them.
“But this isn’t a Black woman problem,” 
Robinson said. “This is a problem that chal -
lenges the way power is manifested in com -
munication, the way power is manifested in 
history … but it’s something that’s going to 
take time to change.”
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgSANTA FE,  from pg. 3
DOULA,  from pg. 3SFC student body has stayed 12% Black since President Broadie joined
Creating safe space for Black mothersMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
2-28-5-151For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    SSaaiidd
11..    UUnnaattttaacchheedd55..    SSaattuurrddaayy  ________
22..    ________  ccoommppoouunndd66..    DDeepppp  ffiillmm::  ““TThhee  ________  GGaattee  
33..    LLiikkee  ddiinnoossaauurrss  77..    ________  ppiinnee  
44..    NNeeppttuunnee’’ss  ppoossiittiioonn  SSKKPPNNEEOO
LLEENNSSGGIIHHTTNNGGII
HHNNNNIITT
RRCCIIGGOOAANN
XXEEIICCTTTTNNSSCCCCOOTTHH
HHHHTTEEGGIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSppookkeenn    55AA--NNiigghhtt    66AA--NNiinntthh    77AA--SSccoottcchh
11DD--SSiinnggllee    22DD--OOrrggaanniicc    33DD--EExxttiinncctt    44DD--EEiigghhtthh    BB--HHoonngg  KKoonngg22--2288--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ________  ________  CCrriicckkeett  CClluubb
wwaass  ffoouunnddeedd  iinn  11885511..
BONUSPAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497      
2-28-3-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By John Michael Currie
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/28/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/28/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, February 28, 2022
ACROSS
1 Taiwanese 
bubble tea
5 Yawn-inducing
10 Dull pain
14 Racetrack shape
15 Fruit whose oil is 
used in cooking
16 Onetime 
Ralston cereal 
now owned by 
General Mills
17 Wine lover’s 
prefix
18 Nine-piece 
combo
19 U. of Maryland 
athlete
20 Like civilizations 
that antedate 
written records
23 Pigeon sound
24 “SNL” alum 
Gasteyer
25 Armored vehicle
27 Tres menos uno
30 Pop singer’s list 
of recordings, 
e.g.
36 Traditional piano 
key wood
38 Root for a luau
39 Pâté de __ gras
40 Covert ops outfit
41 “Chopsticks __ 
fork?”
42 Fey with nine 
Emmys
43 Part of BSA: 
Abbr.
44 Ponder (over)
45 Hunger signs that 
hurt
46 Sourced locally, 
as a menu
49 Vietnamese New 
Year
50 Articulated
51 Tiny colonist
53 Reggae relative
55 Subtle element in 
a success story 
... and what’s 
revealed by each 
set of circles
62 Unseating plan?
64 Avoid, as duty
65 Broadway event
66 Adept
67 One of the 
senses
68 Joint above the 
ankle
69 Greek B
70 “Oof!”
71 Abel and Cain, to 
Adam and EveDOWN
1 Cutesy nose-
poke word
2 Mind-matter link
3 Scourge
4 Hawaiian 
greeting
5 Dwarf planting
6 Very much
7 Barcelona boy
8 Declare
9 “Time to stop 
obsessing on 
this”
10 Play a part (in)
11 Official inspection 
spot
12 One who  
comes to the 
rescue
13 Montreal  
MLBer before 
2005
21 “500” race, 
familiarly
22 Automobile
26 Tripartite 
commerce pact 
acronym
27 Pre-bedtime 
coffee, often
28 President with 
degrees from 
Columbia and 
Harvard
29 Diver’s rotation31 Dark beer
32 Diane’s  
“Cheers” 
co-server
33 Colgate rival
34 Depend (on)
35 Brewery need
37 __ Rae, Sally 
Field role
44 “Aw shucks” 
quality
45 Writers’ tools
47 Apt “it’s” 
anagram48 Hanukkah 
pancakes
52 Duties
53 Wound cover
54 Asian beef city
56 Indian spiced tea
57 Take a chance 
on
58 Art Deco artist
59 “Hmm ... doubt it”
60 Ethan or Joel of 
film
61 Fleecy females
63 Podded plant
By Seth Bisen-Hersh
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/22/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/22/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, February 22, 2022
ACROSS
1 TV host with her 
“OWN” network
6 Avoider of foods 
from animals
11 Weep
14 “A penny  
saved ... ” is one
15 Thrill
16 “Into __ Woods”
17 *Chic runway 
event
19 Actress de 
Armas
20 Not clash
21 Zac of “High 
School Musical” 
films
23 Mex. neighbor
26 Part of a snicker
27 Seafood found in 
cakes
28 Short rest
29 *Popular betting 
sport
34 PC problem 
solvers
36 Harvard or Yale, 
e.g.
37 Robert of “The 
Sopranos”
38 Spanish bull
39 Director Ang
40 As well
41 Greek Cupid
42 Lively dance
43 Bowling woes
45 *Uptown New 
York City 
thoroughfare 
west of Madison
48 Game console 
letters
49 Its symbol is Fe
50 Dedicated poem
51 Test for M.A. 
hopefuls
52 Masters of 
the Universe 
superhero
54 With 55-Down, 
superhero alter 
ego
56 Señora Perón
57 Practical 
judgment ... and 
a hint to the  
starts of the 
answers to 
starred clues
63 Tennis call
64 Coin flip call
65 Baseball’s 
Shohei Ohtani, 
notably66 “Black-ish” 
patriarch
67 Scents
68 Sporty car roofs
DOWN
1 Dolt
2 Romantic kiss in 
a crowd, for short
3 Univ. aides
4 Turkish title
5 Song sung by 
a toon mining 
septet
6 Facade
7 Otherwise
8 “Dilbert” cry
9 From __ B: basic 
step
10 Period of  
change that’s 
“ushered in”
11 Diva’s goal
12 “That’s awful!”
13 Coffee source
18 The first of them 
was sold March 
6, 1912
22 Spa treatment
23 Brings together
24 Zen 
enlightenment
25 Close, but not 
precise
27 Weep30 Prolonged battle
31 Holiday lead-in
32 Empty __: parent 
whose kids 
have grown and 
moved
33 __ Pointe, 
Michigan
35 Speech platforms
39 2020 Super Bowl 
number
42 Yr. starter
43 Khartoum’s land
44 Eyes closely46 Bigwig
47 “We can do 
without him”
52 Conducted, as a 
meeting
53 Eternally
54 Starfleet rank: 
Abbr.
55 See 54-Across
58 20-vol. reference
59 Red Guard leader
60 Nonprofit aid gp.
61 Labor Day mo.
62 Golfer Ernie
02/21/2022
solution  on page 13answer on page 13
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
HELP WANTED - DONUT CONNECTION
Counter / Drive-thru Sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com    3-21-22-4-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! 
Pay rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits 
offered for Full Time. No experience nec-
essary if interested in pursing a career in 
the medical field. Training provided to help 
you accomplish your career goals! Email: 
KBoykin@surgerypartners.com
2-28-10-14
15 Services
●● Blake Enterprises & Cleaning Service ●●
Commercial & Residential Cleaning.
Strip & Refinish Floors.
Licensed & Insured. 
Call 352-660-5912                     2-28-22-1-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 2-28-3-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
2-28-8-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
2-28-8-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          2-28-8-15
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
AVOIDING DANGER IS NO SAFER IN THE LONG RUN THAN OUTRIGHT EXPOSURE. 
THE FEARFUL ARE CAUGHT AS OFTEN AS THE BOLD. — HELEN KELLER
solution  belowATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen      2-28-78-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.
20 Events/Notices
Instructors wanted! God-centered self-help 
method. Up to $1000 per online workshop.
Free book & report: 888-638-4638    
2-28-4-20
● ● VENDORS WANTED ● ●
Art at The Archer Depot Festival
3/12/22 - Linda 352-374-8240
archerhistoricalsociety.org         2-28-22-2-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21 answers to the left1. GEOGRAPHY: How many countries are also 
cities?
2. MOVIES: Which character was the first prin -
cess in a Disney movie?
3. WEATHER: What kind of cloud produces rain, 
thunder and lightning?
4. LITERATURE: What were the names of the 
four daughters in "Little Women"?
5. PSYCHOLOGY: What fear is represented by 
the condition called "ablutophobia"?
6. ANATOMY: What are the gaps between nerve 
cells called?
7. TELEVISION: Which long-running, daytime 
soap opera is set in Port Charles, New York?
8. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin phrase "non 
compos mentis" mean in English?
9. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president intro -
duced the Social Security program?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a young llama 
called?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc. EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.1. Three: the city/states of Vatican 
City, Monaco and Singapore
2. Snow White
3. Cumulonimbus
4. Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy
5. Fear of bathing6. Synapses
7. "General Hospital"
8. Not of sound mind
9. Franklin Roosevelt
10. A cria
1. The Pittsburgh Pirates.
2. Chris Fuamatu-Ma'afala.
3. Roberto De Vicenzo.
4. Figure skating.5. Harry Haft.
6. The World Championship 
Snowmobile Derby.
7. SA MBO.
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answersanswers to the left1. On Sept. 1, 1971, what team fielded the first 
starting nine made up entirely of Black and La -
tino players in Major League Baseball history? 
2. What Hawaiian fullback played college 
football at the University of Utah before 
his NFL career with the Pittsburgh Steel -
ers (1998-2002) and Jacksonville Jaguars 
(2003-04)?
3. What Argentine golfer signed an incorrect 
scorecard and effectively handed the victory to 
Bob Goalby at the 1968 Masters Tournament?
4. Alois Lutz (1898-1918) of Austria is known 
for his pioneering contribution to what sport?
5. What member of the National Jewish 
Sports Hall of Fame was forced to box in a 
Nazi concentration camp during World War 
II and had a pro boxing career in the U.S. 
from 1948-49?
6. What motorsports event, first held in 1964, 
traditionally takes place in Eagle River, Wis -
consin, on the third weekend in January?
7. What combat sport, originating in Russia 
in the 1920s, is an acronym for "samozash -
chita bez oruzhiya," meaning "self-defense 
without weapons"?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
SKATEBOARD FOUND
ON CAMPUS
Land Yatzee
Call to identify 406-208-5900
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.24 PetsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   13 this freedom. 
Newberry Mayor Jordan 
Marlowe, also a Newberry High 
School African American History 
teacher, doesn’t use the guide 
provided in Canvas, an online 
learning platform, to teach his 
students. 
“I think the county curriculum 
is excellent,” Marlowe said. “But 
in my perspective, as a teacher, 
teaching history is really only 
relevant in order to understand 
the present, so I’m not interested 
in recitation or just knowing the 
history. I only need you to know 
history so that you understand 
today.”
In Marlowe’s class, he offers 
an interactive learning experience 
to students. He invites guest 
speakers to talk about what Black 
history looks like in Newberry and 
Alachua. 
“Part of me feels like there 
should be an African American 
teacher teaching African American 
History,” Marlowe, who is white, 
said. “But Alachua County has so 
few African American teachers 
that it’s difficult. But part of me 
also feels that African American 
students need to see and hear 
a white man say these things 
happened. These things were 
wrong. We can do better.”
As of the 2019-20 school year, 
11% of ACPS teachers identify as 
Black and 81% identify as white. 
Meanwhile, 34% of the districts’ 
students are Black and 44% are 
white. 
His class goes on field trips — 
they saw “Harriet Tubman” when 
it first came out. They created a 
festival called Soul Fest in 2019 
to introduce African American 
History into the community and  
raise money for a potential field 
trip to Montgomery, Alabama. 
“One of the injustices that 
we’ve done when it comes to 
African American History is we 
reduced it to Martin Luther King, 
Rosa Parks, Malcolm X and just 
a handful of people and events,” 
Marlowe said. “When I look at my 
city and my community, we have 
a lot of activists that have been in 
the trenches doing this work here 
for the last 100 years.” 
The county seeks to improve 
the curriculum, Rehm said, by 
adding Florida and Alachua 
County history. Marlowe said he 
has taken this step. 
His class just concluded its unit 
on the 1916 Newberry lynchings 
— known as the Newberry Six.  
White mobs lynched six Black 
men and women after a Black 
farmer was accused of mortally 
wounding a Newberry office 
holder. Although referred to as 
the Newberry Six, oral history 
suggests a total of nine Black men 
and women were killed.
Marlowe published the unit 
as a chapter of a new textbook 
“Teaching Difficult Histories in Difficult Times” in collaboration 
with the UF African studies 
department on Feb. 11. 
After more than a year of 
collaborating with UF to write this 
curriculum, Marlowe and other 
teachers piloted it in three African 
American History high school 
elective classes in Alachua County 
in 2021. This curriculum is now 
in every African American History 
class and made available to every 
11th grade American history 
course in the county. 
However, new bills in the 
state legislature seem to threaten 
the expansion of Black history 
education. Book banning, Critical 
Race Theory and discomfort based 
on race are a few topics discussed 
in Tallahassee. 
Rehm said ACPS doesn’t 
anticipate current legislation to 
alter the current curriculum.
In Buchholz High School 
history teacher Morey’s class, 
students read African literature 
like “Things Fall Apart” and 
“Dreamland Burning.” If such 
books were to be banned, she said 
she would have to take them out 
of her curriculum. 
She doesn’t want to stir that 
pot. 
“All of that stuff,” Morey said 
of legislation circling the state 
legislature. “It has not impacted 
me. And, honestly, I bring the 
discussion of the history wars into 
class.”
She brought a Wall Street 
Journal clip to class that discussed 
the arguments surrounding 
how history should be taught. Morey taught her students about 
the United Daughters of the 
Confederacy who pushed pro-
Confederacy textbooks to teach 
the Civil War in a way that praised 
the Confederates. 
Morey teaches African 
American History, AP U.S. History 
and other advanced and honors 
courses. With a graduate degree 
in African history from UF, she 
jumped at the chance to teach the 
African American History elective 
three years ago. 
Like Marlowe, Morey doesn’t 
follow the given curriculum. She 
believes each African American 
History teacher brings their own 
gifts and interests to the course, so 
each high school offers a slightly 
different style of learning. 
“Because I’m trained as a 
historian, I treat it as a history 
course,” Morey said. 
She teaches in chronological 
order, starting in Africa with 
colonialism and the Atlantic Slave 
Trade through the Civil War up to 
today. 
The course has a textbook, but 
Morey doesn’t use it.
“It doesn’t really bring it to 
life,” she said. 
She integrates primary and 
secondary sources, documentaries 
and literature to give her students 
an understanding of Black history. 
Educators integrate Black 
history year-round 
Beneath fluorescent lights, 
Morey’s classroom walls are 
plastered with newspaper clips and 
posters of civil rights movements. In the corner, a Joe Biden cut 
out stands in front of the rows of 
wooden desks. Her SMART Board 
projects the Canvas modules for 
this semester.   
The public assumes African 
American History is not being 
taught in schools, Morey said, 
which is why she doesn’t just 
reserve it for her African American 
History elective or February.
“African American history is 
U.S. history,” she said.
This month, Morey’s AP U.S. 
history class discussed Marcus 
Garvey and his Pan-Africanism 
movement along with the re-rise 
of the KKK in the 1920s. 
However, she can’t speak for 
every classroom.
“If a teacher is getting up there 
and using lectures they’ve been 
using for 30 years, they may very 
well not be teaching it,” Morey 
said. “And it’s also what type of 
learning have you had yourself?” 
Some younger students receive 
Black history education outside 
of the repeated names of Martin 
Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks, 
such as Caprice Blake’s 5-year-old 
daughter. She attends voluntary 
prekindergarten at the Caring and 
Sharing Learning School. 
“Every day she has come and 
talked about a new person she 
has learned about involving Black 
history,” Blake said. “The normal 
stuff you will hear about is Martin 
Luther King Jr., Rosa Parks, but 
she has been coming home with 
people that I’ve never heard of.” 
Blake’s daughter recited 
the poem “Hey Black Child,” a piece written during the Harlem 
Renaissance, during the Fall 2021 
school year. 
The Caring and Sharing 
Learning School is a charter 
school and not a public school 
under ACPS. Charters have access 
to the ACPS curriculum, but the 
individual schools decide whether 
to implement it. 
To celebrate Black History 
Month, Eastside High School 
students and teachers crafted a 
periodic table of Black history 
with important figures instead of 
elements. 
At the elementary level, third 
graders from Rawlings Elementary 
participated in a living wax 
museum to share what they had 
learned about Black figures like 
Misty Copeland and Jesse Owens.  
ACPS will continue to teach 
Black history and seeks to 
pinpoint weaknesses in the current 
curriculum in an effort to improve. 
Parents and passionate 
teachers believe Black history 
belongs in classrooms every 
month of the year. Educators 
like Marlowe and Morey exceed 
expectations, but all educators 
must be held accountable to avoid 
inconsistencies in curriculum 
application. 
“There’s never a point where 
you can fully cover every single 
thing,” Rehm said, but ACPS 
aims to adapt its curriculum to 
best educate its students of Black 
history.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgACPS was awarded exemplary status for their optional African American History elective14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
ACPS AAH,  from pg. 2
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Jordan Marlowe, Newberry Mayor and high school African American Studies teacher, is interviewed inside his classroom on Wednesday, Feb. 16.
“We saw with Seminary Lane the literal 
elimination of affordable housing for the 
most vulnerable be replaced by luxury 
student housing in the oldest historic Black 
neighborhood in Gainesville,’’ Duncan-
Walker said. “We don’t have a shortage 
of student housing, we have a shortage of 
affordable housing.”
Duncan-Walker believes Porter’s 
residents decided against a historical 
designation for their community because 
they didn’t want to adhere to the standards 
that would be required, like maintaining 
or making improvements on their homes. 
It can become an expensive endeavor, she 
said.
Residents of historically Black 
communities are most disconcerted when 
students move in and disregard the pre-
existing residents, Duncan-Walker said.
Pleasantries as simple as a “Hello, 
how are you?” can go a long way in a 
community that is being forced to reckon 
with gentrification.
Generational residents slowly see 
their historic community change
Janie Williams, 83, has lived in Porters 
her entire life. She’s now the oldest person 
who was born and raised there and stayed 
there, she said. 
Growing up it was like one big family; 
she knew everybody in the community 
and everybody knew her family, she said. 
People didn’t feel the need to lock their 
door or close their windows. That has 
changed. 
When she was growing up, Porters, 
Pleasant Street and Seminary Lane were 
all Black communities. There was seldom a 
white person in the community unless they 
were volunteering or paid to work there, 
she said. 
Williams is concerned the people from 
Porters are being completely pushed out 
of the community. For the past five or six 
years, mail has come in at least once a 
month from somebody asking to buy her 
home, she said. 
“I feel like some of them are being taken 
advantage of because they are older and 
they are not keeping up with what is going 
on,” she said. “And somebody offers you 
75 or 85,000 dollars, that’s a lot to them. 
And your home gone.” 
Debbie Leath, 62, understood 
gentrification as part of Porters’ fate. 
“That’s always been something that 
we’ve known about,” Leath said. “That’s 
always been something that never was a 
threat to anybody. But it was something 
we’ve known was going to eventually take 
place.”
With UF’s new technology center, Leath 
said the plan was to create upscale housing 
in Porters to accommodate people who will 
be working there.
The increased construction has 
disrupted her family. The new apartments 
and student housing in Porters dismantled 
the neighborhood that it once was, she 
said. 
“It takes away from, first of all, what we 
consider our history,” Leath said. “It takes 
away a lot of the sentiment we have for 
this neighborhood because of the changes. 
It sometimes seems like disregard for the 
people who have been here for all these many years.”
It makes you feel like you’re of little 
value, she said.
Leath said those residents should be 
made whole and not have to sell their 
families’ properties for peanuts. They 
should be given enough money to have a 
decent life, she said.
Changing the landscape of 
the family oriented community
Rev. Ronald Foxx, of Shady Grove 
Primitive Baptist Church, said while 
growing up in Porters, the neighborhood’s 
residents loved each other. They would 
share food and clothes, and parents would 
discipline children who weren’t theirs 
because of the trust and respect within the 
community. 
“They are running us out now,” Foxx, 
70, said. “They don’t care about people 
anymore. They don’t care who or what 
they step on.”
Michael Crandall, a UF instructional 
designer, became a homeowner last year. 
Crandall, 35, said student housing in 
Porters has been a big concern.
“We walked by this student housing and 
there’s beer pong tables out there, and beer 
bottles thrown around the yard,” Crandall 
said. “I have nothing against young college 
kids experiencing their college lifestyle, but 
this is a family neighborhood. It just seems absurd to have these two things sitting next 
to each other.”
Crandall bought his home in the 
historically Black community because of 
the tight knit bonds. He lived in Porters 
for 10 years before buying it and chose to 
continue living there because he loved the 
community feeling. 
Now, with an increase in student 
housing and development, he believes that 
it’s slowly changing.
“I don’t want to have to explain to my 
6-year-old son what beer pong is or what 
toga parties are,’’ Crandall said. “That’s a 
conversation that should happen later.”
The rapid infrastructure changes, 
without resident input, have upset the 
community, Crandall said. The community 
expressed serious concerns at the Feb. 21 
meeting about the development of student 
housing, vehicles that have piled up on 
people’s yards, construction and shortage 
of affordable housing.
“In a neighborhood like this, where 
there’s families with different generations,” 
Crandall said. “I think that the city 
has an obligation to ensure that these 
communities, communities like Porters, 
don’t just vanish under the weight of the 
University of Florida and student housing.”
Students against gentrification feel 
their peers can do more
It speaks volumes to the attention and 
care students from UF receive versus resi -
dents, said Kiara Laurent, the 23 year-old 
digital communications coordinator for GoDDsville Dream Defenders. The resi -
dents deserve the same respect and consid -
eration, if not more, for being generational 
residents.
“Unfortunately, they’re not listening to 
the residents.” Laurent said. “So who are 
they gonna listen to? At least if there are 
students backing up the fight, there will be 
more of an inclination.”
It’s disheartening seeing gentrification 
on all sides of Porters affecting residents 
without any direct solutions to ensure their 
needs are being met, Laurent said. One of 
the most important things the students can 
do is become educated on Gainesville and 
the communities like Porters.
Hill, a UF history senior, believes stu -
dents should put in effort to visit commu -
nities surrounding the university to learn 
about their culture and history. 
“One thing that I think students should 
do is this: When you come to Gainesville, 
understand that there is more to this com -
munity than 13th Street, University Av -
enue, Archer and 34th Street,” Hill said. 
“There’s a whole community outside those 
four lines.” 
Residents like Hill can only hope stu -
dents venture past the university bubble, 
learn the rich history of the community 
bordering their student housing and help 
amplify residents’ voices. But for now, resi -
dents remain living history.
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgPushing into PortersMONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022   ALLIGATOR   15 
PORTERS,  from pg. 2
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREexperienced overt racism — in 
department stores, convenience 
stores and the movie theater.
“There are places around town, 
when I pass, I can still see where 
the color-only signs were hanging,” 
he said. “I can still see where the 
color-only water fountains [were] 
at the old courthouse.”
These agonizing recollections 
are juxtaposed with fond memories 
growing up in Springhill, between 
Depot Park and Williston Road, 
which is a historical African 
American community in the city. 
He considers himself lucky to 
have grown up in such a nurturing 
neighborhood — with children, 
teachers and his school’s dean all 
within blocks of his home.
“Everybody took care of 
everybody else,” he said. “If you 
had a need, somebody in the 
neighborhood would be there to 
help.”
Stover graduated from Lincoln 
High School in 1969, one year 
before the school integrated. 
When the class of 1970 went 
home for Christmas break, the 
school was closed, and the 
students were bused to Gainesville 
High School in January as part of 
the county’s abrupt, disruptive 
attempt at integration.
“It was ugly,” he said. “How 
would you like it if all of a sudden 
your world had been turned upside down and there was no 
time for preparation?”
Fights broke out and the 
Confederate flag remained raised. 
Some days, he would have to 
excuse himself from class at Santa 
Fe College and hurry to Gainesville 
High to escort his younger siblings 
home safely. 
Garlenda Greene-Grant, a fifth 
generation Gainesville resident, 
attended segregated elementary 
schools in the city. When she 
transferred to integrated schools 
in fourth grade, it was her and her 
cousins, making up the only three 
Black children in the classroom. 
“Because we were the only 
Black kids and we came from 
a segregated school, they 
automatically put us in the lowest 
grade,” Greene-Grant said. “When 
I was at A. Quinn Jones, I was 
in the highest classes, and then 
to automatically go down to the 
lowest classes, that was an insult.” 
In order to make integration 
work, Gainesville took the 
children from the west side and 
bussed them over to the east side 
and vice versa. 
Not everyone in Gainesville 
agreed with integration. Greene-
Grant’s family took certain 
measures in the interest of her 
safety. 
“My uncles cut a path through 
our property to get to the school, 
so we wouldn’t have to go through 
the white neighborhood to get there,” she said. “Because they 
wanted us to make sure that we 
were safe enough traveling through 
— because everybody wasn’t 
happy with the integration.”
Despite the danger she faced 
during integration, Greene-
Grant always felt safest roaming 
her grandfather’s hundred acre 
farmland in West Gainesville. 
Aside from keeping hogs on 
the property, Greene-Grant’s 
grandfather planted his gardens 
in long rows of fruits and 
vegetables, including corn, peas 
and watermelons. 
While her mother, aunts and 
uncles helped with the harvest, 
Greene-Grant and the other 
children played hide-and-seek in 
her grandfather’s corn patch. 
“We were supposed to go out 
and help him,” Greene-Grant 
said. “But all we did was run him 
crazy.” 
In the summer, the white sand 
in the field was hot. Barefoot, 
the children had to hop across 
the ground. Aside from hide-and-
seek, they also played baseball, 
softball, kickball and other games. 
They rotated from house to house. 
When they’d go inside at day’s 
end, the children would be filthy, 
especially if they had been in the 
corn field. 
“My mom would fuss all night 
long because she had to get that 
sand out of my hair,” Greene-
Grant said.In the late 2000s, Greene-
Grant built her home in the field 
her grandfather farmed, in close 
proximity to her uncles, aunts and 
dozens of cousins.
“The boy next door married 
the girl next door, and then it all 
became our family,” she said. 
She reminisces on her aunt’s 
mouthwatering biscuit recipe. 
“You know how Dunkin’ 
Donuts seem like they melt in 
your mouth?” Greene-Grant said. 
“That’s how her biscuits did. They 
were so good, and she cooked 
them every Sunday.”
While Greene-Grant cannot 
make the biscuits herself, her 
brother and cousins continue to 
bake them. Instead of the biscuits, 
Greene-Grant prides herself on 
being able to cook cabbage the 
way her aunt did. 
“She always put a bell pepper 
in it to give that flavor,” Greene-
Grant said. 
Greene-Grant is doing her 
best to preserve the recipes, 
photographs and stories of her 
family for future generations, but 
the city hasn’t done the same for 
historically Black neighborhoods 
and areas with Black-owned 
business. 
“I know Mama went down to 
the Black businesses that were 
down on Fifth Avenue,” Greene-
Grant said. “There were grocery 
stores, tailors, shoe shops and 
stuff like that down there that they 
used to go to.” 
Greene-Grant worries at this 
point there may be no recovery 
from the effects of gentrification. “It’s catering more to students, 
especially with all those high rise 
apartments,” Greene-Grant said. 
“It’s not catering to the community, 
the Gainesville residents, because 
it’s too expensive. It is just 
ridiculous.” 
While integration introduced 
some positive changes in 
Gainesville’s Black communities, 
like better education, Greene-
Grant said there were certain 
things that were lost. 
“When integration came and 
opened the door, I think we flew 
out too much,” Greene-Grant said. 
“I’m saying we … deserted what 
we had built. Now what we’re 
left with is nothing. We have no 
Black community. We have our 
churches, that’s it.”
Greene-Grant said she hopes 
Gainesville students and new 
residents will consider those who 
are less fortunate and establish 
equity.
“You have to preserve all race 
history here,” she said. “Black 
people have a strong presence in 
this county and country, and it 
shouldn’t be erased.” 
While the loss of Black 
enclaves and culture in Gainesville 
may seem irreversible, it is 
through the individual efforts of 
multigenerational Black residents 
that the history can be preserved.
 
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.org
@eileencalub
ecalub@alligator.orgGENERATIONS,  from pg. 5Families face gentrification