We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -How Bazar shuts down Second Street
Local shop hosts late-night grand opening,  pg. 10
The virus hasn't dampened New Year's resolutions
Gainesville gym memberships increase along with omicron 
cases,  pg. 6Gator baseball preview
Take a look at how the season is looking 
up on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 19
THE COMMUNITY REFLECTS ON 
HOW THE GAINESVILLE RIPPER 
STILL AFFECTS GAINESVILLE 
WITH THE RELEASE OF THE NEW 
“SCREAM” MOVIE 
By Alexis Carson
Alligator Staff Writer
“Remember 1990.” 
Visitors approach the short phrase 
painted in bold, red font along the 34th 
Street graffiti wall and leave white roses 
in translucent vases. A paint-splattered plaque resting on 
the ground with the words “You will 
never be forgotten” serves as a reminder 
of the brutal killings that took place 32 
years ago. 
Five Gainesville college students were 
murdered in their apartments along Ar -
cher Road in August 1990, and three of 
them were brutally assaulted by a man 
dubbed “The Gainesville Ripper.” The 
Florida Department of Law Enforcement 
caught the murderer after a nine-month-
long search where he, Danny Rolling, 
was executed by lethal injection in 2006.
The 25-foot mural serves as a memori -al for the victims: Sonja Larson, 18; Chris -
tina Powell, 17; Christa Hoyt, 18; Manuel 
Taboada, 23; and Tracy Paules, 23.
Former and current Gainesville resi -
dents relived the fear that rocked the 
city and the hundreds of students and 
families that left following the murders. 
Thirty-two years later, they reflect on the 
evolving economic climate and the city’s 
improved safety precautions. 
The popular “Scream” franchise — of 
which the fifth installment released on 
Friday — took inspiration from the events Community remembers murder victims over 30 years laterAshleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
UF students sit inside their Integrated Principles of Biology Two lecture on Friday, Jan. 14. Students have been re-
adjusting to in-person classes amid rising COVID-19 cases.
SEE MURAL,  PAGE 4SEE CLASS,  PAGE 4THE UNIVERSITY HAS NOT CHANGED 
CLASSROOM EXPECTATIONS EVEN AS 
OMICRON CASES SURGE
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
Instead of moving his in-person classes online 
following UF’s COVID-19 spike, Mark Hostetler 
brought his 15 students outside in a breezeway for 
their biodiversity conservation class. 
“I didn't feel safe for myself or the students to be 
in an indoor classroom,” said Hostetler, a wildlife, 
ecology and conservation professor.
Alachua County reported that new positive 
COVID-19 cases jumped from 2,072 the week of 
Dec. 31 to 6,524 the week of Jan. 14. Spreading 
or contracting the omicron variant is exactly what 
some professors and students hope to prevent.
“I can do this because there's a small class, 
and the first few weeks we’re outdoors doing stuff 
anyway,” Hostetler said. “So, it worked out well.”
Students who have to quarantine and miss 
class will be treated as being absent for any other 
sickness, according to an Aug. 18 campus brief.
Cynthia Roldán, a UF spokesperson, wrote in an 
email that classroom expectations haven’t changed. 
The university believes that if students and faculty 
continue to follow the necessary precautions, it will 
be a successful semester.  
“We understand that the omicron variant has 
presented another challenge in the pandemic 
similar to the one we faced during the Fall semester 
with the delta variant,” Roldán wrote. “That is why 
university leadership has stressed the importance 
of wearing a mask… and getting a booster shot.” 
Roldán didn’t answer questions on whether UF 
has advised professors to offer HyFlex or Zoom as 
an option for students quarantining.
UF has been extraordinarily vague and not very 
helpful at all, said Steve Noll, a history professor. 
The university only told him that he couldn't go 
completely online. There was no guidance on when 
he could move classes online, he said. 
“They’ve given basically no guidelines,” Noll 
said. “It’s the Wild West.”
To alleviate some pressure from his students, 
Noll has taken it on himself to offer his students a UF professors create online alternatives as COVID-19 empties classroomsT oday’s WeatherRTS HAS A SHORTAGE OF 
MORE THAN 40 DRIVERS 
WHILE TAPS HAS LOST 
ALMOST $2 MILLION 
IN REVENUE
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
UF and Gainesville transportation 
agencies are trying to navigate the ef -
fects of COVID-19, which have left 
students and community members 
stuck at a bus stop.
Gainesville Regional Transit Sys -
tem’s shortage of bus drivers has 
changed the ability to move around 
the city. RTS has reduced the fre -
quency of certain stops, pulling nine 
buses from service. 
The routing cuts, which began 
during the Fall semester, caused 
waits to be three to 30 minutes longer 
than original times, city spokesperson 
Rossana Passaniti wrote in an email.
Armando Ramirez, a data man -
agement analyst at UF, takes the bus 
almost every day to move between 
downtown, Oaks Mall and campus, 
where he works. Buses are usually 
about 10 minutes late, he said.
“Last semester they made a 
change on the schedule — like a stop 
leaving downtown at 4:45 — and it 
used to be 4:30,” Ramirez said. “By 
leaving downtown at 4:45, they tend 
to be hitting the traffic.”
RTS bus drivers have cut down 
from 217 drivers before the pandemic 
to 170. Roughly 40 driver positions 
are open. Daily ridership has de -
creased from 47,000 to 23,000 people, 
Passaniti wrote.
The RTS schedule for spring ser -
vice — which runs from Jan. 3 to 
May 1 — shows 21 buses will detour 
for construction on campus.
UF’s Transportation and Parking 
Services, which oversees on-campus parking structures, fines, decal sales 
and other traffic-related matters, is 
looking to address close to $2 million 
in revenue that was lost since 2020, 
said Senior Director Scott Fox.
“During the pandemic — par -
ticularly in 2020 — we refunded 
some parking permit fees and we 
waived decal fees for the entire sum -
mer,” Fox said. “We did that for five 
months and the revenue loss that we 
experienced as a result of that was 
$5.7 million.” 
TAPS received $3.8 million from 
the CARES Act in 2021 — federal aid 
that was distributed during the pan -
demic. 
In the 2021-22 school year, how -
ever, TAPS still hasn’t reached 90% 
of sale levels before the pandemic, 
which are a major source of revenue. 
Online classes and students not re -
turning to campus are contributing to 
the financial challenges, Fox said.
As a service of the university, 
TAPS revenue goes directly to paying 
salaries, maintenance, pothole repairs 
and even upholding the structural in -
tegrity of parking garages, he said.
TAPS worked closely with RTS 
to determine cuts that minimized 
leaving students stranded, Fox said. 
He said students need a way to get 
around if they work late nights or 
weekends.
On Jan. 11, the Parking and 
Transportation Advisory Commit -
tee — composed of UF students and 
faculty members — met for the first 
time since September. The commit -
tee reviews and recommends traffic, 
parking and vehicle registration man -
dates. Fox said during the meeting he 
recognized the challenge of pandem -
ic-related losses and possible need for 
solutions in the future. 
The question, Fox said, is if the 
pandemic’s effect on transportation 
will be long- or short-term, rather 
than focusing on making up lost rev -enue or reaching a target budget fig -
ure. 
While no plans or timeline exist 
to do so at the moment, he said he 
mentioned changes to the commit -
tee like increasing parking garage or 
meter fees, monetizing items that are 
normally given for free or raising the 
price of parking decals. 
Student decals cost $160 annually 
or $80 semesterly, according to TAPS’ 
website.
The process for some decisions 
like raising decal prices requires ap -
proval from the Board of Trustees 
and other university departments. 
Raising an hourly parking meter rate, 
for example, only needs approval 
within TAPS.
“If we were changing the rates at 
the parking meters from $1 an hour 
to $1.50 an hour — that's something 
we could probably do pretty quickly 
with a little bit of internal discussion 
and a little bit of marketing and com -
munication,” Fox said. 
Fox said they are evaluating the 
prices of their services to see if they 
need to increase prices.
“I was in no way suggesting that 
there is a decal price increase in the 
works — it is not.”
As a member of the PATAC, Sen -
ate Pro-Tempore Noah Fineberg 
(Gator, District A) said during a Sen -
ate meeting Tuesday evening that he 
would oppose raising the price of de -
cals. 
“The number one complaint I 
hear from students is about difficul -
ties surrounding parking,” Fineberg 
wrote in an email. “I don’t want to 
speculate on what might happen, but 
I will continue to be a fierce advocate 
for not raising fees on students.”
Fineberg wrote that he’s open to 
solutions that will not negatively af -
fect the students he represents, like 
whether TAPS should continue to 
give out certain merchandise for free. 
Students and members of the Sen -
ate can expect updates from Fineberg 
during weekly Senate meetings in the 
future as Fox updates the PATAC in 
coming weeks and months.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the 
next day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions 
after the above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s 
Happening” submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the VOLUME 116 ISSUE 19
 City, campus transportation deal with 
pandemic-related revenue loss, shortages
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayAllessandra Inzina, ainzina@alligator.orgJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
UF students exit RTS buses at The Hub on Friday, Jan. 14.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
THERE'S NEVER BEEN A MORE
IMPORTANT TIME TO QUIT!
 
Start the year oﬀ right and make a plan to quit all forms of tobacco.
For more information on Group Quit classes, contact: 
352-273-5224
*If medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 Smoking can cause a higher risk of getting lung and chest infections, and using 
e-cigarettes can increase your odds of developing respiratory disease by 95%.
Tobacco Free Florida oﬀers in-person or virtual Group Quit sessions for all 
Florida residents. Upon class completion, participants are eligible to receive 
free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches, or lozenges.*  
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools
and services at tobaccofreeﬂorida.com/quityourway.
4   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022that transpired in Gainesville. The 
fictional horror series grossed 
more than $600 million in global 
revenue and has revisited the big 
screen for nearly 30 years.
The first “Scream” movie, re -
leased in 1996, became the high -
est-grossing slasher film in the 
world until the release of 2018 
“Halloween.”
Repairing the memorial
Adam Byrn Tritt, the 57-year-
old artist behind the work, had one 
word for the film series: horrible.
“They should be putting a por -
tion of the profits into something 
that will make sure this doesn't 
happen again,” he said. “If they're 
borrowing from misery they need 
to pay misery back.”
Tritt, who has published non -
fiction novels and poetry, was a 
Gainesville resident during the 
murders, although he didn’t know 
any of the victims personally.
Following the 10-year anniver -
sary of the memorial, Tritt said he 
was asked to return to help repair 
the memorial. By 2000, the paint 
was chipping and fading. 
Tritt, former Alachua County 
Sheriff Sadie Darnell and one of the 
victim’s family scrubbed away at 
the paint and applied a new coat. 
Tritt, who lived in Gainesville 
for 13 years, said it was hard 
enough living there prior to the gruesome murders.
“To me it signifies a time and a 
place where I liked living, and that 
is now gone,” he said. “Gainesville 
that was in the ’90s doesn't exist 
anymore.”
‘An indelible mark 
on this community’
Carol Gordon, a 70-year-old 
Gainesville resident, has been a 
member of the community since 
the 1980s. 
She worked for a private attor -
ney in downtown Gainesville at 
the time of the murders. 
For the months when the sus -
pect roamed the streets uncap -
tured, Gordon remembers feeling 
stressed, overwhelmed and unsafe.
In order to escape the tragedies, 
she visited her mother in Miami for 
three to four days. 
“Although I was not a student, I 
fit the profile of most of the wom -
en that he attacked,” Gordon said. 
“I was pretty nervous and I left 
town.”
When she returned, the suspect 
had been arrested. 
After returning to Gainesville 
and continuing to live in the city, 
Gordon reflected on the lasting im -
pact of the murders in Gainesville. 
“We are a community,” she 
said. “I mean, that's one thing I fell 
in love with about Gainesville was 
the sense of community.” 
Gina Hawkins, executive direc -
tor of Keep Alachua County Beau -tiful, was a UF graduate student 
studying food and resource eco -
nomics at the time of the murders. 
Hawkins, 62, has been a resi -
dent of the Gainesville commu -
nity since 1984. She called the 
memorial an “iconic artwork in 
Gainesville.” 
“For me, it's a touchstone for 
the special events in people's lives 
and memories of events,” Hawkins 
said of the 34th Street wall. “It's 
a way for people to mark special 
events and sometimes traumatic 
ones.” 
Hawkins said living in 
Gainesville following the killings was stressful. She invited female 
friends who lived on their own 
into her home because they were 
so worried. 
“It was palpable. You could just 
feel the tension in your body, just 
knowing all this was going on,” 
she said. “One murder after anoth -
er — it was just horrible.”
Students buddied up when 
leaving the house and locked their 
windows and doors, Hawkins said. 
“When students were mur -
dered, it was personal for me,” 
she said. “When people send their 
children to school here, it's our 
responsibility to keep them safe 
… we need to protect the families 
and their feelings about what hap -
pened.” Although on-campus safety has 
improved since the murders, gun 
violence within the city has spiked, 
Hawkins said. Gainesville has seen 
a 26% jump in gun-related crimes 
that resulted in injury or death 
since 2019. 
“That tragedy left an indel -
ible mark on this community,” 
Hawkins said. 
The murders have stayed with 
Hawkins. Even now, she hopes 
people will be more aware of their 
surroundings, who they interact 
with and take safety precautions.
@Alexis_Carson99
acarson@alligator.org
HyFlex option. 
He records his lectures and 
offers Zoom as an alternative to 
attending in-person classes. 
A motto for Noll’s classes has 
been “no problem, no penalty,” 
which means he is making sure 
that his class is not adding stress 
to students who are COVID-19 
positive, exposed to COVID-19 
or feeling sick.
He realizes some students 
might take advantage of this 
and choose not to attend in-
person classes or watch the 
Zoom lectures.
“But I said that's the price 
I’m willing to pay to having 
students be able to have a 
flexible learning arrangement,” 
Noll said.
However, Ana Aguilar, 
a 20-year-old UF English 
sophomore, has not had all of her 
teachers be so accommodating. 
Two days after classes 
started, Aguilar said she tested 
positive for COVID-19 and 
was worried about starting her 
semester missing class. 
“I had to email them and 
ask for HyFlex, or some sort 
of accommodation, so that 
I wouldn't fall back during syllabus week,” she said. “And 
I'd say … almost half of them 
were accommodating — the 
other half just wouldn't do 
HyFlex.”
As classes went on and 
more students tested positive, 
her remaining classes began 
offering Zoom as an alternative. 
Expecting classes to be in-
person left two of her professors 
— , who had no plans to move 
online — , to scramble and find 
an alternative, she said. 
Some professors are 
defaulting to accommodations 
for students testing positive for 
COVID-19.
Rachel Salvatori, a 19-year-
old UF English and history 
sophomore, felt lucky all of her 
professors were understanding 
when she tested positive for 
COVID-19 the second week of 
classes. Her professors quickly 
moved to excuse absences and 
offer HyFlex as an option.
“People are constantly 
getting out sick with COVID,” 
she said. “It seems like students 
are dropping from classes like 
flies.”
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgMURAL,  from pg. 1
CLASS,  from pg. 1The murders weigh on residents decades later
‘Dropping from classes like flies’Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
A mural on the Southwest 34th St. graffiti wall for the victims of the 1990 "Gainesville Ripper" 
murders is seen on Wednesday, Jan. 12.
UF student Ece Yuksel checks 
her saliva tube outside of the 
COVID-19 testing site at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on 
Saturday, Jan. 16.
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator StaffTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Allyssa Keller
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Gator Gulf Energy team hacked 
their way to success.  
The all-female UF team won the grand 
prize for the Florida Hacks with International 
Business Machines competition, of which 
the results were announced Jan. 6. The 
team won a grand prize of $30,000 and 
access to a UF supercomputer.
The team consisted of UF alumna Caitlin 
Becker and current UF students Allison 
Wu, Katie Lara and Stephanie Stelzer.
The free hackathon asked participants 
to address one of six possible challenge 
statements related to climate change 
issues, said Lucas Bockstedt, the senior 
project manager at BeMyApp. 
Allison Wu, a 21-year-old UF computer 
science senior, said Gator Gulf Energy 
selected the fourth challenge statement: 
power consumption. For their winning 
project, Gator Gulf Energy created a website 
that planned to harness the power of the 
Gulf Stream to reduce energy consumption.
An all-female team winning the 
competition validates the need for more female participation in STEM, Bockstedt 
said.
“You don’t have to be a 45-year-old 
male that’s been coding for 20 years — 
you can be 18, 19 years old in college and 
giving it your best shot and still having a 
really good chance of winning some prize 
money and winning the grand prize of the 
hackathon,” Bockstedt said.
Bockstedt, 25, said that Gator Gulf 
Energy went above and beyond with how 
much it developed.
“They didn’t just go with a simple 
PowerPoint presentation and a demo 
video,” he said.
The planning, development, submission 
and award ceremony spanned over three 
months, Wu said.
Her portion of the prize will go toward 
helping her move to Seattle after graduating 
in May, Wu said. There, she will start her 
new job as a software engineer at Microsoft.
The date when the team will receive 
access to the supercomputer has not yet 
been determined, but Wu said that the team 
will have access to it for three months.
Wu already has plans.
“I wanted to create a machine learning model,” Wu said. “I don’t want to give 
too much away about it, but I wanted to 
make a machine learning model related to 
radiology diagnosis.”
She said this was the first hackathon 
she competed in.
“I kind of can’t believe that the first 
time I actually submitted for a hackathon, 
we won first place,” Wu said.
Katie Lara, a 21-year-old UF mechanical 
engineering senior, said her role on the 
team focused on research, developing the 
mathematical model and proposing the 
project idea to the team. She also created 
a video pitch for the judges with Stephanie 
Stelzer, a 20-year-old UF digital arts and 
computer science junior.
Lara said climate change is important to 
her. She wants to pursue fighting climate 
change as a career. Last summer, Lara had 
an internship with a Virginia offshore wind 
farm, she said.
As a woman in STEM, Lara said it’s 
really easy to underestimate yourself.
“Not because you’re not as good as your 
male counterparts but just because people 
expect less of you,” she said.
This was also Lara’s first time competing in a hackathon. HerThe prize money would 
go toward rent, she said.
Caitlin Becker, 22, graduated with a 
computer science degree last month. She’s 
moving to Houston at the end of the month 
to work as a flight controller at the Johnson 
Space Center.
Climate change has already hit close 
to Becker’s home, St. Petersburg, Florida, 
where her neighborhood floods regularly.
“That’s only going to continue to get a 
lot worse,” she said.
Becker appreciated that there were 
hackathons being held with bigger issues 
in mind, she said. Hackathons are great for 
those looking to build something without 
a lot of experience. It allows computer 
science students to take what they are 
learning in class and apply it to the outside 
world, Becker said.
She highly recommends hackathons for 
anyone interested.
“Anybody who’s really passionate about 
literally anything — find somebody to help 
you build some technology for it, and you 
could build something that is actually 
really influential,” she said.
@allygatorkeller
akeller@alligator.orgUF all-female team takes Florida Hackathon grand prizeEL CAIMÁN
EN EL EVENTO SE DESTAPÓ 
EL NOMBRE DEL JUEZ 
STEPHAN P. MICKLE SENIOR 
INSCRITO EN LA ENTRADA 
DEL PALACIO DE JUSTICIA
Por Carissa Allen
Escritora del Personal del Caimán
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Personal del Caimán
  
Stephan P. Mickle fue descrito 
como un pionero en el condado 
de Alachua. El dejó un legado de 
primeros, a pesar de haber crecido 
en Gainesville segregado por la 
ley, práctica y costumbre, dijo Rod Smith en un discurso, quien fue su 
socio de ley. 
La inspiración a muchos fue 
conmemorada en el palacio de jus -
ticia en Alachua el viernes. 
Luego de que Mickle muriera 
el pasado enero, los comisionados 
del condado Alachua aprobaron el 
nuevo nombre de forma unánime. 
Palacio de Justicia Juez Stephan 
P. Mickle Senior, terminando la 
búsqueda del nombre perfecto, la 
cual duró veinte años. 
La ceremonia de nombramiento 
se celebró en la calle South Main 
en el centro de Gainesville donde 
acudieron cientos de personas. Fue 
pospuesta hasta este año para que 
fuera una de las actividades más 
resaltantes de las celebraciones del 
día de Martin Luther King Junior en el 2022, dijo Rodney Long, el presi -
dente de la comisión Martin Luther 
King Jr. De Florida en un discurso. 
La banda sinfónica P.K Yonge 
abrió la ceremonia con el juramento 
de lealtad, y el juez principal del oc -
tavo circuito judicial, Mark Moseley 
siguió con comentarios de apertura. 
La ceremonia se destacó con 
oradores, incluyendo a Lauren Poe, 
alcalde de Gainesville a, jueces re -
tirados y practicantes, y a colegas 
anteriores. La familia de Mickle 
también habló. 
La esposa de Mickle, Evelyn 
Mickle, no quería una ceremonia 
como cualquier otra para honrar a 
su esposo. Ella quería un memorial 
duradero que continuará el legado 
de su esposo durante los años por 
venir. 
“Es nuestro honor y nuestra es -
peranza que este renombramiento 
del Palacio de Justicia del Condado 
Alachua con el nombre del Juez 
Stephan P. Mickle Senior despierte 
esperanza, esperanza, y más espe -
ranza mientras pase de generación 
en generación”, ella dijo en su dis -
curso. 
El Juez Mickle dejó un impacto 
en el condado de Alachua prácti -
camente en cada estado de su vida 
como adulto. 
El fue el primer estudiante af -
roamericano en recibir una licen -
ciatura de la Universidad de la 
Florida (UF) y la segunda persona 
afroamericana en recibir una licen -
ciatura de derechos de la escuela de 
leyes Levin de la Universidad de la 
Florida (UF).
En el tiempo y lugar de su ni -
ñez, la probabilidad de que Stephan 
Mickle se graduara de la Univer -
sidad de la Florida se encontraba 
en la intersección de imposible e 
improbable, dijo el abogado Rod Smith en su discurso. 
Mickle siguió ascendiendo en su 
trayectoria luego de graduarse. 
El fue la primera persona af -
roamericana en establecer una 
practica privada de derecho en 
Gainesville y el primer juez negro 
de corte del condado en Alachua. 
Su compromiso con la justicia fue 
honrado cuando el se convirtió en 
el primer juez federal negro de la 
primera corte de distrito de apela -
ciones, y luego el primer juez fed -
eral negreo de la corte de distrito 
de los Estados Unidos en el distrito 
Norte de la Florida. 
La revelación del nombre del 
Juez Stephen P. Mickle Senior en 
la entrada del palacio de la justicia 
concluyó el evento. Más de cien 
asistentes hicieron un conteo seña -
lando el corte de la cinta para levan -
tar el cubrimiento y revelar la nueva 
inscripción. La multitud se llenó de 
vítores y aplausos. 
El palacio de la justicia ahora 
es un símbolo representativo e 
importante para el residente de 
Gainesville de setenta y cinco años, 
Johnnie Dennard Junior, amigo del 
Juez Mickle. 
“Para mí es una afirmación de 
que la bondad de una persona pu -
ede trascender su vida, y eso inspira 
a la gente”, él dijo. 
Dennard atendió el evento para 
honrar la compasión de toda la vida 
de Mickle. Dennard, quien tocaba 
el trombón, estuvo en la banda de 
la escuela secundaria Lincoln con 
Mickle, quien tocaba el clarinete. 
“Es tan edificante ver este tipo 
de evento para una persona que 
conociste, que fue tan inteligente”, 
él dijo. “Él era una buena persona, 
y era dedicado”. 
Dennard recuerda a su amigo 
como alguien jovial y de buen ser, pero también era un bromista. El 
se acuerda de la sonrisa de Mickle, 
de su risa, y por supuesto de su 
“grandísima habilidad tocando el 
clarinete”, él dijo. 
La gente que conocía a Mickle 
fuera de la corte lo recuerda por su 
compasión y su humildad, las cu -
ales él resumió desde su niñez hasta 
su carrera. Arago Welch Senior, un 
residente de Gainesville de ochenta 
años se acuerda de cuando Mickle 
se mudó a Gainesville. Ellos vivían 
al cruzar la calle y se hicieron bue -
nos amigos en la escuela secundar -
ia, él dijo. 
“Él no me menospreció porque 
él era un juez. Para mi él era un 
amigo- como un hermano”,dijo. 
Grace Mickle, su sobrina de 
treinta y dos años, dijo que lo más 
inspirador de él era su personalidad 
realista. El no era solamente un juez 
ejemplar, sino también un tío ejem -
plar. 
“Yo crecí con él siendo mi tío 
Stephan”, ella dijo. “Íbamos a la 
misma iglesia. Íbamos a comer fri -
tas de pescado luego de la iglesia. 
Ahí estaba él con todas sus cosas de 
los Lagartos de UF. De eso es de lo 
que me acuerdo yo”. 
Ver la revelación de su nombre 
en la entrada de la corte fue algo 
surreal, una experiencia impac -
tante, dijo Grace.  El palacio de 
justicia ahora parece una memoria 
duradera de su inspirante vida. 
“Fue algo bello ver a tanta gente-
gente en la calle-queriendo formar 
parte de un palacio de justicia sien -
do dedicado a un hombre que tuvo 
que pasar por tanto en su vida”, 
dijo ella. “Si alguien se lo merece, 
es él”.
@Carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgAlachua renombra su palacio de justicia en honor al legado del juez Stephan P. Mickle
The prize included access to a UF supercomputer and $30,000Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Personal del Caimán
Una cinta cortada revela un nuevo símbolo para el palacio de la 
justicia del condado de Alachua en la ceremonia de nombramiento 
en honor al Juez Stephan P. Mickle el viernes catorce de febrero.
6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
THE INCREASING NUMBER OF 
POSITIVE COVID-19 CASES 
IN ALACHUA COUNTY HAS 
NOT OBSTRUCTED NEW YEAR’S 
FITNESS RESOLUTIONS
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
January: the time of year dedicated to purg -
ing fridges, replacing fries with fruit and flock -
ing to gyms. This year, the COVID-19 pan -
demic didn’t stand in the way of Gainesville 
residents’ New Year’s resolutions.
Despite the surge in Alachua County omi -
cron COVID-19 cases, local gyms’ member -
ships and business increased this month. 
Victoria De Alba, a 19-year-old UF comput -
er science sophomore, heads to the gym about 
five or six times a week. She’s observed the 
flock of people returning since the new year. 
“Being that it was the beginning of Janu -
ary, I noticed a lot of people came and a lot 
of people started joining, so I think it’s busier 
at the moment,” De Alba said. “Also, people have their resolutions.”
De Alba exercised from home at the start 
of the pandemic when gyms were closed. 
This year; however, she isn’t letting the omi -
cron variant interfere with her goals. She feels 
comfortable working out in-person without a 
mask, she said.
“The thing is, we live in Florida, so I feel 
like the restrictions are more flexible in com -
parison to other states,” she said. “I also take 
into consideration a vast majority of people are 
vaccinated or have gotten the booster, so I feel 
pretty comfortable going to the gym without 
a mask.”
She enjoys the community at the gym. 
“It definitely is easier to transition into fit -
ness if you have other people surrounding you 
that also have similar goals,” she said.
But some people aren’t as comfortable with 
maskless patrons, especially when exercising.
RecSports personal trainer Nalin Saraf said 
the thought of interacting with college-aged 
strangers during a pandemic is anxiety-induc -
ing for some people. Adding exercise into the 
equation may escalate this fear for new gym-
goers. “I can definitely see how coming into the 
weight room or the cardio space during packed 
times — it can be a little daunting seeing no 
one have a mask on and everyone’s breathing 
heavy,” he said.
Masks are recommended but not required 
in UF RecSports facilities, which are free to UF 
students.
Only about 40% of all personal training cli -
ents wear a mask inside the private personal 
training studio at Southwest Recreation Cen -
ter, said Saraf, a 21-year-old applied physiol -
ogy and kinesiology junior.
RecSports had a much longer waitlist for 
personal training than it has seen in previous 
years, Saraf said. He observed an increase in 
student clients at the start of 2022.
Regular gym-goers at Southwest Recre -
ation Center have noticed the spike in students 
heading to the gym this January, too. 
With students back on campus, the past two 
weeks have been especially busy compared to 
last Fall, said Asher David, an 18-year-old UF 
biology freshman. He works out at Southwest 
Rec about three or four times a week. 
He wore a mask in the Fall when the gym was especially crowded and began to wear one 
regularly when the omicron variant spiked, he 
said.
David admitted going to the gym in-person 
is more motivating and offers more amenities 
than at-home fitness alternatives.
He compares working out in a gym to 
studying in a library. Separating himself from 
an environment where he is able to relax 
makes him more productive.
“You find studying at the library or some -
where outside your home a lot easier than try -
ing to study in your bedroom because then you 
just tend to lose focus,” he said. 
For David, the gym eases his mind and al -
lows him to forget about his rigorous classes 
and the demands of being a STEM major, he 
said.
“Being active, for me, I think it’s kind of 
been a way for me to escape for the past cou -
ple years,” he added. “It’s a good way to relax 
your mind and just kind of forget about every -
thing.”
@Carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgBy Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
Stephan P. Mickle was described 
as a trailblazer in Alachua County. 
He left a legacy of firsts, despite 
growing up in a Gainesville 
segregated by both law, practice 
and custom, said Rod Smith, his 
former law partner, in a speech. 
The inspiration to many was 
memorialized at the Alachua County 
Criminal Courthouse Friday.
After Mickle died last January, 
Alachua County commissioners 
unanimously approved a new 
courthouse name: Judge Stephan 
P. Mickle Sr. Criminal Courthouse, 
ending the nearly 20 yearslong 
search for the perfect name.
Mickle was the first Black 
undergraduate from UF and the 
second Black person to obtain a law 
degree from the UF Levin College of Law.
“At the time and place of 
his childhood, the likelihood of 
Stephan Mickle graduating from the 
University of Florida could be found 
at the intersection of impossible and 
improbable,” attorney Rod Smith 
said during his speech.
Mickle continued on an upward 
trajectory after graduating.
He was the first Black person to 
establish a law practice in Gainesville 
and the first Black Alachua County 
court judge. His commitment to 
justice was honored when he 
became the first Black federal judge 
in the First District Court of Appeal, 
and later, the first Black federal 
judge in the U.S. District Court at 
the Northern District of Florida.
The renaming ceremony was 
held along South Main Street in 
downtown Gainesville, where 
hundreds of people attended. It was delayed until this year so it could be 
a highlight of the Martin Luther King 
Jr. celebration activities of 2022, 
said Rodney Long, president of the 
Martin Luther King Jr. Commission 
of Florida Inc., in a speech.
P.K. Yonge Symphonic Band 
opened the ceremony with the 
Pledge of Allegiance, and Chief 
Judge of the Eighth Judicial Circuit 
Mark Moseley followed with 
opening remarks. 
The ceremony featured speakers 
including Gainesville Mayor Lauren 
Poe, retired and practicing judges 
and former colleagues. Mickle’s 
family members also spoke.
Mickle’s wife, Evelyn Mickle, 
didn’t want just another ceremony 
honoring her husband. She wanted 
a lasting memorial that would carry 
on her husband’s legacy for years to 
come.
“It is our honor and our hope 
that this renaming of the Alachua 
County Criminal Courthouse with 
Judge Stephan P. Mickle Sr. will 
spark hope, hope and more hope 
as it is passed from generation to 
generation,” she said during her 
speech.
Judge Mickle left an impact on 
Alachua County in nearly every 
stage of his adult life.
The reveal of Judge Stephan 
P. Mickle Sr.’s name above the 
main entrance of the courthouse 
concluded the event. Over a 
hundred attendees counted to three, 
signaling the ribbon cutters to lift 
the covering and unveil the new 
inscription. Cheers and applause 
overcame the crowd. 
The courthouse is now a symbol 
that represents a great deal to 
75-year-old Gainesville resident 
Johnnie Dennard Jr., a friend of 
Judge Mickle. 
“To me, it’s an affirmation of 
the goodness of a person that can 
transcend his life, that can inspire 
other people,” he said.Dennard attended the event to 
honor Mickle’s lifelong compassion. 
Dennard, who played the trombone, 
was in the Lincoln High School 
band with Mickle, who played the 
clarinet.
“It’s just so uplifting to see this 
kind of thing for a person that you 
have known to be very intelligent,” 
he said. “He was a good person, and 
he was dedicated.”
Dennard recalled his friend as 
jovial and personable, but he was 
also a jokester. He remembers 
Mickle’s smile, his laugh and, of 
course, his “darn good clarinet 
skills.” 
The people who knew Mickle 
outside of the courtroom remember 
him for his compassion and his 
humbleness, which he exuded 
throughout his childhood and 
career. Arago Welch Sr., an 80-year-
old Gainesville resident, looked 
back on when Mickle first moved 
to Gainesville. They lived across 
the street from each other and grew 
very close in high school, he said.
“He didn’t look down on me just 
because he was a judge,” Welch said. “He seemed more like a friend 
to me — a brother.”
Grace Mickle, his 32-year-old 
niece, said the most inspiring thing 
about him was his down-to-earth 
personality. He was not only an 
exemplary judge, but an exemplary 
uncle, too.
“I just grew up with him being 
my Uncle Stephan,” she said. “We 
went to the same church. We would 
go to fish fries after church. He 
would be there in his Gators stuff. 
That’s what I remember about him.”
Watching the unveiling of his 
name above the courthouse entrance 
was a surreal, impactful experience, 
Grace said. The courthouse now 
resembles the lasting memory of his 
inspiring life.
“It was beautiful just to see 
so many people — people off the 
street — wanting to be a part of a 
courthouse being dedicated to a 
Black man that had to go through 
so much,” she said. “If anybody 
deserves it, he deserves it.”
@Carissaallenn
callen@alligator.org
Gainesville gym memberships increase along with omicron casesAlachua renames courthouse after Gainesville’s first Black lawyer
Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
Judge Stephan P. Mickle’s wife, Evelyn Mickle, speaks at the 
podium about her husband’s trailblazing legacy at the renaming 
ceremony of the Alachua County Courthouse on Friday, Jan. 14. 
The courthouse is located at 220 S. Main St.Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
A cut ribbon reveals a new sign for the Alachua County 
Courthouse at the renaming ceremony in honor of the late 
Judge Stephan P. Mickle on Friday, Jan. 14.
The event unveiled Judge Stephan P . Mickle Sr.’ s 
inscribed name above the courthouse entranceTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
No more fomo.
Do it all with
Amazon Prime
Stud ent.
Fast delivery, entertainment, 
exclusive deals for students, 
and more. Start your
6-month trial.
amazon.com/UofFloridaBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       
1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
Cash for Your Collections-Lladro, Hummel, 
Armani, Disney, Herend, Boehm, Cybis, 
Dorothy Doughty, Royal Doulton, Swarovski, 
Lalique, Baccarat, Lenox and similar. Call 
Bob at 843-385-5097.                     1-18-1-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines -
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
the  alligator "
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
11..    SSuunnttaann  ________
11..    RReenntteedd55..    NNoomm  ddee  pplluummee
22..    TTyyppee  ooff  ssppeeaarr  66..    MMiissttaakkee  
33..    VViieeww  77..    OOllyymmppiiaann  ggooddddeessss  
44..    RRaannggee  ooff  mmoouunnttaaiinnss  LLIIOONNTTOO
EEEEAADDSSLLAASSIIAALL
RRRRRREEOO
TTNNIIDDRREETT
VVBBSSOOEEEERREEAAAAHHTTNN
RRIIRRSSEEAAAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--LLoottiioonn    55AA--AAlliiaass    66AA--EErrrroorr    77AA--AAtthheennaa
11DD--LLeeaasseedd    22DD--TTrriiddeenntt    33DD--OObbsseerrvvee    44DD--SSiieerrrraa    BB--AAsstteerrooiiddss11--1188--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThheessee  wweerree  uunnddiissccoovveerreedd
uunnttiill  tthhee  eeaarrllyy  11880000ss..
BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
Dachshund Wanted
Purple Heart veteran looking for older dachs -
hund for companionship. My 19 year old 
dachshund died recently. I am 82 years young. 
Please call 904.536.6881 if you can help.     
1-18-22-3-13
Collector buying old Baseball, Football, 
Basketball and Hockey Cards. Pre-1980 pre -
ferred. Willing to buy your entire collection. 
Call Steve 508-932-4095     1-18-1-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By Paul Coulter
(c)2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/18/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/18/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 18, 2022
ACROSS
1 Broke off, as 
talks
6 Retired flier
9 Lola’s nightclub, 
in song
13 To a degree, 
informally
14 Lyndon Johnson 
girl beagle
15 Breakfast sizzler
16 Antidote fraud 
that doesn’t 
come from a 
duck?
18 Northeast 
express train
19 Swipe
20 Pub with 
suds and 
entertainment
22 Jog or racing 
gait
24 Caught in the act
25 Bat’s home
28 Social media 
barrage that 
doesn’t come 
from a bird?
33 German river
34 Gets really high
35 Asian language
36 Director 
Wertmüller
37 Rock gp. 
sometimes joined 
by Young
38 __ stick: 
bouncing toy
39 Wide shoe spec
40 “When I Need 
You” singer Leo
42 Hunchbacked lab 
assistant
43 Voguish term 
that doesn’t 
come from a 
bee?
46 Daly of “Judging 
Amy”
47 Three-vowel 
African river
48 Bit of bickering
50 Military 
“pineapples”
54 Wikipedia policy
57 Archaeological 
find
58 Fabric made 
from tree 
exteriors that 
doesn’t come 
from a dog?61 __ worse than 
death
62 Downed
63 Arm bones
64 Ho Chi __ City
65 “Sure”
66 Certain NCOs
DOWN
1 Letters on a law 
office door
2 We, to one who 
says “oui”
3 “Dang!”
4 And so on
5 Senegal’s capital
6 Moo __ pork
7 Balkan native
8 Certain surgeon’s 
“patient”
9 Prestige
10 Cousteau’s field
11 Gallup specialty
12 Fastidious to a 
fault
15 Exposes
17 Thickens, as 
cream
21 Approximate 
nos.
23 Like a good-
sized garage
25 People focus, for 
short26 “Bye” that’s bid
27 Caracas native
29 Snap course
30 Writer 
Hemingway
31 Make fun of
32 Mandy of “This 
Is Us”
38 Traps for the 
unwary
40 Lawn tool 
storage building
41 Sign again44 Highest point
45 “Peyton __”
49 Concentrate
50 Fat unit
51 Bank offering, 
briefly
52 “Buy It Now”  
site
53 Fill to the max
55 Bell sound
56 PDQ, in the ER
59 Sales agent
60 Cock and bull
By Rebecca Goldstein
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/11/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/11/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, January 11, 2022
ACROSS
1 Attempts, with 
“at”
7 Apple on a desk
11 Endorses
14 Refrigerator, 
once
15 Wax Ready-
Strips maker
16 By way of
17 Iron or lead
20 Annoying noise
21 Unclean
22 Home of the 
WNBA’s Los 
Angeles Sparks
27 Eight, in Ecuador
29 Nowhere near 
appropriate
30 Dental care brand
32 “The Constant 
Gardener” Oscar 
winner Rachel
33 Public transit 
option
36 With 38-Across, 
unpublicized skill 
found in each set 
of circles
38 See 36-Across
40 Pigs’ digs
41 Lavished 
affection (on)
45 Justice 
Sotomayor
46 Early IHOPs, 
structurally
48 Mesa or Boulder
49 Flat-topped South 
African landmark
53 Contact info item
54 Form 1099 org.
55 Giving 110%, say
63 Cal. neighbor
64 Greek liqueur
65 __ de Rossi 
of “Arrested 
Development”
66 Stark in “Game of 
Thrones”
67 __ Virginia
68 Faux
DOWN
1 That guy
2 Perfect service
3 “Quiet on the __!”
4 Lawyer’s org.
5 Meir of Israel
6 Yellow primroses
7 Company abbr.8 Astronaut 
Jemison
9 Be unwell
10 Dining room 
pieces with 
cupboards
11 Not at all subtle
12 Kunta in “Roots”
13 Mythical  
man-goat
18 Like a bicycle 
climbing a hill
19 Vase-making 
dynasty
22 Not on the level
23 Tattled
24 Lamb’s mom
25 __ Lanka
26 “An arm and a 
leg” is a high one
27 Sounds of awe
28 Lit __
31 Strange one 
made by politics?
33 Porto-Novo’s land
34 Condo, e.g.
35 Remain
37 Standard
39 Points in math 
class
42 Eastern “way”
43 Bird in Liberty 
Mutual ads44 Acid-washed 
jeans fabric
46 Actress  
Shawkat of 
“Arrested 
Development”
47 Zebra feature
49 Wyoming’s __ 
Range
50 Love, in Sicily
51 With __ 
breath: tensely 
anticipatory52 Fur tycoon 
for whom a 
northwest Oregon 
city was named
56 Billiards stick
57 Quarter-lb. 
quarters
58 One-liner
59 __ America 
Pageant
60 GPS prediction
61 Little point to pick
62 Toon devil
01/10/2022
solution  on page 10
answer  on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Guest Services
Spurrier's Gridiron Grille's looking for some -
one to manage our phone calls & reserva -
tion requests. Great phone manners a must. 
Email andrew@spurriers.com to learn more 
about this opportunity!                1-24-22-2-14
Little Guys Movers
Now Hiring $14/hr. Plus TIPS
352-329-4040
1-31-22-5-15
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter -
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Math Tutor & HW Coach for 5th Grader
Math tutor and Homework Coach for 5th 
grader with ADD, speech sound disorder, and 
reading comprehension disorder. Assistance 
in 5th grade common core math concepts, 
establishing executive function skills, and 
motivation and managing ADD symptoms 
preferred. Excellent opportunity for anyone 
interested in working with children with learn -
ing disabilities. $25/hr, hours flexible. Email 
qualifications to: mhefron@hotmail.com                        
1-31-22-4-14
15 Services
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                
1-18-1-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)      1-18-2-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan -
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532      
1-18-2-15Stickelers  answer
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
The answer is B. The solid black line moves clockwise 90 degrees 
each time, while the dotted line moves 45 degrees counterclockwise.
solution  belowUPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!          1-18-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 1-18-2-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen     1-18-2-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov -
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                         1-18-2-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21Beautiful Rhodesian Ridgeback puppies, 
born Dec. 16th, will be weaned and ready 
for a forever home on Feb. 12th! Health 
Certification and vaccinations included! Call 
352-665-7062.                                2-7-22-5-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND  or 
email classified@alligator.org  today!answers  below1. FOOD & DRINK: What grain is the Japa -
nese wine sake made from?
2. MEDICAL: What is the common name for 
the condition called aphonia?
3. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a gastropoda?
4. HISTORY: In what city was the United 
States' Declaration of Independence signed?
5. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What word does 
the "R" movie rating stand for?
6. MUSIC: How old was Mozart when he be -
gan composing music?
7. MOVIES: Who voiced Mufasa in the ani -
mated movie "The Lion King"?
8. ASTRONOMY: What is the largest moon 
orbiting a planet in our solar system?
9. TELEVISION: What is the family's last 
name in drama series "Blue Bloods"?
10. U.S. STATES: Which state goes by the 
nickname "Green Mountain State"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.1. Rice
2. Complete loss of voice
3. A snail
4. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
5. Restricted6. 5 years old
7. James Earl Jones
8. Ganymede
9. Reagan
10. Vermont
1. Reebok.
2. Jessica Simpson.
3. Ebbets Field.
4. Dick Button.5. Chip Ganassi.
6. King Clancy.
7. The fumblerooski.
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answers24 Petsanswers  below1. What sports apparel manufacturer debuted the 1992 
"Dan & Dave" marketing campaign centered around 
U.S. decathletes Dan O'Brien and Dave Johnson? 
2. Name the pop star who was in a relationship with 
former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo 
from 2007-09.
3. What stadium, demolished in 1960, was home to 
the Brooklyn Dodgers from 1913-57?
4. Name the U.S. figure skater who won men's 
singles gold medals at the 1948 St. Moritz and 1952 
Oslo Winter Olympics and five straight ISU World 
Championship titles from 1948-52.
5. What businessman and former racecar driver 
started his own CART team in 1990 with Eddie Cheev -
er as driver and Target as the primary sponsor?
6. According to sportscaster and author Brian McFar -
lane, what Hockey Hall of Fame defenseman from 
the 1920s and '30s "started a thousand fights and 
never won one"? 
7. What football trick play was famously used by the Ne -
braska Cornhuskers against the Miami Hurricanes in the 
1984 Orange Bowl and resulted in Huskers offensive 
lineman Dean Steinkuhler running for a touchdown?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 podcast
streaming
now!
American Medical Program Tel Aviv University
American Medical Program/Tel Aviv University/Sackler Faculty of MedicineSackler Faculty of Medicine
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our websiteoffers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York and 
is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. One of 
these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 
hospitals around the world for the last three years.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,100 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about the Program. 
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.orgTHE STORE’S NEW 60 SW 
SECOND ST. LOCATION 
HELD ITS GRAND OPENING 
CELEBRATION FRIDAY
By Aurora Jimenez Castro
Avenue Staff Writer
Weekend nights in downtown 
Gainesville are typically loud and 
crowded — people fill the street 
and there’s not an empty parking 
spot in sight. 
This Friday, it wasn’t the typi -
cal scene. Northwest Second Street 
found itself lined with sportscars 
and local vendors. Packed shoul -
der to shoulder, attendees waded 
through the crowd browsing re -
cords, handmade jewelry and 
unique art by local vendors. 
How Bazar shut down North -
west Second Street for its new 
storefront’s grand opening block 
party Jan. 14. 
Adorned with the store’s vintage 
clothing, the store was crammed 
with hundreds of attendees as 
vendors filled the streets. How 
Bazar’s new location — a large, 
warehouse-style event space with 
lounge areas, wall-to-wall clothing 
displays and a bar — is located at 
60 SW Second St.
The Gainesville-based vintage 
fashion and lifestyle outlet featured 
DJs hosted by record label Dion 
Dia, a car show, a first time fashion 
show and a skating competition hosted by Samurai Skate from 8 
p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Hundreds packed closely to -
gether near the downtown parking 
garage. With hip-hop music blaring 
from a raised stage and attendees 
showing off their best winter wear, 
temperatures dropped to the 50s 
as the unexpectedly cold night en -
sued.
How Bazar is a Gainesville-
based vintage clothing and life -
style brand. Focused on ethical 
consumption, the brand is worker 
owned — ownership is split be -
tween five Gainesville artists. 
Before the block party, the store 
was housed in the Seagle Building 
on University Avenue, often host -
ing night markets and silent discos.  
The block party dwarfed past 
How Bazar events. In size, scale 
and festivities offered, the event 
was a first of its kind for the brand. 
Red carpet in the parking garage
How Bazar hosted its first ever 
fashion show to showcase local 
styling talents. 
How Bazar and 14 other stores 
styled the models in aesthetics 
ranging from streetwear to vintage 
and upcycled looks.
Set to a hip-hop playlist, vol -
unteer models walked red carpets 
stretching from the entrance of the 
Downtown Parking Garage to the 
street.
Audience members looped around the carpet runway and 
peered down from the upper levels 
of the garage.
Jordan Ortiz, a 22-year-old 
server and aspiring model, intro -
duced the show. After moving to 
Gainesville in late 2019 from Delto -
na, he was invited by How Bazar to 
direct and curate the fashion show. 
Ortiz emphasized the unprec -
edented scale of Friday’s block 
party. 
“Tonight we got five different 
things that should all be its own 
one,” Ortiz said. “So tonight has 
just been amazing — so many dif -
ferent people came out.”
Vintage wheels and modern cruisers
The fashion show wasn’t the 
only new addition to How Bazar’s 
event repertoire — the block party 
hosted a car show for the first time 
ever. 
Car owners showed off their 
rare, vintage and modern sports 
cars. Parked alongside the curb, at -
tendees got up close and took pic -
tures with the unique vehicles. 
For Steven Rodriguez, a 24-year-
old lineworker who curated and or -
ganized the car show, the How Ba -
zar block party served as a way to 
inspire others to participate in the 
city’s growing car scene.   
“For tonight, this might give 
people motivation to come out 
more and bring their cars out 
more,” Rodriguez said. “Once they see all these nice cars, it motivates 
them to bring out their cars and 
build them even better and may -
be even get a chance to be in the 
show next time.” 
The displayed cars’ owners 
hailed from Gainesville, Jack -
sonville, Ocala and other parts of 
north central Florida. 
Rodriguez parked his own sil -
ver, four-door 1985 Mercedes 190 
II. The How Bazar car show was 
one of few Rodriguez hosted; how -
ever, he was pleased to see the show was received with excite -
ment. 
“Everybody’s loving it. I keep 
asking everybody that I put in the 
show…if you’re enjoying it. Of 
course, they’re all very hyped and 
very proud…that they were chosen 
to be in the show,” Rodriguez said.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@aurora_rjcx
ajimenezcastro@alligator.orgShutting down Second Street: How Bazar hosts late-night grand opening
SHOPPINGSHOPPING
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
River Himmer walks down the runway in a fashion show for the 
grand opening of the How Bazar location on Friday, Jan. 14. The 
show took place inside a parking garage on Second Ave.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
Florida tennis prepares for new season after 
national championship campaign
Despite early heartbreaker the season looks optimistic, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! The 
alligatorSports Podcast releases 
episodes every Wednesday and 
can be streamed on Spotify, 
Apple Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.BASEBALL
Gator baseball preview: Infield
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
If you had to pick one stat to define Flor -
ida’s 2021 baseball season, a very strong ar -
gument could be made for errors. Anywhere 
losses could be found, errors were surely 
nearby.
The final two Gainesville regional losses to 
South Alabama and USF: four combined er -
rors.
The season-opening series loss to Miami: 
six errors in three games.
Florida concluded the season with 70 er -
rors, its highest mark since 2011. While the 
entire roster is hungry to set the record straight 
after an abysmal fielding campaign last sea -
son, no group is hungrier than the infielders.
Featuring a mix of seasoned veterans and 
new additions, the unit should have the pieces 
in place to bounce back in 2022. With the sea -
son on the horizon next month, how the in -
field fares could be make-or-break for the team 
as a whole.
The Gators return one of their most con -
sistent fielders at first base, junior Kendrick 
Calilao. The Kissimmee-born player made 
headlines last season when he came up to bat 
in the bottom of the 10th against Florida State. 
With the game deadlocked at two, Cali -
lao blasted a shot onto the left-field berm, a 
walk-off home run against the in-state rival 
Seminoles. In a season full of unfulfilled ex -
pectations and out-right disappointment, the 
walk-off from Calilao was a rare, warm mem -
ory from the inaugural campaign at Florida 
Ballpark.
Fans remember Calilao for that shot, but 
what they may not remember was how cleanly 
he performed at first base. The Gators fielding 
woes were no secret last season, leading the 
SEC in errors, but Calilao was the exception. 
His fielding percentage of 1.000 was the 
only perfect stat line of any starting infielder. As the Gators look to fix their mental mistakes 
and start fresh this season, Calilao’s job at first-
base should be locked up. 
Another name to watch at the first-base po -
sition would be junior Kris Armstrong. While 
he started at the designated hitter position for 
most of the end of the season, the Jupiter, Flor -
ida, native could also split time with Calilao.
Starting roles around the diamond are up in 
the air entering the season. Sophomore Colby 
Halter played at both second and third in 2021. 
The Jacksonville, Florida, native’s batting av -
erage of .302 leads returning Gators, and he 
sits second in RBI’s among returners with 32. 
Another veteran from that group, sopho -
more Josh Rivera, started at shortstop in each 
of Florida’s postseason games. The Avon Park, 
Florida, native was named to the Preseason 
All-SEC Second Team at shortstop, but mis -
takes with the glove plagued his 2021 season. 
Rivera led the team in errors, tallying 13. Nev -
ertheless, he should still remain a starter for 
the Gators at shortstop or second base.
The new addition to Florida’s infield group 
comes with a familiar name. Freshman De -
ric Fabian, brother of senior Jud Fabian, was 
named the Florida Dairy Farmers “Mr. Base -
ball” in his final year at North Marion High 
School. Deric was ranked the 26th overall 
prospect in Florida by Perfect Game.
Because Deric played shortstop in high 
school, one of the Gators’ returning infield -
ers will likely shift over to third base. It is 
unclear which Gator will do so at this time, 
and that role could be experimented with over 
the course of the season by head coach Kevin 
O’Sullivan.
The manager was not afraid to mix and 
match infield lineups last season, so every -
body will likely have opportunities to show off 
their talents at each position.
Sophomore Mac Guscette sat behind Na -
than Hickey at the catcher spot for much of 
last season, but took advantage of every op -
portunity he was given by O’Sullivan as a true 
freshman. By the time postseason play came 
around, Guscette had earned the right to start 
at catcher for all six postseason games. 
Although the Nokomis, Florida, native only 
registered 57 at bats last season, his .298 bat -
ting average ranked fifth among all players. 
Combine that with a fielding percentage of 
.988 and he most likely has the starting posi -
tion locked up. Keep an eye out for freshman 
Rene Lastres, though, who will join the team 
this year touted as the No. 5 prospect in Flori -
da by Perfect Game. 
After the fielding collapse last season, 
there’s only one direction to go for the Gators 
in the SEC rankings. With a healthy amount 
of talent returning, as well as a handful of 
stand-out freshmen joining the squad, Florida 
is primed for a potential bounce-back year on 
defense.
How high up the conference leaderboards 
will that bounce go? That is unclear.
The season kicks off on Feb. 18 when the 
Gators host the Liberty Flames in a three-game 
series at Florida Ballpark.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgGator baseball preview: Outfield  
By Ethan Budowsky
Sports Writer
When slugger Jud Fabian was selected in 
the second round of the 2021 MLB Draft by 
the Red Sox and leadoff hitter Jacob Young 
was drafted by the Nationals, Florida’s out -
field prospects appeared bleak heading into the 
2022 season. 
But Fabian shockingly turned down $2 mil -
lion and returned for a junior season to patch 
up a dilapidated Gator outfield. Fabian’s sur -
prise return leaves optimism in Gainesville that 
the Gators can avoid another disappointing 
season like 2021. 
With the season less than a month away, 
expectations are not as high for Florida as in 
years past. The Gators have an extremely tal -
ented roster, but it is young and lacks experi -
ence. Having Fabian back is a boost that could 
help the Gators surprise a lot of people in 2022.
The Ocala native came into last season a 
projected top-five pick, but slipped down the 
board as he struggled with strikeouts.
Fabian mustered just a .249 batting average 
in 2021 and struck out 79 times in 269 plate ap -
pearances, a 29.3% strikeout rate. This raised 
concerns about his plate discipline and ability 
to hit professional pitching.
However, the Gators star center fielder is 
out to get his draft stock back into the early 
first round. A positive from last season is he 
showed tremendous power and on-base abil -
ity, posting a .924 on-base plus slugging (OPS) 
and 20 home runs in 59 games. He will have 
to show those same abilities while decreasing 
his strikeouts in 2022 in order to change scouts’ 
minds about him. 
Fabian flashing this power more consistent -
ly will help both his draft stock and catalyze a 
UF offense that relied on him and Jacob Young 
at times last season. Young, who currently 
plays in the Nationals organization and Fabian 
combined for more than a third of Florida’s 
long balls in 2021 and no other player cracked 
double-digits. 
Young’s departure leaves a gaping hole in 
the Gators’ lineup. They will need to replace 
his offensive production at the top of the order 
where he hit .315 with an .846 OPS last season. 
Florida will also be looking to replace Young’s 
solid defense in the outfield. 
There is good news and bad news for the 
Gators. The good news is there’s plenty of 
youth in the outfield: Fabian is the only upper -
classman, Sterlin Thompson is the only sopho -
more and there are five freshmen outfielders 
on the roster.
The bad news is there’s plenty of youth in 
the outfield: Fabian and Thompson will occu -
py center and right field for the majority of the 
season, leaving the competition for Young’s 
spot in left wide open. 
Junior Kendrick Calilao is expected to get 
some starts in the outfield, but most of his 
playing time last year came at first base or des -
ignated hitter. However, since his freshman 
year, Calilao has struggled to receive consistent 
playing time and has yet to prove he can be a 
reliable everyday player. The Orlando, Florida, native appeared in just 39 games in 2021, mak -
ing 28 starts.
That leaves the door open for an abundance 
of underclassmen to take grasp of the final out -
field spot.
The most experienced candidate would be 
Tucker Talbott, who is entering his third year 
on campus. He has yet to appear in any games 
but is the oldest Gator outfielder after Fabian 
and Thompson.
However, head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
could opt to go young in search of greater tal -
ent. Florida brought in another strong recruit -
ing class in 2022, leaving O’Sullivan with four 
extremely talented true freshmen to pick from.
All four freshmen ranked in the top-10 
among outfielders in the state of Florida com -
ing out of high school. Ty Evans was ranked 
third, Michael Robertson fourth, Corey Robin -
son fifth and Matt Prevesk eighth.
While Florida’s youth may suggest the 
Gators are entering a transition year, it could 
also create an opportunity to take the country 
by surprise. If one of these young talents takes 
a stranglehold on the final outfield spot with 
a breakout year, their lineup will get a huge 
boost.
O’Sullivan has never been afraid to opt for 
talent over experience in his years at Florida. 
It is always a risk because Florida struggling 
to fill that third outfield spot could spell huge 
trouble for them offensively, but it could have 
huge rewards. If one player can assert them -
selves above the rest of the group, O’Sullivan 
may be cooking with gas in 2022.
Florida outfielders had three of the top five 
OPS’s on the team last season, so they will 
need to replace that production this season.
It will be interesting to keep an eye on the 
outfield rotation this season and what kind of 
production Florida gets from those spots — es -
pecially early on. It is certain to play a huge role 
in determining the potential of this year’s team 
and whether they can return to being among 
the best in the nation.
The first pitch of the season will be thrown 
on Feb. 18 when the Gators host the Liberty 
Flames at 6:30 p.m. at Florida Ballpark.
@ethanbudowsky
ebudowsky@alligator.orgPreviewing Florida baseball after disastrous 2021 campaign
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Junior Jud Fabian hopes to add much 
needed firepower to the Florida outfield 
this season. The Ocala, Florida, native led 
the team in home runs last season.
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Junior Kendrick Calilao returns as 
the only Gator with a perfect fielding 
percentage last year.
12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREMEN’S TENNIS
A TALENTED ROSTER AND 
LAST YEAR’S SUCCESS BRING 
HIGH EXPECTATIONS FOR 
THIS SEASON
By Joshua Morgan
Sports Writer 
The 2021 season welcomed 
unprecedented success for the 
Gators men’s tennis program. 
Florida not only claimed their 
first team national championship, 
but rising senior Sam Riffice also 
became the third Gator to win a 
national championship individu -
ally. 
A combination of elite return -
ing talent plus a few new addi -
tions to the team fuel high expec -
tations for Florida as UF enters 
2022 as the preseason No. 1 and 
favorites to repeat.
Being the highest ranked team 
comes with its own set of trials — 
as Florida will now be the team to 
beat for all other title contenders. 
No. 5 TCU had that in mind when 
it defeated Florida in its opening 
contest, 4-3. It was the first time 
the Gators had ever lost their first 
match of the season in program 
history.
However, the team doesn’t 
view the challenge of defend -ing the title any differently than 
winning it in the first place. Rif -
fice emphasized the team hopes 
to approach every game with the 
desire that led them through the 
NCAA Tournament last season. 
“We don’t have any of the 
wins we had last year, so I think 
everyone approaches it in that 
way and we’re excited to go have 
some good matches,” Riffice said.
Along with Riffice, the Gators 
welcome back six others from last 
year: seniors Duarte Vale, Andy 
Andrade, Josh Goodger and Lu -
kas Greif; junior Will Grant; and 
sophomore Ben Shelton. The 
team also adds three newcomers: 
freshman Nate Bonetto, Abedal -
lah Shelbayh, and Michigan grad -
uate transfer Mattias Siimar. 
With only six spots open in the 
lineup, the Gators have a pretty 
crowded roster.
Riffice notes that the Gators 
have taken this competition in 
stride, embracing the constant 
pressure and consistent effort re -
quired to keep a starting position.
“They know if they have a bad 
week they might not play that 
weekend,” Riffice said. “It kind of 
pushes everyone on each day in 
practice.”
All three newcomers will be 
in the mix for starting spots after Nate Bonetto asserted himself in 
the Fall, rising to No. 79 in the 
rankings. Shelbayh and Siimar 
make up the Gators’ highest-
ranked doubles pairing at No. 14, 
despite having been paired with 
Vale and Andrade respectively in 
each of the first two matches.
This is a great problem for the 
Gators to have, but head coach 
Bryan Shelton knows it will come 
with plenty of tough decisions 
throughout the season.
“It’s really challenging,” Shel -
ton said about balancing UF’s tal -
ented roster. “[We try] to weigh 
out long-term versus short-term 
gains and give guys opportunities 
to get their feet wet and compete 
and play.” 
Shelton is likely to experiment 
with different lineups this year in 
order to foster development. He 
believes that a winning formula 
is one where the primary goal is 
to help the players on the team 
improve individually and allow 
positive team results to follow.
“It didn’t really matter who 
we put out there on the court,” 
Shelton said. “We felt very com -
fortable with all of our guys being 
able to go out there and compete 
at a high level.”
Shelton’s philosophy faced 
a stiff test via a Texas road trip filled with elite competition. After 
the loss to TCU, Florida needed 
a late comeback to defeat No. 3 
Texas, 4-3, Sunday afternoon. 
“Our schedule is murderer’s 
row,” Shelton said. “We’re not 
shying away from competition so 
we’re gonna find out exactly what 
we’ve got from day one.”
Florida continues its unfor -giving slate when it hosts No. 
11 UCF Saturday afternoon in its 
home opener. Matches will be 
held at the Alfred A. Ring Ten -
nis Complex and action begins at 
12:30 p.m. 
@JoshuaMorgan37
jmorgan@alligator.orgFlorida tennis prepares for new season after national championship campaign  
Alligator File Photo
Head coach Bryan Shelton.
