We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Local braiders battle for cash prize
Traveling Gainesville stylist gets the win,  pg. 7
‘Make art; not war’
Gainesville artists support Ukraine with public pieces,  pg. 10Gators kick off football practice
The week brought unexpected transfers and 
returners. Find this story on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligatorMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 27
TENTS, TABLES, SUPPORTERS 
FILLED THE HEARTWOOD 
SOUNDSTAGE LAWN TO OPPOSE 
RECENT LEGISLATION  
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer 
Cheers and applause roared through 
the crowd of nearly 500 people draped in 
rainbow flags with shirts that read “y’all 
means all,” “love wins” and “HUMAN.” 
The crowd sat in chairs, eyes glued 
to the stage ahead. Two middle school 
students spoke publicly for the first 
time, racing through their sentences and 
stuttering over words. Still, they delivered 
a strong message against the recent anti-
LGBTQ+ bill that could make changes to 
their schools. 
Supporters shouted words of 
encouragement at local officials, church 
leaders and students speaking against the 
Florida 'Don’t Say Gay' bill.
The Pride Community Center of North 
Central Florida, the Unspoken Treasure 
Society and PFLAG Gainesville hosted the 
We Say GAYnesville Rally Saturday at 
the Heartwood Soundstage in downtown 
Gainesville. Over 20 organizations 
participated in the rally, PCCNCF President 
Tamára Perry-Lunardo said. 
The rally voices support for the LGBTQ+ 
community and stands against the Parental 
Rights in Education bill, companion bills 
HB1557/SB1834, which passed the Senate 
March 8 and awaits Gov. Ron DeSantis’ 
signature. Activists have labeled this bill as 
the ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bill. 
“We feel ‘Don’t Say Gay’ is more apt 
because of its restrictions on the topics of 
sexual orientation and gender identity in 
the public classroom,” Perry-Lunardo said. 
The bill prohibits state educators from 
discussing LGBTQ+ topics that are not 
“age-appropriate or developmentally 
appropriate for students.” It mainly applies Gainesville LGBTQ+ groups rally against 'Don’t Say Gay' bill
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
Mackenzie Mullen and an unidentified 
student — two UF students — were 
involved in hit-and-runs last week. 
Mullen had serious injuries, and the other 
student was killed. 
Mullen was hit while riding her scooter 
on West University Avenue by a truck 
turning left onto Northwest 23rd Street, 
and the other student was hit while 
walking on the sidewalk along Southwest 34th Street. Both drivers fled the scene 
but have been found and are in custody. 
The number of hit-and-run fatalities 
involving UF students — Maggie Paxton, 
Sophia Lambert and Denise Griffiths — 
and serious injuries has grown with the 
incidents Thursday evening. 
The unidentified UF student was hit 
and killed by a truck that ran off the road 
at about 6:30 p.m. Thursday.
The driver, 19-year-old James O’Reilly, 
drove off after hitting the student on the 
3600 block of Southwest 34th Street. “Good Samaritans provided CPR to the 
victim until EMS arrived,” the Gainesville 
Police Department press release said. 
The student had traumatic injuries and 
was taken to UF Health Shands Hospital, 
where they were later pronounced dead.
The identity of the victim has not been 
released yet. 
Shortly after the crash, O’Reilly and 
his car were found. He was charged with 
DUI manslaughter, DUI with damage to a Two UF students struck in hit-and-runs last weekAshleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Becky Fields, a teacher at T albot Elementary School, and two children carry in a "We Say Gay" sign to protest Florida's 'Don't Say Gay' 
bill at Heartwood Soundstage on Saturday, March 19. The bill has passed the state legislature and is on Gov. Ron DeSantis’ desk.
SEE RALLY,  PAGE 4 SEE CRASHES,  PAGE 4One is hospitalized with serious injuries, another was killedT oday’s WeatherSOME STUDENTS LEFT 
WORRIED ABOUT SAFETY 
AMID REDUCED PARKING
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Transportation and Park -
ing Services has defended a choice 
to convert 40 student parking 
spots in the 400-plus-spot Nor -
man Garage to faculty parking — 
a decision that sparked backlash 
from UF Student Government. 
The garage is located near 
on-campus housing and Sorority 
Row, leaving some students wor -
ried about safety amid reduced 
student parking.
TAPS made the decision in the 
first week of March, which went 
into effect immediately. 
A March 12 social media post 
from SG accounts urged UF to re -
verse the decision and called on 
students to contact TAPS. The 
comment section was filled with 
over 30 comments across Insta -
gram and Facebook, including 
students worried about safety and 
effects on transportation amid 
campus construction. 
The change reduces student 
parking to 116 Red 1 spaces. The 
garage still has 168 spaces shared 
between Red and Orange decals. 
Over 140 of the spots are reserved 
only for Orange decals. 
TAPS staff made the decision 
in response to parking demand 
returning to pre-pandemic levels. 
During March 2020, when Nor -
man Garage parking was under -
used, 126 spots were temporarily 
converted from faculty to student 
parking, AnaLee Rodirguez, a 
UF’s Business Affairs spokesper -
son, wrote in an email. 
Parking at UF is designated 
through colored decals. Red de -
cals are for students living on 
campus, and orange ones are for 
faculty. Red and orange decal-
holders were notified of the deci -
sion via email.“As parking demand has re -
turned closer to normal (specifi -
cally to pre-COVID levels), tempo -
rary changes put in place during 
COVID are being reviewed and 
changed as needed,” she wrote. 
Student Body President Cooper 
Brown and President-elect Lauren 
Lemasters authored a statement 
to stand up for Gators whose 
safety could be at risk, they wrote 
in an email. 
“I told TAPS Director Scott 
Fox that removing 40 red spaces 
from Norman is an additional 40 
students who have to make the 
walk back to their sorority houses 
or apartments, from an even far -
ther distance now, often times at 
night,” Brown wrote. “I would’ve 
expected TAPS to consult me 
on this since we’ve been talking 
about Norman all year.”
Some members of SG sit on the 
Parking and Transportation Ad -
visory Committee and the Board 
of Trustees, both of which help 
make decisions about transporta -
tion policies on campus. 
Eleanna Rodriguez, a 19-year-
old UF marine science freshman 
who parks in the Norman Garage, 
has to park on the opposite side 
of campus when the garage is full. 
When she parks late at night after 
work, she doesn’t feel safe walk -
ing across campus, she said.
“I parked at around 8:15, and 
then I didn't get back to my dorm 
until 10,” she said.
She has also noticed increased 
wait times for SNAP, a free night-
time shuttle service provided by 
the university. Tuesday evening, 
she saw about 10 girls waiting at 
the Hume Hall SNAP stop, she 
said. 
“A majority of the people that 
use the Norman garage are female 
students,” she said. “So now it's 
harder for them to get back safe -
ly because there's only so many 
SNAP vans and the fact that UF 
has closed off even more roads on 
campus.”She was unaware of the change 
until she received a warning cita -
tion on her car, which was parked 
at Norman Garage on Tuesday, 
she said. 
Thomas Hawkins, a faculty 
member of the Parking and Trans -
portation Advisory Committee, 
said he did not expect to be noti -
fied of the decision regarding only 
40 spots, but that student con -
cerns should be addressed. 
Whether someone cares about 
parking spots, RTS or pedestrian 
safety, for example, depends on 
how they commute, he said.
On-campus parking spots are 
limited to about 25,000 by an 
agreement between UF, Alachua 
County and the city of Gainesville 
called the Campus Development 
Agreement, Hawkins said.
Other issues on campus — like 
cars parked on sidewalks — vio -
late the law and pose a bigger risk 
for students, especially given how 
many pedestrians have been hit 
by cars in Gainesville, Hawkins 
said. 
“I think the transportation sys -
tem that we have on campus, not 
just parking, but transportation 
all together is adequate, but sure -
ly needs improvement,” he said.
Members of SG look forward to 
working with TAPS to find a solu -
tion, they wrote in an email.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 27 TAPS defends removing 40 UF student parking spots
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
The Norman Parking Garage is seen on Wednesday, March 16.
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022to grades K-3; however, the broad 
language leaves school districts 
vulnerable to lawsuits. 
The sea of supporters shifted 
between silence and applause as 
speakers like 14-year-old Oliver 
Flanagan, who led the walkout 
protest at Kanapaha Middle School, 
recounted their own experiences 
and demanded change. 
“Neutrality means nothing,” 
Flanagan said. “This bill is about 
killing us. This bill is about 
silencing us. It’s never been about 
protecting us and no one can tell 
me different.” 
Several speakers brought up 
suicide rates among LGBTQ+ 
people, and the statistics on how 
they are higher than their straight, 
cisgender peers.
Alachua County Commissioner 
Mary Alford, who was not in 
attendance but sent in an audio 
recording to be played, read the 
resolution that will be presented 
to the County Commission for 
approval Tuesday. 
“Lesbian, gay and bisexual 
individuals are four times more likely to attempt suicide than 
heterosexual people,” Alford said. 
“In the transgender communities, 
those rates are even higher.” 
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe 
provided his own educational 
experience as a teacher for 25 
years and expressed the necessity 
of schools being a safe place for 
students. 
“[Children are] allowed to 
openly talk about who they are and 
who their families are in school,” 
Poe said. “They have literally 
made it illegal to save lives.”
Despite the weight of the 
circumstances bringing the group 
together, small children played tag 
and hula hooped, college students 
gathered around an empty poster 
armed with markers and dogs 
strolled around prompting smiles 
from attendees. 
Another middle school student, 
12-year-old Aidan Gamble, 
approached the microphone with 
confidence, even though this was 
his first public speaking attempt. 
He spoke of his participation in 
the Howard Bishop Middle School 
walkout and how the ‘Don’t Say 
Gay’ bill goes against America’s principle of freedom of speech. 
“Honestly I’m pissed,” Gamble 
said. “This is not right. This is 
trying to suppress people.”
Gamble’s impromptu speech 
garnered a roar of cheers from the 
crowd and a few laughs.
Five-minute music breaks divided up groups of speakers 
and gave attendees a chance to 
walk around the tables lining 
the perimeter of the Heartwood 
Soundstage lawn. Groups such 
as Gainesville Girls Rock Camp, 
Planned Parenthood and National 
Association on Mental Illness 
offered resources and supported 
the rally from their tables. 
“We teach empowerment to 
high school kids, basically the 
exact group of youth that are 
being targeted by this anti-gay 
bill,” said Coral Smith, co-director 
of Gainesville Girls Rock Camp. 
“So it’s the antithesis of what we 
teach, which is empowerment; say 
you’re proud, say you’re queer.”
Smith worked for Heartwood 
Soundstage in the past and 
helped connect the venue to the 
organizers. Owner Dave Melosh 
offered his venue free of charge for 
the rally. 
Several faith groups like First 
United Methodist, Holy Trinity 
Episcopal, Shift Church and more 
set up tables on the lawn and 
promoted acceptance. 
Beth Snarr, a pastor at First 
United Methodist Church, joined 
the faith leaders in attendance. She 
will speak at the Alachua County 
Commission meeting Tuesday to 
amplify the voice of the community 
and combat feelings of apathy. 
“I wanted to come to this event 
today because we are a church 
in particular, but just for me as a person, that wants to affirm that 
everyone is a child of God,” Snarr 
said, wearing a shirt that read “this 
pastor loves you.” “We don’t want 
anyone, especially our children in 
school, to feel less than, for their 
families to feel less than.” 
Each group in attendance was 
recruited by the PCCNCF, PFLAG 
Gainesville and the Unspoken 
Treasure Society. PCCNCF’s 
president, Perry-Lunardo, felt 
these speakers could be a part of 
community action and political 
efforts to work against the 
legislation. 
PFLAG Gainesville President 
Jane Spear, 77, sat in a pink mesh 
lawn chair behind a table with a 
rainbow flag tablecloth. Pamphlets 
covered the table, brimming with 
resources for LGBTQ+ youth. She 
used her cane to help her stand; 
she’s been fighting this fight a long 
time now. 
“My message today really is that 
to the whole LGBTQ+ community, 
we see you, we hear you, we will 
not forget you, we will not allow 
you to be erased,” Spear said.  
Among the smiles and sweat 
from the glaring sun, a community 
of LGBTQ+ people and its 
supporters said gay and will 
continue to say gay. 
“I love you all,” Mayor Poe 
said. “And your city loves you.”
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.org
person or property, reckless driving and 
leaving the scene of a crash involving a 
death or personal injury. 
O’Reilly is currently being held at the 
Alachua County Jail and filed a plea of not 
guilty Friday.
About an hour before the unidentified 
student was killed, another student was 
struck in a hit-and-run. Mullen, a UF sociology freshman, was 
hit on her scooter near University Park 
Arboretum. 
A silver GMC truck heading east on 
West University Avenue turned abruptly 
onto Northwest 23rd Street and hit Mullen 
just after 5 p.m. in the opposite lane.
For about an hour, police closed off 
a portion of West University Avenue as 
Mullen’s backpack, helmet and one shoe 
were laid out in the street along with her scooter torn in half. The area has since 
been cleared.
She had serious injuries and was taken 
to UF Health Shands Hospital, where she 
is in stable condition, Gainesville Police 
Department spokesperson Graham Glover 
said.
Police identified the driver as 39-year-
old Daniel Screws Jr. in the hit-and-run 
and took him into custody Saturday. 
Screws is charged with a felony hit-and-run with failure to remain at the crash 
involving serious injury. 
Screws had a speeding citation in 2010 
in Levy County and another speeding 
citation in 2008 in Citrus County. He also 
was charged with two misdemeanors and 
found guilty for trespassing and larceny in 
2017, according to court documents.
This is a developing story. 
Please check alligator.org for updates. 
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgAshleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
UF students Rachel Stennett, Carolina Boitel and Maryanne Bowns create a sign that reads "Love has no 
labels" to protest the Don't Say Gay bill at Heartwood Soundstage on Saturday, March 19.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Anyaliese Hancock-Smith (right) sits with her wife and daughter at a protest against the Don't Say 
Gay bill at Heartwood Soundstage on Saturday, March 19.
RALLY,  from pg. 1
CRASHES,  from pg. 1Attendees cheer, chant
One driver is in custody, GPD is searching for the otherLUNES, 21 DE MARZO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Gators hires new men’s basketball head coach
Former San Francisco head coach T odd Golden joins the team,  pg. 12El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
CASI 500 PERSONAS LLEGARON 
A HEARTWOOD SOUNDSTAGE 
EN OPOSICIÓN A LA RECIENTE 
LEGISLACIÓN ESTATAL QUE AFECTA 
A LOS JÓVENES LGBTQ+
Por Emma Behrman
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido Por Marian Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
 
Vítores y aplausos rugieron a través de la 
multitud de casi 500 personas envueltas en 
banderas de arcoíris con camisetas que decían 
"ustedes significan todo", "el amor gana" y 
"HUMANO".
La multitud se sentó en sillas, con la mi -
rada hacia el escenario. Dos estudiantes de 
secundaria hablaron en público por primera 
vez, apurando sus oraciones y tartamudean -
do sus palabras. Aún así, enviaron un fuerte 
mensaje contra el reciente proyecto de ley anti-
LGBTQ+ que podría hacer cambios en sus 
escuelas.
Los partidarios gritaban palabras de aliento 
a los funcionarios locales, líderes de la iglesia y 
estudiantes que hablaron en contra del proyec -
to de ley "no digas gay" de Florida.
Las organizaciones Pride Community Cen -
ter of North Central Florida, The Unspoken 
Treasure Society y PFLAG Gainesville orga -
nizaron la manifestación We Say GAYnes -
ville el sábado en el Heartwood Soundstage 
en el centro de Gainesville. Más de 20 orga -
nizaciones participaron en la manifestación 
presentando, hablando o proporcionando su 
nombre para el logotipo, dijo la presidenta de 
PCCNCF, Tamára Perry-Lunardo.
La manifestación expresa su apoyo a la co -
munidad LGBTQ+ y se opone al proyecto de 
ley de derechos de los padres en la educación, 
compuesto de los proyectos de ley comple -
mentarios HB1557/SB1834, que fueron apro -
bados por el Senado el ocho de marzo y espe -
ran la firma del gobernador Ron DeSantis. Este proyecto de ley se conoce comúnmente como 
el proyecto de ley 'Don't Say Gay'.
“Creemos que llamarlo ‘Don’t Say Gay’ es 
más adecuado debido a sus restricciones sobre 
los temas de orientación sexual e identidad de 
género en el aula pública”, dijo Perry-Lunardo.
El proyecto de ley prohíbe a los educado -
res estatales discutir temas LGBTQ+ que no 
sean “apropiados para la edad o el desarrollo 
de los estudiantes”. Se aplica principalmente a 
los grados K-3; sin embargo, el lenguaje am -
plio deja a los distritos escolares vulnerables 
a juicios.
El mar de simpatizantes osciló entre el si -
lencio y los aplausos mientras oradores como 
Oliver Flanagan, de catorce años, quien en -
cabezó la protesta en la escuela secundaria 
Kanapaha, contaron sus propias experiencias 
y exigieron un cambio.
“La neutralidad no significa nada”, dijo Fla -
nagan. “Este proyecto de ley trata de matar -
nos. Este proyecto de ley trata de silenciarnos. 
Nunca se ha tratado de protegernos y nadie 
puede decirme lo contrario”.
Varios oradores mencionaron las tasas de 
suicidio entre LGBTQ+ y las estadísticas sobre 
cómo estas son más altas entre personas LG -
BTQ+ en comparación con sus compañeros 
cisgénero heterosexuales.
La comisionada del condado de Alachua, 
Mary Alford, quien no asistió pero envió una 
grabación de audio para reproducir, leyó la 
resolución que se presentará a la comisión del 
condado para su aprobación el martes, e in -
cluía dichas estadísticas.
“Las personas lesbianas, homosexuales y 
bisexuales tienen cuatro veces más probabili -
dades de intentar suicidarse que las personas 
heterosexuales”, dijo Alford. “En las comu -
nidades transgénero, esas tasas son aún más 
altas. El 43% de las personas transgénero han 
intentado suicidarse en su vida”.
La alcaldesa de Gainesville, Lauren Poe, 
brindó su propia experiencia educativa como 
maestra durante veinticinco años y expresó la 
necesidad de que las escuelas sean un lugar 
seguro para los estudiantes.
“Los niños tienen un 23 % menos de prob -abilidades de suicidarse si reciben educación 
en la escuela, si se les permite hablar abier -
tamente sobre quiénes son y quiénes son sus 
familias en la escuela”, dijo Poe. “Literalmente 
han hecho que sea ilegal salvar vidas”.
A pesar del peso de las circunstancias que 
unieron a este grupo, los niños pequeños ju -
garon a la mancha y al hula hoop, los estudi -
antes universitarios se reunieron alrededor de 
un cartel vacío armados con marcadores y los 
perros pasearon provocando sonrisas en los 
asistentes.
Otro estudiante de secundaria, Aidan Gam -
ble, de 12 años, se acercó al micrófono con 
confianza, a pesar de que este era su primer 
intento de hablar en público. Habló de su par -
ticipación en la huelga de la escuela secundaria 
Howard Bishop y de cómo el proyecto de ley 
"No digas gay" va en contra del principio de 
libertad de expresión de Estados Unidos.
“Honestamente, estoy enojado”, dijo Gam -
ble. "Esto no está bien. Esto es tratar de repri -
mir a la gente. Se supone que los proyectos de 
ley sean derechos. Los derechos edifican a las 
personas; no reprimen”.
El discurso improvisado de Gamble pro -
vocó un rugido de vítores de la multitud y al -
gunas risas.
Las pausas musicales de cinco minutos di -
vidieron a los grupos de oradores y dieron a 
los asistentes la oportunidad de caminar alre -
dedor de las mesas que rodeaban el perímetro 
del césped del Heartwood Soundstage. Grupos 
como Gainesville Girls Rock Camp, Planned 
Parenthood y National Association on Mental 
Illness no hablaron, pero ofrecieron recursos 
y apoyaron la manifestación desde sus mesas.
“Enseñamos empoderamiento a los niños 
de la escuela secundaria, básicamente el grupo 
exacto de jóvenes que están siendo atacados 
por este proyecto de ley contra los homosexu -
ales”, dijo Coral Smith, directora de Gainesville 
Girls Rock Camp. “Así que es la antítesis de 
lo que enseñamos, que es empoderamiento; di 
que estás orgulloso, di que eres raro”.
Smith trabajó para Heartwood Soundstage 
en el pasado y ayudó a conectar el lugar con 
los organizadores. El propietario, Dave Me -losh, ofreció su lugar de forma gratuita para 
el evento.
Varios grupos religiosos como First Unit -
ed Methodist, Holy Trinity Episcopal, Shift 
Church y más instalaron mesas en el césped y 
promovieron la aceptación.
Beth Snarr, pastora de la Primera Iglesia 
Metodista Unida, se unió a los líderes reli -
giosos presentes. Hablará en la reunión de la 
Comisión del Condado de Alachua el martes 
para amplificar la voz de la comunidad y com -
batir los sentimientos de apatía.
“Quería venir a este evento hoy porque so -
mos una iglesia en particular, pero sólo para 
mí como persona, eso quiere afirmar que todos 
somos hijos de Dios”, dijo Snarr, vistiendo una 
camiseta que decía “este pastor te ama." “No 
queremos que nadie, especialmente nuestros 
niños en la escuela, se sientan menosprecia -
dos, que sus familias se sientan menosprecia -
dos”.
Cada grupo que asistió fue reclutado por 
PCCNCF, PFLAG Gainesville y la sociedad Un -
spoken Treasure. El presidente de PCCNCF, 
Perry-Lunardo, sintió que estos oradores po -
drían ser parte de la acción comunitaria y los 
esfuerzos políticos para trabajar en contra de 
la legislación.
La presidenta de PFLAG Gainesville, Jane 
Spear, de 77 años, se sentó en una silla de 
jardín de malla rosa detrás de una mesa con 
un mantel decorado con la bandera del ar -
coíris. Los folletos cubrieron la mesa, rebo -
santes de recursos para jóvenes LGBTQ+. Usó 
su bastón para ponerse de pie; ella ha estado 
peleando esta pelea desde hace mucho tiempo.
“Mi mensaje de hoy realmente es para toda 
la comunidad LGBTQ+, los vemos, los escu -
chamos, no los olvidaremos, no permitiremos 
que los borren”, dijo Spear.
Entre las sonrisas y el sudor del sol deslum -
brante, una comunidad LGBTQ+ y sus simpa -
tizantes dijeron gay y seguirán diciendo gay. 
“Los amo a todos”, dijo el alcalde Poe. “Y 
su ciudad los ama”.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.org
UNO RESULTÓ CON HERIDAS 
GRAVES Y EL OTRO FALLECIÓ
Por Troy Myers
Escritor del Caimán
Traducido Por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
Dos estudiantes de UF, Macken -
zie Mullen y un estudiante no iden -
tificado, estuvieron involucrados 
en un atropello y fuga la semana 
pasada. Mullen resultó gravemente 
herido y el otro estudiante falleció.
Mullen fue atropellada mientras 
conducía su pequeña moto en la ave -
nida West University por un camión 
que giraba a la izquierda en la calle 
Northwest 23, y el otro estudiante fue atropellado mientras caminaba 
por la acera a lo largo de la calle 
Southwest 34. Ambos conductores 
huyeron de la escena, pero fueron 
encontrados y se encuentran en cus -
todia.
La cantidad de muertes por atro -
pello y fuga que involucran a estudi -
antes de UF (Maggie Paxton, Sophia 
Lambert y Denise Griffiths) y lesio -
nes graves aumenta con los inciden -
tes del jueves por la noche.
El estudiante de UF no identi -
ficado fue atropellado y asesinado 
por un camión que se salió de la 
carretera alrededor de las 6:30 p.m 
el jueves.
El conductor, James O'Reilly, de 
19 años, se dio a la fuga después de 
atropellar al estudiante en la cuadra 
3600 de la calle Southwest 34.
“Los buenos samaritanos propor -
cionaron RCP a la víctima hasta que llegó el servicio de emergencia”, dijo 
el comunicado de prensa del Depar -
tamento de Policía de Gainesville.
El estudiante tenía heridas 
traumáticas y fue llevado al Hospital 
UF Health Shands, donde luego fue 
declarado muerto.
La identidad de la víctima aún no 
ha sido revelada.
Poco después del accidente, 
encontraron a O'Reilly y su au -
tomóvil. Fue acusado de homicidio 
involuntario por conducir bajo la 
influencia(DUI), con daño a una 
persona o propiedad, conducción 
imprudente y abandono de la escena 
de un accidente que involucró una 
muerte o lesiones personales.
O'Reilly se encuentra actualmente 
detenido en la cárcel del condado de 
Alachua y presentó una declaración 
de inocencia el viernes.
Aproximadamente una hora an -tes de que mataran al estudiante no 
identificado, otro estudiante fue gol -
peado en otro atropello con fuga.
Mullen, estudiante de primer año 
de UF y estudiante de sociología, 
fue atropellada en su pequeña moto 
cerca de University Park Arboretum.
Una camioneta GMC plateada 
que se dirigía hacia el este por la 
avenida West University giró abrup -
tamente hacia la calle Northwest 23 
y chocó contra Mullen poco después 
de las 5 p.m. en el carril contrario.
Durante aproximadamente una 
hora, la policía cerró una parte de 
la avenida West University mientras 
que la mochila, el casco y un zapato 
de Mullen quedaban en la calle junto 
con su pequeña moto partida por la 
mitad. Desde entonces, el área ha 
sido despejada.
Tenía heridas graves y fue llevada 
al Hospital UF Health Shands, donde se encuentra estable, dijo el por -
tavoz del Departamento de Policía 
de Gainesville, Graham Glover.
La policía identificó al conductor 
como Daniel Screws Jr., de 39 años, 
en el atropello y fuga y lo detuvo el 
sábado. Screws está acusado de un 
delito grave de atropello y fuga por 
no permanecer en el lugar del acci -
dente que involucró lesiones graves.
Screws recibió una citación por 
exceso de velocidad en el 2010 en el 
condado de Levy y otra citación por 
exceso de velocidad en el 2008 en 
el condado de Citrus. También fue 
acusado de dos delitos menores y 
declarado culpable de allanamiento 
y hurto en el 2017, según documen -
tos judiciales.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgActivistas de Gainesville reúnen apoyo para oponerse al proyecto de ley Don't Say Gay
Dos estudiantes de UF fueron víctimas de un atropello con fuga la semana pasada6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
By Ethan Eibe
Alligator Sports Writer
Anton Svirskyi calls Russia’s invasion of 
Ukraine a bad dream. 
The biomedical engineering junior and UF 
diver’s family members have taken shelter in 
Ukraine following the start of Russia’s inva -
sion Feb. 24.
“Everybody is scared,” Svirskyi said. 
“[My] family that’s older is just hiding in the 
basements. They’re getting bombed every 
day, all day,” 
While the conflict continues in eastern 
Europe, 20-year-old Svirskyi remains in 
Gainesville. The constant danger his loved 
ones face in his home country sits on his mind 
as he attempts to balance training and classes 
at UF. 
His routine includes a three-hour diving 
session Monday through Saturday mornings 
at the Ann Marie Rogers Swimming and Div -
ing Pool in the Stephen C. O’Connell Center. 
Classes follow throughout the afternoon, leav -
ing the end of the day free for Svirskyi to catch 
up with his friends and family on the front -
lines.
“I was born and raised in Ukraine,” Svir -
skyi said. “My whole family is there. It has 
been a tough time for me. Although I’m not 
there, I see what’s happening. I talk to my 
friends, grandparents and my family there. 
It’s something that nobody thought would 
happen.”
The escalating tensions between Russia 
and Ukraine forced the Svirskyi family to 
immigrate to the United States in September 
2015. 
Before his exodus, Svirskyi earned 38 gold, 
12 silver and four bronze medals in various 
international diving competitions with the 
Ukrainian national team. Since then, his pre -
mier international experience was limited to 
competing in the Junior European Olympic 
Games in Baku, Azerbaijan, in July 2019.
Svirskyi is at the tail end of his second sea -
son on the Gators diving team, having spent 
his freshman year at Saint Peters University 
as a track and field athlete. He graduated high 
school in Brick Township, New Jersey, where 
his 16-year-old sister has been staying with 
Svirskyi’s mother amid the chaos.  
While many of his close relatives have 
joined the fight on Ukrainian soil, Svirskyi’s 
thoughts often dwell on his maternal grand -
parents, who are separated from one another. 
Svirskyi’s grandfather suffered a heart attack 
on March 9 while participating in humanitar -
ian aid efforts. He was admitted to a hospital 
in Svirskyi’s hometown of Zaporizhzhia in 
critical condition. 
Zaporizhzhia, a city on the Dnieper River 
in southeastern Ukraine, is home to Europe’s 
largest nuclear power plant. The plant was 
overtaken by Russian forces March 4. 
His grandmother, a diabetic amputee, is 
home alone in Zaporizhzhia and unable to 
seek proper shelter. Despite this, she has been 
able to provide food for soldiers and civilians. 
When the attacks are not as profound, Svir -
skyi said, his aunt had been able to visit her. 
Svirskyi hasn’t seen his grandparents since 
he fled Ukraine about seven years ago.
Whenever he would talk to them on the 
phone, typically around 10 p.m. Ukraine time, 
their house lights would always be off. This 
is due to a strictly enforced law dubbed “light 
disguise,” which requires all homes to keep 
their lights dimmed from sunset to sunrise so 
Russian bombers have a more difficult time 
navigating the darkened streets. 
The scene is reminiscent of The Blitz of 
1940-41, when Londoners were compelled to obscure all indoor light and extinguish any lu -
mination from the outdoors to ensure the best 
chance of survival against Nazi bombs.  
Svirskyi is also saddened by how his fellow 
athletes and friends in Ukraine have had their 
training and education halted by the threat of 
Russia’s invasion. 
“I don’t think it’s fair to them,” Svirskyi 
said. “I never thought my friends would have 
to pick up an AK-47 and have to go fight the 
Russian army as civilians.”
With the dire situation weighing heavily 
on his conscience, Svirskyi has been steadfast 
in his preparation for his first-career NCAA 
diving championships appearance scheduled 
for next week in Atlanta, Georgia. Svirskyi 
will compete in the 3-meter springboard and 
10-meter platform dive events after qualifying 
during last week’s NCAA Diving Zones.
This feat is even more impressive consider -
ing that Svirskyi stopped diving when he ar -
rived in the United States and only restarted 
the sport two years ago.
Svirskyi will command the diving board in 
Atlanta with the never ending support of his 
Gators teammates and coaches.
“This particular team that I have here at 
Gator diving is more family than we’ve ever 
been,” UF diving coach Bryan Gilooly said. “If 
Anton is going through something, we’re all 
going through something. There’s not much 
we can do but be there for him, and if there 
is anything we can do we will be all over it.”
Divers from multiple colleges approached 
Svirskyi at the Zones competition to offer sup -
port, proving how strong the diving commu -
nity is regardless of school affiliation.
“In general diving is a very supportive 
community,” Gillooly said. “I see the out -
pouring of support online from all the diving 
community for the Ukrainian diving athletes 
and coaches. It wasn’t a surprise to see all the 
athletes at [zones] showing their support for 
Anton.”
Diving has been a source of relief and dis -
traction for Svirskyi. For three hours a day, 
six days per week, he focuses his energy on 
perfecting the dives he has practiced since he 
was four years old. 
“It is an escape from reality,” Svirskyi said. 
“Diving is so mental that when you’re doing 
it, you can’t worry about anything else. I also 
got obsessed with diving for that reason. I can 
get my mind off things and not worry about 
anything until I’m done with practice. I feel 
like it has helped a lot for me to bear with 
this.”
Despite his best efforts, Svirskyi admits 
that getting through practice has been expo -
nentially more difficult in recent weeks. On 
Monday, he practiced with tears in his eyes 
and doesn’t know how he was able to com -
plete his routine. 
“You’re on the boards in tears and you try 
to push everything that’s going on to the back 
of your mind and focus on diving, but it seems 
impossible in the moment,” Svirskyi said.
“Sometimes when I feel like I have noth -
ing, I’ll give this team my everything. I feel 
like it’s my duty to keep showing up. Even if 
it’s just getting through practice and not hav -
ing the best practice of your life, just getting 
through it is a win in my book.”
Svirskyi’s teammate Leonardo Garcia 
has seen first hand how his fellow diver has 
struggled to maintain his composure during 
practice. Svirskyi and Garcia, a native of Co -
lombia, both transferred to Florida in 2020 for 
their sophomore seasons and have been in -
separable since. 
“Sometimes he comes to the pool and he’s 
not feeling very good,” Garcia said. “He might 
be crying or something and the only thing I can do is just give him a hug to support him.”
  Garcia also understands that Svirskyi uses 
diving to get away from the endless cycle of 
bad news. When he interacts with Svirskyi 
during practice, he does his best to keep the 
focus on improving their technique and keeps 
their conversations lighthearted.
“[Ukrainians] are more than tired of listen -
ing to all these stories and all this news about 
how their country is getting bombed,” Garcia 
said. “When he gets to practice, if people start 
talking about it again, I feel like it’s going to 
be a burnout or it’s just going to be a lot of 
information [for him].”
Svirskyi has become increasingly self-
aware of the precariousness of his emotional 
state: “I noticed I am a lot more sensitive right 
now.”
Svirskyi continues to receive updates from 
his family and friends in Ukraine. His best 
friend, also an Olympic athlete, has taken 
up arms against the Russian invaders. There 
is nothing Svirskyi wants more than to be 
alongside his loved ones, but he knows that 
returning home would go against his mother’s 
wishes.
“I want to go back, but it wasn’t fair to her 
because [my parents] took [my sister and I] 
away from Ukraine because of the war,” Svir -
skyi said. “For me to just sacrifice everything 
they have done for us would not be fair to my 
parents.”
As a result, survivors’ guilt has been a con -
stant thorn in his side. 
“I told [my mom] I don’t think it’s fair for 
me to just sit on the sidelines and to inspect 
this from afar,” Svirskyi said. “It’s heartbreak -
ing. My best friends are fighting and I’m just 
sitting here as if nothing happened.”
Although he is nearly 6,000 miles from 
home, Svirskyi has taken any measure he can 
to make a difference. He attended a peaceful 
demonstration at Turlington Plaza on March 3 
and has been posting flyers on social media to 
raise awareness and funds. 
Svirskyi reached out to his academic advi -
sor, who agreed to help him set up a plan to 
send donations to the Ukrainian people. He 
forwarded a list of sought-after medications 
that Ukraine is short on and is waiting to hear 
back to see how donations will be organized. 
“He wants to be right there with them,” 
Gillooly said. “He’s lending his support how -
ever he can, but for him, it’s never enough.”
Woven between the heartbreak and the 
nightmares that allow him little sleep, Svirskyi 
finds solace in phone calls with his mother. 
Their conversations used to average one to 
two hours in length, but that has not been the 
case since the invasion began.Talks from 10:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. be -
tween Gainesville and Brick Township have 
become their new normal. 
“We tell each other stories and we talk 
about the bright future that Ukraine will have 
to calm each other down,” Svirskyi said. 
“These little conversations help.” 
In addition to looking ahead, reflecting on 
the Ukraine he grew up in brings Svirskyi a 
level of bittersweet comfort as he recalls the 
fond memories of his early youth. He associ -
ates three words with the version of his home -
land he envisions when he closes his eyes: 
sunshine, flowers and wheat. 
The wheat fields of Ukraine supply nearly 
10% of the global export market and provide 
Svirskyi with a childhood of priceless core 
memories. 
“When I was growing up, it was always 
very peaceful,” Svirskyi said. “I remember my 
grandparents and going on walks with them. 
Riding my bike, when my grandma would 
watch me with my sister and my cousin. It 
has been joyful thinking about those times.”
At next week’s national championships, 
Svirskyi will sport a wide variety of Ukrainian 
clothing to acknowledge his nation’s suffering 
and show that he is diving for far more than 
just a title. He will wear a pair of T-shirts from 
his days with the Ukrainian Olympic Team, 
as well as a sweater emblazoned with “The 
Ghost of Kyiv,” an anonymous fighter pilot 
who reportedly shot down six Russian jets 
during the Kyiv offensive Feb. 24. 
Svirskyi will also head to Atlanta with his 
country’s flag and a blue and yellow shammy 
towel he will use to dry off between dives. 
Gillooly summed up the toughness Svir -
skyi has shown over the last several weeks.
“For him to carry that weight on his shoul -
ders, make the NCAA championships this 
year, and be one of the top-50 divers in Divi -
sion 1 athletics after taking five years off says 
something about his character,” Gillooly said.
Svirskyi will take on his first ever NCAA 
diving championships with the heaviest of 
hearts, but the strength he has put forth dur -
ing these trying times will see him through to 
the end.
It is the strength of his family. The strength 
of Ukraine.
The Alligator’s university reporter Gregorio 
Ruiz-Perez also contributed to this article
@EthanEibe
eeibe@alligator.org
@GregRuizPerez
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgRussia-Ukraine conflict hits home for UF diver
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Anton Svirskyi’ s family remains in 
Ukraine as bombs continue to fallMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
UNDER NEW OWNERSHIP! vapecompanyWE CARRY  : CBD • DELTA 8 • KRATOM
MUST BE 21 AND UP WITH VALID ID• MEDICAL MARIJUANA SUPPLIES
• HUGE SELECTION OF DISPOSABLES
• GLASS AND PIPES
• BEST PRICES IN TOWN!BOGO
ON ALL 
HOUSE JUICE
WITH STUDENT ID
LIMIT 1 PER CUSTOMER407 NE 23RD AVE  |  GAINESVILLE, FL 32609  |  (352) 672-6799
NE 23RD AVE
N MAIN ST.
Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
By Thandie Brown
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville hair stylists hosted 
the first Ultimate Braiders Battle Sat -
urday with a $1,000 cash prize.
About 50 people watched the 
competitors braid and perused the 
tables of hair care products lining 
the walls.
The four competing stylists 
endured a four-round, five-hour 
session of creativity and execu -
tion while braiding textured hair. 
Rashawnda Thomas, a 27-year-old 
Gainesville resident, took home the 
money.
Models arrived as blank can -
vases. Their hair was prepared with 
a simple blow-dry as they awaited 
their award-winning styles.
Most of the audience arrived 
around 1 p.m. dressed in all black, 
semi-formal attire. When not watch -
ing the braiders on stage, they were 
circling the room visiting the 26 ven -
dors that attended. Crystal Hunter had products like 
specialty hair oils on her table, Locs 
of Luv. Hunter styled many kinds of 
hair before she decided to specialize 
in locs. 
Before the battle, Hunter said 
she wanted to see the hidden talent 
in Alachua and network within the 
braiding industry. 
In the seven months it took Laki -
sha Turner and Brandi Holmes to 
organize the show, they overcame 
personal loss and uncharted profes -
sional hurdles. 
“This idea came up in a dream,” 
Turner said. “I nested on it for two 
years before we put any work into 
it.”
It’s the first time either host has 
produced an event of this scale.
“We actually did the footwork,” 
Holmes said. “We got out there 
[and] we went to different cities. 
We pushed each other because 
there were days when either one of 
us wanted to give up.”
In the 48 hours before the con -ference doors opened, three com -
petitors dropped out, Turner said. 
Despite those hiccups, she said it 
was meant to be and credits each 
obstacle the show encountered as a 
part in divine timing. 
Vendors also lined every wall. 
Many tables presented beauty sup -
plies that catered to hair care like 
satin bonnets, edge control, hair oils 
and beard balms.
On stage, salon chairs and a mini 
supply-and-tool station were set up.
For each round, while braiders 
styled their models, judges visited 
the stage and looked at the progress 
of each design.
DJ Ardell Wright kept the venue 
entertained as the rounds continued. 
Throwbacks from the 1970s, ‘80s 
and ‘90s played from the speakers. 
DJ Miss Behavior and he intro -
duced the venue and vendors for 
about an hour. In the second round, 
the hosts changed emcees. Eric Ra -
mos, one of the vendors, took over 
the mic and kept the crowd engaged 
until the competition ended at 6 
p.m.  
The hosts provided models for 
the first round. In the three that fol -
lowed, braiders used trusted clients 
to represent their creative hand. 
Terrance Lawson, a 32-year-old 
Sante Fe interior design senior and 
longtime client of Turner, was a 
model in the first round for competi -
tor Amelia Byrd. 
“I watched a couple of hair 
shows to see what the males do 
when they get up, how they just 
kind of swagger, and all of that,” he 
said. “I wanted to make sure it was 
all right.” 
Although it was Lawson’s first 
time modeling in a competition, 
showing off his hair was his favorite 
part.
Before competing, winner Thom -
as said Gainesville cosmetologist, 
Jessica Teasley, encouraged and supported her by supplying some of 
the funds to enter the competition. 
“It makes me feel loved to know 
that people actually support me,” 
Thomas said. 
Just after 1 p.m., the first round 
‘Fastest Men’s Buns’ began as her 
hands shook. 
“It was nerve-wracking,” Thom -
as said. “I’d like for my work to look 
perfect.”
During the second round — 
‘Cleanest Straight Back Stitch Braids’ 
— she felt the pressure. 
With two stylists already finished 
and three minutes left on the timer, 
she braided fiercely and heard 
cheers coming from the crowd. 
“It made me more comfortable 
and more elated to be part of this,” 
she said.“I got to show everybody 
my gift and promote my new Black-
owned business.”
First-time model 25-year-old Mi -
kayla Suggs sat for Thomas in the third round, “Freestyle.” To cope 
with her nerves, Suggs kept a smile 
on stage giving out her best energy. 
“The music made me calm 
down,” she said.
Soon after the round started, she 
surrendered to the groove of songs 
playing from the speakers and sang 
along in the chair. 
In an interlude between the third 
and fourth round, “Remake,” nine 
girls modeled their hairstyles braid -
ed for the kids’ spotlight. 
Various ponytails and stitched 
braids adorned their heads. As they 
walked throughout the venue, they 
received a standing ovation. 
Although the event just ended, 
both hosts want this to be an annual 
event. They’re already planning to 
include a barber’s round in the next 
competition.
@decidedlioness
tbrown@alligator.orgBraiders battle for $1,000 cash prize in inaugural styling competition
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Hair stylist Amelia Byrd puts the finishing touches on her model’s 
hair in the final round of the Ultimate Braiding Battle at the Hilton 
hotel on Southwest 34th Street on Saturday, March 19.Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Model Asteria Kennedy shows off her hair to the judges at the 
Ultimate Braiding Battle at the Hilton hotel on Southwest 34th 
Street on Saturday, March 19. Kennedy’s stylist Rashawnda 
Thomas won the $1,000 prize.
Traveling Gainesville stylist gets the winBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
Freon Wanted : We pay $$$ for old refrig-
erants: R11, R12, R113 & more! Certified 
Professionals. Call 312-313-9671 or visit 
RefrigerantFinders.com Te pagamos por tu 
refrigerante!                                    3-21-2-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
3-21-5-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    HHoott  ffuuddggee  ________
11..    PPooiinntt  ooff  ssuuppppllyy55..    CClluubb,,  aassssoocciiaattiioonn  
22..    NNoott  oonnee  ooff  tthhee  ttwwoo66..    EExxttrreemmee  ssppeeeedd,,  hhuurrrryy
33..    FFoorrggeettffuull  ccoonnddiittiioonn  77..    SSeerrmmoonniizzee,,  lleeccttuurree  
44..    FFoorrmmaall  ttaallkkSSAAEEUUDDNN
OOUUSSRREECCNNNNUUOOII
SSTTHHAAEE
RREEIIHHNNEETT
SSIIMMAAAAEENNAARRHHPPEECC
EECCSSEEPPHHAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSuunnddaaee    55AA--UUnniioonn    66AA--HHaassttee    77AA--PPrreeaacchh
11DD--SSoouurrccee    22DD--NNeeiitthheerr    33DD--AAmmnneessiiaa    44DD--SSppeeeecchh    BB--CCaammeerroooonn33--2211--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  iiss  oonnee  ooff  tthhee  wweetttteesstt  ccoouunnttrriieess  
iinn  tthhee  wwoorrlldd  ((ffrroomm  rraaiinnffaallll))..  
BONUSCASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497      
3-21-5-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Janice Luttrell
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/21/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/21/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, March 21, 2022
ACROSS
1 Caribbean resort 
island
6 __-centered:  
vain
10 Walmart 
warehouse club
14 Blood drive 
participant
15 One-named New 
Age singer
16 Coagulate, as 
blood
17 Bull’s-eye 
location
19 “M*A*S*H” star 
Alan
20 “Wayne’s World” 
co-star Mike
21 California city 
__-by-the-Sea
23 Sch. with a 
Phoenix campus
25 Result of a weak 
phone signal
28 Sushi bar soup
30 “Norma __”:  
Sally Field film
31 Payments to 
landlords
32 Future attorney’s 
study
35 Threesome
37 Maximum a 
country can 
borrow
41 Wild hog
42 “Blah, blah, blah,” 
briefly
45 Allergic reaction
49 March Madness 
network
51 Inviting store  
sign
52 Pro team’s 
selection from a 
pool of college 
players, say
56 Frying __: kitchen 
tool
57 Unwilling to hear, 
as criticism
58 Fairy tale bears 
count
60 Chair parts
61 U.S. capital 
whose location 
is a hint to 17-, 
25-, 37- and 
52-Across
66 Fencing sword
67 New York canal
68 Prince of 
Darkness
69 “I’m warning you”
70 Tear to shreds
71 Govt. securityDOWN
1 Total up
2 Caviar
3 Not entertained 
in the least
4 __ shop: auto 
repair site
5 Rainbow-shaped
6 Motion detector, 
e.g.
7 Strep-treating 
doc
8 Soap-making 
need
9 Travesty
10 In short supply
11 Brothers Duane 
and Gregg of 
rock
12 Classic Ford auto
13 Delays on 
purpose
18 Goof up
22 Cleverly skillful
23 Sound system 
part
24 Knight’s title
26 Longtime Penn 
State football 
coach Joe
27 Prefix with scope
29 Grand __ Opry
33 “Who’s on First?” 
straight man
34 Geneva-based 
commerce gp.36 Land in l’eau
38 Pope’s relig.
39 Sgt. or cpl.
40 Pinocchio’s 
creator
43 Drink from leaves
44 Wolf Blitzer’s 
channel
45 Discombobulated
46 Obnoxious sort, 
in slang
47 __-Dazs ice 
cream
48 Counterbalance50 Gave 10% in 
church
53 Shrink in fear
54 White Sox, in line 
scores
55 Physicist __ 
Mach
59 “A Visit from the 
Goon Squad” 
writer Jennifer
62 “__ you okay?”
63 Sermon subject
64 Cheerios grain
65 Opposite of SSW
By John Michael Currie
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/15/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/15/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, March 15, 2022
ACROSS
1 Rolex rival
6 Wow
11 Listing at indeed.
com
14 Halloween 
costume with 
pointy ears
15 Mid-range voice
16 One of WD-40’s 
many
17 Wartime 
delinquent
19 Slippery road 
cause
20 Multipart sofa
21 Mufasa’s “The 
Lion King” 
brother
22 ’60s-’70s Chicago 
Bears running 
back who is 
the youngest 
inductee into the 
Pro Football Hall 
of Fame
25 German pastry
30 Provide money 
for
31 Playground retort
32 __ sci
33 Web access co.
36 Flute and oboe
40 Drunkard
41 Sorority T’s
42 Sleep disorder
43 Sam or Michelle 
of Georgia 
politics
44 Online marketing 
technique
46 Flaky baked 
dough
50 Human rights 
lawyer Clooney
51 Greek “Father of 
History”
57 Birdie plus one
58 “Piece of cake!” 
... and apt 
description of 
the starts of 17-, 
22-, 36- and 
46-Across?
60 “Mad Men” 
network
61 Hazardous gas
62 Shenanigan
63 Falsehood
64 Surgical tube
65 Everycow
DOWN
1 3:1, e.g.
2 No more than3 Emergency 
copter op
4 Birthday buy
5 Mid-range  
voices
6 Without a key
7 Olympic goal
8 Artfully seek, as 
a promotion
9 Actress Kravitz
10 Make a mistake
11 Electricity
12 Letter before 
Papa
13 Coronas and 
Buds
18 Venetian elder 
of yore
21 Australian airport 
code
23 “Star Trek” 
helmsman
24 __ husbandry
25 Logging tools
26 Fairy tale bears, 
e.g.
27 “Seasons of 
Love” musical
28 Amer. money
29 Wrap a gift, 
slangily
32 Halves of qts.
33 Holiday and 
Days
34 Editor’s “Let it be”35 Free TV ads
37 Mom’s mom
38 Awning, for one
39 Eco-conscious 
govt. group
43 Super Bowl org.
44 Roaming, like a 
knight
45 Brief invite 
equivalent of 
“Drinks are not 
on me!”
46 Like decrees 
from Francis47 Fish sauce taste
48 Screwball 
comedy
49 Grand __ 
National Park
52 Just plain plain
53 Napa prefix
54 Asian holidays
55 Israeli weapons
56 Cabinet dept. 
head
58 QB targets
59 Top __: 
Monopoly piece
03/14/2022
solution  on page 9answer on page 9
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.14 Help Wanted 14 Help Wanted
HELP WANTED - DONUT CONNECTION
Counter / Drive-thru Sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com    3-21-22-4-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $12/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com              4-11-22-4-14
Arts & Engineering Day Camp Counselors
Seeking creative out of the box thinkers who 
want to build and play with kids this summer! 
Looking for engineers, builders, artists, mak-
ers! FT (M-F) May 18th-Aug1st. $15/hr Send 
resume to masterbuildercamp@gmail.com 
for more info                                 4-4-22-4-14
Tropical Smoothie - Now Hiring!!!
Tropical Smoothie on 3345 SW 34th 
Street and 4125 NW 16th Blvd is now 
hiring! Come in and fill out an applica-
tion or apply online https://www.tropi -
calsmoothiecafe.com/work-with-us/
apply/?cafeId=420    3-21-22-2-14
A prominent law firm is looking for partici-
pants to take part in two focus groups on 
Wednesday, April 6, 2022, starting at 9am 
and 1:30pm. Participants are expected to be 
18 years or older, live in Alachua County, and 
have the ability to read and speak English 
fluently. The time commitment will be ap-
proximately 3 hours, and all participants 
will be paid $40 for their participation. Food 
and refreshments will be provided for all 
participants. The focus group will include a 
presentation and discussion of a personal 
injury matter. To streamline the application 
process, please apply via this Google form 
https://bit.ly/FocusGroupQ).
If you are selected, our team will reach out 
to you with more information.         3-28-2-14
●●● COME JOIN THE ADVENTURE! ●●●
●●●● CAMP KULAQUA is HIRING! ●●●●
FT / PT / Seasonal Positions
Food Services, Housekeeping, Building/
Property Maintenance, Horse Wrangler, 
Animal Tech.
SEASONAL: Lifeguarding, Challenge Tower 
Workers, Go-Cart Attendant
For more info call 386-454-1351
Or Visit www.campkulaqua.com
23400 NW 212th Ave, High Springs
●●●● JOB FAIR COMING SOON! ●●●●
March 20th & April 10th, 2022, 1-7 pm
Camp Kulaqua Gymnasium
4-4-22-4-14
ROUTE DELIVERY DRIVERS
The Independent Florida Alligator
Has IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student positions
Delivery drivers needed for
early morning newspaper  routes 
inGainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting
approximately 30 newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
Monday ONLY early morning
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Also needed, flexible hours/days
odd jobs / rack maintenance 
Please email interest to:
elight@alligator.org or call 352-376-4446CrytpoQuote  answer
 Sports Quiz  answersSudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
YOU DIDN'T MAKE YOURSELF A POET — YOU ENTERED A SITUATION
 IN WHICH THERE WAS POETRY. — DEREK WALCOTT
1. The Green Bay Packers, in 1961.    2. Peaches.    3. Jimmy Kimmel.    4. Buster Olney.    5. Christy Martin.    6. Jason Grimsley.    7. The Michigan State Spartans.
solution  belowA prominent law firm is looking for partici-
pants to take part in two focus groups on 
Wednesday, April 6, 2022, starting at 9am 
and 1:30pm. Participants are expected to be 
18 years or older, live in Alachua County, and 
have the ability to read and speak English 
fluently. The time commitment will be ap-
proximately 3 hours, and all participants 
will be paid $40 for their participation. Food 
and refreshments will be provided for all 
participants. The focus group will include a 
presentation and discussion of a personal 
injury matter. To streamline the application 
process, please apply via this Google form 
https://bit.ly/FocusGroupQ).
If you are selected, our team will reach out 
to you with more information.      3-28-2-14
15 Services
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
3-21-10-1
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 3-21-5-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
3-21-9-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          3-21-10-1
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen        3-21-10-1
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-18-22-15-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19answers to the left1. LITERATURE: Who wrote the poem "Nothing 
Gold Can Stay"?
2. TELEVISION: Eric Taylor was the dad in which 
2000s TV drama?
3. MATH: What is the Arabic number equivalent of 
the Roman numerals MDCCLXXVI?
4. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Tyrrhenian Sea located?
5. FOOD & DRINK: What is the primary ingredient 
in the canned product SPAM?
6. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: What product did foot -
ball player Joe Greene promote in the "Meet Joe 
Greene" TV commercial? 
7. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How fast do honeybees fly?
8. MOVIES: Who was the famous person portrayed 
in the movie "Lust for Life"?
9. HISTORY: When was Elizabeth II crowned queen?
10. EXPLORERS: Which early European explorer 
named the Pacific Ocean?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. Robert Frost
2. "Friday Night Lights"
3. 1776
4. Between the west coast of 
Italy and the islands of Sicily, 
Sardinia and Corsica5. Pork
6. Coca-Cola
7. 20 mph
8. Vincent van Gogh (by actor 
Kirk Douglas)
9. 1953
10. Ferdinand MagellanTrivia Test answers
answers to the left1. Which team used the oval "G" logo first: 
the Georgia Bulldogs, the Grambling State 
Tigers or the Green Bay Packers? 
2. In 1891, James Naismith created "basket 
ball" using wooden baskets designed to col -
lect what fruit?
3. College football's LA Bowl began in 2021 
with what late-night TV talk-show host serv -
ing as title sponsor?
4. Name the ESPN sportscaster and columnist 
who authored the books "The Last Night of 
the Yankee Dynasty" and "How Lucky You 
Can Be: The Story of Coach Don Meyer."
5. What member of the International Boxing 
Hall of Fame was known as "The Coal Miner's 
Daughter" during her professional career 
from 1989-2012?
6. In 1994, what Cleveland Indians relief pitch -
er broke into the umpire's room at Comiskey 
Park and stole an allegedly corked bat belong -
ing to Indians outfielder Albert Belle?
7. Jud Heathcote was head coach of what col -
lege basketball team from 1976-95?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceWhen cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/20 Events/NoticesMONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Women’s lacrosse team hits its stride
The team of newcomers picks up after difficult start, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
LOCAL COMMUNITY CHANNELS 
PEACEFUL ACTIVISM PUBLIC 
ART PIECES, SOCIAL MEDIA
By Amanda Friedman
Avenue Staff Writer
Images of once tall buildings and busy 
streets Iryna Kanishcheva used to walk in Lviv, 
Ukraine, are now billows of smoke and ashes 
on her television screen. 
“I understand that all this can be destroyed 
with just one missile,” Kanishcheva said. “It’s 
really terrifying.”Millions of Ukrainians are now refugees as a 
result of Russia’s invasion that began Feb. 24. 
While members of the Gainesville and UF com -
munity have gathered to protest, some have 
found a different outlet to show solidarity with 
Ukraine: art. A mural, Instagram account and 
Century Tower lighting are a few among the 
many artistic efforts to raise awareness. 
T aking a stand with murals
As a Gainesville art curator and the founder 
of the public art project 352walls, Kanishcheva 
aims to establish Gainesville as a vibrant cul -
tural hub. Her project has created more than 30 
city-wide murals.
Kanishcheva moved to Gainesville nine 
years ago from Ukraine to attend UF’s War -
rington College of Business. She graduated with 
her MBA in 2020.
After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 
24, Kanishcheva began plans for her latest mu -
ral in downtown Gainesville to show solidarity 
with her home country. 
“Art itself of course cannot stop the war, 
but it shows us the way we see the world,” she 
said. “It unites people through something, and 
this is how we can help.”
Kanishcheva began channeling political 
activism through art in 2016 with murals rep -
resenting the war between Russia and East Ukraine that sparked in 2014. Large, detailed 
murals grab audiences’ attention and help 
spread the message about global issues being 
ignored by most media outlets, she said. 
“We want to show them that we are with 
them,” she said. “Keep fighting.”
Kanishcheva’s mural will recreate Shepard 
Fairey’s Ukrainian rendition of “Make Art, Not 
War,” a digital art piece shaded blue and yel -
low for the Ukrainian flag.
However, finding funding and a location 
to paint the mural has delayed its production, 
leaving its completion date up in the air. Ob -
stacles like funding are part of working in the 
public art world, Kanishcheva said.
“There are difficulties in the process, but we 
are doing it with the support of some people,” 
she said. “We always need more support from 
the community.”
Self-taught artist Jesus Martinez, 45, is one 
source of local support through his collabora -
tion with Kanishcheva on the project. As the 
co-owner of Visionary FAM Fine Art Murals, 
he has helped paint more than 125 murals in 
Gainesville alone. He would drop anything to 
help her promote the positive message of com -
bating violence with peace and creativity, he 
said.
Martinez has always admired Kanishcheva 
for her hustle and what she has accomplished 
in the urban art scene as a woman and a Ukrai -nian immigrant, he said. The two have collabo -
rated on multiple projects in the past, including 
the mural of a woman holding a galaxy on the 
side of the High Dive, a live-music venue lo -
cated on Southwest Second Avenue.
His Cuban heritage ties Martinez to this 
project as well. His family feared for their home 
country during the Cuban Missile Crisis, so the 
war between Russia and Ukraine hit home for 
him. 
“If we don’t stand up and say something, 
then that kind of evil, destructive force will just 
keep growing,” he said.
He said art is an important form of peaceful 
political activism because of its ability to per -
meate all cultures. 
As a member of the Florida Public Art As -
sociation’s board of directors, Kanishcheva said 
she emailed the association encouraging soli -
darity from art directors from across the state. 
Her message was received well, with Miami 
Beach’s City Hall, a Boynton Beach water tower 
and other buildings being illuminated with blue 
and yellow lights.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.org
HOW PITBULL TYPE BREEDS 
GET A BAD REP AND WHAT 
YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT
By Dazion Prosser
Avenue Staff Writer
Allison Martineau was surround -
ed by the affection of pit bull breeds 
at an early age. Now, the memory 
of the true nature of pit bulls mo -
tivates the 28-year-old substance 
abuse lead technician to foster the 
misunderstood dog type.
“They love you like no other,” 
Martineau said. “Every dog has the 
ability to be a blessing.” 
Martineau provides housing 
for several mixed breeds that have 
learned to get along with each other 
over time. At first, having mixed 
breeds in the same living space was 
challenging. In time, her foster dogs 
have not only become friends by 
her side, but friends with one an -
other.
With an array of headlines 
about pit bull maimings and at -
tacks, many people find it hard to 
empathize with the dog breeds. 
Gainesville organizations and dog 
lovers have made it their mission 
to show the mixed breed is more 
friend than foe.Blanca E. Carbia, co-founder of 
Plenty of Pit Bulls, a volunteer-run 
non-profit organization, demystifies 
the stigma against the breed. 
Plenty of Pit Bulls’ mission is 
to rescue and rehabilitate at-risk 
pit bull breeds from overcrowded 
shelters in seven counties in the 
surrounding area and provide them 
with permanent housing. The non-
profit also provides training, medi -
cal care and promotion for local pit 
bulls through tools like Facebook 
groups and weekly adoption events.
Pit bulls aren’t as simple as they 
seem. Pit bull is an umbrella term 
for multiple muscular dogs with 
square heads — not just one spe -
cies.
It’s common to misidentify a dog 
breed with similar features as a pit 
bull breed, which results in pit bull 
breed prejudice, Carbia said.
As a breed commonly associ -
ated with dog fighting, it’s common 
for people to assume that pit bull 
breeds are vicious in nature.
Pit bull breeds excel in the areas 
of intelligence, trainability and af -
fection, according to the American 
Kennel Club.
Among other factors, what large -
ly determines the behavior and tem -
perament of pit bull breeds is how 
they’re treated by their owners.Getting quality foster owners is a 
priority for Plenty of Pit Bulls. Like 
children, curating a great living en -
vironment molds the mixed breeds 
into great companions, Martineau 
said.
Veema Jhagru, a 21-year-old 
UF Japanese and women’s studies 
junior, has been fostering pit bull 
breeds through Plenty of Pit Bulls 
since last year. As a college student 
searching for companionship in 
older dogs, Jhagru started fostering 
after learning about the overwhelm -
ing number of pit bull breeds in lo -
cal shelters.
“When you expose yourself to 
the breed and volunteer at a shelter 
and really get to know how love -
able these dogs can be, it’ll really 
change your heart,” Jhagru said. 
“They’re not just these demon dogs 
that some people make them out to 
be. A lot of them just need that sec -
ond chance.”
One of the most damaging re -
sults of harmful pit bull stereotypes 
has been the ongoing issue of over -
population in municipal animal 
shelters. In the Gainesville area, the 
majority of mixed-breed dogs are 
found in shelters like The Humane 
Society of North Central Florida, 
which have a limited intake of ani -
mals. The Humane Society provides 
assistance to other municipal shel -
ters that experience overcrowding 
by taking in dogs themselves. In -
stead of being at risk of euthaniza -
tion in other shelters, these dogs 
have a new chance at life through 
adoption in a suitable home.
“Like people, all animals have 
their own personalities,” said Mar -
got DeConna, director of advance -
ment at The Humane Society. 
Since the beginning of 2022, The 
Humane Society housed 248 mixed 
breeds with 188 of them being ad -
opted, DeConna said.
The unfortunate reality experi -
enced by shelters like The Humane 
Society is that pit bulls are one of 
the most common breeds to end 
up behind bars in municipal dog 
pounds and shelters. 
One of the best ways to eradicate 
this stigma is simply through being 
more informed about mixed breed 
dogs, Carbia said.
This applies to dog breeders, 
too, as some owners’ lack of in -
formation on correct breeding for 
“purebred” pit bull types some -
times result in inbreeding.
“You cannot breed indiscrimi -
nately and have a normal dog,” Car -
bia said. “You’re going to start hav -
ing issues with weirdness; all kinds of traits you don’t want in a dog.”
For those seeking companion -
ship with a pit bull type, volunteers 
encourage them to go out and ex -
perience the mixed breed for them -
selves at local shelters or adoption 
events.
@DazionProsser
dprosser@alligator.org‘Make art, not war’: Gainesville, UF community show solidarity with Ukraine
Gainesville groups, pet owners confront pit bull misconceptions
ARTART
ANIMALSANIMALS
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Oreo, a pitbull up for adoption 
at the Humane Society of 
North Central Florida, lies in 
the shade outside a playpen 
on Friday, March 18.Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Every college football team usu -
ally deals with sweeping changes in 
the offseason as rosters and coach -
ing staffs face a revolving door. 
The Florida Gators are no differ -
ent.
Former head coach Dan Mul -
len was unceremoniously fired 
before the 12-point loss in the Gas -
parilla Bowl, and now head coach 
Billy Napier has officially taken the 
wheel after finishing three success -
ful years with the Louisiana Ragin’ 
Cajuns.
The first week of Spring football 
practice has come to its conclusion, 
and Napier is dealing with planned 
and unplanned changes. The 2022 
season is a statue he’s just begin -
ning to chisel away at.
Quarterback Emory Jones 
enters the transfer portal
Before the inaugural week of 
practice could conclude, the quar -
terback room experienced a sig -
nificant roster change Friday after -
noon.
Despite an initial report Tuesday 
citing redshirt junior Emory Jones would continue his collegiate ca -
reer in Gainesville, he has elected 
to enter the transfer portal. The de -
cision brings an end to Jones’ three 
years as a Gator.
Now, Napier will compare fresh -
man sensation Anthony Richardson 
and Ohio State transfer Jack Miller 
to determine the primary play caller 
in September. 
Jones was deemed the starter 
by former head coach Dan Mullen 
before the 2021 campaign, but he 
never fully grasped the role. Snaps 
were split with Richardson, espe -
cially after UF’s disappointing 31-29 
home loss to Alabama Sept. 18.
The Gasparilla Bowl loss left a 
sour taste on Jones’ tongue, but he 
still had plenty of regards for the 
Florida Faithful, former coaches 
and teammates.
“We have shed blood, sweat and 
tears together,” Jones said. “We 
have had ups and downs together. 
We have seen the light at the end 
of the tunnel together and through 
it all, you have had my back and 
have been by my side. All I can say 
is thank you.”
Napier addressed the late-week 
decision Friday afternoon with full 
support for the Franklin, Georgia, native and took the time to appreci -
ate the connection with the Jones 
family, particularly Emory’s moth -
er, Trina Jones.
“Emory has conducted himself 
with nothing but class and self -
lessness,” Napier said. “It is not 
surprising that he has earned the 
respect of his teammates, coaches 
and this entire organization. He is a 
young man with a bright future and 
I wish him nothing but the best.”
Jones will finish his telecom -
munications degree this semester 
at UF before finding a new campus 
to roam. The redshirt junior will be 
eligible to play for two years.
The Orange and 
Blue Game returns
Napier announced that Florida’s 
Orange and Blue exhibition game 
will be played Thursday April 14 
at 7:30 p.m. to attract a wider au -
dience of fans, scouts and recruits.
“It’s an important weekend,” 
Napier said. “I also think this is 
our first opportunity to engage the 
students, this football organization, 
this staff. We want to do a really 
good job and not maybe risk some 
kids leaving town.”
Napier intends to impose his 
will to attract potential recruits, and 
hogging the weekday spotlight can 
bolster Florida’s stock.
"We’re going to have some of 
the best recruits in the entire coun -
try here to show them what the Uni -
versity of Florida and Gator Nation 
are all about,” Napier said. “This is 
a personal invitation for you guys 
to join us. We look forward to the 
challenges and the opportunities 
that are ahead of us.”
The spring game took a back 
seat for the previous two seasons 
due to COVID-19 restrictions, vary -
ing from standard social distancing 
to limiting Ben Hill Griffin Stadium 
to a 25% capacity. Mullen made an 
attempt to bring the event back last 
season to an empty crowd, but set -
tled on live streaming the practices 
as a substitution. 
Spring practice continues for 
Florida football Monday, and the 
countdown to the Orange and Blue 
game has begun.
Patrick Toney and 
the “recruiting junkies”
Florida’s recruiting before the 
departure of Mullen was abysmal. 
The former coach declined to comment on recruiting questions 
after a brutal loss to the bitter rival 
Georgia Bulldogs, saying he’d dis -
cuss the topic when the season is 
done.
There’s one problem with that 
statement: Recruits are always 
watching.
Different scouts are luring them 
to new teams that display account -
ability and capability to win on a 
consistent basis. Napier, plus the 
entirety of his new staff, is deter -
mined to change the norm and give 
recruiting a ride in shotgun after 
taking the backseat for far too long. 
In order to be successful, you 
need to be what Toney calls a “re -
cruiting junkie.”
“I think we all are recruiting 
junkies,” Toney said. “I think you 
have to be. I like developing rela -
tionships with the people. I like 
the relationships with the players – 
current players and the players that 
we bring into the building. I think 
that’s what draws me to it. I think 
it’s fun.”
Toney has a great time with the 
recruiting process, but denied the 
rumor from a Swamp247 podcast 
episode. Podcast host Blake Al -
derman stated Toney was playing 
video games til 2:00 a.m. on Early 
Signing Day, bolstering his status 
with young athletes.
Although, the coordinator did 
proudly admit to owning a hard-to-
find Playstation 5.
The return of Trey Dean III
Although one staple of the Mul -len era has departed, an important 
piece of the defensive puzzle has 
chosen to stay.
Fifth-year senior Trey Dean III 
has elected to play under the new-
look staff, run by co-defensive coor -
dinators Sean Spencer and Toney. 
The safety especially isn’t shy to 
express his gratitude for the hire of 
Napier. Dean III thinks the defense 
in the Fall will be “breathtaking.”
“There was no doubt in my 
mind that Scott Stricklin was going 
to make the right decision in hiring 
the new coach,” Dean said. “I just 
trusted in God. They hired Coach 
Napier. I knew he was going to hire 
the right staff and the right people 
around me to help me become a 
better person.”
The Hampton, Georgia, native 
could’ve opted in for the 2022 NFL 
Draft but chose to return in hopes 
to increase his stock and obtain 
guidance from Napier.
“I know a lot of people say I 
shouldn’t have come back even 
though a lot of people don’t have 
the chance to go to the NFL,” Dean 
said. “What Coach Napier is bring -
ing to the University of Florida, it’s 
going to be special.”
Dean sounds determined to beat 
out his statistical performance in 
2021, recording 92 total tackles (in -
cluding four for loss), 20 pass de -
flections and a single interception 
last year.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgNew-look Gators debut as spring football kicks off
Smanatha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Junior Derek Wingo (front) and Senior Diwun Black work their 
skill sets in linebacker drills.Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Head coach Billy Napier talks up wide receivers Xzavier 
Henderson and Daejon Reynolds during a passing drill.
Florida head coach Billy Napier guides 
his team of returners and newcomers12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 21, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRELACROSSE MEN’S BASKETBALL
AFTER A GRUELING 2-4 START, 
FLORIDA IS PLAYING 
LIKE A CONTENDER
By T opher Adams
Sports Writer
The first six weeks of the women’s la -
crosse season were always going to be dif -
ficult for the Gators. 
“Our motto has always been if you 
want to be the best, you have to play the 
best,” head coach Amanda O’Leary said in 
the preseason. 
The Gators are a growing team. It’s a 
group led by young stars still growing into 
the college game and new pieces finding 
chemistry together on the field. 
The inexperience occasionally costs 
Florida wins and keeps them subdued be -
low the other top teams in the country. Yet, 
through the adversity and challenges of the 
grueling early-season stretch, these young 
Gators have put the pieces together. 
After a slow start, Florida looks like a 
team that could get back to the Final Four 
for the first time in a decade.  
Florida scheduled five top-10 teams in 
its first seven games of the season, deliver -
ing a brutal stretch for the youthful squad.
The Gators made it through the gaunt -
let, battered and bruised, dropping four of 
their first six games. In each matchup, the 
Orange and Blue just weren’t sharp enough 
to compete for four quarters as penalties 
hindered their play.
The Gators committed far too many 
violations on defense, giving free-position shots and extra-man opportunities to their 
opponents. Florida was arguably the better 
team than No. 5 Stony Brook while playing 
disciplined lacrosse and staying out of the 
penalty box. 
Ultimately, the Seawolves scored five 
free-position goals and spent ample time 
attacking a short-handed Gator defense 
March 5. 
“We can’t have those penalties,” 
O’Leary said. “It just sets us on our heels. 
It gives them an opportunity that they 
wouldn’t necessarily have if we were play -
ing even.”
The struggles continue for Florida on 
the offensive side with inconsistent pro -
duction against good defenses. 
Sophomore midfielder Danielle Pavi -
nelli has been the saving grace, leading the 
way with 28 goals and nine assists. 
“Danielle is off to a fantastic start,” 
O’Leary said. “We need to give her some 
support around her.”
Freshman attacker Emma LoPinto an -
swered her coach’s call, dominating against 
Liberty March 9 and Kennesaw State in the 
season opener February 12. She has since 
struggled to make an impact against some 
of the best defenses in the country. 
It’s hard to hold all the inconsistencies 
against LoPinto and her teammates. The 
Gators have a young offensive core.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports. 
@Topher_Adams
tadams@alligator.orgTHE FORMER SAN FRANCISCO 
HEAD COACH WAS HIRED JUST FOUR DAYS 
AFTER MIKE WHITE’S DEPARTURE  
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
As the team has dubbed it, a new “Golden” 
era is on the horizon for the Florida men’s bas -
ketball program.
On Sunday, Mike White stepped down from 
his position as UF’s head coach in order to take 
the same role at Georgia. White took an inter -
view with UGA at noon, and five hours later 
word became official that he was taking the job 
with the Gators’ historic rival. 
Just five days later, Florida found his replace -
ment.
The team announced Friday that 36-year-old 
Todd Golden will take the reins of the team, be -
coming the 20th head coach in program history.
“I embrace the standard of excellence at 
Florida and the passion of Gator Nation,” 
Golden said in a press release. “We couldn’t 
be more excited about what the future holds in 
Gainesville.”
Golden spent his last three seasons as the 
head coach at the University of San Francisco. In 
his tenure, the Dons maintained a 57-36 record 
and reached their first NCAA tournament since 
1998 this season. 
The Gators’ new leader has gained respect 
in coaching circles for his sustained use of ad -
vanced analytics. This season was his best at the 
helm in San Francisco, leading his Dons to a top-
25 KenPom overall defensive efficiency rating.  
The Dons started this season on a tear, win -
ning their first 10 games of the season before 
losing to Grand Canyon March 18. Their schedule featured three matchups with 
the No. 1 Gonzaga Bulldogs, including in the 
West Coast Conference Tournament semifinals. 
San Francisco would end up losing all three 
contests with an average margin of defeat of 14 
points. 
San Francisco held a 24-9 record heading into 
the NCAA Tournament and were awarded a No. 
10 seed. The Dons fell to No. 7-seed Murray 
State in the first round Thursday, giving Flori -
da the leadway to pursue Golden for the head 
coaching role.
Golden has SEC experience, spending time as 
an assistant coach under Bruce Pearl at Auburn. 
He also faced plenty of tough competition in the 
WCC, scheming against coaches like Gonzaga’s 
Mark Few and BYU’s Mark Pope. 
“[Golden] is an innovative, relationship-
oriented coach,” Florida athletic director Scott 
Stricklin said. “He has a wide range of experi -
ence, particularly for a coach his age, and brings 
an outstanding track record and high level of 
integrity to the job.”
The Gators’ new leading man joined the 
ESPN broadcast of Florida’s NIT loss against 
Xavier Sunday. He spoke further about his ex -
citement to lead what he believes is still a high-
level program. 
“I think it’s one of the best jobs in America,” 
Golden said. “I think it’s one of the places that 
you perennially play for national champion -
ships.”
The young head coach will certainly have his 
work cut out for him if he wants to move the 
program in the right direction after a disappoint -
ing final season under White.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgGators lacrosse showing championship 
quality after early strugglesFlorida hires next head coach