We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Sasse’s gay marriage stance worries LGBTQ community members
UF students and faculty wonder if the senator will address past 
comments on same-sex marriage,  pg. 4
Change Party wins big in Student Government — what’s next?
Gator Party has long held a supermajority in the UF Student Senate. 
Students now wonder if the dynamic could be changing,  pg. 5Defensive effort saves Florida’s Homecoming
Strong outings from Ventrell Miller and 
Jaydon Hill overshadow sluggish first-half 
offense. Read more on pg. 11
MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022 VOLUME 117 ISSUE 8
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
SASSE’S STANCES ON ABORTION, GAY 
MARRIAGE CONCERNING FOR SOME
By Christian Casale
Alligator Staff Writer
The announcement of U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse, 
R-Nebraska, as the lone candidate to replace 
Kent Fuchs as UF president caused a stir not 
only in the university community but also the 
national political landscape. 
Public comments on Sasse's hire ranged 
from optimistic to fatalistic, from UF students 
to the chair of the Board of Trustees, from 
the faculty union's president to the former 
president of the United States. Search admin -
istrators have lauded Sasse’s experience in 
academic and public service, while student 
groups have blasted the senator for his po -
litical stances against same-sex marriage and 
abortion.
Sasse will visit campus Monday, where 
there will be three forums for him to take 
questions from UF faculty, staff and students 
at Emerson Hall, beginning at 1 p.m. Members 
of the UF community submitted questions on -
line for the forums through UF's presidential 
search website. The event will also be live-
streamed, according to a UF press release.
A moderator will facilitate the forum, and there will be no opportunity for public com -
ment.
Sasse is also scheduled to attend private 
meetings that morning, UF spokesperson Steve 
Orlando wrote in an email; he didn’t specify 
who Sasse would be meeting with specifically.
Rahul Patel, a UF trustee and chair of the 
search committee that unanimously voted to 
select Sasse as their nominee, cited the sena -
tor's record of public service, leadership in 
higher education and advocacy for academic 
freedom as the qualities that set him apart. 
The committee heard from more than 700 
potential candidates UF contacted during its 
more than six-month-long search, according 
to the press release.
The committee first heard Sasse suggested 
as a potential candidate at one of the UF stake -
holder listening sessions, Patel told The Alli -
gator. Patel said he couldn’t recall in which 
particular sessions, with which particular 
stakeholders, Sasse’s name came up.
Bryn Taylor, co-president of Graduate As -
sistants United, said her organization is disap -
pointed by UF’s choice. Because Sasse isn’t 
from Gainesville or familiar with it, Taylor said 
he’s not representative of UF's student body.
"His actions while in the senate infringe on 
the wellbeing of LGBTQ [Graduate Assistants], Sole UF presidential finalist Sen. Ben Sasse proves divisive
By Alissa Gary & 
Siena Duncan
Alligator Staff Writers
A day filled with food-truck 
treats, floats and famous perform -
ers — just a few of the highlights 
of UF’s 99th annual Homecoming 
festivities.
After a slow, but steady return 
to in-person events in 2021 fol -
lowing Homecoming’s cancella -
tion in 2020, the parade and other 
festivities came back in full force. 
Homecoming festivities initiated 
the morning of Oct. 7 with a fes -
tival, the Gator Gallop run and 
the annual Homecoming parade. 
The night was rounded up with an 
electric performance from rapper 
Flo Rida and singer Fletcher at the 
Stephen O’Connell Center.
Set-up for the festival began 
around 9 a.m., with bounce hous -
es and balloon arches rising up 
from the ground of the Plaza of 
the Americas. 
More than 20 tabling events for 
different campus groups dotted 
the plaza, advertising student or -ganizations and local businesses.
Some had activities planned, 
like the UF Chemistry Club’s 
slime-making station or the Cen -
ter for Arts and Medicine crown-
decorating stop. 
But for some, it also meant 
sharing their culture. 
The Indonesian Student As -
sociation dressed in Indonesian 
sarongs and brought several an -
gklungs, a traditional Indonesian 
instrument made out of bamboo 
that is played similarly to Western 
handbells. That afternoon, they 
played them for the audience of 
people dressed in bright orange 
and blue. 
The Indonesian Student Asso -
ciation has attended the festival 
three times now, ISA president Al -
fredo Sadriya said. 
“I’m really happy to have this 
kind of sharing with others about 
our nation,” Sadriya said. 
By 10 a.m., the bounce houses 
began to fill up with energetic kids 
as families started to walk through 
the plaza. As the people arrived, 
so did the food trucks: B’z Gelati, Halo Potato Donuts and Big Island 
Bowls stopped by to sell ice cream 
and acai to hungry attendees. 
Gainesville resident Jamesha 
McWilliams made a personal sac -
rifice for her three kids to be at the 
festival, she said. 
McWilliams is a FSU grad, 
and she wasn’t wearing orange 
and blue. She’s taken part in UF 
Homecoming events in the past, 
and she’s always been tempted to 
wear an FSU shirt, she said. But 
she comes because her kids love 
to watch the parade. 
All of her children seemed to 
be turning into Gator fans, she 
said, and she joked she’s betray -
ing her own alma mater by bring -
ing them to UF Homecoming.
“Living in Gainesville, they’re 
getting brainwashed,” she said, 
laughing. “But I guess [bringing 
them here] isn’t helping.”
On the far side of Plaza at 10:45 
a.m., almost 500 people lined up 
with race bibs below a banner la -
beled ‘Start’ on one side and ‘Fin -
ish’ on the other. 
They were there for Gator Gal -
lop, the two-mile race held during DEMINGS MADE 6 STOPS 
AROUND CITY
By Heather Bushman
Alligator Staff Writer
Rep. Val Demings, D-Orlando, 
had some company when she 
wrapped up her speech to the crowd 
at Gainesville’s International Broth -
erhood of Electrical Workers — her 
first of six stops Saturday.
Demings, the representative for 
Florida’s 10th Congressional District 
in the U.S. House and a Democratic 
candidate for the U.S. Senate, invited 
two young girls to stand with her as 
she closed her speech in the center 
of the room. They clung to Demings, 
watching in wonder as she made 
promises of a better tomorrow.
The affection was welcomed 
along with a half hour of discussion 
between Demings and about 50 la -
bor union leaders, union members 
and Gainesville residents, she said.
“Senate candidates need hugs 
too,” Demings said.
She gave plenty of them on the 
campaign trail Oct. 7 in a daylong tour of Gainesville, where she spoke 
with voters, organizers, activists 
and local candidates across the city. 
Demings made the stop almost ex -
actly a month ahead of the general 
election, where she’ll face Republi -
can incumbent Sen. Marco Rubio in 
her challenge for the Senate seat.
The labor union roundta -
ble kicked off Demings’ day in 
Gainesville. Attendees asked about 
her policy points, but the biggest 
question in the room was clear. They 
wanted to know: Will she beat Ru -
bio?
The Gainesville tour saw Dem -
ings live like a local. She listened 
and laughed with voters at staple 
locations like the Pride Commu -
nity Center of North Central Florida 
and Grace Marketplace, braved 
Gainesville traffic amid street clo -
sures to catch UF’s homecoming pa -
rade and even dug into a few slices 
at Satchel’s Pizza. 
Churchill Roberts, a UF film pro -
fessor, said he wants Demings to 
show some aggression toward her 
opponent. He’s confident Demings UF celebrates Homecoming, gets ‘low’ at Gator Growl A day in Gainesville with US 
Senate candidate Val DemingsMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse will come to UF’s campus Monday, Oct. 10, 2022, to talk to 
faculty, students and staff in three forums at Emerson Alumni Hall.
 SEE SASSE,  PAGE 4
SEE HOMECOMING,  PAGE 5SEE DEMINGS,  PAGE 8Festivities back in full swingT oday’s WeatherGENDER AFFIRMING CARE 
MEDICAID COVERAGE BAN 
WENT INTO EFFECT AUG. 21
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
The temporary blockage of a ban 
on Medicaid coverage for gender 
dysphoria treatments may be on the 
table in a Florida court this week. 
The Agency for Health Care Ad -
ministration’s ban on gender affirm -
ing care coverage went into effect 
Aug. 21, banning coverage for all 
treatments of gender dysphoria under 
the Florida Medicaid program.
These treatments include any pro -
cedures that alter primary or second -
ary sexual characteristics, according 
to the Florida adminstrative codes on 
general Medicaid policy. 
Sept. 7, the Southern Legal Coun -
sel and co-counsel filed a complaint 
against the AHCA and its secretary 
Simone Marstiller, initiating the pro -
cess of a federal lawsuit. Sept. 12, 
they filed a motion for a preliminary 
injunction, which will see its first day 
in court Oct. 12.
The SLC’s co-counsel include 
Lambda Legal, the Florida Health 
Justice Project, the National Health 
Law Program and Pillsbury Winthrop 
Shaw Pittman. 
The plaintiffs in the lawsuit are 
transgender Floridians August Dekker 
and Brit Rothstein. Two minors — a 
12-year-old boy and a 12-year-old 
girl who are both transgender — 
are named as anonymous plaintiffs 
alongside their parents. 
A 2015 survey on transgender 
individuals in the U.S. found about 
82% of people reported seriously 
considering suicide, and around 40% 
reported attempting suicide, accord -ing to the University of California Los 
Angeles School of Law. 
There are 100,300 transgender 
adults in Florida, according to a 2019 
UCLA study. 
In June, when the AHCA issued a 
notice to begin rule-making a Medic -
aid policy for gender dysphoria treat -
ment, attorney and director of the 
transgender rights initiative at SLC 
Simone Chriss said she coordinated 
thousands of comments in opposition 
from impacted individuals and medi -
cal organizations.
“People are absolutely terrified,” 
Chriss said. ”I am not exaggerating 
when I say at least one parent each 
day asks me, ‘Should I leave this? 
Should I sell what I have? Should we 
sell our house, should we sell what -
ever we can to leave this state, so that 
I can protect my child from this?’” 
The preliminary injunction asks 
the court to block enforcement of 
the AHCA’s Medicaid policy during 
the trial because litigating could take 
years, Chriss said. 
“What we don't want is for people 
to be harmed every day that this rule 
is in effect and for people to continue 
being denied care every day,” Chriss 
said. 
If the ACHA is successful at the 
end of the trial, then its policy would 
remain in effect.
“Stripping those people of life-
saving, medically necessary care 
that their doctors have determined is 
necessary for them is cruel and inhu -
mane,” Chriss said.
Ahead of the court hearing, some 
Gainesville residents are fearful of the 
Medicaid policy’s impact. One is JoJo 
Sacks, a specialist at the Santa Fe Col -
lege LGBTQ Resource Center.
Sacks speaks with students who 
use gender affirming care such as 
therapy, hormone replacement thera -py and surgery to help them feel more 
affirmed in their bodies. It’s an option 
many people look forward to having, 
Sacks said.
“People are afraid right now. I feel 
afraid as an educator who is queer,” 
Sacks said. “It's a hard time for all 
queer and trans folks. I think a lot of 
them do feel like they are under at -
tack.”
The SLC is also monitoring the 
Florida Board of Medicine’s rule-mak -
ing process for a standard of care for 
treating gender dysphoria in   children 
and adolescents.
The Florida Board of Medicine 
is a separate entity from ACHA and 
hasn’t adopted a standard of care for 
transgender patients yet. It’s creating 
a standard of care and listening to the 
opinions of medical experts.
The adoption of a standard of care 
would prohibit doctors from provid -
ing any care that is deemed not the 
standard of care. Doctors risk losing 
their licenses if they violate these 
standards.
The Florida Board of Medicine 
and the Florida Board of Osteopathic 
Medicine were set to meet Sept. 30 for 
a rule-making workshop in Tallahas -
see, but the meeting was canceled.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 117 ISSUE 8 Florida gender affirming care 
policy heads to court this week
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Brooke Tymoniewicz, Qingyu Yang, Matthew 
Powell, Paulina Navarro, Sophia Handley, Kyle 
Weiner, Avery Brennan, Madison Kahn
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager
Production Staff MemberDeion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.org
Namari Lock,  nlock@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorsthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Enterprise Editor
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Michael Miller, mmiller@alligator.orgVeronica Nocera, vnocera@alligator.org
Ashleigh Lucas, alucas@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.org
Luigi Bencosme, lbencosme@alligator.orgJackson Castellano, jcastellano@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Makiya Seminera, Alan Halaly, 
Isabella Douglas, Halima AttahLucille Lannigan, llannigan@alligator.orgJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Nora O'Neill, noneill@alligator.org
Aurora Martinez, amartinez@alligator.org
Halima Attah, hattah@alligator.orgIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.org
DEADLINE IS OCT. 11
By Heather Bushman
Alligator Staff Writer
The Nov. 8 general election is approaching quickly, 
but the deadline to register as a voter is coming up even 
sooner — this week, to be exact. 
Floridians must register to vote by Oct. 11 to partici -
pate in November’s election. Luckily for those late to the 
memo, the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Of -
fice offers a variety of quick methods to register, includ -
ing online and in-person registration.
Alachua County residents will vote in races for gov -
ernor, U.S. Congress, Florida Legislature, Gainesville City 
Commission and Alachua County Commission. Other 
statewide positions like attorney general and commis -
sioner of agriculture are also on the ballot. 
Voters must be 18 or older and Florida residents to 
vote, but residents as young as 16 can pre-register to 
vote. Potential voters must provide a valid Florida driv -
er's license or another government-issued ID card and 
the date it was issued, as well as their social security 
number in an online application form. 
The form requires a full name and address in addition 
to the previous information listed. Once this is submitted, 
the Supervisor of Elections will review the application for 
approval. If approved, the resident is officially registered 
to vote. 
Voters looking to change their registration from their 
previous residence will fill out a similar form. The only 
difference is simple: It asks for both a former and current 
address.
These forms are available to submit directly to the 
Supervisor of Elections website and can be downloaded as a PDF.
Voter registration forms are available at almost 130 
locations across the county, including most schools and 
libraries. If potential voters want to apply in person, they 
can access paper forms at these sites. 
Potential voters can visit an extensive list of locations 
to turn in their registration in person, including 11 Alach -
ua County libraries and nine other local agencies that of -
fer voter registration. The election workers at these loca -
tions will ask for similar information as the online form. 
If voters register by mail, the registration must be 
postmarked by the postal service by Oct. 11 for the send -
er to vote in the Nov 8. election. 
Voters can check their registration status through the 
My Registration Status page on the
Supervisor of Elections website. Here, voters can 
update their information, confirm their precinct, view a 
sample ballot and verify impending election dates. 
The office has spent the leadup to the general election 
compiling preparedness guides, Supervisor of Elections 
spokesperson Aaron Klein said, sending sample ballots 
to residents and distributing information on how to par -
ticipate. With plenty of high-profile races on the ballot, 
Klein said he anticipates significant voter engagement 
come November. 
“The general election brings up a great deal of interest 
for voters,” Klein said. “We’re very excited to give them 
all the information they need.”
Whether you’re changing your residence or gearing 
up for your first election, there are plenty of ways to par -
ticipate. Get those registrations in, and we’ll see you at 
the ballot box.
@hmb_1013
hbushman@alligator.orgHow to register to vote before the November midtermsMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022By Alan Halaly
Alligator Staff Writer
In 2015, the U.S. senator who’s 
likely to become UF’s next president 
called the Supreme Court’s decision 
to federally protect the right to same-
sex marriage “a disappointment.”
Seven years later, many UF stu -
dents now share a similar sentiment 
about the UF presidential search 
committee’s unanimous choice to 
make him the lone finalist for the 
university’s presidency.
The committee announced its 
recommendation of Sen. Ben Sasse, 
R-Nebraska, Oct. 6 to the outrage 
of many in the UF community. As 
members of the university commu -
nity gear up for his first campus ap -
pearance as finalist Monday, some 
worry his potential appointment 
could foreshadow a bleak future for 
UF’s inclusivity toward LGBTQ stu -
dents and faculty.
Sasse’s statement about Oberge -
fell v. Hodges affirms his stance, 
which is that marriage should be 
between a man and a woman. His 
website still lists “the sanctity of mar -
riage” as a top issue.
RJ Della Salle, an 18-year-old UF 
political science freshman who iden -
tifies as gay, said Sasse’s comments 
on Obergefell are troubling. If Sasse 
were president during his college 
application process, he would’ve 
thought twice about attending UF. 
Salle, who lives in the Lavender 
Living Learning Community for LG -
BTQ students at Springs Residential 
Complex, said he plans on attending a protest scheduled outside of Em -
erson Alumni Hall Monday where 
Sasse will speak to faculty, staff and 
students in three forums. 
“We either have someone who's 
a genuine homophobe as our presi -
dent or we have a sleazy politician 
who just says what the people that 
he’s trying to get elected by want to 
hear,” he said.
Prior to spending seven years in 
Congress, Sasse, 50, was the presi -
dent of Midland University — a 
Lutheran college of about 1,600 
students. He left the school in 2014 
after launching a successful bid for 
U.S. Senate, also earning reelection 
in 2020.
Rahul Patel, a UF trustee and 
the chair of the presidential search 
committee, has continually denied 
Sasse’s politics factored into UF’s de -
cision. More important than being a 
politician, Sasse’s an academic, Patel 
said, who has no intention of impos -
ing his political beliefs onto the stu -
dent body.
But Sasse’s voting record puts his 
ideology in clear focus: Sasse earned 
a 0/100 rating from the Human 
Rights Campaign, an LGBTQ advo -
cacy group, based on his actions in 
Congress. 
He also dismissed the need for 
a Respect For Marriage Act — pro -
posed legislation that would make 
the federal government recognize 
same-sex and interracial marriages. 
The bill was just a “bullsh-t” attempt 
by Speaker of the House Nancy Pe -
losi “to divide America with culture 
wars,” Sasse told reporters in July.“Like every senator, Ben's job 
was to vote yes or no on legislation 
on behalf of his state,” Patel told the 
Alligator Oct. 6. “He did that job. But 
that's not this job. He is putting aside 
politics and coming back to academia 
to lead us through this exciting new 
era.”
In a 2018 New Yorker column, 
Osita Nwanevu noted Sasse often 
fails to acknowledge that his ideas on 
same-sex marriage could be contra -
dictory to his mission of facilitating 
strong families.
Sasse’s congressional office didn’t 
respond to requests for comment be -
fore publication.
For those aware of UF’s well-
documented history of systemic ho -
mophobia, Sasse’s comments are a 
call back to a time when being LG -
BTQ on campus put a target on some 
community members’ backs. 
The Johns Committee, which was 
formed by the Florida Legislature to 
investigate Communist connections 
to civil rights movements, was an 
effort supported by then-President 
Julius Wayne Reitz. Between 1956 
to 1965, UF orchestrated targeted at -
tacks on LGBTQ members of the uni -
versity community, forcing about 15 
professors and 50 students to leave 
campus. 
Though not as overt as it once 
was, similar rhetoric lingers for some 
like Alex Noon, a 23-year-old second-
year UF law student and president of 
the law school’s LGBTQ organization 
OUTLaw.
He recalled one instance at a Moot 
Court tryout where he was nearly forced to argue in favor of
conversion therapy — a topic 
suggested by students and later ap -
proved by faculty. 
Also, until he and other queer stu -
dents protested, the law school man -
dated a Zoom meeting with Mathew 
Staver, whose Liberty Counsel firm 
is proudly homophobic and labeled 
a hate group by the Southern Poverty 
Law Center.
The university’s choice to make 
Sasse a finalist was disappointing, 
Noon said, but not surprising. Still, 
he can’t help but feel queer students 
are at the bottom of UF’s priority list, 
he said. 
To queer students, Sasse repre -
sents a blatant disregard for their 
livelihoods, Noon said. “It blows my mind that this is the 
sole person that they came up with,” 
Noon said. “I could probably go 
downtown on a Thursday and find 
someone better.”
Another law student — Jenna 
Cliatt, a 24-year-old third-year who 
identifies as queer — said Sasse’s 
comments on Obergefell show a clear 
disrespect for the rule of law.
Read the rest online 
at alligator.org.
Christian Casale contributed 
to this report.
@AlanHalaly
ahalaly@alligator.orgBen Sasse’s anti-LGBTQ past recalls deep-rooted history of campus prejudice  
GAs that can become pregnant and GAs with 
limited access to health care and child care," 
Taylor said, referring to Sasse's stances on 
abortion and gay marriage.
In 2015, Sasse spoke out against the U.S. 
Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. 
Hodges, the landmark case that federally pro -
tects same-sex marriage, saying that marriage 
is meant to bring together a man and a woman 
so children can have a mother and a father. In 
June, Sasse celebrated the Dobbs v. Jackson 
Women’s Health Organization decision that 
eliminated federal protections of abortion ac -
cess.
In a statement Oct. 6, Sasse said he had re -
sisted the pursuits of different universities for 
the past two years, but he couldn’t resist the 
offer to come to what he called the “most in -
teresting university” in the U.S.
“The caliber of teaching and research at UF 
is unmistakable, carried out through the core 
principles of shared governance and academic 
freedom," Sasse said. "I'm thrilled about the 
opportunity to work alongside one of the na -
tion's most outstanding faculties."
Patel declined to comment on the specif -
ics of when Sasse was first contacted by the 
search committee for the presidency, when 
he interviewed for the job or when he agreed 
to move forward as the nominee — citing 
the new Florida transparency law, which has 
largely allowed the presidential search to oc -
cur behind closed doors.
UF’s Board of Trustees will interview him 
in a live-streamed session at 10 a.m. Tuesday, 
Nov. 1, in Emerson Alumni Hall.
Raised in Nebraska, Sasse attended Har -vard University as an undergraduate and later 
received a doctorate in American history at 
Yale University. He pursued teaching at the 
University of Texas while advising private eq -
uity clients. 
From 2010 to 2014, Sasse served as presi -
dent of Midland University — a Lutheran 
school in Nebraska that serves more than 
1,600 students.
In 2014, Sasse won Nebraska's U.S. Sen -
ate election; he was reelected in 2020. In both 
general elections, Sasse won every county in 
the state.
As the closed-off process of selecting a UF 
president perpetuated fears of a political ap -
pointment, the selection of a Republican U.S. 
senator by a search committee was chaired by 
Patel, a Republican donor. Patel was selected 
to chair the committee by the Board of Trust -
ees chair Mori Hosseini who has close ties 
to Florida's Republican governor, which has 
raised eyebrows about outside political influ -
ence.
The search committee noted early in the 
search that a crucial leadership characteristic 
of UF's next president is they "will not use the 
University of Florida as a platform to advocate 
for personal political viewpoints."
While many may feel choosing a politi -
cian makes the process' conclusion inherently 
political, Patel stressed the search committee 
doesn't see it that way.
"The committee unanimously believed that 
Dr. Sasse is first an academic, who happens to 
currently hold political office," Patel said.
Sasse beat out 11 other final candidates, 
nine of whom were presidents at research uni -
versities, according to UF’s press release. Sasse 
was the 35th most conservative U.S. senator 
from 2019 to 2021, according to GovTrack, a government transparency analyzer. 
However, Sasse drew the ire of many in his 
party for voting to convict former President 
Donald Trump in his 2021 Senate impeach -
ment trial for inciting the Jan. 6 insurrection.
"Like every senator, Ben's job was to vote 
‘yes’ or ‘no’ on legislation on behalf of his 
state," Patel said. “He did that job. But that's 
not this job — putting aside politics and com -
ing back to academia to lead us through this 
exciting new era."
The announcement has since evoked a 
strong reaction from campus groups.
UF organizations have planned a protest, 
dubbed “Fuchs the Replacement” at 2:30 p.m. 
Monday to oppose Sasse's candidacy outside 
of Emerson Hall, where several of the public 
forums will take place. The coalition released 
a statement Oct. 8 condemning Sasse’s hiring.
“A community that is still recovering from 
last year’s academic freedom scandal, contin -
ued censorship, and other politically-motivat -
ed actions deserves a president who will unite 
and heal,” the statement read. “Not divide and 
hurt.”
Not every UF student is ready to picket out -
side Emerson Alumni Hall.
Matt Turner, president of UF College Re -
publicans, defended Sasse as a candidate and 
criticized the planned protest in a statement 
Friday morning.
“Senator Sasse seems to have several 
qualities that would make him an effective 
president for all students, regardless of their 
political affiliation," Turner said. "Protesting 
somebody purely because there is an R next to 
their name cuts directly against the principles 
of tolerance and merit-based evaluation.” 
Patel has maintained that Sasse's days as 
a political actor would be behind him as UF 
president and the senator will have a wide ap -
peal.
"I think his intellectual curiosity, his be -lief in the power of American universities to 
change lives, his vision, his humility, his integ -
rity, his incredible, personable nature and his 
deep concern for humanity are all traits that 
I believe students will resonate with," Patel 
said.
Paul Ortiz, president of UF's United Faculty 
of Florida and history professor, said the deci -
sion is up to Sasse whether he can conform to 
UF, not the other way around.
UF’s known for its prowess as a research 
university that defends intellectual freedom, 
Ortiz said.
"We're going to continue to do that, so it's 
really up to Senator Sasse,” Ortiz said. “He's 
the one who's going to have to learn. He's go -
ing to be the one that has to learn our culture."
Ortiz also said he’s critical of the lack of 
transparency in 2022's presidential search 
compared to 2014's — which ended in the se -
lection of President Kent Fuchs. In 2014, can -
didates were named throughout the process 
for faculty to independently vet and consult 
the search committee on, leading to three final 
candidates that October. 
Ortiz positively acknowledged Sasse's re -
cent statement in support of academic free -
dom, which the professor said is the kind of 
stance that would allow the senator to work 
out as the university president. But Ortiz said 
whoever lives in the president's manor is far 
less important to the university than its stu -
dents, faculty and staff.
"Whoever happens to be president, or 
provost or the chair of the Board of Trustees, 
doesn't matter to my students on Monday af -
ternoon, when they're preparing for their mid -
term exams," Ortiz said.
Makiya Seminera contributed to this report.
@vanityhack
ccasale@alligator.orgSASSE,  from pg. 1Community voices concernsMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Students worry U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse, the UF presidential finalist, brings 
anti-LGBTQ opinions about the queer community.
Students worry about undoing years of progressMONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
CHANGE’S NEAR ONE-THIRD CONTROL CAN SHIFT 
TRADITIONAL SENATE PROCEEDINGS
By Alissa Gary
Alligator Staff Writer
Throughout its campaign, Change Party had its sights set on 
winning one-third of the Student Senate. During the Fall 2022 
Student Government elections, it finally met that goal — grow -
ing its minority caucus from eight senators to 31 and shrinking 
Gator Party’s supermajority control.
Change gained 27 seats, and Gator earned 22 seats in the 
Oct. 3 election, with one tie in the Family Housing seat. Libera -
tion Party won no seats.
The Family Housing seat was divided with one vote cast for 
the Gator candidate and one for a write-in candidate — Change 
didn’t slate a candidate for the seat. Senate will vote on the 
tiebreaker at the Oct. 11 general meeting.
A total of 9,858 votes were cast between both voting days 
Sept. 27 and Oct. 3. Voter turnout was about 16.1%, a 2.5% 
increase from last year’s 13.6%, according to election results 
and 2021 university data. 
Change swept Districts C and D, as well as Graham, Hume, 
Infinity, Keys, Lakeside, Murphree, Springs, Tolbert and Yulee 
areas. Gator took Districts A, B and E, along with Beaty Towers, 
Broward-Rawlings and Jennings areas.
Districts flipped from Gator to Change control include Dis -
trict C, three seats in District D, Graham, Infinity, Keys, Mur -
phree, Springs and Yulee.
Before this year, the largest independent party to challenge 
Gator’s control was the Inspire Party, which won 26 Senate 
seats Fall 2019. Inspire disbanded after the Spring 2020 elec -
tion, and Change filled its spot as the minority party Fall 2020.
Change’s platform includes 24-hour libraries and additional 
sustainability initiatives across campus. Gator’s platform fea -
tured an initiative to donate unused Flex Bucks to the Field 
& Fork Pantry and create student meet-and-greets with guest 
speakers and performers. Their full platforms were released on -
line in September, a week before elections began.
To achieve their platform goals, senators write and propose 
legislation to be voted on by the Senate. While some pieces of 
legislation require a simple majority to pass, others require a 
two-thirds supermajority, including votes to pass a resolution 
and approve a Supreme Court justice.
Senate votes are calculated from the number of senators present. For example, if 60 senators are present at a meeting, 
then a majority vote requires 31 to pass, and a two-thirds vote 
requires 41 to pass.
Although one third of a full 100-person Senate would require 
33 Senators, anywhere between 28 and 33 Senators serves the 
one-third’s purpose, Senator-elect Mohammed Faisal (District 
D-Change) said. 
Six of the 100 Senate seats are currently vacant, according to 
the Senate roster. Senate rarely sees perfect attendance at regu -
lar weekly meetings, according to the Senate meeting minutes, 
further lowering the threshold of senators needed to represent 
one-third of those present. 
Change plans to use their larger caucus to force more de -
bate over legislation. In previous meetings, motions to previous 
question — which end debate — have passed with overwhelm -
ing votes from Gator senators. The motion is typically passed to 
expedite the meeting, Sen. Oscar Santiago (District D-Change) said.
Now, Change has the chance to block the motion from pass -
ing with one-third dissent, forcing debate to continue. 
Debate allows senators to better understand the legislation 
they’re voting on, Santiago said, as well as increasing account -
ability among elected officials.
“Students really want accountability within our student 
leaders,” Santiago said. “I think that having these debates will 
be crucial towards that goal.”
Santiago is also hopeful the minority caucus will see more 
committee assignments in the coming semester, though they 
said they find it unlikely. 
Committee members are nominated by members of the Re -
placement and Agenda Committee and approved by a majority 
of the Senate. Currently, all but one committee seat is held by 
a Gator senator.
Minority caucus leader Faith Corbett is the only Change 
senator, as a mandated part of the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee.
“A committee completely dominated by the majority party is 
not representative of our student senate and shouldn't be what 
determines whether or not our bill goes to the floor,” Santiago 
said.
Sen. Grace Shoemaker (Engineering-Change) teared up elec -
tion night when she realized the possibilities that opened for 
Change after winning seats Monday. She said it was insane that 
Change’s vote might not be overwhelmingly suppressed by Ga -
tor’s anymore.
“This is crazy,” Shoemaker said on election night. “We can 
finally debate, which is nice.”
Gator doesn’t plan on changing its Senate strategies after this 
election, said Gator campaign manager and Senate President 
Elizabeth Hartzog.
The Elections Commission met Oct. 6 to hear election com -
plaints: two from Change against Gator, and one from the Su -
pervisor of Elections against Liberation. Both Change charges 
were dropped prior to the meeting. Liberation wasn’t present 
at the meeting and will face a $5 no-show fee. The commission 
also validated Election Day votes.
The election results will be certified by the Senate at the Oct. 
11 meeting. The meeting is open to the public and will begin at 
6:30 p.m. in the Senate Chambers, found on the ground floor 
of the Reitz Union.
@AlissaGary1 
agary@alligator.orgWhat Student Government election results mean for Student Senate’s future
Sophia Abolfathi / / Alligator Staff
Members of Change Party celebrate several Senate 
district wins at the Reitz Union, Monday, Oct. 3, 2022. 
Change Party won 27 seats and Gator Party won 22.
UF Homecoming celebrations for decades. It 
followed a route that looped through cam -
pus and finished back at the plaza. 
The race offered prizes for first, second 
and third place, as well as a prize for best 
costume. 
Although organizations like the UF Flor -
ida Running Club treated the race as train -
ing — President Hannah Hosay was part of 
the first group to finish, coming in around 
the 12-minute mark — many others ran 
for fun. Some people roller skated or rode 
bikes. Several pushed infants in strollers or 
ran with their dogs. 
Don Prokes, Sandy Wetherhold, Judy 
Ford, Nancy Besley and Jeff Davis have run 
in the Gator Gallop for the past four years 
together. All in their 70s, the majority of 
them are UF alumni. 
The route this year was nicer compared 
to past races, Prokes said, as they saw more 
of the campus through shadier spots. The 
group intends to keep coming to the Home -
coming celebration and ‘power walking’ for 
years to come. 
“We hope we can do this for another 30 
years,” Prokes said. “Because we’ll all be 
100.” 
Around 11:20 a.m., parade floats waited 
bumper-to-bumper in the crowded Norman 
Hall parking lot. The floats’ leaders chatted 
among themselves, taking group photos and 
preparing for the procession to come.
A total of 137 floats were themed 
and built by various on- and off-campus Gainesville organizations, according to pa -
rade directors. Just some of which appeared 
this year were the UF Special Olympics, 
Planned Parenthood and Girl Scouts.
Will Munro, vice president of UF Special 
Olympics, said he hopes to spread their mes -
sage of inclusion with the UF community.
“The vision behind ‘what is inclusion’ is 
exactly what you're looking at here,” Munro 
said. “It's walking – walking as one.”
Just as the parade was about to kick off 
at noon, observers gathered with picnic 
blankets and lawn chairs on the sidewalk 
along 13th Street. 
Katie Mizerak, a 31-year-old UF alumna, 
was raised in Gainesville and grew up at -
tending the Homecoming parade. This year, 
she carried on the tradition by bringing her 
own daughters — dressed in Gators cheer -
leader costumes — with her.
Later that night, the O’Connell Center 
shook to the dance-hit discography of Flo 
Rida, the headlining artist for this year’s 
Gator Growl. Former Gators quarterback 
Danny Wuerffel hosted, and singer-song -
writer Fletcher opened the show.
The gates to the O’Connell Center opened 
for Gator Growl at 6 p.m. — just as the hour 
hit, the line at the gate spanned across the 
front of the arena and wrapped around the 
corner. Attendees purchased tickets to the 
event online beforehand, with options to 
stand in the pit or to sit in upper levels.
This was the first UF Homecoming for 
45-year-old alumna Kristina Thomas’ chil -
dren, Justin and
Jimmy, but hardly the first for Kristina. 
She looked forward to seeing Wuerffel, who she said she met several times while she 
was in college. 
“Nothing beats anything in my life, ex -
cept for the birth of my children, than being 
here for five years,” Kristina said. “This was 
the time of my life.”
At 7 p.m., the lights dimmed and the 
show started with a video introducing the 
audience to the event, followed by the na -
tional anthem, sung by Julia Webster.
Six minutes later, Wuerffel made his first 
appearance as host. 
He joked Olivia O’Brien, the opening 
artist originally scheduled to perform, was 
missing because it was too difficult to find 
on-campus parking. In reality, the Gator 
Growl staff said her absence was due to un -
foreseen circumstances, which led them to 
bring Fletcher as a replacement.
Fletcher took the stage to perform her 
set at 7:23 p.m. She wore purple cargo-style 
pants and a black top, which was on the 
verge of slipping off all night, she announced 
to the crowd. Among her most well-known 
songs was “Undrunk,” during which several 
students stood up and sang along.
Between sets, Gators cheerleaders led 
the arena in common gameday traditions, 
chanting “Let’s go Gators!” and swaying 
to “We Are the Boys from Old Florida.” 
Wuerffel filled in the role of Mr. Two Bits, 
pointing and calling to different sides of the 
area in preparation for Saturday’s Home -
coming football game. 
The Dazzlers dance team also performed 
a brief routine to excite the crowd.
As the intro to “Good Feeling” — one of 
Flo Rida’s most popular songs, with more 
than 400 million streams on Spotify — 
played, the crowd stood, chanted Flo Rida’s 
name and waved their hands in the air to summon him out.
Donning a white Gators basketball jersey, 
a black leather vest and black jean shorts 
with silver-and-gold jeweled chain accesso -
ries, Flo Rida came out from backstage at 
8:48 p.m. He was greeted with screams and 
excitement that shook the O’Connell Center 
floor.
Rida was accompanied by two back -
ground dancers, two background singers, 
rapper Oya Baby and a DJ. His set featured 
Billboard chart-toppers like “Whistle,” 
“Low” and “Wild Ones.”
One special audience member, 19-year-
old UF history freshman Ryan Scott, was 
called to the stage because it was his birth -
day the day before; he said he hadn’t cel -
ebrated yet, so his special treatment at the 
show was like a gift. Rida asked Scott to 
stand in the DJ booth and help him start 
playing “Whistle.”
Toward the end of the show, Scott was 
also specially picked to keep Rida’s Florida 
jersey as a souvenir of the night.
“It was so much fun,” Scott said, holding 
up the jersey. “I don't know how to put it 
into words.”
Although Rida himself didn’t attend UF, 
he frequently mentioned his twin sister did, 
explaining his close ties with the university. 
He went as far as to compare UF to his own 
home — removing his shirt and shoes to 
“get comfortable” during the show — which 
led up to his performance of “My House.”
Rida closed the show just after 10 p.m. 
with a performance of “What a Night.”
@AlissaGary1
agary@alligator.org
@SienaDuncan
sduncan@alligator.orgHOMECOMING,  from pg. 1Day filled with excitement6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
TUESDAY
OCTOBER 11 
6 PM  | at the 
Harn Museum of Art
FREE ADMISSION
harn.ufl.edu/museumnights
#MuseumNights
image: Rubén Torres Llorca 
American Kamikaze 2004 
Gift of Kenneth and Vivian PfeifferNOCHEDE
MUSEO
· STORYTELLER CARRIE SUE AYVAR
· SALSA MUNDIAL & GATOR SALSA
· INDIGENOUS PEOPLE’S TASK FORCE
· GATOR CHAPTER OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN 
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING SOCIETY
· HARN CHOREOGRAPHERS-IN-RESIDENCE
· ART-MAKING
· ART TOURS
· FREE FOOD
BOOK SALE
OCTOBER 22 - 26 , 2022
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH, CHECKS & CREDIT CARD
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
Masks Recommended
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Members of the UF Homecoming parade wave to people on the sidewalk on Southwest 13th Street 
Friday, Oct. 7, 2022.Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
The Florida Dazzlers on top of a firetruck waves to the crowd 
during UF’s Homecoming parade Friday, Oct. 7, 2022.
Rae Riiska / / Alligator Staff
The Gator Marching Band performs in the UF Homecoming parade Friday, Oct. 7, 2022.Rae Riiska / / Alligator Staff
Flo Rida performs at Gator Growl for UF’s Homecoming at the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center Friday, Oct. 7, 2022.
99th annual Homecoming events return to the SwampKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Transfers fuel Gators soccer
T essa Barton and Josie Curtis have become starters in just their 
first season in Gainesville. Read more on pg. 11.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Download the FREE   
TapRide App to Get a Ride!
352-392-SNAP(7627)University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
LIQUOR STORE’S TIKTOK HAS 
AMASSED ALMOST 
400,000 FOLLOWERS
By Naomi Volcy
Avenue Staff Writer
For students across UF, step -
ping foot into Gator Beverage is a 
rite of passage — a spot to grab a 
pack of White Claw before a foot -
ball game, pick up a handle of te -
quila on the way to a 21st birthday 
party or buy a bottle of wine in an -
ticipation of a girl’s night in. 
Now, the craft beer and liquor 
store’s making waves in a whole 
new arena: social media, particu -
larly TikTok. 
The TikTok account, @liquor -
store352, is the product of two 
Gator Beverage workers: Andrew 
Pentland and Dylan Phelps, who 
started the account together in 
January. In the 10 months since 
its debut, the account has accumu -
lated nearly 371,500 followers and 
19.7 million likes on its videos — 
most of which feature short, come -
dic sketches on the owners’ daily 
interactions, as well as how-to tips 
on buying and drinking alcohol. 
Pentland, a 30-year-old general 
manager, and Phelps, a 26-year-
old store clerk, said they made the 
account on a whim. Their first vid -
eo — an eight-second clip where a 
customer asks if Bacardi is similar to vodka, prompting the cashier to 
ask for ID — now has two million 
views.  
The sixth video they uploaded 
— a 28-second clip featuring a 
fictional customer shopping for 
Bourbon, compares the different 
customer service experiences rude 
customers receive as opposed to 
polite ones — has five million 
views. 
“I woke up a couple days later 
and there was five million views 
on one of our first videos,”  Pent -
land said. “It was pretty shock -
ing.” 
Pentland and Phelps were in -
troduced to TikTok by a former 
Gator Beverage employee who 
encouraged the two workers to 
create an account of their own. At 
first, Pentland said he was hesi -
tant due to his general unfamiliar -
ity with TikTok, while Phelps was 
disinterested in the idea of run -
ning a work-centric social media 
account. 
Eventually, Pentland said the 
two came to an agreement on cre -
ating a TikTok account — a deci -
sion he never expected to garner 
so much attention.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@volcyn_
nvolcy@alligator.orgSOME BELIEVE THE 
MONTH’S NAME EXCLUDES 
CERTAIN COMMUNITIES
By Isabella Marzban 
Avenue Staff Writer
From Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, His -
panic and Latinx food, music 
and history take center stage — 
gearing up for a monthlong cele -
bration of culture and traditions. 
In Gainesville, where about 
12% of the population identi -
fies as Hispanic or Latino, His -
panic Heritage Month is focused 
on embracing the rich Hispanic 
and Latinx culture within the 
community. But among the cel -
ebrations, there’s also reflection 
upon the history of colonialism 
in Latin America and the Carib -
bean. 
Kaylinn Escobar, a 20-year-
old UF public health junior who 
is Colombian-American, said she 
feels like the term “Hispanic” 
generalizes Latinx cultures and 
trivializes the history and cus -
toms the month’s supposed to 
honor. 
Hispanic Heritage Month was 
first created as a weeklong com -
memoration by former President 
Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, 
which former President Ron -
ald Regan later extended to the 
entire month in 1988. Sept. 15, the month’s start date, coincides 
with the independence days for 
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guate -
mala, Nicaragua and Honduras. 
Because of this focus on Latin 
American countries gaining in -
dependence from Spain, Escobar 
said there should be more em -
phasis on Latinx culture in the 
month’s celebration — instead 
of the colonizing nations.
“The fact that they include 
them in dialogue does it an in -
justice,” she said.
A great starting point to un -
derstanding Latinx culture is 
access to Latinx history within educational institutions, Escobar 
said, in addition to schools en -
couraging discussion of the re -
lationship between Latin Ameri -
can countries and the U.S. 
Exposure to the background 
behind the creation of Hispanic 
Heritage Month can also help in -
dividuals understand how it can 
be interpreted as either inclusive 
or exclusive, she said.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@IsabellaMarzban
imarzban@alligator.orgLiquor, laughs and lessons: Gator 
Beverage workers go viral on TikTokHispanic Heritage Month prompts reflection 
on colonialism’s legacy, inclusive labels  
SOCIAL MEDIASOCIAL MEDIA
 CULTURECULTURE
Alessandra Ayala / / Alligator Staff
The Society for the Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and 
Native Americans in Science tables and talks to visitors at the 
Florida Museum of Natural History Sunday, Oct. 2, 2022.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
will serve well in the Senate, but he said she 
needs to lean into an offensive strategy to get 
there. 
“I think that Val Demings is the best hope 
that the Democrats have of winning a major 
seat in Congress,” Roberts said. “The Republi -
cans, they produce some really slick ads, and I 
think the Democrats should do the same.”
Demings highlighted her background in 
public service as a former social worker and 
the first female chief of the Orlando Police De -
partment, and she said she’d continue to pro -
mote the public good if elected. She spent the 
day meeting with people from all corners of the 
city, reiterating her promise to advocate for all 
Americans at every stop.
Demings marveled at the stained-glass 
windows, garden spaces, modified plane and 
specialty pizzas throughout a tour of Satchel’s. 
Not an hour later at the Pride Community Cen -
ter, she moved some listeners to tears.
The center, which was vandalized Sept. 24, 
hosted Demings and about 15 of its volunteers. 
She condemned hate crimes and championed 
diversity as the country’s greatest strength in a 
brief speech, which made some attendees vis -
ibly emotional.
As a Black woman and the daughter of a 
maid and a janitor, Demings said she under -
stood how it feels to be counted out.
“I remember the world saying to me as I 
was growing up in Jacksonville, ‘You’re the 
wrong color. You’re the wrong gender. Y’all 
don’t have any money. You’re never going to 
amount to anything,’” she said.
Listeners like Jane Spear, a 78-year-old 
former Planned Parenthood employee and 
Gainesville resident, said Demings’ speech 
reinvigorated her. An activist and advocate of LGBTQ rights for almost 30 years and cur -
rent president of Gainesville’s PFLAG chap -
ter, Spear said she’s grown cynical of political 
promises, but she said Demings’ energy and 
positivity bolstered her belief in a successful 
election.
“I’m tired,” she said. “She made me feel 
better about the fact that I still have to fight 
and that we’re going to win.”
Demings is running on a moderately pro -
gressive platform that emphasizes bipartisan 
action and compromise. Her bipartisan politics 
have resulted in legislation like the Enhanced 
Background Checks Act, a bill that increases 
the minimum amount of time a firearms seller 
must wait for a background check to return be -
fore completing the sale.
Not all Democratic voters are thrilled with 
Demings’ middle-of-the-road approach. RJ 
Della Salle, an 18-year-old UF political science 
freshman and volunteer with City Commission 
candidate James Ingle, wants Demings to push 
for expansions to Medicare and other progres -
sive legislation.
But with a Senate of 50 Republicans, 48 
Democrats and two independents, Della Salle 
said he’ll take any level of liberal to move the 
majority to the left.
“With the gridlock that we have, just being 
a Democrat is kind of enough,” he said.
Demings capped off her Gainesville tour 
with a stint as a featured speaker at the Get Out 
The Vote rally at the Cotton Club Museum and 
Cultural Center, where local candidates, elect -
ed officials and community members gathered 
to discuss the upcoming election. In an impas -
sioned address, Demings encouraged attend -
ees to participate in the upcoming election and 
convince those around them to do the same.
Legislation like the Respect for Marriage 
Act, the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the 
Women’s Health Protection Act all lie dormant in the Senate. This election, Demings said, will 
determine whether these bills are confirmed 
into law or go to “the graveyard” to die as 
failed or suspended legislation.
Demings shouted to the point of strain — 
an emphatic display of passion that listeners 
like Vivian Filer appreciated.
 
Filer, the 84-year-old founder of the Cotton 
Club Museum and chair of its board, said Dem -
ings has inspired her for years. She’s known 
of Demings since she was police chief in her 
son’s home of Orlando, and she was pleased 
with her work as a member of the House Judi -ciary and Intelligence Committees to impeach 
former President Donald Trump.
“I love that she’s a fighter,” Filer said. “I 
love her forward thinking.”
The crowd agreed. Demings received a 
standing ovation for her speech, but not before 
she incorporated some call-and-response into 
her closing remarks.
“When the people show up,” she prompted.
The audience responded in earnest.
“We win.”
@hmb_1013
hbushman@alligator.orgDEMINGS,  from pg. 1Moderately progressive platform
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
U.S. Rep. Val Demings talks to UF students at Plaza of the Americas Friday, Oct. 7, 2022.
CLIMATE CHANGE COULD HAVE INTENSIFIED IAN, 
EXPERTS SAY
By Fernando Figueroa & Heather Bushman
Alligator Staff Writers
Vance Herbener’s hometown of Port Charlotte was in the 
path of Hurricane Ian’s Sept. 29 sweep of Southwest Florida. 
The 21-year-old UF environmental science senior and exter -
nal vice president of the UF Environmental Science Alliance saw 
the community, which is about 40 minutes north of Fort Myers, 
left in shambles. It was leveled mostly by wind damage that left 
entire buildings as nothing more than debris drifting through the 
flooded streets.
The sight isn’t something Herbener will soon forget, he said.
“It’s heartbreaking,” he said. “I grew up there.”
The storm, one of the fourth-strongest to ever hit the state 
along with Hurricane Charley in 2004, is just one sign of a shift -
ing Florida climate. As sea levels rise and temperatures climb, 
the effects of climate change continue to become evident across 
the state. 
In the general election, calming these consequences is a top 
priority for climate-conscious Florida voters like Herbener. Can -
didates across the aisle have proposed legislative and executive 
action in response to mitigate these effects and prepare the state 
for the worsening conditions of climate change. But some voters 
say it isn’t enough as researchers warn of the impending conse -
quences of a shifting climate.
Although experts say climate change doesn’t directly cause 
hurricanes, Esther Mullens, a UF professor who studies extreme 
weather and climate dynamics in the geography department, 
said the September hurricane may owe its severity to the climate 
crisis. 
Evidence that climate change raises the frequency of hurri -
canes isn’t definite, Mullens said, but early studies of Hurricane 
Ian indicate higher atmospheric temperatures may have intensi -
fied the storm’s rainfall.
As Florida recovers from the hurricane, Gov. Ron DeSantis 
has mobilized state rescue and relief efforts. President Joe Biden 
has praised DeSantis for Florida’s aid distribution, adding they 
were “completely in lockstep” despite existing political tensions. Former Rep. Charlie Crist, the Democratic gubernatorial can -
didate and DeSantis’ opponent in the general election, said he 
was confident in the combined capacity of the Federal Emergen -
cy Management Agency, the state and the federal government to 
lead recovery efforts. 
“It’s all hands on deck at a time like this,” Crist said. “It’s 
what people need.” 
Attention is on the environment in the wake of the hurricane, 
but voters like Bob Tancig say climate change should always be 
a higher priority. Despite immediate effects, Tancig, a 69-year-
old member of the Climate Reality Project and Gainesville resi -
dent, said most people don’t consider climate change to be as 
drastic of a crisis as it actually is.
“They talk about the climate crisis as one of these wicked 
problems, that the impacts are far to the future, and it’ll affect 
somebody else far away,” he said. “There is this sense I think 
people have that, ‘Well, it’s no big deal. What’s one or two de -
grees?’”
But those one or two degrees are a big deal, Tancig said. 
The reality of the climate crisis is immediate, Tancig said. The 
damages brought by Hurricane Ian aren’t anomalies — they’re 
the new normal, he said. Soon, Tancig said, severe storms will 
become commonplace.
Marshall Shepherd, director of the Atmospheric Sciences Pro -
gram at the University of Georgia, said several factors affect a 
hurricane’s severity. These storms thrive in warm, deep ocean 
water, which Hurricane Ian accessed once it reached the Carib -
bean and the Gulf of Mexico, Shepherd said.
The Gulf of Mexico is one of the areas most affected by a 
warming climate, Shepherd said, with water temperatures ris -
ing. 
Rapid intensification cannot conclusively be attributed to cli -
mate change, but hurricanes are rapidly intensifying at a higher 
frequency, he said.
Irrespective of all these factors, storms will create a greater 
storm surge due to rising sea levels from climate change, he said. 
Florida also suffers from the expanding bull’s eye effect, 
which considers the number of people who have moved into 
harm’s way. As development increases, more people will be 
concentrated in larger areas, leading to more severe damages to 
people and property, Shepherd said.
However, the political reality is that elected officials will con -tinue to rebuild because that is what their constituents want, 
Shepherd said. Forcing people out of their homes has been in -
effective historically, but rebuilding without proper adaptation 
techniques will inevitably land residents in the same position 
year after year. 
Adaptation strategies face consistent and divisive challenges 
in Florida. In 2020, the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers proposed a 
sea wall along six miles of Biscayne Bay in Miami. The decision 
received backlash from residents and climate scientists alike, 
and the plan to build the wall was scrapped.
In fact, sea walls might enable further intensification of de -
velopments in low-lying coastal areas leading to greater storm 
exposure, according to a report from the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change. 
Experts have also proposed rewilding the coast, not subsidiz -
ing coastal insurance and developing sustainable communities 
further inland, known as strategic retreat, as adaptive solutions. 
Jordyn Golden, a climate activist and UF sustainability stud -
ies senior, said strategic retreat would prevent fatalities in barrier 
islands such as Sanibel, where the storm surge and winds were 
so severe they collapsed the only bridge into the island. 
“I don’t think that they should be building on barrier islands 
that are naturally there to protect the state,” Golden said. 
While extreme weather is a concern, voters like Tancig say 
clean energy is key to combating the climate crisis. He doesn’t 
advocate for living in caves or going completely powerless, but 
Tancig said he wants to see Florida make the transition to re -
newable energy in the face of global warming.
“We want to maintain this quality of life, this standard of 
living, but it has to be with clean energy,” he said. “The energy 
we’re using now is having these consequences.” 
Less than 5% of Florida’s total energy output comes from 
renewable resources like solar power, and the state alone ac -
counts for 7% of U.S. nonrenewable energy output as of 2020, 
according to studies from the U.S. Energy Information Adminis -
tration. Florida also doesn’t have renewable energy standards, 
which require utility and power companies to generate a certain 
amount of energy from renewable sources. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@fernfigue
ffigeroua@alligator.org
@hmb_1013
hbushman@alligator.orgVoters ask for climate action after Hurricane IanBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
IT Services
New to the Gainesville area - GatorIT - 
Offering all of your IT business support 
needs - Contact Peter Kizza @ 352-328-
5690 or Pkizza.GatorIT@gmail.com    
10-1-22-1-8
10 For Sale
BCI Walk In Tubs are now on SALE! Be one 
of the first 50 callers and save $1,500! CALL 
888-687-0415 for a free in-home consultation.      
10-10-11-10
Online Auction Only
Weston Insurance Management
Assets located in:
Pompano Beach, FL 33069
Auction ends:
Tues, October 18, 2022 at 10:00 A.M.
Auction will consist of: 2014 South GA cargo 
trailer 12’ with satellite dish engenius model 
ENH210EXT, computers, printers, monitors, 
phones, treadmill workstations, laptops, tab-
lets, electronics and more.
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at www.moeckerauctions.com
Preview: 10/17 by appointment.
Call for details
(954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
(No onsite attendance)
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin       10-10-1-101For Rent
furnished
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money. 
SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$560/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
“Call or Text”  352-246-3418
12-5-13-1
3 Sublease
Sunbay Apartments. $825 per month. 750 
sqft 1 bedroom/1 bathroom. Lease expires 
06/30/2023. Move in sometime in October. 
Link to apply: https://www.sunbayuf.com/
rent-application/ Cell: (305-340-8664)  
10-17-22-3-3
Apartment for rent
Opportunity to sublease my brand new 
apartment at the Legacy at the Standard. 
The rent is $1192, including a parking space, 
but it you are interested I will get you a rent 
reduction. Four great roommates come with 
the unit and you have your own bedroom and 
bathroom. Please reply quickly as this will go 
fast. Contact me at 305-915-5770. 
Exnet@usinternet.com  10-17-22-4-3
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-5-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      12-15-16-6
11..    MMaatteerriiaall  
11..    CCeerrttaaiinn  ssppoorree  mmaakkeerr  55..    WWhhiittee  ________
22..    AArrmmyy  uunniitt66..    BBeesstt  ________  ((aawwaarrdd))
33..    PPaassssiivviittyy  77..    TTaakkee  ccaarree
44..    RRaarreeCCIIRRBBAAFF
GGFFNNSSUUUUSSEENNIIOO
RRAATTCCOO
BBIIEEDDAARRGG
NNIIAAEEIIRRTTEEAARRBBWWEE
CCEECCSSAARRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--FFaabbrriicc    55AA--NNooiissee    66AA--AAccttoorr    77AA--BBeewwaarree
11DD--FFuunngguuss    22DD--BBrriiggaaddee    33DD--IInneerrttiiaa    44DD--SSccaarrccee    BB--BBuueennooss  AAiirreess1100--1100--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  wwaass  ffoouunnddeedd  aass  aa  ppoorrtt  
bbyy  CCaappttaaiinn  JJuuaann  ddee  GGaarraayy  iinn  11558800..
BONUS●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-5-16-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-5-16-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
12-5-16-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                        12-5-16-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       12-5-16-13
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                          12-5-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.8 Electronics
By Justin Werfel
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/10/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/10/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, October 10, 2022
ACROSS
1 Aid and __
5 Garbage
10 Finish third
14 White House no
15 Biblical prophet
16 The “P” of IPA
17 “Plus some other 
folks” abbr.
18 “Spider-Man” 
trilogy director 
Sam
19 The “Y” of YSL
20 Like passwords 
that likely won’t 
work if Caps Lock 
is on
23 Easter egg dip
24 “__ only a game”
25 Try to buy, at an 
auction
28 “The Lord of the 
Rings” beast
31 Invite for
35 Zion Church 
letters
36 Question from a 
store clerk
39 Requirement
41 Fit for a monarch
42 Jellystone Park 
bear
43 “Star Wars” 
character from an 
underwater city
46 __ Mahal
47 Negro Leagues 
legend Buck
48 Chicago summer 
hrs.
49 Writer Mario 
Vargas __
51 Garden plot
53 “Hamilton” Tony 
nominee Phillipa
54 Film that doesn’t 
make much 
money
61 Chicken  
cordon __
63 Finish second
64 Bicycle wheel
65 Payment to a 
landlord
66 Ingested
67 “Did you __?!”
68 Voting no
69 Stockholm native
70 Cubicle fixture
DOWN
1 French “with”
2 Phi __ Kappa
3 Guesses from late 
guests, briefly4 Ohio city west of 
Cleveland
5 Number of  
strikes in a 
strikeout
6 Horse coat color
7 OfferUp caveat
8 18-wheeler
9 French-speaking 
Caribbean 
country
10 Mad magazine 
cartoon featuring 
secret agents
11 “What’ll ya __?”
12 World Cup cheer
13 Director Craven
21 Lip-__: mouth the 
words
22 Lang. of Rome
25 Bluegrass  
strings
26 “Know what __?”
27 Big name in 
riding mowers
28 Yr. before A.D. 
started
29 Unyielding
30 Repetitive shout
32 Environmental 
protocol city in 
Japan
33 Roman robes
34 __ board: séance 
device37 The “A” of 
3-Down
38 Great Plains 
grazer
40 Smallest country 
on the Horn of 
Africa
44 Longtime 
“Jeopardy!” host 
Trebek
45 __ gin fizz
50 Hit high in the air
52 Puzzles (out)
53 Play division54 Crooked
55 Defect
56 Kismet
57 Covered in 
frosting
58 “C’mon, __ a 
little!”
59 Metal-yielding 
rocks
60 Cheer (up)
61 Bikini top
62 “When They  
See Us” actor 
Cariou
By Rebecca Goldstein & Rachel Fabi
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC10/04/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
10/04/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, October 4, 2022
ACROSS
1 Short-legged 
Welsh dog breed
6 Opera star
10 Milk in a skinny 
latte
14 WNBA team in 
53-Across
15 Minnesota 
representative 
Ilhan
16 Actress Olin
17 Cohort
18 Costa __
19 Choir part
20 *Bright yellow 
sandwich  
topping
23 Broadway 
opening?
26 Sweet potato kin
27 Pt. of TGIF
28 Low sound?
29 Quran authority
32 Hostess snack
34 *Marinara 
ingredient
37 Messes up
40 Actress Petty
41 Quick qualifier
42 Harvest
43 Concludes
44 *Citrusy herb in 
Thai cuisine
47 Blues guitarist 
Baker
49 Longtime Swit 
co-star
50 Wanders in an 
airport?
51 Sunscreen  
letters
53 Ga. capital
55 Ready to go
57 Supermarket 
section 
containing each 
component 
of (as well as 
the complete 
answers to) the 
starred clues
61 Yesteryear
62 Goat group
63 Throwback diet
67 As soon as
68 __ Canalway 
Trail: 365-mile 
stretch in New 
York
69 Zest alternative
70 Require
71 Group of two
72 Word before tea 
and toastDOWN
1 Public health 
org. headed 
by Rochelle 
Walensky
2 British singer  
Rita
3 Top stripe of a 
pride flag
4 Actress Greta
5 “For real!”
6 Explorer in  
“The Lost City of 
Gold”
7 Hacker’s 
triumphant cry
8 Time away, 
informally
9 Great Plains 
people
10 Smack
11 Underwater 
ecosystems
12 Prefix with faith
13 New Zealand 
native
21 Pixar clownfish
22 Punk subgenre
23 More than 
sufficient
24 Analogy 
punctuation
25 Exceptional 
performance
30 French friend31 “__ Mia! Here 
We Go Again”
33 Greek goddess 
of marriage
35 57-Across spray
36 Hammer or saw
38 __ the roof
39 Bad sound in the 
57-Across
44 Fastened, in a 
way
45 Confidentiality 
contracts: Abbr.
46 Colorful play area48 Greek letter 
before upsilon
51 Watch covertly
52 Inclined (to)
54 Wary (of)
56 Depart
58 Act
59 Opera solo
60 Named, briefly
64 Smoked  
salmon
65 Time period
66 Noises of 
exasperation
10/03/2022
solution  on page 1010 For Sale
answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 20Events/Notices
(continued)13 Wanted
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
Part time help wanted for yard work
in SW Gainesville. Flex hours. 
Experience required. $11 - $13/hr. 
Call Mr. Z. 352-278-8071      
10-10-22-8-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
SOUTHEAST CAR AGENCY IS LOOKING 
FOR FULL/PART-TIME CAR WASHERS. 
Flexible around school schedules and hours. 
Please come fill out an application in person. 
310 NE 39th Ave Gainesville Fl 32609. 
11-14-22-8-14
15 Services
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                   10-10-18-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
10-10-35-15
● ● LET ME HELP YOU WITH THAT ● ●
Residential & Commercial Cleaning, 
Mobile Vehicle Detailing, Pressure Washing.
DISCOUNT FOR COMBINED SERVICES.
Call / Text Delton at 352-283-0179
10-10-22-5-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!       10-10-18-15
BATH & SHOWER UPDATES in as little as 
ONE DAY! Affordable prices - No payments 
for 18 months! Lifetime warranty & profes-
sional installs. Senior & Military Discounts 
available. Call: 888-460-2264      10-10-10-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      12-5-16-15
TRAIN ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 855-738-9684. (M-F 8am-
6pm ET). Computer with internet is required.    
10-10-9-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
10-10-15-15Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816          10-10-17-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen   10-10-35-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-5-16-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
12-5-16-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
12-5-16-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       12-5-16-20
More events in the next column →
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     12-5-16-21
24 Pets
Use Happy Jack® Skin Balm® on cats and 
dogs to promote healing & hair growth due to 
hot spots & fleas without steroids! At Tractor 
Supply® (www.happyjackinc.com)   
10-10-9-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
LOOKING TO ADOPT
A FEMALE POODLE.
My poodle recently passed away and I really 
want another one. Call 904-796-7133    10-
10-1-24CryptoQuote  solutionTHE PESSIMIST COMPLAINS ABOUT THE WIND; THE OPTIMIST EXPECTS IT 
TO CHANGE; THE REALIST ADJUSTS THE SAILS. — WILLIAM ARTHUR WARD
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
solution  below
NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid-on-site and virtual 
public meeting via communications media 
technology to which all interested persons 
are invited.
DATE AND TIME: October 24, 2022 at 3:00 
p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12 
and the Alachua County Video on Demand 
Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications me-
dia technology. As part of the general pub-
lic access, the meeting is televised live on 
Cox Cable Channel 12. However, live public 
comment is taken on-site only. On-site public 
participants are encouraged to wear a face-
covering mask at all times. For on-site pub-
lic comment, participants will be prompted 
and should follow the direction of the Chair 
to participate. In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area accepts written 
comments received no later than one busi-
ness day prior to the meeting through email 
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or postal mail (2009 
NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653). 
On-site participants should state their names 
and limit comments to three minutes. The 
public is encouraged to submit any written or 
photographic documents prior to the meet-
ing to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
10-10-1-20
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE
6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE
11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED15: SERVICES
16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES
21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSUBMIT YOUR AD TO ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING CATEGORIES TODAY!   
alligator.org/ classifieds
classified @alligator.org  
(352)373- FIND10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
VOLLEYBALL SOCCERBy Joseph Henry
Sports Writer
Veteran linebacker Ventrell Miller and redshirt sophomore 
Jaydon Hill, who played in just his second game since returning 
from injury, stole the show for the Gators during their Home -
coming game against the Missouri Tigers Oct. 8.
Florida’s leading defenders showed the signs of skill and 
promise that UF head coach Billy Napier had talked about all 
along. Postgame, he hailed Miller and Hill as two of the Gators’ 
best players. Florida will be in need of their elite play once again 
Saturday, as they welcome the Tigers, this time from Louisiana 
State, to the Swamp. 
Miller, the heart and soul of Florida’s defense, recorded dou -
ble-digit tackles for the fourth time in his UF career. The redshirt 
senior was all over the field, to the tune of 10 solo tackles, one 
assist and two for loss. Miller seemed to be involved in nearly 
every stop down the stretch. 
Hill, who missed all of last season after tearing his ACL dur -
ing camp, made the seventh career start against Missouri. The 
cornerback’s time at Florida has been strenuous, but it paid off 
in big ways against the Tigers. Hill made two game-changing 
plays: a 49-yard pick six in the first quarter and another inter -
ception in the fourth. 
They were the first interceptions of his collegiate career. 
“It is something I’ll never forget about ever,” Hill said. 
Hill’s moment was a big one for all of those who had been 
by his side through his recovery.
“It feels great to see him make some big time plays,” Miller 
said. “He has been working extremely hard.” 
Napier, who won his first Southeastern Conference game 
against the Tigers and snapped a six-game conference skid, was 
complementary of Hill and his grind to get back on the field. 
“He’s got passion about this game. I always felt like, watch -
ing him in spring ball, he was one of the best players we had,” 
Napier said. “That showed up today.”
Napier has praised Miller — his “quarterback of the defense” 
— all season. The one game Miller missed against South Flor -ida, the UF defense was gashed for 402 yards, including 286 
on the ground. His absence was also felt when he exited the 
Gators’ road matchup with Tennessee the following weekend. 
“Ventrell is productive as a player, but it is more impactful 
than just the production,” Napier said. “The guy is inspirational 
relative to his example, his consistency as a person, his leader -
ship, his presence. He makes other people around him better.”
The two performances highlight a defensive outing that saw 
Florida swarming in Missouri’s backfield. The Gators recorded 
four sacks and 13 tackles for loss, their most since the 2019 
season opener against Miami. 
Despite the statistics, Napier wasn’t fully pleased with his 
defense, and he harped on the team’s inability to limit the Ti -
gers on third and long. Missouri was nine of 17 on third down, 
compared to the Gators’ three of 11. 
“[The defense] made progress relative to the challenge that Missouri presents,” Napier said. “The gap integrity with all the 
outside zone, the shots. We kept everything in front of us for 
the most part.”
Offensively, Florida did next to nothing in the first half, 
running 18 plays for a sluggish 65 total yards. The second half 
was a different story, however, as the Gators began to break 
off chunk plays. On UF’s first two drives of the second half, 
running backs Montrell Johnson Jr. and Trevor Etienne took 
touches 41 and 39 yards respectively. 
The limiting off the offense through the first 30 minutes set it 
up for success the rest of the game, Napier said.
“We had a lot left,” he said. “Some of those same concepts 
we just were a little more precise. I thought a lot of our guys up 
front did a good job…. Obviously, you could see the backs got 
it to the second level.”
Redshirt sophomore quarterback Anthony Richardson con -
tinued to show flashes while also making some errors. He 
passed just 14 times, with eight completions for 66 yards, a 
touchdown and an interception. 
On top of the pick, Richardson fumbled in the second quar -
ter. It’s his fifth game in a row with a turnover. After the game, 
Richardson said he’s concerned with the issue, not because it’s 
happening, but because Napier stresses the importance of play -
ing a clean game. 
“We have not executed our formula to win games at the rate 
at which we desire at any point,” Napier said. “I think we are 
very much a work in progress.”
Another SEC opponent comes to Gainesville this Saturday 
— the LSU Tigers. During last year’s game against LSU, spe -
cifically the second half, Richardson began to breakout. The 
performance led to him to his first career start against Georgia 
the next game. 
This season’s matchup pits two first-year SEC coaches 
against each other in a storied rivalry; LSU head coach Brian 
Kelly and Napier both hold 4-2 records and face grueling sched -
ules in the later months of their seasons. A win in the cross-
division clash Saturday would be a major boost to either the 
Gators’ or Tigers’ confidence. 
The game at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium is slated for 7 p.m. and 
will broadcast on ESPN.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.org
FLORIDA NEARLY LET ITS 
2-SET LEAD SLIP AWAY
By Ethan Eibe
Sports Writer
Playing the same opponent two 
days in a row is never an easy task 
in volleyball. Both teams have an op -
portunity to adjust from the previous 
day’s result and implement a new 
strategy.
For a moment on Oct. 9, it 
seemed the Louisiana State Tigers 
had solved the riddle of the Florida 
Gators. Down two sets to none, the 
Tigers stormed back to force a win -
ner-take-all fifth set. 
The No. 15 Gators (13-3, 5-1) 
claimed the 15-point finale to win their second game of the weekend 
(25-18, 26-24, 25-27, 21-25, 15-9) 
against LSU (10-8, 4-4).
Sophomore outside hitter Merritt 
Beason matched a career-high 21 
kills, while junior outside hitter Sofia 
Victoria, senior outside hitter Marina 
Markova and sophomore middle 
blocker Gabrielle Essix all provided 
double-digit totals in the category. 
Essix led the way defensively, rack -
ing up 10 blocks. The Gators held 
LSU to a .168 hitting percentage 
while putting up a .213 figure them -
selves.
“The back-to-backs are brutal,” 
head coach Mary Wise said. “I felt 
like this group showed so much re -
silience on a night where Merritt car -
ried us for a long time.”Wise believed the story of the 
game was the play of junior middle 
blocker Nnedi Okammor, he said, 
who came off the bench in the fifth 
set and provided two key blocks to 
help close the match out. 
The Gators continue Southeast -
ern Conference play on the road Oct. 
14 and 15 against the Mississippi 
State Bulldogs. It will be another 
two-game challenge in Starkville, 
Mississippi. The first match is sched -
uled for 9 p.m. Friday and will be 
broadcast on SEC Network.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@EthanEibe
eeibe@alligator.org2 TRANSFERS 
STUCK IT OUT AFTER 
TONY AMATO'S FIRING
By Jackson Reyes
Sports Writer
It can be a leap of faith for col -
lege athletes to enter the transfer 
portal. 
After the NCAA updated its 
transfer rule allowing incoming 
student athletes to play for their 
new school immediately, there’s 
been a major uptick across col -
legiate sports in the past couple 
of years. The Gators soccer team 
saw 12 players enter the transfer 
portal in the off-season after for -
mer UF head coach Tony Amato 
was fired from his position. Florida relieved Amato from 
his position after complaints 
from players revealed inappro -
priate comments about their eat -
ing habits surfaced, according to 
a WUFT article. He coached the 
team for one season and finished 
4-12-4, the worst record in school 
history.
Despite the coaching change, 
UF players Tessa Barton and 
Josie Curtis remained committed 
to transferring to Florida. 
Curtis, a junior defender from 
Florida Gulf Coast University, and 
Barton, a senior forward from 
the University of Colorado, both 
committed to the Gators while 
the team was still coached by 
Amato. However, the coaching Miller, Hill pick up slack in Gators Homecoming win
No. 15 Gators outlast LSU in 5 
sets to secure weekend sweepTessa Barton, Josie Curtis find 
new home in Gators soccer team
SEE SOCCER,  PAGE 12Rae Riiska / / Alligator Staff
Florida redshirt sophomore Jaydon Hill runs back 
one of his two interceptions against Missouri for a 
touchdown Saturday, Oct. 8, 2022.
Pair of defensive studs played their best games of the season12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2022
change didn’t deter them from their move 
to Gainesville. 
Curtis wanted to remain in Florida after 
entering the transfer portal, she said. She 
reached out to schools throughout the state, 
but she said it was Amato and his staff who 
invited her to visit. 
The offer stood out to her, she said, de -
spite her season-ending injury in a match 
against Florida during her sophomore sea -
son. She fell in love with UF after her visit, 
she said, and was thrilled to join the Gators. 
Curtis joined the team last Spring and be -
gan her Florida tenure under the old staff. 
However, after Amato, she said she was 
worried about who would be the next coach.
“Everybody was definitely on edge,” Cur -
tis said.
New head coach Samantha Bohon and 
her staff did a great job of taking charge of 
the team and personally connecting with the 
squad, Curtis said. 
“You knew they wanted that connection, 
which was really nice to know,” she said.
Curtis has made an immediate impact 
for Florida as a workhorse, starting in all 13 
matches this season.Barton, a Colorado native, played three 
seasons for the Colorado Buffaloes before 
embarking on a new phase of her college 
soccer career. She initially wanted to stay 
close to home, but she said she hit a point 
in her career where she felt brave enough to 
enter the transfer portal.
“It was scary,” Barton said. “It takes a lot 
of nerve and just trust in the process.”
She always knew about UF due to its 
prestigious football team and athletic de -
partment, she said. Her parents had pur -
chased a house in Orlando, which made 
the move more plausible. It was her visit 
to Gainesville, however, which secured her 
commitment, she said. 
Getting to play in the Southeastern Con -
ference stood out to her as an immediate 
benefit to her transfer, she said. 
“I think the SEC is a powerhouse,” Barton 
said.
Before Barton could join the Gators, Flori -
da let Amato go. Her last call with the former 
coach was five minutes before he was fired, 
she said. 
“That was a shock,” she said. “I started 
freaking out.”
Barton thought her decision on where she 
would play next was final, but Amato’s exit left her in limbo, she said. She constantly 
reached out to UF Athletic Director Scott 
Stricklin to find out who the next coach 
would be, Barton said. 
Upon hearing Bohon would be the next 
coach, Barton sent out several emails to get 
to know her. Bohon asked Barton to visit UF 
again. “I knew right away when I met Sam, she 
was someone I wanted to play for,” Barton 
said. 
Barton said she’s enjoyed the time she’s 
spent under Bohon and appreciates how she 
has taken time to get to know Barton and 
understand her personally — all while Bo -
hon was going through her own transition 
to UF. 
It was exciting to add Barton to the Gator 
family, Bohon said. 
“[Barton] shares the values of being a 
good teammate, working diligently and in -
vesting in the growth of this program,” Bo -
hon said.
Barton was nervous when she first ar -
rived on campus, she said, but her new 
friends and the coaching staff helped ease 
her nerves. Her parents’ support also helped 
her overcome her anxiety. Her parents’ Or -
lando home is still several hours away, but 
she said they still make an effort to attend 
her matches. 
Barton has missed some time this season 
due to injury but has played in 11 matches, 
starting in seven of them. She’s contributed 
two goals and an assist. 
Curtis and Barton will look to build a 
solid foundation for the Gators as the team 
transitions out of one of the worst seasons in 
program history.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgSOCCER,  from pg. 1Transfers turn page
Ryan Friedenberg / / Alligator Staff
Senior forward T essa Barton (8) and junior 
defender Josie Curtis (9) stand side by 
side before Florida’s match with Arkansas 
Thursday, Oct. 6, 2022.
