We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Food insecurity in East Gainesville
A 2021 USDA report data identified 11 food deserts in Gainesville,  pg. 4
Last chance to have say in presidential search
Listening sessions this week,  pg. 5“Voice of the Gators” says goodbye
Longtime Gators play-by-play announcer 
retires after 33-year career. Read more 
on pg. 11.
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 34
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
UF OFFERED TO RAISE 
MINIMUM STIPEND FOR 
GRADUATE ASSISTANTS FOR 
THE FIRST TIME SINCE 2017; 
GAU SAYS IT’S NOT ENOUGH
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
UF offered graduate assistants 
their first wage increase in 5 years. 
It was less than a $1,500 raise. 
UF’s offer came after a seven-
month bargaining period, which 
included two extensions. The of -
fers give graduate assistants a raise 
of about $100 per month — those 
with 12-month contracts will see 
a raise from $21,333 to $22,753 
and those with 9-month contracts 
will see a raise from $16,000 to 
$17,000. The graduate assistants’ 
labor union said the offer was un -
acceptable. 
Gainesville has seen inflation 
since graduate students’ last pay 
raise in 2017, said Bryn Taylor, 
a 25-year-old rehabilitation sci -
ence graduate student and GAU’s 
incoming co-president. National 
inflation, according to the U.S. Bu -
reau of Labor Statistics, has risen to 
8.3% in 2022.
UF’s offer, Taylor said, doesn’t 
account for this increase. 
In a survey conducted by UF 
GAU, 72% of responding graduate 
students said they were unable to 
cover all living expenses. Taylor 
said many graduate students have 
families who cannot be supported 
by the current or proposed wages, 
and international students are not 
permitted work visas to find em -
ployment off-campus. 
She said UF has ignored quan -
titative data on what its graduate 
assistants should be paid. Anything 
below $25,000, she said, is effec -
tively a paycut.
“It’s pretty impossible to live 
on either $17,000 or $22,753 in 
Gainesville right now,” Taylor said. 
About 50 people marched from 
the Reitz Union to Tigert Hall Tues -
day in protest of the wage propos -
al. Flyers, bikes and skateboards in 
hand, they chanted “Underworked, 
underpaid, top five school, top five 
pay.” GAU members also protested 
in April when UF asked for a sec -
ond three-month bargaining exten -
sion.Jennifer Perez, a first-year ma -
terials science graduate student, 
joined the march after it passed 
through the Reitz. 
“UF is a top five school,” Perez 
said, “and it’s embarrassing to see 
this.” 
Nearing Tigert Hall on the side -
walk alongside SW 13th Street, the 
crowd chanted “One, two, three, 
four, no one should be working 
poor. Five, six, seven, eight, we’re 
paid lowest in the state.”
Antonios Kyriazis, a 23-year-old 
physics PhD student, said his work 
as a graduate instructor and re -
searcher adds up to more than the 
20 hours per week as outlined by 
GAU's Collective Bargaining Con -
tract with UF. 
Kyriazis said that these 20 hours 
don't include administrative work, 
required office hours, time spent 
designing the course and time 
spent completing their own school -
work.
“It’s very difficult to maintain 
a good life-and-work balance,” he 
said. 
While he feels lucky to have a 
good relationship with the advi -
sor who oversees him, Kyriazis 
said it’s not uncommon for that 
relationship to sour, making some 
graduate assistants’ jobs even more 
difficult.
It’s cheaper to drop out and 
enter the workforce than to keep 
working at UF, according to Meri -
deth Miska, a 36-year-old geology 
masters student and co-president 
of GAU. Miska said she has skipped 
out on going to the doctor because 
of her low wages, but continues 
to teach because she is passionate 
about her work and students.
“UF is not listening to us as a 
whole. We are an important group 
of employees, an important group 
of students,” Miska said. “We are 
doing so much work in classes, 
working in their labs, and they are 
not listening to us.”
Abby Held, a 24-year-old physi -
cal chemistry graduate student, 
said she was guilted into accept -
ing an instructor position for Intro 
to Chemistry in Fall 2021. Held 
said UF told her she was the best 
replacement after the previous in -
structor graduated. 
Held said she felt she couldn’t Graduate assistants contest stagnant wages  
Sandra McDonald / / Alligator Staff
Protestors stand at the entrance of campus on the corner of West University Avenue and 
Southwest 13th Street on Tuesday, May 17, 2022.
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Under tall pecan trees, community members 
joined hands in song, fried batches of fish and flew 
Juneteenth flags while honoring the end of slavery 
in Florida. 
Gainesville held two events Friday to 
celebrate Florida’s Emancipation Day and the 
start of “Journey to Juneteenth.” The monthlong 
celebration began on the day slaves in Florida 
were notified of their freedom by Union General 
Edward McCook, who read the proclamation at the 
Knott House in Tallahassee on May 20, 1865. It 
will end by honoring the day the last slaves in the 
U.S. heard the proclamation in Galveston, Texas, 
on June 19, 1865. 
Deloris Rentz, the Cotton Club Museum and 
Cultural Center’s financial secretary, hosted one 
of the city’s events, which featured a fish fry, live 
music, poetry and educational Q&A sessions. 
She compared honoring Florida’s Emancipation Day to celebrating birthdays. While we recognize 
others’, we celebrate ours the most, she said. 
“Our biggest celebration is today, because this 
is our birth and we will celebrate with others,” she 
said. “But we give greater emphasis to our own 
celebration.”
About 60 people gathered around folding tables 
outside the museum to enjoy the fried fish — a 
staple dish for the Gainesville community spanning 
over 100 years. 
Phillis Filer, a 66-year-old Gainesville resident, 
said when the enslaved were freed, they wanted to 
find their ancestors who had been torn away from 
them. Once they had gotten together, it was a time 
of sitting down and reveling in each other. 
During the program’s final performance, the 
audience joined hands as they sang along to “Reach 
Out and Touch,” performed by Evelyn Banks. 
“Reach out and touch somebody’s hand,” Banks 
sang. “Make this world a better place if you can.”
About 40 people gathered around City Hall for Gainesville begins 'Journey to Juneteenth' 
by celebrating Florida’s Emancipation Day
SEE GAU,  PAGE 6SEE EMANCIPATION,  PAGE 7Two events were held Friday to honor and 
celebrate the end of slavery in FloridaT oday’s WeatherBy Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government officers may 
face an investigation concerning 
their trip to Israel last week.  
UF philosophy senior and former 
independent senator Alfredo Ortiz 
submitted a complaint May 12 re -
questing an ethics investigation into 
two high-ranking SG members: Sen -
ate President Elizabeth Hartzog and 
External Affairs Director Noah Fine -
berg. The complaint concerned a trip 
to Israel the two took alongside other 
senators and executive officers. 
Ortiz said his main concern is 
that Hartzog, Fineberg and others 
went on the trip in their official ca -
pacities as SG officers after Hartzog 
canceled the May 17 Senate meet -
ing at its previous May 10 meeting. 
Several senators and executive chair -
persons posed for a photo posted on 
Fineberg’s Twitter May 11 while 
leaving for Israel. The trip was not 
sponsored or officially approved by 
SG.  
“I have no problem if the sena -
tors want to go on their own time,” 
Ortiz said. “But they shouldn’t be 
canceling Senate meetings to do it.” 
The Senate must hold a body 
meeting at least once every two 
weeks, according to its constitution. 
Senate rules and procedures give 
Hartzog the discretionary power to 
cancel a meeting 24 hours in ad -
vance. The next scheduled meeting 
is May 24.
Hartzog said her decision to can -
cel the Senate meeting did not break 
any rules or regulations. She said she 
decided to go on the trip months be -
fore her term began. 
“While my role as Senate Presi -
dent is part of my identity as a stu -
dent at UF, I am also an individual 
human with a personal life,” Hartz -
og wrote in an email to The Alliga -tor. “I stand firm in my stance that 
this does not and will not impact 
my ability to serve within my role as 
Senate President.”
The delegation returned Sunday, 
when the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee confirmed five senators, 
filling all open positions on the Rules 
and Ethics Committee. 
In his complaint, Ortiz argued 
the required preliminary investiga -
tion into Hartzog could not be car -
ried out by Rules and Ethics Chair -
woman Tanner Thompson because 
the two serve on an executive board 
together. According to the Student 
Body Codes, an investigation into 
Hartzog would need to be completed 
by someone with no ties to SG — 
the Chief Justice of the SG Supreme 
Court, Ryan Wiele, would have to 
appoint them.
The investigation could not be -
gin until senators were appointed to 
the committee Sunday. Hartzog ab -
stained from all votes concerning the 
committee.  
“I wanted to remove myself from 
any deliberations to allow for the 
processes of this committee to fully 
function,” Hartzog said after the 
meeting. 
Hartzog and Fineberg both have 
ties to Gator Party. Fineberg — a 
member of Alpha Epsilon Pi, a Jew -
ish fraternity — is a former UF Sen -
ate President Pro-Tempore and now 
serves in SG’s executive branch.
Minority Leader Faith Corbett an -
nounced Change Party’s support of 
Ortiz’ complaint and submitted their 
own investigation into Hartzog for 
abuse of power. 
“The Senate President has alleg -
edly used her statutorily mandated 
power to disrupt the business of the 
Senate by canceling in an inappro -
priate manner,” the petition reads. 
Ortiz said he also intended to 
draft a resolution to address the re -cent death of Shireen Abu Akleh, a 
Palestinian journalist, with Change 
Party senators. 
“When tensions are so high, 
when stakes are so high, when Sen -
ate meetings are being canceled, 
when journalists are being killed, I 
think that the student body has the 
right to know what it is that their 
senators are doing in Israel,” Ortiz 
said. 
Fineberg said SG resources were 
not used in connection to the trip.
“This trip was taken 100% entire -
ly in my personal capacity and has 
absolutely nothing to do with Stu -
dent Government in any way, shape, 
or form,” he wrote in an email to 
The Alligator.
Fineberg said Ortiz’s complaint is 
littered with anti-Semitic tropes and 
should not be tolerated or seriously 
considered due to lack of evidence. 
He thinks it is an attempt to intimi -
date and harass him.
“I cannot be so easily threat -
ened,” he wrote. “I will not allow 
this distraction to prevent me from 
continuing to serve the administra -
tion and the student body as I have 
done so faithfully for the past few 
years. In terms of the complaint it -
self, I will be considering and evalu -
ating all of my options in responding 
to it and the individuals involved.”
Ortiz submitted a second com -
plaint against Fineberg for his re -
sponse to The Alligator. He  claimed 
Fineberg defamed him by suggesting 
he was anti-Semitic.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 34 SG officers’ trip to Israel 
prompts investigation
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Kiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Noah Fineberg (left) and Annabelle Groux (right) embrace while waiting for the Student Government 
Senate election results at the watch party held at the Reitz Union on Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2021. The two 
were elected senators for District A.
A complaint submitted to the Rules and 
Ethics Committee concerns a canceled SG 
Senate meeting and coinciding trip to IsraelMONDAY, MAY 23, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREBy Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
Painting has always calmed Laura Martin. 
It helps her heal from bouts of anxiety and 
depression and connects her with patients at 
UF Health Shands Psychiatric Hospital. 
The 28-year-old peer support specialist 
teaches patients how to shed people’s 
expectations and channel their own desires 
through different mediums of art, allowing 
them to cope with mental health issues. 
On Thursday, Martin and UF Health 
Shands Psychiatric Hospital faculty and 
volunteers spurred conversation about wellness by adorning the walls of 34th Street 
with a mural of an outline of a human head 
with the phrase “#BreaktheStigma” and a 
green ribbon — representative of mental 
health. The painting commemorated Mental 
Health Awareness month and Mental Health 
Action Day Thursday.
Kayla Zamajtuk, a 19-year-old UF Health 
Psychiatric intern, said the vibrant blue, 
green, orange and purple hues should bring 
a smile to passersby’ faces.
The bright colors show people that 
conversations about mental health aren’t 
necessarily a dark thing, and there are others 
with similar struggles, Zamajtuk said. Art makes people think about what affects 
their mental wellbeing and helps them feel 
heard by the community, Zamajtuk said.
Someone passing through 34th Street 
might see the mural, and the picture could 
stick in their head and inspire them, said 
Enrique Abreu, a 30-year-old peer support 
specialist at UF Health Psychiatric.
“If people are looking for a sign, this could 
be the sign that they need,” Abreu said. 
Tim Miller, an UF Health Psychiatric 
administrator, said the head and ribbon 
represent mental health awareness advocacy 
— phone numbers serve as a contact for a 
person in need.Shands staff wanted to create a tangible 
solution, said Joe Munson, the director of 
clinical services for UF Health Psychiatric. 
“It’s amazing how much a person can 
feel supported by someone believing them, 
taking them serious and then being able to 
offer a resource,” Munson said. 
UF Health wants to be seen as a 
community resource for people in crisis, 
Munson said.
“You need to be able to take care of 
yourself and you need those resources and 
support and people that care,” Munson said. 
“It’s okay to reach out.”
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.org‘It’s okay to reach out’: mural commemorates Mental Health Action Day
Nahe Dakshit / / Alligator Staff
Laura Martin, 28, a peer support specialist at  UF Health and Joe Munson, 
Director of Clinical Services at UF Health, paint the mental health awareness 
ribbon together on the mural at SW 34th St.Neha Dakshit / / Alligator Staff
From left to right, Kayla Zamajtuk, 19, Sarah Russ, 22, and Yisel Pineiro, 21, interns at UF 
Health Psychiatric, start painting the mural on SW 34th St. with the name of their hospital.
UF Health Psychiatric raised awareness and broke stigmas surrounding mental health4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
The west side of Gainesville is oc -
cupied by a bounty of big box super -
markets. Publix. Trader Joe’s. Aldi. 
Whole Foods. Winn-Dixie. Save A 
Lot. The Fresh Market. 
But in the cocoon of East 
Gainesville, divided from the student-
populated west side by Main Street, 
there is only one convenient, acces -
sible grocery store: Walmart Super -
center.
Even this retail giant, at 1800 NE 
12th Ave., is about a 10-minute drive 
from historic east side neighborhoods 
like Porters Quarters and the Pleasant 
Street Historic District. 
“We’re the forgotten side of 
town,” said 27-year-old Ashley Hick -
mon-Nwadigo, a resident of East 
Gainesville since 2005.
A 2021 report from the city based 
on USDA data identified 11 food des -
erts — low-income areas where a 
substantial number of residents have 
low access to a supermarket or large 
grocery store — in Gainesville. Since 
2014, the food insecurity rate in Ala -
chua County has remained higher 
than the overall Florida rate. 
The city has no current proposals 
to build a grocery store on the east 
side — despite reserving $3.3 million 
for this purpose. 
The $3.3 million loan from the 
American Rescue Plan was initially 
approved in 2021 to open Bravo Su -
permarket on the empty lot on Haw -
thorne Road, but this proposal was halted in January. The money may 
be reallocated if a partnership with 
a supermarket is not secured soon, 
Commissioner Reina Saco said.
“At the end of the day, the city is 
not a grocery store owner nor devel -
oper,” Saco said. “We are still waiting 
if anyone wants to help.”
Isabelle Gonzalez, a 19-year-old 
UF biology junior who lives along 
Southwest Archer Road, regularly 
shops at Butler Plaza and Butler Town 
Center: home to a Whole Foods, Tar -
get and two Publix stores, all within 
about a mile radius. 
“I think it’s really dishearten -
ing when you focus on a temporary 
group of students that are coming 
and going, as opposed to reinforc -
ing the infrastructure in the city of 
Gainesville for people that live there 
throughout their entire lives,” she 
said. “It’s honestly kind of shameful.”
University students tend to be 
ignorant to the disparities East 
Gainesville residents face, Gonzalez 
said. They often distinguish the west 
side as the “nicer side.” 
Now, the east side struggles to 
overcome stereotypes of high crime 
rates and poverty — typecasts that 
add to grocery stores’ reluctance to 
open a new location.
Nyaja Craig, an East Gainesville 
resident, said these excuses are piti -
ful; crime is everywhere. 
The 25-year-old grew up in an 
East Gainesville that has been ne -
glected by city and county officials.
“They put more time and effort 
out west instead of just putting in a simple grocery store,” she said.
When I-75 was developed to the 
west of the city, it allowed for quick -
er work commutes and increased 
the convenience of running errands 
across the region, both for residents 
and visitors. The city departed from 
its tradition of developing around the 
university and expanded west toward 
the freeway. 
Butler Enterprises expanded after 
an I-75 exit was added to Archer Road. 
West Gainesville boomed with eco -
nomic growth while East Gainesville 
remained largely unchanged. 
Profitability factors into grocery 
stores’ reluctance to open on the east 
side, said Joel Davis, the executive 
director of the David F. Miller Retail 
Center at UF’s Warrington College 
of Business. It is always the same re -
sponse: Stores on the densely popu -
lated west side are more profitable.
Grocery stores work on very small 
profit margins — about 1% to 3% — 
and their most profitable items, like 
paper towels and toilet paper, are 
typically sold at dollar stores, he said.
At least three dollar stores are situ -
ated east of Main Street.
“The potential profitability of 
a grocery store is really impacted 
by having a Dollar Tree across the 
street,” he added. “And because 
those are so pervasive in areas like 
[East Gainesville], I think that’s a very 
difficult prospect for a grocery store to 
try to overcome.”
Saco said population density is 
another barrier East Gainesville must 
overcome. Too few people live in the area to meet the profit margins a su -
permarket requires. However, zoning 
changes could bring in more den -
sity without gentrifying or changing a 
neighborhood.
A supermarket can act as an an -
chor for East Gainesville, she said, 
attracting investors and activity; but 
the challenge for the city is finding a 
partner willing to take the plunge and 
come to the east side.
Commissioners’ apparent pri -
oritization of the west side frustrates 
Hickmon-Nwadigo, a Lincoln Estates 
resident. She said she is exhausted by the city’s continuous halting of pro -
posals that could benefit the commu -
nity, like the Bravo Supermarket plan. 
Year after year, it’s “nothing, nothing, 
nothing.”
Hickmon-Nwadigo said she has 
little hope for a partnership between 
the city and a supermarket in the near 
future.
“I honestly don’t think we’ll see 
any more improvement until gentri -
fication has fully occurred and there 
are more white people on the east 
side of Gainesville,” she said.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.org‘We’re the forgotten side of town’: Food deserts in East Gainesville
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Graphic depicting the lack of access to affordable and good-quality 
food in Gainesville.
EL CAIMÁN
Por Carissa Allen
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido por Manuel Tunez Bazail
Escritor del Caimán
El oeste de Gainesville está poblado por 
una gran cantidad de grandes supermercados 
incluyendo Publix, Trader Joe’s, Aldi, Whole 
Foods, Winn-Dixie, Save A Lot y The Fresh 
Market.
Apartado del lado oeste poblado por estudi -
antes en la calzada principal, en lo intrincado 
del este de Gainesville, solo una tienda de co -
mestibles conveniente y accesible abastece: 
Walmart Supercenter.
Incluso este gigante minorista, en 1800 NE 
12th Ave., está a unos 10 minutos en auto de 
los vecindarios históricos del lado este, como 
Porters Quarters y Pleasant Street Historic Dis -
trict.
“Somos el lado olvidado de la ciudad”, dijo 
Ashley Hickmon-Nwadigo, de 27 años, quien 
reside en el este de Gainesville desde el 2005.
Un informe de 2021 de Gainesville basado 
en datos del USDA identificó 11 desiertos ali -
mentarios. Estos son conocidos como áreas de 
bajos ingresos donde un número considerable 
de residentes tiene poco acceso a un supermer -
cado o una gran tienda de comestibles. Desde 
2014, la tasa de inseguridad alimentaria en el 
condado de Alachua se ha mantenido más alta 
que la tasa general de la Florida.
La ciudad no tiene propuestas actuales para 
construir una tienda de comestibles en el lado 
este, a pesar de tener reservado $3.3 millones para este propósito.
El préstamo de $3.3 millones del American 
Rescue Plan se aprobó inicialmente en 2021 
para abrir Bravo Supermarket en el lote vacío 
de Hawthorne Road, pero esta propuesta se 
detuvo en enero. El dinero puede reasignarse 
si no se asegura pronto una asociación con un 
supermercado, dijo la comisionada Reina Saco.
“Al final del día, la ciudad no es propietaria 
ni desarrolladora de tiendas de comestibles”, 
comentó Saco. “Todavía estamos esperando a 
que alguien quiera ayudar”.
Isabelle Gonzalez, una estudiante de 19 
años quien cursa el tercer año de biología en la 
Universidad de la Florida, vive en Southwest 
Archer Road y compra regularmente en Butler 
Plaza y Butler Town Center, donde se encuen -
tran Whole Foods, Target y dos tiendas Publix, 
todas en aproximadamente una milla de radio.
“Creo que es realmente desalentador cuan -
do te enfocas en un grupo temporal de estudi -
antes que van y vienen, en lugar de reforzar la 
infraestructura en la ciudad de Gainesville para 
las personas que han vivido allí durante toda 
su vida”, dijo. “Honestamente, es un poco ver -
gonzoso”.
Los estudiantes universitarios tienden a 
ignorar las disparidades que enfrentan los 
residentes del este de Gainesville, añadió 
González. A menudo distinguen el lado oeste 
como el “lado más agradable”.
Ahora, el este lucha por superar los este -
reotipos de altos índices de criminalidad y 
pobreza, encasillamientos que se suman a la 
renuencia de las tiendas de comestibles para 
abrir una nueva sucursal.
Nyaja Craig, residente del este de Gainesville, dijo que estas excusas son lamen -
tables; el crimen se encuentra en todas partes.
La joven de 25 años creció en el este de 
Gainesville que ha sido descuidado por los fun -
cionarios de la ciudad y del condado.
“Dedicaron más tiempo y esfuerzo al oeste, 
en lugar de instalar una simple tienda de co -
mestibles”, dijo.
Cuando se desarrolló la I-75 al oeste de la 
ciudad, permitió viajes diarios más rápidos al 
trabajo y aumentó la comodidad de hacer dili -
gencias en toda la región, tanto para los resi -
dentes como para los visitantes. La ciudad se 
apartó de su tradición de desarrollarse alred -
edor de la universidad y se expandió hacia el 
oeste en las cercanías de la autopista.
Butler Enterprises se expandió después de 
que se agregó una salida de la I-75 a Archer 
Road. El oeste de Gainesville prosperó con el 
crecimiento económico, mientras que el este 
de la ciudad permaneció prácticamente sin 
cambios.
La rentabilidad influye en la renuencia de 
las tiendas de comestibles a ubicarse en el lado 
este, dijo Joel Davis, director ejecutivo del Da -
vid F. Miller Retail Center en Warrington Col -
lege of Business de la U.F.. Siempre es la mis -
ma respuesta: las tiendas en el poblado oeste 
son más rentables.
Los mercados trabajan con márgenes de 
ganancia muy pequeños, alrededor del 1% al 
3%, y sus artículos más rentables, como to -
allas de papel y papel sanitario, generalmente 
se venden en tiendas de “todo por un dólar”, 
comentó.
Al menos tres tiendas de “todo por un dó -
lar” están situadas al este de Main Street.“La rentabilidad potencial de una tienda de 
comestibles se ve realmente afectada por tener 
un Dollar Tree al otro lado de la calle”, agregó. 
“Y debido a que son tan omnipresentes en 
áreas como [el este de Gainesville], creo que 
es una perspectiva muy difícil de superar para 
una tienda de comestibles”.
Saco dijo que la densidad de población es 
otra barrera que el este de Gainesville debe 
superar. Muy poca gente vive en el área para 
cumplir con los márgenes de ganancia que 
requiere un supermercado. Sin embargo, los 
cambios de zonificación podrían traer más den -
sidad sin gentrificar o cambiar un vecindario.
Un supermercado puede actuar como ancla 
para el este de la ciudad, Saco agregó, atray -
endo inversionistas y actividad; pero el desafío 
para la ciudad es encontrar un socio dispuesto 
a dar el paso y venir al lado este.
La aparente priorización del oeste por parte 
de los comisionados frustra a Hickmon-Nw -
adigo, residente de Lincoln Estates. Dijo que 
está agotada por la continua detención de pro -
puestas de la ciudad que podrían beneficiar a 
la comunidad, como el plan del Supermercado 
Bravo. Año tras año, es “nada, nada, nada”.
Hickmon-Nwadigo dijo que tiene pocas es -
peranzas de una asociación entre la ciudad y 
un supermercado en un futuro cercano.
“Honestamente, no creo que veamos me -
joras hasta que la gentrificación haya ocurrido 
por completo y haya más gente blanca en el 
lado este de Gainesville”, agregó.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.org‘Somos el lado olvidado de la ciudad’: desiertos alimentarios al este de GainesvilleHow food insecurity arose on the east side and why the lack of grocery stores persists
Cómo surgió la inseguridad alimentaria en el lado este y por qué persiste la falta de supermercadosMONDAY, MAY 23, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
COMMISSIONERS’ POSITIVE TEST RESULTS 
AND A COUNTY-WIDE RISE IN COVID-19 
CASES CANCELED CITY MEETINGS AND 
WORKSHOPS
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville City Commission’s Thursday 
meeting was canceled due to a COVID-19 outbreak 
among officials.
Mayor Lauren Poe and Commissioners David 
Arreola and Harvey Ward tested positive for the 
virus. Another commissioner is absent due to a 
family emergency, prompting the cancellation of 
the meeting. 
The commission planned to discuss making 
GRACE Marketplace, located at 3055 NE 28th Drive, 
a hurricane shelter; naming a lake on UF’s campus; 
its fiscal year budget for 2023; the proposed Eighth 
Avenue and Waldo Road sports complex; GPD’s 
Cadet program; the interim charter officer six-
month progress update and waste regulations. 
Since testing positive, Ward said he has 
distanced himself from non-family members in a 
Thursday Facebook post. 
“I don’t want to sit in a roomful of healthy 
people and accidentally infect them just by being 
there,” Ward wrote.
A May 14 press release from Interim City 
Manager Cynthia Curry announced meeting and 
workshop postponements following the rise in 
COVID-19 cases in Alachua County.
According to data from the Florida State Health 
Department, new positive cases more than doubled 
between the weeks of April 22 and May 6, which 
has contributed to the upward trend of positive 
transmission. Since then, 584 cases have been 
reported.
“The most recent mutation of Omicron is the 
most transmissible, the most contagious version 
yet,” Poe said.
Poe encouraged residents to wear masks indoors 
or in large groups, get vaccinated and socially 
distance. Arreola was among four commissioners 
who voted to pass a city vaccine mandate Aug. 5, 
2021, which remained in effect until Sept. 23, 2021.
This is the second time Arreola said he has 
tested positive for COVID-19.
“I’ve always viewed it as my duty to share with 
people the reality of the seriousness,” he said. “It’s 
a brutal sickness, and the second time around is 
always harder.” 
The city plans to reschedule community 
meetings on affordable housing to June 1 and June 
4.
Poe hopes next week’s meetings will proceed 
as scheduled but said he will reassess the risk of 
transmission to maintain public health and safety.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgCOVID-19 outbreak postpones 
City Commission meetings
THE SEARCH FOR FUCHS’ REPLACEMENT IN 2023 
MIRRORS THE 2014 SEARCH THAT FOUND HIM
By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
The university will host four listening sessions in the next 
two days as a part of the search for the next president. Fac -
ulty and students can provide input on qualities they want the 
presidential search committee and board of trustees to keep in 
mind Monday and Tuesday. 
The university hosted 11 of 15 listening sessions, all on 
Zoom; they started May 5, and the last one is on Tuesday. The 
Zoom link to the listening sessions can be found on UF Human 
Resources’ website. 
UF President Kent Fuchs announced his resignation on 
Jan. 5 and the search for the next president officially began 
in March. Previous search processes were more subject to the 
public eye, but new legislature delays release of information 
identifying the potential candidates. UF students and faculty 
will only be able to research and meet with finalists 21 days 
before a new campus leader is chosen. 
Many southern colleges remain tight-lipped about the can -
didates being considered. The University System of Georgia 
changed its policy May 10 to reduce the role of faculty in 
presidential searches for all public institutions of learning in 
Georgia. Before, faculty of all 26 public institutions in Georgia 
were required to be the majority of committee membership 
in all institutions, but after the change in policy, there is no 
mandated number.
The number of faculty that served on presidential commit -
tees across the nation fell from 94% two decades ago to 88% 
in 2021, and other public systems have decreased transparen -
cy to attract strong candidates, according to a 2021 American Association of University Professors report. 
The board added 24 qualifications in 2013, which are de -
sired but not required characteristics finalists should have; 
candidates must have an emphasis on pre-eminence in their 
goals for the university. Universities that meet 11 to 12 re -
quirements based on expenditures, ranking, memberships and 
awards receive more funding if considered a pre-eminent uni -
versity. 
Bernie Machen, the president before Fuchs, agreed to stay 
through 2013 and officially left the position December 2014 
after an appeal from former Gov. Rick Scott for UF to work on 
pre-eminence funding for UF.
Fuchs replaced him in January 2015. 
The 2014 search was quiet. Fuchs, who was the provost of 
Cornell University and the dean of the school’s College of Engi -
neering, didn’t become a public candidate until Oct. 10, 2014. 
Two other finalists were announced Oct. 13, 2014: New 
York University provost, David McLaughlin, and the Univer -
sity of Groningen President, Sibrandes Poppema. The three 
were interviewed in public meetings Oct. 14 and Oct. 15 by the 
search committee; Fuchs was announced president Oct. 15.
According to an article from the Tampa Bay Times, “The 
Board of Trustees hired Fuchs unanimously and without dis -
cussion five days after he applied and two days after making 
him a finalist.”
The lack of discussion brought on criticism to the fact that 
candidates apply late in the process to avoid their names from 
becoming public, similar to the criticism brought on by the 
most recent presidential search.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgTHE MESSAGE WAS SENT OUT TO 
ABOUT 2,000 FAMILY MEMBERS 
OF ACPS EMPLOYEES AND 
FORMER EMPLOYEES
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
A week after a Fort Clarke middle 
schooler was arrested for bringing a 
loaded gun to school, families across 
the county received an accidental 
message from Alachua County Pub -
lic Schools Thursday morning alerting 
them of an active shooter. It was cor -
rected 30 minutes after it was sent.
The message was intended for se -
lect administrators, ACPS spokesper -
son Jackie Johnson said. A technical 
issue occured when they were testing 
a state-mandated mobile panic alert 
system, according to ACPS’ statement. 
Only families of an employee or former 
employee of the district received the 
message. Some of the recipients were 
parents, but the message was not sent 
to a parent list, Johnson said. 
Courtney Scott has two children who 
attend Fort Clarke and Hidden Oak el -
ementary schools.  The 39-year-old was 
working in his food truck, Rastafar Ice, 
when he received the districts’ follow-
up apology. He said he was initially 
worried in light of last week’s arrest at 
Fort Clarke. 
The May 13 incident was followed 
by the May 14 Buffalo supermarket 
shooting, where an 18-year-old white 
male killed 10 people in a predomi -nantly Black neighborhood.  
Scott said he felt lucky his children 
were with him when he received the 
message.
He said he hopes the mishap pre -
vents any technical issues so the alert 
will go to the right people in the event 
of an actual emergency. 
The alert was sent at 10:15 a.m. 
through the Intrado Safety Shield sys -
tem, which is used exclusively to alert 
administrators and law enforcement of 
emergencies.
ACPS apologized for the false alert 
and ensured no active shooters infil -trated any campuses in a statement on 
its Facebook. 
It also sent out an additional mes -
sage to all parents 30 minutes after the 
initial alert through its Skyalert system, 
which is used exclusively to notify par -
ents of emergencies. 
“An alert went out about an active 
shooter on an ACPS campus,” the mes -
sage said. “There is NO active shooter 
on any campus. This was a TEST and 
we apologize for the error.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
UF’s presidential search continuesAlachua County Public Schools 
mistakenly warns of active shooter
Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
A sign in front of the Alachua County Public Schools district office building is 
seen Sunday, June 6, 2021.
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville Mayor Lauren Poe (left) listens to 
public comment at a City Commission meeting on 
Monday, Sept. 27, 2021.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
PROFESSOR RICHARD BURT 
IS SUING FOUR FACULTY 
MEMBERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF 
FLORIDA UNDER THE FIRST AND 
FOURTEENTH AMENDMENTS
By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
A tenured UF professor is suing four 
faculty members, including President Kent 
Fuchs, for a five-day suspension without 
pay and for being stripped of his Fall 2021 
classes. 
The university investigated Richard 
Burt, an English professor, for sending 
controversial emails to students informing 
them classes would be held through 
Zoom. He also attached a statement from 
UF Union head Paul Ortiz criticizing the 
university's COVID-19 policies. 
They found him guilty and charged 
him for faculty misconduct and violation 
of the Collective Bargaining Agreement — 
a contract between an employer and the 
teachers’ union.
Burt requested to teach two classes 
remotely for the first three weeks of the 
Fall semester due to COVID-19 concerns. He was unaware that Fuchs rescinded 
his Aug. 9 message giving professors the 
option to teach remotely on Aug. 13, 
according to the lawsuit.
A student made a complaint against 
him after he sent an email signaling classes 
would be taught via Zoom. Rick Johnson, 
Burt’s lawyer, said the student’s parents 
were influential political contributors 
and university donors. After hearing 
the complaint, Sidney Dobrin, English 
department chair, told Burt classes had to 
be held in person.
When Burt learned the remote option 
was no longer available, he emailed 
students again, this time saying he would 
be teaching in-person classes against his 
will.
Burt is suing Fuchs; David E. 
Richardson, the dean of the college of 
liberal arts and sciences; Mary Watt, the 
associate dean of the college of liberal 
arts and sciences; and Dobrin under the 
First and 14th Amendments of the U.S. 
Constitution. He claims he was not granted 
his rights to free speech and due process.
Johnson said Burt’s image has been 
hurt and his position is now in jeopardy.
Richardson requested an investigation 
into Burt to see if he had exhibited disruptive behavior by sending 
controversial emails to students, according 
to the lawsuit. Johnson said Richardson 
and Dobrin co-signed a letter requiring 
Burt to take courses in email effectiveness 
and cultivating judgment.
The investigation was performed by 
Petra Pindar, a UF employee relations 
investigator, according to the lawsuit. 
Two more charges — faculty misconduct 
and violation of the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement — were added to the 
investigation after it began. Johnson said 
Burt was found guilty on the additional 
charges without being able to defend 
himself.
At the request of Watt, Burt took a 
mental health exam and released his 
results to the university. Johnson said UF 
questioned Burt’s mental health because 
of the disagreement over COVID-19 
protocols. 
Johnson said the lawsuit stems from 
miscommunication. Burt was under the 
impression he could teach over Zoom 
but found out he couldn’t after classes 
started. Johnson said UF wants to make 
an example of Burt to discourage faculty 
from openly opposing its ideologies.
“They want people to be more compliant, obedient, submissive — to 
have those kinds of servile attitudes,” 
Johnson said.
The university and Richardson declined 
to comment on the active lawsuit. Watt 
and Dobrin have not responded to The 
Alligator’s request for comment as of 
Sunday.
Burt was told he could be fired for any 
future violations in the letter placing him 
on probation, according to Johnson. He 
worries the university could unjustly fire 
Burt for minor offenses.
“Normally, if you’re tenured, you pretty 
much have to kill somebody before it rises 
to the level of a firing offense,” Johnson 
said. 
Churchill Roberts, chair of the grievance 
committee for the United Faculty of Florida 
at UF, said Burt initially came to the union 
to discuss filing a grievance regarding the 
situation. They were waiting for UF to 
give a decision before filing. Burt found an 
attorney and filed the lawsuit shortly after.
Roberts said he thinks Burt has a strong 
argument and UF should settle the case to 
avoid a lawsuit.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.orgUF professor sues university after losing Fall semester classes
say no. She took the position for 
the sake of the 325 students in the 
class, she said, but it took a toll on 
her mental health and educational 
pursuits. 
“I had panic attacks at least 
once a week,” Held said. 
She dropped her seat in a gradu -ate bioinformatics course dur -
ing the first week of Fall 2021 to 
keep up with the position. She also 
dropped a special topics course 
relating to her research in Spring 
2022 because she taught Intro to 
Chemistry again.
In the end, she said, it wasn’t 
worth the money. 
“If they’re going to make me deal with extra responsibilities that 
a regular graduate assistant might 
not normally have to deal with,” 
she said, ”I would like to at least 
be able to afford to eat three times 
a day.”
UF first declared its offer final 
on Apr. 29, but one of UF’s labor 
lawyers, Ryan Fuller, recently sig -
naled it is still open to negotiations. 
The next bargaining session will be 
scheduled next week, and the bar -
gaining period will continue until Jun. 28. 
The disconnect between gradu -
ate assistants and the university, 
Corey Bussiere, a UF Counselor 
program graduate and former grad -
uate student teacher said, is at the 
root of the problem. He said low 
graduate student wages are not 
unique to UF — this is an issue that 
spans nationally.
“I don’t understand the higher-
ups and the higher-ups don’t un -
derstand the way we do things,” he said.
Taylor said GAU plans to use 
every second of the next month to 
fight for a living wage. 
“We are urging UF to come back 
to the bargaining table to invest in 
graduate students and to give us 
the increase to the minimum sti -
pend that we deserve,” she said 
Tuesday.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgGAU,  from pg. 1Grad assistants underpaid
Sandra McDonald / / Alligator Staff
Graduate assistants hold signs to protest low wages on Tuesday, 
May 17, 2022.Sandra McDonald / / Alligator Staff
Graduate assistants protest on the way to Tigert Hall Tuesday, May 17, 2022.
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
another event Friday morning featuring four 
speakers: Commissioner Desmon Duncan-
Walker, Commissioner Reina Saco, Interim 
City Manager Cynthia Curry and Cotton 
Club Museum Financial Secretary Deloris 
Rentz. They heard the Emancipation 
Proclamation, saw the Juneteenth flag 
raised and listened to Duncan-Walker 
reflect on the day’s importance. 
“As I journey to this place today, I 
could not help but wipe away the tears as 
I traveled across land and property that 
no doubt had been walked upon by my 
ancestors and my forefathers who fought, 
who struggled, who died — enslaved here 
in Gainesville,” she said. 
Saco spoke about how this day was an 
important lesson for legislators to remember 
the law is a tool to help the community.
“If there is an injustice, be illegal or 
not, it is up to us to fix it and to fix it 
right — not just with words, not just with 
a proclamation — but with action, with 
change,” she said.
Porshe Chiles, a 38-year-old UF doctoral 
student and a Texas native, said the day 
was essential to help her understand local 
culture.
Chiles said she thought institutions 
like UF should recognize May 20 as 
Emancipation Day in Florida. She 
suggested UF partner with the Cotton Club 
Museum and Cultural Center to find ways 
to celebrate and spread awareness about 
the day. 
Malcom Askew, a 34-year-old Gainesville 
resident, said he didn’t know about the 
event until a friend told him about it two 
days prior. 
He said he appreciated the energy the 
city put into honoring the day but wished 
the city promoted the event better; he knew 
others would have loved to be a part of the 
celebration.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgEMANCIPATION,  from pg. 1Month to 
freedom
Lillian Lawson / / Alligator Staff
George Foxx helps serve food for the Florida Emancipation Day celebration at the Cotton Club Museum and Cultural Center on 
Friday, May 20, 2022.
Lillian Lawson / / Alligator Staff
Helen Batie performs at the Cotton Club Museum and Cultural Center to celebrate Florida Emancipation Day on Friday, May 20, 2022.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of the largest human blood drop 
formations in the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district needs just as 
many donors per week to meet the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
American Medical Program Tel Aviv University
American Medical Program/Tel Aviv University/Sackler Faculty of MedicineSackler Faculty of Medicine
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our websiteoffers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York and 
is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. One of 
these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 
hospitals around the world for the last three years.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,100 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about the Program. 
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Monda y thr ough Thursda y  7:30 A M - 6 P M 
Appoin tmen ts ar e nec essar y.
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
Operation PetSnip
Have you heard about our 
low-cost spay/neuter clinic?
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St. Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets.  Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                         5-23-2-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
Canoe, kayak, paddleboard & more best offer 
For sale best offer: ● 3-person canoe, ● 
1-person kayak, ● paddleboard, ● chipper/
shredder, ● portable table saw, ● electric 
power washer. Hawthorne. (352) 301-4707 
5-31-22-3-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
BAM POWER BIKE 
ELECTRIC / MANUAL - Like New. 
Black.  Kendra tires. 
Helmet & 2 battery packs included, $1200. 
Call 352-222-9649                        5-23-22-3-111For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
Fully furnished former Airbnb house. 38 
blocks from 34th St. Available immediately. 
Sleeps 6. $1750/mo + utils. Contact Angelina 
352-219-6994                               5-23-22-3-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds 
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953      
6-6-22-5-6
11..    SSmmaallll  uunniitt  ooff  lleennggtthh  
11..    CClluubb  ________55..    BBlluuiisshh  ppuurrppllee  
22..    FFaallll  iinnttoo  ppiieecceess66..    PPaarrtt  ooff  aa  vveesssseell’’ss  hhuullll
33..    CCoovveerr  ppaarrtt  ooff  77..    RReedd  ________
44..    SSttrraaiigghhtt  RRNNOOIIMMCC
EERREEMMMMBBUUAAEEMMVV
BBGGEEIILL
RRCCBBUUEEMMLL
RRAAPPLLOOEEVVPPRREEEEPPPP
AALLIIEERRNNAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--MMiiccrroonn    55AA--MMaauuvvee    66AA--BBiillggee    77AA--PPeeppppeerr
11DD--MMeemmbbeerr    22DD--CCrruummbbllee    33DD--OOvveerrllaapp    44DD--LLiinneeaarr    BB--BBaarrcceelloonnaa55--2233--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  iiss  hhoommee  ttoo  EEuurrooppee’’ss  
bbuussiieesstt  ccrruuiissee  sshhiipp  ppoorrtt..  
BONUSCASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
5-23-12-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
5-23-12-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.6 Furnishings
By Jake Halperin
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/23/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/23/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, May 23, 2022
ACROSS
1 Dinner with 
donors
5 Mardi Gras wear
9 Britcom with 
Eddie and Patsy, 
for short
14 Minnesota 
representative 
Ilhan
15 Not pro
16 Gibbs of “The 
Jeffersons”
17 Admonition to 
an Egyptian boy 
king?
19 Helps out illegally
20 Ending for 
“Black,” “Mixed,” 
and “Grown,” in 
sitcom names
21 Olfactory assault
23 “Everything 
Everywhere All 
at Once” star 
Michelle
24 Conical shelter
26 “Which of the two 
will it be?”
28 Shepherd’s tool
29 Pothole filler 
made from fish-
and-chips sauce?
34 Was sure about
36 Chatter away
37 Amnesiac’s query
38 Secret language
39 “Becoming” 
memoirist 
Michelle
41 Uno, dos, __
42 Reversals
44 “Succession” 
actor Brian
45 Hit the horn
46 Say farewell 
to a Dickens 
character?
48 Thus far
49 Aspire laptop 
maker
50 Alternative to 
Alpine, in skiing
53 Current options
56 Enjoyed, as a 
lollipop
59 WNW’s opposite
60 Plumbing issues
62 Is able to do high 
kicks in a chorus 
line?
64 TV spot seller
65 “Black Panther” 
villain Killmonger
66 Pinochle-like card 
game
67 Far from posh68 Gels
69 Inquires
DOWN
1 “Duly noted”
2 Cause to chuckle
3 Sudsy
4 Class with easels
5 Like low-shine 
lipstick
6 Get the poker pot 
going
7 Leave 
speechless
8 Vehicle that’s 
built after it’s 
bought
9 Doc’s org.
10 Brand-new 
sibling, perhaps
11 On the house
12 Palo __, 
California
13 Big celebration
18 Didn’t waste
22 Hair removal 
substance
25 Like energy bars, 
in adspeak
27 “Go team!”
29 Bar bill
30 Mechanical 
arithmetic aids
31 Card sets sold in 
New Age shops
32 Prayer ending33 Expose to danger
34 Single-serve 
coffee pod
35 Words of denial
36 Mass 
communication?
40 Floor-washing 
tool
43 Actor Cage, 
casually
47 Comparison 
shopper’s data
48 Green Jedi with 
his own grammar50 Parts of 
mandolins
51 “Wicked Game” 
singer Chris
52 Euro fractions
53 Woeful word
54 Formally  
transfer
55 Truth or __
57 “Ask me if I __!”
58 Make mittens, 
say
61 Secret agent
63 Hush-hush org.
By Doug Peterson
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC05/17/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
05/17/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, May 17, 2022
ACROSS
1 Item sold with an 
envelope
5 Olive Garden 
selections
11 “Dropped” drug
14 Nabisco cookie
15 Wool source
16 Reverent feeling
17 *Saddle 
attachment for a 
tall jockey?
19 “__ I help you?”
20 Supplement
21 Sweet potato kin
22 Targets
23 Oodles
26 “I Dream of __”
28 *Stevedore 
school 
instruction?
32 “A Sorta 
Fairytale” singer 
Tori
33 Shop __ you  
drop
34 Thaw, as a wing
37 Familial 
nickname
38 Billiards stick
41 Org. with seven 
teams in Canada
42 One-named 
“Hello” singer
44 Swiss peak
45 Air conditioner 
nos.
46 *Relaxing 
exercise for 
skydivers?
50 Beach scavenger
52 Tusked beast
53 See 69-Across
54 “WandaVision” 
actress  
Dennings
56 Thesaurus name
60 Pretty-picture link
61 Trousers, and 
what the answer 
to each starred 
clue literally is
64 Albertan’s last 
letter
65 __ milk
66 Polling results, 
say
67 Project 
conclusion?
68 Title usually 
abbreviated
69 With 53-Across, 
“The 
Mandalorian” 
franchiseDOWN
1 Fast-food 
beverage
2 Three-time A.L. 
MVP
3 Tear apart
4 Military IDs
5 Basketball coach 
Summitt in the 
Hall of Fame
6 “Baby Cobra” 
comedian Wong
7 Nimble
8 __ P. Henson of 
“Empire”
9 Keen insight
10 Tree goo
11 Giving an earful
12 Hindu teacher
13 Tightly packed
18 Recital piece
22 Novelist Tyler
24 Miranda of 
“Homeland”
25 Rascal Flatts, e.g.
27 Deputy
28 Where to find a 
cocina
29 In a group of
30 Annual floral 
procession in 
Pasadena
31 God to more than 
two billion
35 Guzzle36 “Frozen” sister
38 Chile neighbor
39 Driver or putter
40 Capable of
43 Drops back
45 Detour routes, 
often
47 High-pH 
compound
48 Insurance filings
49 Wyatt of the Old 
West
50 Language of 
Southern Africa51 Artist’s stand
55 Brisk pace
57 Puny pest
58 Blues legend 
James
59 Russian 
sovereign
61 Nonstick spray 
brand
62 Common 
Scrabble tile 
value
63 Pres. on a  
dime
05/16/2022
solution  on page 9answer on page 9
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.12 Autos15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
Yard Help:
Part time, flex hrs, experience necessary, 
$11-$13 hr. SW side of town. 
Mr Z: 352-278-8071                      5-23-22-7-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6-27-22-6-14
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
HELP WANTED - PART TIME. 
Students Only.
Yard Work/Odd Jobs & Errands.
Starts at $15.00 per hour.
Contact: fairoaks1879@aol.com     
5-31-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com             5-31-22-9-14
Pearl Country Store & BBQ in Micanopy is 
hiring a part-time cashier for evening shift. 
Schedule is 1:00-9:30, 3 shifts per week. 
Starting pay is $11.00/hr. and eligible for 
raise after 90 days. Fast-paced environment. 
Please come in person to fill out application.  
6-6-4-14
HELP WANTED DONUT CONNECTION
COUNTER / DRIVE-THRU SALES
Salary depends on experience.
5205A NW 39th Ave. Text 352-214-1506, 
email donutconnection1@aol.com. 
6-13-22-4-14
FT Summer Camp Jobs
Now hiring for overnight camp for children 
with serious illnesses. Various positions open; 
lifeguards and male cabin counselors espe-
cially needed. June 11–Aug 5. We provide 
salary, housing, meals, training, interpersonal 
skills. Find more info & apply online at camp-
boggycreek.org. Also seeking volunteers for 
6-day commitments.                   5-23-22-4-14
House Keeper/Personal Assistant:
Part time, flex hours, will ask for references, 
non covid jab preferred. $12-$15 hr. SW side 
of town. Mr. Z 352-278-8071     5-23-22-7-14DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
5-23-17-16
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                5-23-12-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
5-23-16-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          5-23-17-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen        5-23-17-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Want to Get Paid Daily?
Work 30 minutes a day.
Watch your PayPal account grow.
Easy fun work!
https://undergroundsystem2.blogspot.com/     
6-13-22-4-20
Trivia Test  answersanswers below1. U.S. STATES: Which state is the smallest in land area?
2. MEDICAL: What is a common name for the medical 
condition called hyperlipidemia?
3. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the abnormal fear represented 
by peccatophobia?
4. FOOD & DRINK: What fish is the basis of Worces -
tershire sauce?
5. GEOGRAPHY: Nuuk is the capital of which island 
constituent country?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which state has produced the 
most presidents?
7. ART: In which major city would you find the 
Uffizi Gallery?
8. MOVIES: What is the main setting of the "Mama 
Mia!" movies?
9. MYTHOLOGY: What is the name of the Greek 
god of wine?
10. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Where is the rock formation 
called Giant's Causeway located?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
I HOPE YOUR RAMBLES HAVE BEEN SWEET, AND YOUR REVERIES SPACIOUS.
— EMILY DICKINSON
solution  belowWE BUY MORTGAGES FOR CASH
Lump Sum of Cash for
Owner Financed Mortgages
Professional Service / Fast Closing
Call or Click Today! 305-358-0772 or 
TheNoteDepot.com                         5-23-1-20
NOTICE
OF PROPOSED REVISIONS
TO THE
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT 
PLAN
OF THE
METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING
ORGANIZATION FOR THE
GAINESVILLE URBANIZED
AREA
    The Metropolitan Transportation Planning
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area will consider revisions to its Public 
Involvement Plan at its Monday, July 11, 2022 
meeting at 5:00 p.m. in the Jack Durrance 
Auditorium, Alachua County Administration 
Building, 12 SE 1st Street, Gainesville, 
Florida. The Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area is inviting interested persons 
to review and comment on these proposed 
revisions at this meeting.
   The Public Involvement Plan document 
may be viewed at the following website
(www.ncfrpc.org/mtpo) and at the Alachua 
County Library District Branches within the 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area and at its staff 
office, 2009 NW 67th Place, Gainesville, 
Florida 32653 if they are open to the public. 
For further information, call 352.955.2200.
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. Rhode Island.   2. High cholesterol.   3. Fear of committing sins or 
imaginary crimes.   4. Fermented anchovies.   5. Greenland.
  6.  Virginia, with eight presidents.   7. Florence, Italy.
  8. Skopelos, Greece.   9. Dionysus.   10. Northern IrelandMONDAY, MAY 23, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gators wallop Wisconsin
Florida batter Badgers with 10 first-inning runs, win 11-0 to 
advance to Super Regionals. Read more on pg. 11.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE STORY BEHIND THE NEW 
GAINESVILLE-BASED ARTIST 
SHOWCASE CIRCUIT
By Amanda Friedman
Alligator Staff Writer
With the strum of his guitar, the 
room went silent. Not one person 
ordered a drink from the bar. Audi -
ence members stood still, tears fill -
ing their eyes. 
Dozens locked into Rayvon Rol -
lins’, also known as Purple Kloud’s, 
heart-wrenching performance of his 
unreleased song, “Rose Gold Soul,” 
about his mother’s passing. 
“He froze time,” Danny B. Hodg -
es Jr., the 23-year-old founder of 
Muck City Showcases, said.
Rollins was one of the musicians 
who performed at the Muck City 
Showcase event held at How Bazar 
May 7. He regularly performs and 
hosts shows for Muck City Show -
cases, a local artist showcase circuit 
aiming to uplift smaller local musi -
cians started in January. The shows 
are held at small businesses and fea -
ture dozens of artists from across the 
state.
Rollins met Hodges at an open 
mic show in 2018. The pair instantly 
bonded over their shared love for 
music. When Hodges thought of the 
idea for Muck City Showcases, Rol -
lins was the first person he recruited 
to his team. 
No Muck City Showcase is the 
same. Rollins said one could be 
more relaxed while the next is full-
on rock ’n’ roll.Muck City Showcases provides 
a platform for him to gain exposure 
and improve his artistry through ob -
serving other musicians. The organi -
zation is also his family, Rollins said.
“We cry together,” he said. “We 
laugh together.”
Hodges started rapping while 
growing up in a trailer park in Belle 
Glade, Florida — known as Muck 
City because of the area’s surplus 
sugarcane field muck. 
“When you are in an environ -
ment like that, you come up with 
things to do, and for me, music was 
that thing,” Hodges said.
His passion took over, so much 
so that he would get in trouble in 
high school for freestyling in class.
During his first year at Santa Fe 
College, his grandmother and uncle 
were diagnosed with cancer. Jug -
gling the life of a student and care -
taker, Hodges dropped out of school 
to earn a living loading trucks. 
One day, while working a 12-
hour shift on his 20th birthday, he 
felt the sudden urge to focus on his 
greatest passion again — music. His 
entrepreneurial instincts kicked in, 
and he left in the middle of the shift, 
never turning back.
After quitting his job, he started 
street performing and attending open 
mics in Gainesville. He launched his 
first business, Cypher House, which 
acted as a circuit of house parties to 
facilitate collaboration between art -
ists in 2020. 
Hodges eventually decided he 
wanted to make a greater impact 
on the Gainesville community. He 
channeled his new creative energy and ambitions into Muck City Show -
cases, a hat tip to the city where his 
music journey began.
Hodges assembles his lineups, 
which tend to gravitate toward hip 
hop and R&B, by advertising pur -
chasable performance slots on social 
media. 
“Life is all about bonds, and we 
just give them the platform to come 
and bond,” he said.
Muck City Showcases helped 
21-year-old experimental hip 
hop musician and Detroit native 
Chaunzey Motley, also known as KZ 
King, find his life purpose. As a DJ 
for Muck City Showcases, he gets to 
pursue music while uplifting other 
artists.
“When I moved out here, I was 
homeless with $2 to my name,” 
Motley said. “[Hodges] saw me DJ 
one time … and asked me to be a 
part of this. I don’t regret a minute 
of it ever.”
R&B and hip hop musician Kel -
sea Martinez, a 24-year-old from 
Jacksonville discovered Muck City 
Showcases through social media. 
She was eager to return to Gaines -
ville’s music scene after the CO -
VID-19 pandemic and her time 
studying dance at Santa Fe College 
from 2015 to 2018. Before she even 
had a chance to contact Hodges, he 
reached out to her about an open 
slot. 
She didn’t think twice about tak -
ing it.
Martinez credited Muck City 
Showcases as one of the most sup -
portive and respectful live-music 
environments she has been in. She said she has felt unprioritized and 
disrespected at other Gainesville 
venues — working with Hodges 
was refreshing.
“As a female artist, I will be the 
first to tell you it has been hard to 
have respect whenever you come 
into a joint,” she said. “Danny B. 
truly cares for not only his craft but 
the community in itself and creating 
a space for people to feel safe.”
Hodges said organizations like 
his provide necessary resources 
and exposure to smaller artists that 
would otherwise not have access. 
“We suffer because of a lack of 
knowledge, lack of resources and 
just a lack of connection,” he said. 
“When we put together small re -
sources, we create something big -
ger.” 
Caileigh Rugar, the owner of the media production company 
Unbrvnded Media, provides multi -
media services to Muck City Show -
cases. She said she feels blessed to 
capture artists’ passion through her 
camera lens and be a part of the 
family that is Muck City. 
To Rugar, Muck City Showcases 
represents the importance of estab -
lishing organizations that prioritize 
community impact over financial 
profit.
“For me, it’s always been about 
healing a hurting community 
through art,” she said. “Having an 
organization is cool, but having a 
specific type of organization that ac -
tually touches people and leaves an 
impact on their life is better.”
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.org
THE INTERNATIONAL POP STAR 
MAKES HIS COMEBACK WITH A 
SUMMER ALBUM PERFECT FOR 
DANCING, CRYING, OR BOTH
By Averi Kremposky
Alligator Staff Writer
To describe Harry Styles’ latest album as 
highly anticipated would be an understatement. 
Reeling in over seven million likes on Ins -
tagram, the announcement of “Harry’s House” 
officially marked the end of a two-year music 
drought from the former One Direction band 
member. 
Styles’ third studio album, released May 20, 
follows his award-winning 2019 album “Fine 
Line.” The sophomore release included hits like 
“Watermelon Sugar” and “Adore You,” both of 
which commanded charts and dominated radio stations for the majority of 2020.   
Even though “Fine Line” found major com -
mercial success, it’s obvious Styles felt reas -
sured in pursuing a hint of something more 
unconventional.
In his 2017 self-titled debut album, Styles 
was unwavering in his commitment to rock. 
“Fine Line” pledged allegiance to pop. Styles’ 
first two albums clearly wedge themselves into 
specific genres, but “Harry’s House” hazes the 
line between categories. The blur is bolstered 
by ambiguous lyrics that are left for interpreta -
tion. “Tea with cyborgs” or “Moka pot Mon -
days” can only be analyzed in so many ways 
before giving birth to a ubiquitous theme that 
allows every listener to think about these 13 
tracks differently. 
Straying away from the simple pop influ -
ence “Fine Line” was founded on, Styles was 
inspired by an overarching sound that feels a 
little more DIY. With striking drum lines and an overreliance on brass instruments, the son -
ic shift that exists in every track on “Harry’s 
House” may disjoint the pipeline to mainstream 
radio, but the record’s mere anticipation is sure 
to land the songs on everyone’s summer playl -
ists. 
We take our first step into Styles’ home with 
the album opener, “Music For a Sushi Res -
taurant.” The song’s hypnotic, disco-inspired 
punch puts the singer’s own voice in the back -
seat. Full of jazz, a little scat and declarations of 
love, it bleeds seamlessly into track two, “Late 
Night Talking.”
The foyer of Harry’s metaphorical house is 
clean, lively and welcoming. Remaining funky 
and upbeat, like ‘70s dance music, the song en -
sures we are aware of the album’s dominating 
theme; Styles is in love. 
Uttering promises of trailing someone’s 
coattails everywhere they venture and letting 
them dwell in your mind, the first two tracks 
prime the listener with optimism. 
Track three, “Grapejuice,” extends this 
dreamy mirage, alluding to buying flowers, hid -ing away and sharing a bottle of wine with your 
lover. It’s the type of carefree youth reminiscent 
of the early scenes in a coming-of-age movie.
So here we are, standing in a home seem -
ingly built upon solid foundations and deco -
rated with elegance and flair. But as we wander 
further down the halls, the ornamented walls 
are subtly torn down to give us a better look 
into Styles’ guarded mind. 
The walls begin to crumble in the album’s 
lead single, “As It Was,” where the catchy ta -
gline and groovy synth lines distract listeners 
from its devastating lyrics. 
With standout lines such as “Answer the 
phone, Harry you’re no good alone / Why are 
you sitting at home on the floor? / What kind of 
pills are you on?” Styles essentially shared his 
darkest memories over a nice beat.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenure.
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgMuck City Showcases: A family of creatives
Rate and review: ‘Harry’s House’  
MUSICMUSIC
MUSICMUSICCourtesy to The Alligator
Artist Danny B emcees a Muck City Showcase in front of an 
electric crowd Saturday, April 23, 2022 at the Fox Lounge.
MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
SOFTBALL BASEBALLBy Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
The name Mick Hubert calls back count -
less cherished moments for Gators fans who 
will dispute which of the play-by-play broad -
caster’s calls rank highest. The 2006 field-goal 
block to beat South Carolina, Antonio Cal -
laway’s fourth-and-14 game-winning touch -
down against Tennessee in 2015 or Chris Chi -
ozza’s buzzer-beater to beat Wisconsin and 
the hail mary toss from Feliepe Franks in 2017 
to beat Tennessee, again.
After 33 years on the job, the “Voice of the 
Gators” is calling it a career. Following Florida 
baseball’s series against South Carolina, Hu -
bert announced his retirement Thursday.
After assuming the position in May 1989, 
Hubert called over 1,000 men’s basketball and 
baseball games and 419 Florida football game. 
He  called national championships for all three 
sports, the only broadcaster in collegiate his -
tory to do so.
For Gator faithful unable to make it to The 
Swamp, radio broadcasts featuring Hubert are the closest thing to cheering on Florida in per -
son.
“Not everyone can go to Gator games, 
but Mick Hubert makes you feel like you’re 
there in the Swamp,” said 22-year-old Aus -
tin Buholtz of Winter Springs, Florida. “Even 
when I would go to a game, the first thing I’m 
thinking about is how bad I want to rewatch 
the highlights on YouTube with Mick Hubert’s 
voiceover.”
In 1993, Hubert’s fifth year on the job, the 
Gators football team traveled to Kentucky for a 
matchup with the Wildcats. As UF trailed 17-
20 with time dwindling, quarterback and even -
tual Heisman trophy winner Danny Wuerffel 
led his team down the field on the final drive.
With 17 seconds left to play, Wuerffel found 
wide receiver Chris Doering; magic ensued.
“Wuerffel dropping back to throw, fires 
the ball over the middle,” Hubert said on the 
broadcast. “Doering’s got a touchdown, Doer -
ing’s got a touchdown, oh, my, Doering’s got 
a touchdown.”
That play, featuring one of the first of Hu -
bert’s trademarked “Oh, my’s,” might be the single most memorable moment from a season 
full of memories. Florida went on to win the 
Southeastern Conference Championship, and 
the Sugar Bowl, but the Doering catch stands 
above them all.
Hubert’s timeless call has an undeniable 
impact on the legacy of that play.
Hubert cited a gut feeling and prayer for his 
decision to step away. His wife, Judi, retired 
from her time as a kindergarten teacher at Oak 
Hall School in May 2021.
"Five years ago, I'd probably told you I was 
going to do it until I was at least 80,'' Hubert 
said in a press release. "A couple of years ago, I 
started changing. I had a change of heart. Only 
God can change a person's heart. I'm just be -
ing obedient right now."
Now, Hubert will begin a new chapter of 
life in Sarasota, Florida, where he will be mov -
ing into his new home in the coming weeks.
"Mick Hubert has shared his immense tal -
ents and represented the Gators incredibly well 
for the past 33 years,” athletic director Scott 
Stricklin wrote in a press release. “All of Gator 
Nation will be eternally grateful for providing 
the soundtrack for so many special Gator ath -
letic moments.”Florida fans now wait to see who will be 
appointed as the replacement for Hubert. Re -
gardless of who is selected, they have some 
impossibly large shoes to fill.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.org
AN IMPRESSIVE 10-RUN FIRST 
INNING SENT THE GATORS TO 
ANOTHER NCAA SUPER REGIONAL
By Madeline Lawson 
Sports Writer 
Florida ran rampant, sealing Sun -
day’s game against Wisconsin by the 
end of the first inning.  
The Gators (45-16, 13-11) domi -
nated in the Gainesville Regional 
Championship game over the Bad -
gers (30-20, 12-11), forcing a mercy 
rule en route to a 11-0 victory.
Florida wreaked havoc on of -
fense, running the score up 10-0 in 
the first inning. Ten runs are the 
most the Gators have ever put up in 
a single inning in an NCAA Regional 
matchup in program history. 
Freshman outfielder Kendra Fal -
by got the bats going for the orange 
and blue with a lead-off single. Red -
shirt junior shortstop Skylar Wallace 
roped a single to plate Falby, the first 
run of many.
“It all starts with Kendra at the 
top of the lineup, starting the mo -
mentum from the very beginning of 
the game,” fifth-year second base -
man Hannah Adams said. “Anytime 
she gets on base it's huge momen -
tum for us already because she's su -
per hard to defend. It just gives us 
more opportunities to drive her in.” Senior third baseman Charla 
Echols dropped a bunt to load the 
bases with no outs. Wisconsin head 
coach Yvette Healy relieved sopho -
more pitcher Gabi Salo with junior 
Tessa Magnalmo.
It didn’t matter to the Florida bat -
ters who took to the circle, a no-out 
rally was happening regardless. 
Freshman Reagan Walsh shot a 
grounder to Badgers second base -
man Ellie Hubbard who couldn’t 
come up with the play. Walsh was 
safely aboard at first base while Ad -
ams and Wallace strutted home to 
take a 3-0 lead.
Three more runs were scored 
for Florida before Wisconsin struck 
out sophomore first baseman Avery 
Goelz for the first out of the inning. 
The Gators freshman came to 
play as catcher Sam Roe laid down 
a textbook bunt that let Kistler steal 
home to put UF up 7-0. 
Wallace came up with a fielder’s 
choice RBI single to score Roe. Once 
on the base path, she took off from 
first base, snagging her 50th stolen 
base of the season. 
A two-RBI single from Echols up 
the middle pushed Falby and Wal -
lace across home plate to record the 
ninth and 10th run of the first inning 
before the Gators were retired. 
“We just kept scoring over and 
over again with no outs,” Adams 
said. “I was like, ‘This is what I like 
to see, this is what our offense is ca -pable of.’” 
Adams recorded a hit during all 
four of her at bats Sunday, tying the 
career-high she set in a 7-4 win over 
Louisiana State March of last season. 
Florida scored one more time in 
the fifth inning with a groundout 
to Badgers shortstop Lauren Foster 
from Wallace that Falby sprinted 
home on. 
Freshman pitcher Lexi Delbrey is -
sued only one walk through four in -
nings. Florida head coach Tim Wal -
ton relieved Delbrey in the fifth with 
senior Natalie Lugo.
With one out remaining, se -
nior Kinsey Goelz checked into the 
game at second base to replace Han -
nah Adams. The seniors received a 
standing ovation from fans, saluting 
the seniors for their contributions to 
the program. 
As Lugo worked two strikes on 
Wisconsin senior Morgan Kummer, 
Gators fans rose to their feet ap -
plauding the right-handed pitcher. 
“The thought didn’t even cross 
my mind, ‘Oh shoot this could be my 
last pitch [at home],” Lugo said. “It’s 
just bittersweet.” 
With this win, Florida advanced 
to the NCAA Super Regionals May 
26-29 in Blacksburg, Virginia.
@MadsLaws
mlawson@alligator.orgTHE GATORS FINISH THE 
REGULAR SEASON 0-19 
WHEN TRAILING AFTER 
FIVE INNINGS  
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
Saturday, seven Florida seniors 
were honored for their contribu -
tions to the Gators baseball pro -
gram. The group witnessed mul -
tiple locker room iterations and the 
highs and lows that accompanied 
each season. 
The series finale versus South 
Carolina symbolized the course of 
their careers, as the Gators capped 
off a solid 9-3 closing stretch in the 
Southeastern Conference with an 
underwhelming loss which held 
them at .500 in conference play. 
Florida (35-20, 15-15) fell to 
the Gamecocks (27-27, 13-17) 4-1 
in what could be the final game in 
Condron Ballpark for this team and 
its seniors. 
The Gators produced early in 
the weekend. They began with a 
14-5 steamrolling of South Carolina 
Thursday, including four balls sent 
over the wall by UF bats. Florida’s 
dominance continued Friday as 
freshman pitcher Brandon Neely 
threw a career-high 10 strikeouts 
on the way to an 8-0 shutout.The two wins brought Florida to 
its first plus-.500 record in the SEC 
since March 27. Sunday was an op -
portunity for UF to sweep and end 
the regular season on a high note. 
The Gamecocks were first to 
strike this time around, sending a 
solo-shot home run in the top of 
the first and adding another run 
in the second to take an early 2-0 
lead. Florida attempted to respond, 
but deep balls from redshirt junior 
standouts Jud Fabian and BT Rio -
pelle leaned foul on their way out. 
The Gators answered in the bot -
tom of the second thanks to errors 
on South Carolina’s behalf. Fresh -
man outfielder Ty Evans reached 
second on an error, then scored 
after Gamecocks catcher Colin Bur -
gess fumbled the out at home plate. 
Pitcher Nick Pogue continued to 
struggle on the mound. The right-
hander allowed another Game -
cocks homer and put a runner on 
first base in the top of the third be -
fore a flyout got him out of the jam. 
After three innings, Florida 
trailed 3-1.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgMick Hubert announces retirement from Gators play-by-play
Florida softball advances to NCAA Super 
Regionals with massive win over WisconsinFlorida stumbles, drops final regular 
season game versus South Carolina  Courtney Mims / / UAA Communications
Mick Hubert announced his retirement 
from play-by-play after 33 years.
The “Voice of the Gators” will end a 33-year run at UF12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MAY 23, 2022
We’re here FOR YOU.
Call 1-800-230- PLAN .
Access resources to 
control your own
body and life.
