By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Marston Science Library’s fourth and 
fifth floors are trading out furniture from 
the library’s 1987 opening to adapt to 
students’ ever-evolving needs.
Marston closed its two top floors and 
began renovations Wednesday. 
Librarians and faculty from the 
Department of Interior Design did a formal 
study for the Association for Research 
Libraries from 2020 to May 2022 to plan 
out what resources students wanted on the 
highest floors. 
The data collection included three 
phases: an online survey of UF students, a 
spatial analysis of all five floors and three 
focus groups of undergraduates, graduate 
students and library employees. The spatial 
analysis provided documentation of the 
way students used the library space before 
the renovation and prior to COVID-19.
More than 90% percent of the project 
consists of adding furniture to repurpose 
the spaces for current students, Smathers 
Libraries Senior Associate Dean Patrick 
Reakes said.
“The [furniture] was old and raggedy. 
People want to sit at a table and plug 
in two or three devices — until we 
upgrade, we don't have that.”
- Dean Patrick Reakes, Libraries Senior Associate
Faculty thought the Summer semester, 
with fewer students roaming the library, 
was the ideal time to renovate.
Shehzad Shah, a 19-year-old UF 
computer science junior, went to Marston’s 
highest floors three times a week during 
the Fall and Spring semesters to work on 
assignments and internship applications. 
Shah said every other seat was taken 
during finals week in Spring semester and 
slanted desks made it difficult for him to 
put his laptop down. 
“The desks are kind of wonky,” he said. 
“And it was kind of hard to reach an outlet 
a lot of the time.”
Valrie Minson, Marston’s 47-year-old 
assistant dean of assessment and student 
engagement and chairperson, said the 
renovation will add a variety of furniture 
and outlets to the spaces. We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#We’ve been here before
In the wake of the Supreme Court’s ruling last week, The A lligator 
reflects on independence… and how we secured ours , pg. 4
Animal shelter director steps down
After he testified in favor of an Alachua County resident on trial 
for animal abuse,  Ed Williams resigned as shelter director, pg. 6Trinity Thomas to return
The star Florida gymnast, after  an individual 
all-around title, announced she would spend 
one final season in Gainesville , pg. 11
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 39
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
Marston Library 
begins renovations
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
A Florida judge announced plans to 
block a GOP-backed 15-week statewide 
abortion ban one day before it and other 
controversial conservative laws, like the 
“Don’t Say Gay Bill” and “Stop WOKE 
Act,” went into effect Friday.
Florida Judicial Circuit Court Judge John 
Cooper will sign a temporary statewide 
injunction blocking the new state law and 
maintaining Florida’s status as a haven for 
women in the Southeast seeking abortions. 
Less than a week after the Supreme Court 
overturned Roe v. Wade, Cooper ruled 
the ban — which still granted exceptions 
for pregnancies threatening the mother’s 
or fetus’ life, but did not grant exceptions 
for rape or incest — violated state privacy 
protections. Florida’s constitution declares 
“every natural person has the right to be let 
alone and free from governmental intrusion 
into the person’s private life.” 
The earliest Cooper could sign the 
injunction is Tuesday, communications and 
marketing director of Planned Parenthood 
of South, East and North Florida Christina 
Noce said. This would reinstate the existing 
24-week ban, which would still be more 
gracious than Texas and Mississippi’s 
trigger laws. 
The state legislature will challenge 
Cooper’s decision in the District Court of 
Appeals and try slowly eliminating the 
right to an abortion through provisions 
like a 14-week abortion ban or a fetal 
ultrasound mandate, UF Levin College of 
Law professor Danaya Wright said.
“They chip the right away to 
the point where it's really not 
meaningful for a lot of people. No 
matter how much the Supreme 
Court of Florida whittles away at 
the doctrine, I don't think they can 
legitimately say abortion is not 
included as a matter of privacy.”
- Danaya Wright, UF Levin College of Law
With much of the South settling into By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police arrested a man last 
week they said was involved in 15 cases 
of indecent exposure this year.
The arrest came after plain-clothed 
Gainesville Police Department detectives 
followed John Mosley, a 28-year-old 
Gainesville resident, around southwest 
Gainesville apartment complexes last 
Tuesday evening, according to a GPD 
press release. 
The pursuit led detectives to Lexington 
Crossing, located about three miles 
southwest of campus at 3700 SW 27th St, where detectives approached Mosley and 
pretended to be students. While he did 
not expose himself to the detectives, he 
fled the scene after he exposed himself to 
two people entering an apartment. Patrol 
was then called in to pursue him.
Mosley faces two felony charges. 
He has a 2017 misdemeanor conviction 
for indecent exposure, when he was 
sentenced to 12 months of probation 
and ordered to complete 50 hours of 
community service and undergo a 
psychosexual evaluation and treatment.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgFlorida judge 
blocks 15-week 
abortion ban
Gainesville police arrests alleged 
serial indecent exposure suspect
John Mosley pleaded no contest to 
a 2017 indecent exposure charge
SEE ABORTION,  PAGE 5SEE MARSTON,  PAGE 3State remains haven, 
Gainesville could see 
out-of-state patientsTop 2 floors will sport 
student study spots
Head coach Samantha Bohon spoke at her introductory 
press conference Monday, May 16, 2022. She took over 
the soccer program after former Gators manager T ony 
Amato parted ways with UF April 27. Current and former 
players said Amato made comments about their bodies 
and eating habits during his tenure. Bohon aims to restore 
the program. Find this story on  pg. 11.
Chloe Hyde / / University Athletic AssociationT oday’s WeatherNEARLY 150 FLORIDA LAWS 
TOOK EFFECT FRIDAY
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Alachua County residents saw 
nearly 150 state laws take effect 
Friday with changes to education, 
school safety and music.
Abortion ban
Florida Circuit Judge John Cooper 
stated Thursday he will halt the 
15-week abortion ban Gov. Ron 
DeSantis approved April 14, after 
ruling it an unconstitutional violation 
of privacy. Cooper’s ruling comes 
a week after the Supreme Court 
overturned the 1973 Roe v. Wade 
case that established abortion rights.
The state law, which went into 
effect Friday, will remain in effect 
until Cooper signs the written 
order officiating the temporary 
halt, an action expected to follow 
the Independence Day holiday. 
The law restricts physicians from 
offering abortions after 15 weeks of 
pregnancy with exceptions made for 
fatal fetus abnormalities and mothers 
who would face serious injury or 
death if carried to term. It made no 
exceptions for pregnancies caused by 
rape or incest.
While Cooper’s blockage would 
only be temporary, Rachel Wolfrey, 
the president of Planned Parenthood 
Generation Action and a director at 
UF College Democrats and Florida 
Forward, hopes it serves as one step 
closer to ending the bill entirely.
The 21-year-old UF political 
science senior anticipates 
Republicans, including DeSantis, will 
combat the decision as quickly as 
possible.
Loud Music in Vehicles
Police officers are now permitted 
ticket drivers who play music audible 
from a distance of 25 feet or more 
from the vehicle and in areas near 
churches, schools or hospitals.
Deborah Rodriguez, a 20-year-old 
UF biochemistry junior, said the new 
law ensures safety; drivers blasting 
music disturbs other drivers’ ability 
to hear emergency vehicles. 
“It's not that you can't listen to 
music,” she said. “It's to not listen 
to music at a volume that will impair your driving.”
Being in a college town, Rodriguez 
said it is common to hear loud music 
at 3 a.m., and she thinks this bill 
will make people think twice before 
blasting music.
“Stop WOKE Act” 
Desantis’ “Stop WOKE Act” 
prevents critical race theory — a 
framework of legal analysis based on 
the premise that race is a culturally 
invented phenomenon used to 
oppress people of color — from 
existing within school curriculum 
and workplace training.
Steven Noll, an instructional 
professor in UF’s history department, 
said he refuses to change the books 
he uses to teach or the way he 
teaches regardless of the bill.
Alachua County school board 
members unanimously approved 
four of the 11 textbook submissions 
for the upcoming school year April 
19.
“Don’t Say Gay Bill”
The “Don’t Say Gay Bill,” or the 
Parental Rights in Education law, 
restricts teachers from discussing 
gender identity and sexuality with 
students in kindergarten through 
third grade or “when not age-
appropriate.”
The bill sparked protests 
nationwide, including high school 
walk-outs across Gainesville.
School safety
The state Board of Education 
implemented post-evacuation 
emergency drills and family 
reunification plans after a school 
evacuation, extending school safety 
policies influenced by the shooting 
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School in 2018.
The bill would increase safety 
measures in Alachua County schools 
after a Fort Clarke middle school 
student brought a loaded gun to 
campus in May and more than 
18 bomb threats targeted Alachua 
County Public Schools last fall. 
It also authorizes school safety 
officers to make arrests on charter 
school property.
School safety officers must 
complete crisis intervention and 
training, police officers must be 
present and involved during relevant drills and school districts must certify 
at least 80% of school personnel 
received youth mental health 
awareness training annually.
FSA testing
Florida Standards Assessments, 
FSA testing, will be replaced with 
progress monitoring. Instead of one 
test at the end of the year, students 
will test three times throughout the 
year under the new program.
Even though the new testing 
system technically took effect Friday, 
school districts will implement it 
during the upcoming 2022-23 school 
year.
DeSantis also approved 
amendments to the Bright Futures 
Scholarship nearly one week ago, 
authorizing students to satisfy 
service requirements through paid 
work rather than volunteer service.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 39 Abortion ban halts, other 
state education, school safety, 
car music laws take effect
UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Gov. Ron DeSantis addresses 
a crowd at Clark Plantation 
Wedding Venue in Newberry, 
Florida, Monday, Sept. 13, 2021.
CORRECTION:
IN “VOTING FOR 
DUMMIES, EXCEPT 
YOU’RE A TOP FIVE 
STUDENT, ” AN ARTICLE 
IN LAST WEEK’S EDITION, 
TERESA CORNACCHIONE, 
THE CIVIC ENGAGEMENT 
COORDINATOR FOR 
THE BOB GRAHAM 
CENTER FOR PUBLIC 
SERVICE, SPOKE WITH 
THE ALLIGATOR , NOT 
DOROTHY ZIMMERMAN. 
THE ALLIGATOR  
PREVIOUSL Y REPORTED 
OTHERWISE.352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgTUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
 
UF’s presidential search follows 
last year’s search at Florida State 
University. 
UF’s Board of Trustees chose 
SP&A Executive Search, a search 
firm specializing in serving higher 
education sectors, because of its 
experience conducting FSU’s and 
the University of South Florida’s 
presidential searches, UF Board 
of Trustees member Tom Kuntz 
said. It also brought the University 
of Central Florida its president, 
Alexander Cartwright, from the 
University of Missouri in 2020, 
UF faculty senate chair Amanda 
Phalin said in a video June 1. 
But the UF search remains a 
secret as it enters its fourth month. 
Public record bills passed in 
March permit the names of Florida 
schools’ presidential candidates to 
remain private. 
“I know we’re all anxious as 
this process moves forward, and I 
know that after the last two-and-
a-half years and everything we’ve 
endured, it can be difficult to feel 
like we can make a difference in 
the hiring of our next president,” Phalin said. “I'm here to tell you 
that we can."
Phalin said UF presidential 
suggestions and nominations can 
be submitted directly to the firm 
through its official email.  
The FSU presidential search 
followed the Sunshine Law, which 
gives people the right to access 
governmental proceedings at 
state and local levels; candidates’ 
names became public record after 
they applied for the position.
Keeping candidates’ identities 
concealed is in the best interest 
for them and universities, said 
Giovanni Piedimonte, one of FSU’s 
three presidential search finalists 
and the vice president for research 
at Tulane University.
“Typically, if you’re a candidate 
in a presidential search, you 
have a very important position 
somewhere else and [being named] 
can damage it,” Piedimonte said. 
Many candidates during 
FSU’s presidential search were 
afraid to declare their candidacy 
because of the Sunshine Law, 
according to Alberto Pimentel, a 
SP&A Executive Search managing 
partner.
UF may be able to expect a timeline similar to its rival schools. 
FSU released a list of 22 applicants 
May 10, 2021. Five days later, 
the school narrowed its search 
to three finalists: Piedimonte, 
Robert Blouin, the executive vice-
chancellor of the University of 
North Carolina Chapel Hill, and 
Richard McCullough, the vice 
provost of research at Harvard 
University. 
McCullough was named FSU’s 
president May 24.
A member of the Florida Board 
of Governors also entered his 
name in the Florida State race, 
which raised political interference 
concerns.
Candidate Richard Corcoran, 
who serves on the Florida Board 
of Governors as state education 
commissioner, concerned FSU 
faculty with his lack of academic 
experience. 
His candidacy threatened 
FSU’s accreditation ranking and 
raised questions about conflicts of 
interest; the board, which manages 
Florida’s university system, holds 
the final vote in the appointment 
of university presidents. He was 
out of the race by May 15. 
There was no political interference in FSU’s presidential 
search, Piedimonte said.
“If they were interested in 
political influences, those 
three would not have been 
the finalists. We were three 
top academicians again 
with cover letters that were 
speaking for themselves. 
When you have a politically 
driven search, you don’t pick 
the people like that.”
- Giovanni Piedimonte, Tulane 
University
Members of a governing board 
appointed by a legislative body 
must remain independent from 
other institutions in their work, and 
not doing so risks the accreditation 
of the institution they govern, 
wrote Belle Wheelan, president 
of the Southern Association of 
Colleges and Schools Commission 
on Colleges. 
Similar questions may 
follow Gainesville’s search. 
An accreditation committee 
recently cleared UF’s name after 
a monthslong investigation 
following academic freedom 
scandals; the university barred professors from testifying against 
the state. 
The Gainesville community 
expressed concerns about political 
interference during the UF’s May 
listening sessions. 
The closed nature of university 
presidential searches inherently 
raises eyebrows due to the lack 
of faculty and other constituent 
input, Jack Stripling, senior 
writer at the Chronicle of Higher 
Education, said, but nothing has 
suggested political interference in 
UF’s search so far.
Some people think having 
politically connected officials 
in a public university will help 
the institution, Stripling said, 
while others feel it’ll lead to bad 
outcomes. 
“It would be silly to say that 
there's not politics involved in 
higher education,” Stripling said. 
“There are inherent political 
elements to this, and these are 
public institutions and some level 
of political opinion about what a 
university ought to do should be 
expected.”
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.org
By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
Reghan Dukes, an 18-year-old incoming 
Florida Gateway College student, was 
diagnosed with Turner Syndrome in 
2020. She received treatment at the UF 
Health Shands Children’s Hospital for 
the disorder, which results from a female 
being born with only one X chromosome. 
She quickly bonded with Dr. Laura 
Jacobsen, her first specialized doctor. 
After two years of treatment, she now calls 
Jacobsen ‘bestie’ in conversation.
Dukes visits the hospital about 30 
times a year for complications with her 
ears, eyes, gastrointestinal tract, heart, 
hormones, kidneys and stomach.
“They’re always so helpful and 
always so sweet. I’ve really never 
had a bad interaction with any of 
them.”
- Reghan Dukes, UF student
Dukes is happy she met Jacobsen and 
the rest of the staff at UF Health, and she 
tries to show her support for the hospital by 
telling others about the care she received. 
UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital 
received a $30 million grant from the state 
in May and was named the No. 1 children’s 
hospital in Florida June 14. UF’s College of 
Pharmacy’s research funding also earned 
its spot as the No. 3 program in the nation 
June 23.
“This kind of money from the state puts 
us in the range to compete with the Ivy 
Leagues and the other big universities,” 
said UF Health Cancer Center director Jonathan Licht.
The grant, which was a portion of the 
state’s combined $100 million grant for 
cancer research and care, will make up 
about 60% of the cancer hospital’s 2022-
2023 budget, Licht said. Florida Gov. Ron 
DeSantis distributed the remaining $70 
million between the Moffitt Cancer Center 
in Tampa and the University of Miami 
Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center.
A portion of the grant will be used to 
find clinical investigators and physicians 
from around the country, Licht said.
“We don't go around taking people 
from our friends at Moffitt or Miami,” he 
said. “We're bringing new blood into the 
state.”
The money will also bolster the 
hospital’s clinical research office. The 
center wants to expand in several areas, 
Licht said, including data and artificial 
intelligence fields.
The hospital, which UF Health Shands 
CEO Ed Jimenez described as a magnet 
for patients all around the state, doesn’t 
want to become stagnant. The children’s 
hospital’s No. 1 state ranking was possible 
because of the staff, who will continue to 
find ways to improve, he said. 
“If it weren’t for all these thousands of 
people, we would not get the accolades.” 
Jimenez said.
UF’s College of Pharmacy also hopes 
to expand its research opportunities and 
grow its team of students, faculty and 
researchers as a result of its new ranking.
Julie Johnson, the dean of the College 
of Pharmacy, said the college discovers 
new drugs and studies how select drugs 
function in the human body. The research attests for the increase in funding, she 
said.
“The successes really helped facilitate 
more successes,” she said.
The college received $32.3 million in 
research grants — not including donor 
funding — for the 2021 fiscal year, the 
college’s highest annual total, according 
to a report by the American Association of 
Colleges of Pharmacy. 
Johnson said the funding supports 
projects unique to each PhD student as 
they progress in the program, which grew 
from around 80 students to 130 over the 
past two years. They use their projects to 
strengthen resumes and compete in the job 
market.
“It's really a relatively small percent 
of colleges that can offer those kinds 
of opportunities."
- Julie Johnson, Dean of College of Pharmacy  
PharmD students, who are pursuing 
a doctorate in pharmacy, can voluntarily 
pick up projects to work with experienced 
pharmaceutical leaders. 
Daniela Luzardo, a third-year UF 
PharmD graduate student working 
alongside infectious diseases professor 
Anthony Casapao to research human 
and pet antibiotics, said students have 
bountiful opportunities to get involved in 
the pharmaceutical program. She thinks 
the college’s efforts to increase funding 
along with its No. 3 national ranking could 
pull in prospective graduate students.
“People are attracted to numbers,” she 
said.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.orgUF presidential search navigates changing climate since other state schools’ searches  
UF Health receives state support, national recognition  
The Construction Project Planning and 
Approval Executive Committee approved 
the renovation in April, but Marston faculty 
began the plans for the fourth floor at the 
end of 2019 and fifth floor in January 2022, 
Reakes said. The first floor was renovated 
in 2014; the second and third saw upgrades 
the following four years.
Marston faculty hope to have the 
renovations completed prior to Fall 
semester, but supply issues may set back 
the project — furniture could arrive as late 
as November.
For now, a large whiteboard with a 
simple message now greets students as 
they enter. 
Marston is getting an upgrade!
 
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgMARSTON,  from pg. 1Marston makeoverFSU faced similar problems with confidentiality and political interference under more relaxed public record laws
UF Health received funding and high rankings
Alligator file photo
The ground floor of Marston Science 
Library Monday, June 28, 2021.
We’ve been thinking a 
lot about independence 
lately. The Supreme 
Court’s overturn of Roe 
v. Wade came one week 
before the Fourth of July, but the 
choice also came more than 50 
years after The Florida Alligator 
became The Independent Florida 
Alligator.
Amid the protests leading 
up to the high court’s landmark 
1973 decision ruling the right to 
abortion is protected under the 
constitution, our 1971 editor-
in-chief, Ron Sachs, published 
headlines eerily similar to today’s. 
“Archaic abortion law gets 
another test.” “Shevin seeks 
abortion law repeal.” “Sachs 
to challenge two laws about 
abortions next month.”
Sachs planned to publish 
a list of abortion clinics and 
counseling services in October 1971, violating a statute that not 
only banned the procedure but 
also made it illegal to “hint, print 
or advertise” where people could 
get abortions. That law, Sachs 
and staffers knew, violated the 
First Amendment.
He ran the list — along with 
a story about women who had 
legal and illegal abortions — in 
opposition to both the century-
old state law and Stephen C. 
O’Connell, the university’s then-
president and a former chief 
justice of the state Supreme 
Court.
The Board of Student 
Publications, who selected Sachs 
as editor-in-chief, supported 
publishing the list, but O’Connell 
still had control — at least over 
our funding and our housing in 
the student union. 
Even the publisher refused to 
print the column as a true part of the paper. So The Alligator sent 
out the list via hand-inserted 
fliers. 
Sachs turned himself in to the 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
the next day. A judge charged 
him with violating the law, and 
the trial — which would end in 
the separation of university and 
paper — was set for November.
Sachs and The Alligator staff 
knew what was right. We still do.
We know last week’s overturn 
of Roe v. Wade will be tumultuous 
for everyone with a uterus. We 
know reporting on abortion 
policies — even with Florida’s 
15-week abortion ban tentatively 
ruled unconsitutional — will be 
intermittent for the forseeable 
futute.
We know the decisions 
lawmakers make will affect more 
than half the campus population, 
along with a majority of our own newsroom and our readership: the 
students who hail from different 
states, the people of color who 
have disproportionately higher 
maternal mortality rates, trans 
people who don’t have access to 
the care they need, the uninsured, 
the alone. 
We know our legacy, and 
we know the responsibility we 
have as the largest independent 
platform on campus. 
The Alligator remains ever-
dedicated to our readers — 
students, faculty and residents 
— even as attacks on the First 
Amendment are incessant. As the 
search for UF’s next president 
continues, proposed rules could 
further dwindle our ability to report information on the already 
private presidential search. 
The Alligator cannot be 
shackled. It couldn’t under Sachs’ 
tenure, and it won’t under ours. 
The pocketa-pocketa-pocketa 
sound of the mimeograph 
machines Sachs used to insert the 
lists of abortion services has long 
morphed into the clicks of our 
keyboards, but our commitment 
to independent journalism 
remains as strong as it did in 
1972. 
The sounds of the presses 
persist. It’s the sound our 
journalistic ancestors knew, and 
it’s the sound we hear every 
Sunday night. It’s the sound of 
independence.Editorial
We’ve been here before: Newsroom reflects on independenceTUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Heather Bushman
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORRyan Haley
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORNamari Lock
OPINIONS
EDITORJulia Coin
EDITOR-IN-
CHIEF
Joseph Henry / / Alligator Staff
A photo of protests leading up to the Supreme Court’s original ruling on Roe v. Wade 
hangs in The Independent Florida Alligator’s office.Joseph Henry / / Alligator Staff
A photo of Ron Sachs hangs in The Independent Florida Alligator’s office. 
It depicts the trial that led to the paper’s independence.
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Lindsay Schindler & 
Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writers
In the weeks following The 
U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to 
overturn Roe v. Wade June 24, UF 
remains silent as campus leaders 
remain stagnant in policy change. 
UF has not issued a statement 
addressing the Supreme Court’s 
decision as of July 4 and has no intention of doing so, UF 
interim director of strategic 
communications Cynthia Roldan 
wrote in an email to The Alligator. 
Other universities, like the 
University of Michigan and the 
University of California, officially 
commented on the ruling following 
the decision.  
UF Student Government Senate 
Judiciary Committee also blocked 
a potential SG Senate bill that proposed reimbursing students 
for contraceptive costs and other 
forms of reproductive healthcare. 
Students should do their own 
research to see what form of 
contraception is best for them, 
Dr. John Smulian, UF college 
of medicine’s department of 
obstetrics and gynecology chair, 
said, and it’s not UF’s role to 
encroach on students’ health care 
decisions.GatorWell, a UF service 
available to all students, provides 
condoms, lubricants, dental dams 
and counselors who can speak 
about sexual health. 
UF should make its 
contraceptive resources more 
well-known, Emma Lotze, an 
18-year-old UF biology and applied 
physiology and kinesiology 
sophomore, said.
“The U.S. sex education 
system is terrible. It’s 
interesting that the hospital 
[UF Health] hasn’t said 
anything because I feel like 
that would be something 
that’d be more likely.”  
- Emma Lotze, UF student
UF Health receives research 
funding from Governor DeSantis, 
who has backed anti-abortion 
legislature.
Some students believe UF 
administration will not speak 
on the overturn to avoid clear 
political affiliation.
The university may fear the 
loss of prospective students and 
applicants, Grayson Sweeney, an 
18-year-old UF biology freshman, 
said. 
“That [statement] can cause a 
lot of controversy for themselves,” 
she said. “They can lose students, 
especially if they go to one side.” 
If UF were a private university, 
she said, it could afford to affiliate 
one way or the other, but it 
wouldn’t be in its best interest to 
speak out with its dependence on 
government funding.
A proposed UF SG Senate bill, 
postponed indefinitely by the 
Judiciary Committee Sunday, 
would have reimbursed students 
for 50% of contraceptives costs, 
emergency contraceptives, abortions, travel costs for abortion 
care in- and out-of-state and post-
abortion counseling. 
The committee voted 
unanimously to block the bill from 
reaching the Senate floor. Judiciary 
Chairman John Brinkman (Gator-
CLAS) said the proposed bill was 
unconstitutional and illegal, and it 
violated the separation of powers 
between the legislative and 
executive branches.
It will fail at the next Judiciary 
meeting if it is not brought back 
into consideration. If a bill fails, 
it cannot be resubmitted for 
consideration until the first day of 
the Fall semester. 
Brinkman brought up concerns 
about the documentation of 
sensitive personal and medical 
information; all information 
submitted by potentially 
reimbursed students could be 
subject to public records requests. 
Students would have to choose 
between funding or privacy, 
Brinkman said.
Senator Oscar Santiago Perez 
(Change-District D) authored the 
bill in response to the Roe v. Wade 
overturn.
“This is the way I wanted 
to essentially show that the 
Student Senate can and should 
do something about this issue,” 
Santiago said.
The fund’s focus on methods of 
birth control and prevention were 
important, Leila Kline, an 18-year-
old UF business sophomore, said. 
“If you provide the necessary 
contraception to women,” she 
said, “we can decrease the chances 
for them to get pregnant.”
@lindsschinlder 
lschindler@alligator.org
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgUF administration stagnant, SG blocks contraceptive legislation after Roe v. Wade overturn
an abortion desert, Planned Parenthood 
and the American Civil Liberties Union are 
prepared to contest the 15-week ban up 
to the Florida Supreme Court to preserve 
women’s right to an abortion.
“This is far from over,” Noce said. 
“We’re just going to fight like hell in the 
state to do everything we can to ensure 
that we have access to abortion in Florida.”
Florida has already seen an increase 
in patients from Alabama, Louisiana and 
especially Texas, and Noce expects the 
number to continue to surge throughout 
the summer. The Center for Reproductive 
Rights created a map predicting Florida 
will be the only East Coast state south 
of Virginia where abortions will still be 
protected. It categorizes Georgia and 
the Carolinas as states “hostile” toward 
abortions, while Alabama has banned 
the procedure except in cases of life endangerment.
Even if a woman has the resources to 
trek out of state for the procedure, it is 
difficult to find an appointment in the South 
and most clinics still offering care are very 
overrun, Noce said. Planned Parenthood 
hired additional physicians, she said, even 
flying out-of-state providers to Florida to 
accommodate patients seeking an abortion 
before the ban was enacted. Clinics also 
extended hours, added appointments and 
prioritized patients near or beyond 15 
weeks of pregnancy, Noce said.
It is unclear how the influx of patients 
have affected Gainesville abortion clinics, 
though. After multiple phone calls, emails 
and a visit to Bread and Roses Women’s 
Health Center in Gainesville, the clinic 
declined to respond to The Alligator’s 
request for comment.
In 2021, 831 procedures were performed 
in Alachua County, and Florida’s 55 
clinics provided more than 79,000 women 
abortions, according to a Florida Agency for Health Care Administration report. 
About 4,800 of those women resided 
outside Florida. Cooper’s ruling may 
attract even more out-of-state women 
seeking abortions this year.
“This is a win for privacy, this is a win 
for women and this is a win for bodily 
autonomy,” Rep. Yvonne Hayes Hinson, 
D-Gainesville, said in a press release, 
speaking for not only her constituents but 
all women in the South.  
Republicans will continue to fight for 
anti-abortion legislation, she said. 
The state anticipated Cooper’s ruling 
and will ask the Florida Supreme Court to 
reverse the 1989 Florida Supreme Court 
case, the governor’s deputy press secretary, 
Bryan Griffin, wrote in an email. DeSantis’ 
office rejected the court’s interpretation of 
Florida’s right to privacy in the precedent. 
The ruling states unequivocally that 
abortion is protected under the privacy 
prong of the Florida Constitution, even “if the United States Supreme Court were to 
subsequently recede from Roe v. Wade.”
Wright said she would be surprised 
if the appeals court removes Cooper’s 
injunction upon the state’s request, but 
once it reaches the Florida Supreme Court 
— which would likely take well over a 
year — the 15-week ban would be upheld, 
she predicted; it may be an infringement of 
privacy, she said, but it is not an outright 
denial. 
If the state legislature continues to 
erode abortion protections, Noce said the 
most vulnerable women will continue to 
be disproportionately affected: survivors 
of rape or incest, people of color, low-
income women and youths who must 
stand before a judge for permission to 
access abortion care.
“The last thing they're thinking about 
is becoming pregnant or going to a 
doctor's office,” Noce said. “Those are the 
people that typically seek abortion after 15 
weeks.”
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgABORTION,  from pg. 1Florida remains Southern safe havenUF health official said the university is not responsible for student health decisions
Courtesy to The Alligator
About 1,000 protestors marched through Gainesville Saturday, June 25, 2022 after the official 
announcement of the overturning of Roe v. Wade.
6   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
 
One person was killed and a 
minor was in critical condition after 
a car accident last Tuesday morning. 
First responders found a stolen 
2015 Chrysler 200 flipped sideways 
along with two stolen firearms on 
1400 NW 23rd Ave., near the Wawa 
on the corner of Northwest 13th 
Street and Northwest 23rd Avenue, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
Department press release. 
Gainesville Fire Rescue removed 
two people from the car, and both 
were taken to UF Health Shands 
Hospital. Hospital staff announced 
the driver died and the passenger 
was left in critical condition. He is 
no longer in critical condition as of 
Sunday afternoon. 
The car was reported stolen 
last Monday. GPD last saw the car 
heading westbound on Northeast 
23rd Avenue before the accident, 
according to the statement, but 
an officer spotted the car at the 
Sweetwater Square apartment 
complex prior to the accident at about 12:30 a.m. The car sped away 
from the complex as the officer tried 
to begin a traffic stop.
There have been about 50 more 
car accidents so far this year than 
were in the same time span last 
year, according to Gainesville Police 
Department data. 
There were more than 2,000 
accidents in Gainesville through 
June 9 of this year, a notable 
increase from the 2020 figure of less 
than 1,700 accidents, which was 
likely affected by less traffic during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. This year’s 
accidents rank about 25% fewer 
than 2019’s pre-pandemic figure of 
more than 2,700 accidents during 
the first five months of the year. 
Those with knowledge about the 
situation and other accidents should 
reach out to the GPD’s Traffic Safety 
Team at 352-393-7744.
This is a developing story. 
Check back for updates.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgBy Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
District 1 County Commissioner 
Raemi Eagle-Glenn discussed 
overcrowding at the county animal 
shelter in her first community 
meeting seven hours after she took 
the oath of office last Tuesday.
She asked if high school 
volunteers and a food bank might 
mitigate staffing and overcrowding 
issues at the shelter, which 
implemented a temporary closure 
Wednesday. The first conservative 
county commissioner to serve 
since 2014, she sat alongside the 
four other commissioners in the 
Jack Durrance Auditorium June 28. 
Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed Eagle-
Glenn to fill the vacated District 1 
seat June 9.  
“I am here with joy and love in 
my heart for this community,” she 
said. “But it also has been the fight 
that has gotten me here.”
The last time Eagle-Glenn was 
in the chamber, she said, she was 
asked to leave because she was not 
wearing a mask. She filed a civil 
rights complaint toward the Alachua 
County Commission for its face 
mask order in May 2020. Honorary Judge Craig 
DeThomasis performed Tuesday’s 
swearing in ceremony.
“Even if there are some people 
here who don’t agree with me, I 
welcome you,” Eagle-Glenn said.
“Hopefully, you will find this 
commission actually does share 
some of the things that are important 
to you,” District 4 Commissioner 
Ken Cornell said. 
Commissioners probably have 
a lot more they can agree on than 
disagree on, District 3 Commissioner 
Anna Prizzia said.
“I hope we can find those 
areas of common ground 
rather than areas of spite.”
- Anna Prizzia, 
District 3 Commissioner
Eagle-Glenn will occupy the seat 
until Nov. 15 — seven days after the 
next general election. 
She has also filed to run for the 
seat against former commissioner 
Mary Alford, who resigned due to a 
residency violation May 16.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgAlachua County Commission introduces 
new District 1 commissioner
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
The county-controlled animal shelter 
implemented a temporary closure Wednesday, 
10 days after its director stepped down following 
his testimony in court as a witness for a 
Gainesville resident’s alleged animal abuse. 
Ed Williams spent five years as Alachua 
County Animal Resources and Care director, 
and volunteers spoke out about the toxic 
environment he created for both animals and 
people. He turned in his letter of resignation May 
13 — a day after he testified in defense of Loren 
Cava, a pet owner who received complaints 
about the treatment of her dogs for over a 
decade — and said he would have no problem 
placing her dogs. About a month later, the 
shelter temporarily closed due to overcrowding.
Overcrowding is mainly due to the outdated 
shelter, County Manager Michele Lieberman 
said. Built in the 1980s, the shelter was not 
designed to hold the 110 dogs and 17 cats it 
currently holds or is in the process of taking in. 
The county budgeted for a new facility earlier 
this year.     
“It was built at a time when the policy was 
euthanasia. It was never built to house an animal 
more than a week,” Lieberman said. “It is not 
built to contain disease. That’s the sad reality.”
The shelter will remain closed until the pet 
population aligns with the facility’s appropriate 
capacity, according to a county press release — 
though it will be open for adoptions and reclaims, 
and animal control officers will continue to 
respond to calls from the community concerning 
public safety. Otherwise, only injured or ill 
animals will see shelter.
There are 56 dogs currently at the shelter that 
need to be adopted, transferred, euthanized or 
other outcomes before the population can be considered maintained, Dr. Cynda Crawford of 
UF’s Maddie’s Shelter Medicine Program said.
Unlike private shelters like the Humane 
Society, county shelters are obligated to take in all 
surrendered pets. This has led to overpopulation 
problems across shelters nationwide.
Animal control officers were sent to Cava’s 
home numerous times and reported she was 
unwilling to take their advice in regards to the 
treatment of her animals. Though Williams 
claims she has been compliant with the warnings 
provided by the shelter, complaints continued to 
roll in, according to the activity cards generated 
when citizens call in with a complaint to animal 
services. 
Neighbors claimed the 66-year-old 
Gainesville resident dragged her emaciated and 
malnourished dogs by their leashes while others 
heard cries from inside the home, according to 
2021 affidavits. 
Williams testified Cava was a fit pet owner, 
and the current case against her is the only thing 
stopping her from adopting. 
“We didn’t feel like the evidence that we 
had, the things that we could prove would 
be sufficient to gain a petition for custody for 
her dogs much less ban her from any future 
ownership,” Williams said in his deposition. 
“That’s a pretty high bar.”
Court records claim Cava has brain damage 
and might not understand the severity of the 
situation. 
Williams damaged the case when he resigned 
one day after claiming he would have no 
problem placing Cava’s dogs, Cava’s neighbor 
and Alachua County Humane Society’s former 
executive director Becky Goodman said. But 
the blame for continuous mistreatment of these 
animals should not land on Cava or Williams, 
she said, but rather the policies put in place by 
the county.“The rules that have been put in place are not 
there for the benefit of animals,” Goodman said. 
“The county has stripped the professionals from 
being able to execute their job duties.”
Margot DeConna, the director of 
advancement for the Humane Society, spoke 
about the possibility to mend its relationship 
with the shelter and give the shelter another 
place to transfer animals when they are over 
capacity. 
The Humane Society cut ties with Animal 
Resources and Care in 2019 in an effort to protect 
their own pet population after continuous 
distemper and other disease outbreaks at the 
county shelter. 
Volunteers’ concerns went beyond the 
facility’s state. They began when Williams first 
allowed the shelter to become overcrowded and 
blocked communication with the public and 
among the staff, former volunteer Loly Bouchard 
said. Staff members and kennel technicians quit, 
and volunteers resigned.
“I still maintain that he is the worst 
director that Animal Services had.”
- Loly Bouchard, Gainesville resident
She volunteered at the shelter for 12 years 
until Williams let her go in 2017. At least half the 
shelter’s volunteers were let go after Williams 
said the adoption programs they were involved 
in were inactive.  
“He fired me as a volunteer after 12 years 
without even seeing my face or knowing 
anything of what I’ve done for the shelter,” she 
said. “It was very, very frustrating.” 
Hilary Hynes, a 59-year-old Gainesville 
resident who worked for the shelter for 22 years, 
saw six different directors come and go. The role 
has been used as more of a political seat, she 
said, which has caused the director to be more out of touch with what’s actually going on in the 
shelter.
Williams’ last day was June 19. Staff was 
told he resigned for medical reasons. Williams 
declined to comment, but he can apply to a 
different position in the county, according to 
Deputy County Manager Carl Smart.
“I think that Ed is a hard worker,” he said. 
“He really cares about the employees and the 
animals out there and even the volunteers. I 
think that we will certainly miss him.”
When posting the director position June 
10, the county changed its description to 
clarify duties, such as traveling to the scene of 
complaints. 
The county has implemented an additional 
position to cover EVO — an acronym for 
education, volunteers and outreach. This 
coordinator will improve the shelter’s 
relationship with volunteers and provide them 
with an easy avenue for input, Smart said.
“I think that’s been a missing ingredient,” he 
said. “A missing piece in the department that 
will give more attention to the volunteers.”
A panel will conduct interviews for the 
director position, but members of the panel have 
yet to be decided. Lieberman will make the final 
hiring decision.
The county’s attorney office planned a 
meeting after the holidays with Animal Resources 
and Care to speak to their new leadership team 
about changing ordinances if necessary, Diana 
Johnson, Senior Assistant County Attorney, said.
“We can make sure that everything is still 
legal, that there’s not any variants that are 
preventing them from progressively doing what 
they need to do and their grand ideas that they 
have,” Johnson said.
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.orgAnimal shelter temporarily shuts down after director’s 
resignation, investigation into pet owner’s abuse continuesStolen car accident 
leads to driver’s death
Mickenzie Hannon / / Alligator Staff
Raemi Eagle-Glenn, the 
newly appointed District 1 
county commissioner, sits in 
special meeting to discuss 
overcrowding within the 
Alachua County Animal 
Resources and Care at the Jack 
Durrance Auditorium Tuesday, 
June 28, 2022.
Raemi Eagle-Glenn was sworn-in to fill Mary 
Alford’ s county seat until the next electionThe car’ s passenger, a minor, 
was left in critical condition
Community questions Animal Resources and Care’ s future after Ed Williams steps downTUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Wendy Wilber takes her 
daughter to get ice cream when 
she gets an A on her report card. 
Sweet Dreams’ 42 chocolate ice 
cream flavors and “Chocolate 
Night” events, now hosted at the 
shop’s new location, drew the 
star student in.
The 51-year-old Gainesville 
resident looks forward to being 
able to stop by the parlor on the 
corner of 13th Street and 16th 
Avenue on her way to work, she 
said. 
Sweet Dreams of Gainesville, 
a community staple of almost 18 years, relocated from the 
intersection of West University 
Avenue and 34th Street July 1. 
The move comes after a long 
run at the Westgate Regency 
Shopping Center — its new 
location at 1522 NW 13th St. is 
about a mile north of UF. 
Sweet Dreams’ last day at its 
former location was June 28. The 
store served ice cream in its “Cool 
Bus” in front of the new building 
until Sunday while construction 
was finalized.  
Jack Polk, a 20-year-old UF 
computer science senior, said 
he remembered how hard the 
old location was to see because 
of how far it was from the road. The new location should make 
it easier to access Sweet Dreams 
and help bring in more people 
into the shop, he said. 
Sweet Dreams owner Michael 
Manfredi, who wants to expand 
the shop beyond just ice cream 
and introduce coffee and baked 
goods in the coming weeks, said 
he’s wanted the new spot for 
years.
“It feels like a victory. It’s 
always been something that 
I’ve wanted ever since I saw 
this location.”
- Michael Manfredi, 
Sweet Dreams  ownerDennis Wait, a 46-year-old 
High Springs resident, holds Sweet 
Dreams in high regard — not just 
because of its ice cream, but also 
because of how the business 
gave back to the community. 
He recalled how Manfredi used 
the “Cool Bus” to serve kids in 
Gainesville neighborhoods when 
the storefront was closed during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
He used to go to Sweet 
Dreams regularly when he lived 
in Gainesville for ten years, he 
said. Although Wait lives in 
High Springs now, he still tries 
to support Sweet Dreams — and 
the new location makes it a little 
easier. 
“Selfishly, [the shop is] closer 
to my work, so that’s good to go,” Wait said.
Sarah Ingley, a 44-year-old 
Gainesville resident, said she’s 
been a customer of Sweet Dreams 
for about 15 years and admires 
the shop’s commitment to the 
community. 
Last Halloween, Sweet Dreams 
brought its ice cream truck to 
her dance school, Gainesville 
Dance Academy, giving the kids 
something special to celebrate 
the holiday, Ingley said.
Now, in close proximity to 
Gainesville High School and UF’s 
campus, the shop’s new location 
makes Ingley optimistic. 
“My hope is that a wonderful 
business like Sweet Dreams can 
help revitalize that corner,” 
Ingley said.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.org
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Brenda Thomas started her Wednesday 
like any other. She sewed quilts. This 
time, her fellow Oak Hammock retirement 
community residents lined the hall to the 
sewing room, waiting to wish her a happy 
100th birthday. 
She said her Norwegian blood and 
family roots in Buenos Aires, Argentina 
helped her reach the century mark. 
Her advice as a centenarian: tTake life 
one day at a time.
Thomas, a Gainesville resident, joined 
the less than 1% of people who are 100 
years old June 30, celebrating with a 
reception at her retirement home. 
About 60 people sat at tables adorned 
with red, white and blue balloons while 
friends and family shared stories about 
Thomas. She traveled, she sewed and she never stopped learning.
Before the reception, she went through 
a scrapbook and reminisced on her time in 
Gainesville. 
Thomas was born June 30, 1922, in 
Buenos Aires. When World War II reached 
a point of low intensity, she traveled to the 
U.S. to attend college. She was lucky to 
travel by plane because torpedoes hit the 
boat carrying her belongings, she said.
She graduated from the University of 
Wisconsin in 1945, she said, and stepped 
off the train and into Gainesville with her 
husband, Billy, in 1946. She saw the White 
House Hotel, which no longer exists, one 
restaurant and a movie theater, she said.
“Everybody knew everybody when you 
met them downtown,” she said.
Thomas got a job as a travel agent during 
a time when women did not traditionally 
work. She took her children around the work to places like China, Turkey and her 
home country, Sharron Cochran, Thomas’ 
73-year-old daughter said. 
Thomas also helped Oak Hammock 
residents plan trips around Florida during 
her first five years with the community. She 
sewed clothes for herself and her children 
and taught whoever showed interest, she 
said.
“My mother has always been an 
inspiration,” Cochran said. “She’s 
always done a lot for other people.”  
- Sharron Cochran
Thomas taught her other daughter, 
Valerie Thomas, how to sew when she was 
9 years old. 
Valerie, 62, marveled at how healthy 
her mother looked Wednesday. She still 
harnessed her trademark energy at the milestone age, she said.
Valerie realized how extraordinary it 
was for her mother to attend college for 
four years after they traveled to Argentina 
together, she said. Her mom was the only 
one of her friends who stayed in university 
for more than one year. 
Thomas also volunteered at Tacachale, a 
developmental disability center. Her middle 
daughter, Lynn, who is mentally disabled, 
lives at the facility. Thomas wanted to 
give the residents the opportunity to do 
something they weren’t able to do — buy 
something. 
Her mother worked with retailers to 
donate inexpensive items such as custom 
jewelry for residents to have the shopping 
experience, Valerie said. 
Thomas is one of the sweetest people 
Pat Harden, an 87-year-old Oak Hammock 
resident, has ever met. He said even 
just a short conversation proves to be 
enlightening. 
“The world needs a lot more people like 
her,” Harden said.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgBy Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Fireworks illuminated the sky as new and long-time 
residents celebrated fourth of July weekend events.
Family members and friends joined together to uphold 
decadeslong county traditions: races, rhinos, boats and 
melons.
A day after UF hosted the Fanfare and Fireworks event 
at Flavet Field, two parades also celebrated the Fourth of 
July — one on land and one on the lake.
Bouncers, an indoor23 bounce house park at 3401 NW 
34th St., held its sixth annual July 4 Bike Parade in the 
parking lot, where attendees decorated their bike, scooter 
or stroller. 
American flags flew on boats over Lake Santa Fe for the 
county’s annual event, hosted by the Melrose Business and 
Community Association. Star spangled vessels gathered at 
the entrance of the lake’s boat ramp at the south end of 
Big Lake Santa Fe and paraded counter-clockwise along 
the shore. Spectators viewed the parade from the docks.
The city of Alachua held its 22nd annual Fourth of 
July celebration at the Legacy Park Multipurpose Center 
Monday. The event, dubbed the “The Largest Small Town Fireworks Display in America,” offered free entry 
and parking and had activities for kids, live music and 
fireworks.
About 20 miles away, the City of Archer donned red, 
white and blue at a new location for their annual Red 
White and Boom Independence Day event. The festival 
moved from Wilson Robinson Park to a larger location off 
Archer Road, about two miles west of Santa Fe College’s 
Ron and Norita Davis Center. The event featured a 
watermelon-eating contest, an apple-pie-eating contest, 
food, arts and crafts vendors, a firework show at sunset 
and live entertainment by a pair of DJs.
More than 70 watermelons were purchased for the 
Florida Track Club’s 44th Annual Jack Gamble Melon Run 
at Albert “Ray” Massey Westside Park for participants to 
enjoy after the three mile trek. It is the second year since 
the club changed the event’s name to honor Jack Gamble, 
the club’s first president and a former UF soils professor.
Deborah Scheuer, who directed this year’s event, felt 
honored to share Gamble’s legacy and his contribution to 
the running community at the family-friendly event.
The Carson Springs Wildlife Conservation Foundation, 
which is located at 8528 E. County Road 225, observed 
Independence Day outdoors with group tours, big cats and rhino feedings, rare animal interactions and photo 
opportunities.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgSweet Dreams of Gainesville relocates north of campus
Gainesville resident celebrates 100th birthdayFrom land to shining… lake: Alachua County celebrates Fourth of July
Brenda Thomas became the third centenarian at Oak HammockThe shop is now closer to UF and Gainesville High School
Residents upheld decadeslong traditions and festivities
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville residents Dan Queen, Timothy Lattimore, 
Ethan Rubenstein, Ryan Wahlberg and Maz Berk walk 
to a Fourth of July party at the corner Northwest 18th 
T errace and Northwest 7th Place behind Midtown on 
Monday, July 4, 2022.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida swim and dive legends add to legacies
16 current and former Gators took home nine medals at world 
championships in Hungary. Read more on pg. 12.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
By Averi Kremposky
Avenue Staff Writer
When Timothy “Tee Whitey” 
White converted his heartbreak 
poems into raps at 16 years old, 
he didn’t realize getting sold 
false dreams and scammed out of 
contracts throughout his career, 
would lead him to help upcoming 
artists avoid the same fate. 
The Gainesville musician 
shifted gears to create a safe 
haven for up-and-coming 
musicians to learn all facets of 
success in the music industry. 
“The importance to me is to 
not let the artists get frustrated; 
to know that there is somebody 
that is not just trying to get in 
your pocket,” White said. 
With two locations in 
Gainesville, White’s studio, Like 
6 O’Clock Studios, is the product 
of one musician’s disoriented 
walk through the music industry 
and his dedication to ensure a 
solidified path for others. The 
studio name, describing a clock 
when both hands form a straight 
line, represents a lifestyle and 
business that cuts no corners.
Under a whimsical ceiling 
of floating records and pops of 
colorful neon light, the studio 
houses recording booths and 
expansive common areas. 
With couches and TV screens 
constantly whirring familiar 
movies, Like 6 O’Clock Studios 
is a balance between eccentricity 
and nostalgia.
It’s more than a studio, White 
said. It’s an entertainment school.
Like 6 O’Clock Studios offers 
classes in song engineering, 
photography and videography, 
artist development and, soon, 
producing. 
White visited Full Sail 
University, a private school in 
Winter Park known for degrees 
in entertainment, media and arts, 
in 2017.
“When I was there, I was like, 
‘Oh my goodness, this is the lane 
I want to go, but without being so 
expensive,’” White said. 
From registering artist names 
to navigating the reverb process, 
White wants to simplify the 
complexities of music-making so every artist can zero in on their 
craft. Unlike the classes at Full 
Sail, classes at Like 6 O’Clock 
Studios are almost always one-
on-one. 
With hardly any money to 
support his expansive music 
dreams, White taught himself 
the ins and outs of the music 
industry. He absorbed knowledge 
on everything from video editing 
to engineering.
Though White believes his 
mistakes made him the person 
he is today, he desires something 
better for young creatives in the 
area. 
“I wanted to do something 
that gave back and taught the 
things that I wasn’t taught. 
Little things that could have 
saved me a whole year’s 
worth of aimlessly grinding.”
- Timothy “T ee Whitey” White, 
Gainesville musician
He hopes to foster an 
improved environment of trust 
with his musicians — one he 
didn’t have at the beginning 
of his career. White worked in 
many uncomfortable studios 
throughout his career. 
People frequently interrupted 
his recordings, and he couldn’t 
decipher if the laughter in the 
background was aimed at him.
He wants blooming artists to 
know they are taken seriously at 
Like 6 O’Clock. 
Oriana Sheffield, known 
artistically as IamOri, has worked 
with White as her mentor since 
the first studio location opened 
downtown last year. As a 
female artist, Sheffield says she 
heavily values creative control 
and comfort in the studio — 
something Like 6 O’Clock offers 
her.
Parker Wright, a 20-year-
old recording engineer, found 
professional work for the first 
time at Like 6 O’Clock Studios. 
Wright only ever made music 
at home, but White saw his 
potential after he took the reins 
in his recording session. 
Wright already knew the 
fundamentals of mixing and 
recording, but he said White offers him opportunities and 
learning experiences that can 
lead to exponential growth in the 
industry.
“You can’t do anything without 
help,” Wright said. “Everybody 
is going to have people who help 
them out throughout life to really 
get anywhere.”
The first step to advancing 
in the industry is making good 
music, Wright said, but many musicians forget success in 
the field also requires business 
savvy. Like 6 O’Clock aids artists 
in this area, he said. 
“Whitey is somebody who 
has all the knowledge it takes 
because he’s done it and he’s a 
really good person,” Wright said.
White is thankful his struggles 
created opportunities for others. 
He said he’s been rewarded with 
the chance to be a role model to a community of rising musicians.
“Why not give back to them 
and show them the real music 
business and not the facade?” 
White asked. “Yes, it looks all 
glamorous and glittery, but you 
don’t know what’s going on 
behind the scenes.”
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgGainesville studio seeks to embrace local artists with creative comfort
MUSICMUSIC
Averi Kremposky / / Alligator Staff
T ee Whitey and P Red at Like 6 O’Clock Studios in Gainesville Thursday, June 2, 2022.
Like 6 O’Clock Studios creates a safe environment for local artists to learn more about the industryBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
7-5-17-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Got a place for rent?
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    RRaanncchh  eenncclloosseerr
11..    FFlliinncchh,,  rreeccooiill  55..    MMaatttteerr
22..    DDeetteerrmmiinnaattiioonn  66..    IInn  tthhee  ffuuttuurree  
33..    DDooddggeedd,,  ttuurrnneedd  aassiiddee  77..    BBaanndd  ooff  ttiissssuuee
44..    DDeessoollaattee,,  bblleeaakkRRLLRRCCAAOO
GGIINNEECCRRSSEESSIIUU
RRAAEELLTT
SSVVLLEEOORREE
EEVVEEAADDRRTTTTNNNNEEOODD
EEAARRNNRRBBAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--CCoorrrraall    55AA--IIssssuuee    66AA--LLaatteerr    77AA--TTeennddoonn
11DD--CCrriinnggee    22DD--RReessoollvvee    33DD--AAvveerrtteedd    44DD--BBaarrrreenn    BB--RRiinnggoo  SSttaarrrr77--44--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  hhaass  bbeeeenn  nnoommiinnaatteedd  ffoorr  mmoorree  tthhaann  
2255  GGrraammmmyy  AAwwaarrddss,,  aanndd  hhaass  wwoonn  nniinnee..  
BONUS
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.10 For Sale
By Catherine Cetta
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/04/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/04/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 4, 2022
ACROSS
1 Remind 
repeatedly
4 Girl __ Cookies
9 Journalist Swisher
13 “My man!”
14 Alpha __ Alpha 
sorority
15 Lubricated
16 Half-__: rhyming 
coffee order
17 Closing line after 
presenting an 
argument
19 Elsie the Cow’s 
dairy brand
21 “Questions 
welcome”
22 Ireland, to the 
Irish
23 “The Dancing 
Class” painter 
Edgar
26 Cedar Rapids 
state
28 Nebula Award 
genre
30 One way to get 
caught
32 Silky fabrics
34 Island home of the 
Hana Highway
35 Magazine VIPs
36 Pinches pennies
38 “Now I get it!”
41 Holier-__-thou
42 Scheduled
47 North American 
evergreen
50 Say “I do” without 
the ado
51 Quaint “once”
52 Lets up
54 __ and proper
55 Fatherly nickname
57 Hide-and-seek 
hideout
59 Fourth of July 
noisemaker ... 
and the function 
of the black 
squares in lines 
3, 6, and 10
62 “That hurt!”
64 Future DAs’ 
exams
65 Member-owned 
grocery stores
66 Actress Thurman
67 Eclectic online 
digest
68 Arizona’s __ 
National Forest
69 __-Mex cuisine
DOWN
1 “This Is Us” TV 
network2 Coffee bean 
variety
3 “Pursue your 
dream!”
4 Slide on an icy 
road
5 Was concerned
6 First game of the 
season
7 Emotional highs
8 Body ink, for 
short
9 Begin to take 
effect, as 
medicine
10 Dessert menu 
phrase
11 Mended for a 
second time
12 Citrus drink suffix
15 Yiddish laments
18 Songs made by 
mixing two songs
20 Mortgage 
adjustment, for 
short
22 Twisty letter
24 Some spring 
babies
25 Driver at the 
Oscars
27 Commercials
29 Lead-in to “gram” 
in social media
31 Ideological gap in 
Congress33 Bagel spread
37 Nadal of tennis, 
familiarly
38 Actor Vigoda
39 Plucky member 
of an orchestra?
40 Losing candidate
43 European peaks
44 Left in a big  
hurry
45 Perfect example
46 Rep.’s opponent
48 Tampa Bay city, 
familiarly49 __ with: take into 
consideration
53 Was out
56 Some HP 
products
58 “In that 
neighborhood” 
phrase
59 Wintertime bug
60 Do something
61 Dove sound
63 Number on  
older business 
cards
By Taylor Johnson
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/28/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/28/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, June 28, 2022
ACROSS
1 “Nope”
5 Pointers
9 City in northwest 
Missouri, 
informally
14 Kind
15 Words after count 
or sleep
16 Sports complex
17 *“Let me enjoy 
my guilty 
pleasures!”
19 Shouts
20 Website revenue 
source
21 Director Craven
23 Chemical in 
potent drain 
cleaners
24 Ankle-length skirt
26 PlayStation 
maker
28 Contributes
32 Ready to go  
trick-or-treating, 
say
36 Figure of speech
37 Ginger __
38 Love who 
co-hosted  
“The Real”
39 Pixar film about a 
jazz pianist
40 Dance club 
compilation, and 
what the answers 
to the starred 
clues literally are
42 Little cut
43 Idris of “The Wire”
44 “Insecure” star 
Issa
45 GPS suggestion
46 Elite athletes
48 Moderate gallop
49 Website with 
tutorials
50 Overly confident
52 JFK successor
54 Chicken __ king
56 “Suppose so”
61 Minestrone and 
chowder
63 *“Feelin’ fine!”
65 Allow to enter
66 Italian bubbly
67 Apollo project 
destination
68 Uses a keyboard
69 Sunbeams
70 Humble reply to a 
complimentDOWN
1 Organic certifying 
gp.
2 Parka feature
3 Footed vases
4 URL intro
5 Bird on Froot 
Loops boxes
6 Handy list in the 
back of a book
7 Swine
8 Hearty bowlful
9 Gives permission
10 Three, in Italian
11 *Fruity treat 
often dusted with 
powdered sugar
12 “This is __ a test”
13 Loosen (up)
18 Foxx who voices 
the pianist in 
39-Across
22 English county 
on the North Sea
25 11-Down eater’s 
dismayed cry
27 Country singer 
Willie
28 Gone fishing, say
29 Dryly humorous
30 *Move that 
captures two 
checkers
31 Frolic in the pool33 “Always Be My 
Maybe” actress/
writer Wong
34 Bring together
35 Peter, the 
pickled-pepper 
picker
40 Feature of some 
Southern accents
41 Pickle container
45 Threw a tantrum
47 Browns lightly
48 Mayfield of R&B51 A bit foggy
52 Future atty.’s 
exam
53 __ language
55 Slightly open
57 Sleeveless top, 
for short
58 Pretzel shape
59 Stench
60 Pt. of a B’way 
address
62 __ chart
64 Mex. neighbor
06/27/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.
GEN. HANDYPERSON HELP WANTED
Hang mesh around chicken flight pen, brush 
small trees cut, Shed clean out, More avail -
able. Straight pay or airbnb trade
https://abnb.me/7FeccZWCNqb
Call or text: 727-276-0993          7-5-22-2-14
Dietary Service Positions - FT, PT and PRN
UF Health Shands Hospital, one of the top 
employers in FL, is hiring FT, PT and PRN 
Cooks, Dining Associates and Nutrition 
Assistants. Multiple shifts available. We of -
fer generous pay and great benefits for FT 
employees.
Apply at https://shands.careers.ufhealth.org/
jobs/266332/
EOE and drug-free workplace.    7-5-22-4-14
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in -
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
15 Services
PROTECT YOUR HOME from pests safely 
and affordably. Pest, rodent, termite and 
mosquito control. Call for a quote or inspec -
tion today 888-498-0446                   7-5-2-15
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti -
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      7-5-5-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan -
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
7-5-22-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!              7-5-5-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                7-5-16-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
7-5-21-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover -
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                    7-5-5-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
7-5-2-15Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816                 7-5-4-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         7-5-22-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Counseling that is Professional
Afforable, Adults and Couples
Telehealth or in person
LMHC harrisdk1012@gmail.com
352 642-5176                             7-25-22-5-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for in -
jury or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who responds to advertising 
use caution and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or arranging meet -
ings or investing money.
1. Trevor Immelman. 
2. "The Naked Gun: From the 
Files of Police Squad!" 
3. Kenny Brack, in 1999.4. Briana Scurry.
5. Canoeing.
6. Oil Can.
7. Chris Howard.Sports Quiz answersTrivia Test  answersCrytpoQuip  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
THE BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS IS NOT CEREAL; IT'S THE OPPOSITION.
— NICK SEITZ
solution  below1. Vixen.  2. 13, one for each colony.  3. 4 million.  4. Ork.  5. Calvin 
Coolidge.  6. Eight major islands and many small islets.  7. "Parasite," 
2020.  8. Asia.  9. "Frankenstein".  10. Dried, edible seaweed.10   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE
6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE
11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED15: SERVICES
16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES
21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSUBMIT YOUR AD TO ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING CATEGORIES TODAY!   
alligator.org/ classifieds
classified @alligator.org  
(352)373- FINDanswers  below1. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is a female fox called?
2. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: How many stars were in  
the first American flag?
3. HISTORY: About how many slaves in the United  
States were free by the end of the Civil War?
4. TELEVISION: What was the name of the planet 
that Mork called home on "Mork & Mindy"?
5. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president was born 
on July 4?
6. U.S. STATES: How many major islands make up 
the state of Hawaii?
7. MOVIES: Which is the first non-English movie to 
win Best Picture at the Oscars?
8. GEOGRAPHY: Which is the largest continent in size?
9. LITERATURE: Which 19th-century novel's subtitle  
is "The Modern Prometheus"?
10. FOOD & DRINK: What is nori?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
answers  below1. Name the South African golfer who beat Tiger 
Woods by three strokes to win the 2008 Masters 
Tournament.
2. What 1988 comedy film had cameos by Curt 
Gowdy, Jim Palmer, Tim McCarver, Mel Allen, Dick 
Enberg, Dick Vitale and Dr. Joyce Brothers in a 
baseball broadcast booth?
3. Before Marcus Ericsson won the 2022 India -
napolis 500, who was the only Swedish driver to 
win the race?
4. Name the National Soccer Hall of Famer who 
started 159 games as goalkeeper for the U.S. 
Women's National Team from 1994 to 2008.
5. France's Tony Estanguet, Slovakia's Michal 
Martikan and the Czech Republic's Stepanka Hil -
gertova are all Olympic gold medalists in what 
water sport?
6. Starting pitcher Dennis Ray Boyd, who played 
in Major League Baseball from 1982 to 1991, was 
better known by what nickname?
7. Before she married NBA star Dwyane Wade in 
2014, actress Gabrielle Union was married to what 
former NFL running back?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceTUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.GYMNASTICS
SOCCERBy Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
Senior Trinity Thomas will return to flip, 
vault and perform with Gators gymnastics for 
one final season.
The Pennsylvania native announced 
Monday during the 2022 Collegiate Women 
Sports Awards in Los Angeles she will exercise 
her fifth year of eligibility at the Stephen C. 
O’Connell Center.
“I just started my masters in health 
education and behavior. I’m excited to 
announce that I will be returning for my 
fifth year at the University of Florida.”
- Trinity Thomas, Gator gymnast
Thomas shocked the world after beating 
Olympic gold medalist Sunisa Lee from Auburn in the NCAA individual all-around competition 
in Ft. Worth, Texas, April 14. Thomas matched 
the second-highest score ever in an NCAA final 
with 39.862.
Thomas led the Gators to a runner-up 
finish in the NCAA Championship this past 
season. UF, in search of its fifth national title in 
program history, lost to the Oklahoma Sooners 
by just .1125 points. Thomas also represented 
the orange and the blue as one of 12 female 
student-athletes nominated for Collegiate 
Women Athlete of the Year. South Carolina 
basketball player Aliyah Boston took home the 
award.
Thomas was named the Southeastern 
Conference Gymnast of the Year after leading 
Florida to a 31-1-1 record and winning 39 
individual events — a school record. She won 
every 2022 postseason all-around and took 
home individual conference titles in the all-around, vault and floor exercise, securing her 
title as the only gymnast in the nation with five 
All-American first-team honors this year.
Thomas also became the ninth gymnast 
to secure three individual wins in a single 
championship after she claimed gold on the 
bars and a perfect score on floor. 
Thomas looks ahead to next season, hoping 
to defend her title.
Head coach Jenny Rowland will also 
welcome back senior Leah Clapper for her 
fifth season at UF, strengthening the Gators’ 
beam depth. Fellow senior Nya Reed has not 
announced whether she will return, but Sydney 
Johnson-Scharpf announced she will not return 
via Instagram May 1.
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.org
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
Shortly before UF announced 
Samantha Bohon as the new head 
coach of Gators soccer in May, 
Bohon met her future players 
and staff on Zoom; rectangular 
boxes contained faces in search 
of a leader, someone to guide 
them after their worst season in 
program history.
Bohon made one thing 
evident: Relationships would 
take precedent in her program. 
Her introduction came shortly 
after UF athletic director Scott 
Stricklin parted ways with former 
Gators manager Tony Amato in 
April. Current and former players 
detailed comments Amato made 
about their bodies and eating 
habits during his tenure, which 
lasted less than a year, according 
to a WUFT News report. 
“My thorough evaluation of 
the soccer program is that there 
[was] a disconnect between Tony 
and his athletes,” Stricklin said in 
a statement April 25.
Despite the scandal — and 
Florida subsequently losing 12 
players to the transfer portal — 
returning players said Bohon 
promises to help the team meet 
its expectations on the field while 
fostering connections beyond the 
game.
“Life came over us,” senior midfielder Syd Kennedy said. 
“She was talking about building 
relationships and helping us fall 
in love with the sport again.”
Bohon brings 20 seasons of 
collegiate coaching experience 
into her new role. The former 
Duke Blue Devil player spent the 
last 15 years managing Embry-
Riddle as the Eagles transitioned 
into NCAA Division II play; they made eight straight NAIA 
postseason appearances and 
catapulted themselves into the 
NCAA Division II Round of 16 in 
2019.
The Gators’ finished the 
season with a 4-12-4 record and a 
3-6-1 record in the Southeastern 
Conference. The team won a 
national title in 1998 and finished 
.500 or better every year from 1996 to 2017.
The team is establishing an 
identity for what the program 
should look like on and off the 
field, Bohon said.
“That would be for me a little 
bit of a blue-collar mentality,” 
she said. “Where we're going to 
work really, really hard day in 
day out.”
Players and staff need to work on building a familial network 
both in and out of soccer, Bohon 
said. She wants to reach out to 
alumni and foster cooperative 
relationships.
She hired two assistant 
coaches, Josie Rix and 
Adam Godwin, along with 
new goalkeeper coach Jack 
Rushworth.
Bohon brought senior forward 
Tessa Barton and sophomore 
defender Josie Curtis from the 
transfer portal; Barton hails 
from Colorado University, and 
Curtis made a shorter move from 
Florida Gulf Coast. 
Bohon’s presence is exactly 
what the team needed, senior 
forward Alivia Gonzalez said. 
  
“I think our new coach is 
already making connections 
and wanting to befriend us.”
- Alivia Gonzalez, Gator forward  
As the Fall draws near, 
Bohon’s first goal, she said, is 
to recapture the team’s joy in 
their game — the kind of joy that 
makes athletes long to continue 
on to higher levels of competition.
“You forget sometimes just the 
kid-like joy that you had when 
you played your sport,” Bohon 
said.
@bogle_brenda
bbogle@alligator.orgTrinity Thomas returns to Gators gymnastics  
Florida soccer embraces second consecutive offseason coaching changeGrethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Trinity Thomas leads her team in 
celebration against Missouri Friday, Jan. 
29, 2021. Thomas announced Monday she 
will return for her fifth season at UF.
Courtesy of the University Athletics Association 
Senior forward Alivia Gonzalez attacks against the Kentucky Wildcats defense Thursday, Sept. 
23, 2021. She looks forward to Bohon’s leadership. “I think our new coach is already making 
connections and wanting to befriend us, ” she said.
The Gators look forward to Samantha Bohon’ s personable leadership styleThe gymnast announced Monday she will return to Florida for her fifth season12   ALLIGATOR    TUESDAY, JULY 5, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRE
WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY
LADIES nightLADIES night
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE DRINKSFREE DRINKS   
For the ladies!For the ladies!
FRIDAYFRIDAY
Beat the clock!Beat the clock!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
(WELLS & DRAFTS(WELLS & DRAFTS
START @ 25¢START @ 25¢  and go up and go up ))
SATURDAYSATURDAY
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE FREE WELLS & DRAFTSWELLS & DRAFTS   
For EVERYONE!For EVERYONE!
@Grog.House@Grog.House @groghouse@groghouse www.groghouse.comwww.groghouse.com 1718 West University Ave1718 West University Ave
SWIMMING
CURRENT AND FORMER 
GATORS COMPETED AT THE 
EVENT, TAKING HOME EIGHT 
GOLD MEDALS
By Kaitlyn Wadulack
Sports Writer
Current and former Florida 
Gators representing seven 
countries at the 2022 FINA World 
Championships secured nine total 
medals, including eight golds.
The 16 swimming and diving 
program athletes and alumni 
competed in Budapest, Hungary, 
June 18 to July 3. 
UF volunteer coach Katie 
Ledecky led the charge with four 
gold medals. She earned her first 
gold in the women’s 400-meter 
freestyle, touching the wall in 
3:58.15 and won the women’s 
1,500 free with a time of 15:30.15. Ledecky propelled Team USA 
from third to first with a 1:53.67 
split time as the third leg in the 
women’s 4x200 free relay. She also 
earned gold in the women’s 800 
free with a time of 8:08.04. 
Ledecky’s accumulated 
accolades made her the first 
swimmer  to win an individual 
event in five straight World 
Championships (2013, 2015, 2017, 
2019 and 2022). She’s won 19 
career gold medals. 
Florida alum Caeleb Dressel 
won the men’s 4x100 free relay and 
men’s 50 fly. The relay finished 
with a 3:09.34 time, and Dressel’s 
22.57 fly time secured him his 15th 
overall world title. The Olympian 
was scratched from the rest of his 
events due to medical reasons on 
the fifth day of competition. 
Fresh off his senior 
season, Bobby Finke set two 
American records at the World Championships in the men’s 800 
free and 1,500 free. His final 50 split 
shot him ahead of his competitors 
to claim the 800 free gold with a 
7:39.36 time; he claimed the 1,500 
free silver with a time of 14:36.70.
Kieran Smith and UF senior 
Trey Freeman played major roles 
in Team USA’s 4x200 free relay, 
which earned them gold. Freeman 
swam in the preliminary session as 
the second leg with a 1:46.91 split, 
advancing the team of Drew Kibler, 
Carson Foster, Trenton Julian and 
Smith to the finals. Smith anchored 
the relay with a 1:44.35 split, and 
the quartet claimed first at 7:00.24.
The 2022 SEC Champions will 
look to continue their accolade-
laden run in the upcoming 2022 
season.
@kwadulack
kwadulack@alligator.orgFlorida swim and dive finish strong at 2022 FINA World Championships
David Goldman / / Associated Press
Caeleb Dressel celebrates during the 2020 Summer Olympics in 
T okyo. Dressel took home the 50 meter butterfly title in Budapest.
