We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Timeless Turlington still hub for clubs
The brick plaza in the heart of campus has been littered with 
flyer-laden promoters for decades,  pg. 7
ACPS makes mental health priority
ACPS trained thousands of employees in mental health with 
informational sessions planned for fall,  pg. 3Florida golfer to host charity golf tournament
T aylor Roberts’ AJGA tournament will raise money 
for youth mental health,  pg. 11
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 41
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
SweetBerries Eatery and Fro -
zen Custard supporters arrived 
in droves Sunday to order final 
rounds of monte cristo sandwich -
es and kookie concretes before 
the restaurant temporarily closed.
A demolished building will sit 
on the corner of Northwest 13th 
Street and Fifth Avenue until de -
velopers finalize plans to build 
five-story townhomes catered to 
UF students. The new restaurant location will replace the now-
closed Fletcher’s Cocktail Lounge 
at Fifth Avenue and Sixth Street, 
about three blocks north of Karma 
Cream and seven blocks east from 
its original location, SweetBerries 
owner Jane Osmond said. She ex -
pects it will reopen in November, 
and a potential on-campus loca -
tion may open sooner.
The famed custard and sand -
wich shop will be added to the 
list of Gainesville staples falling SweetBerries ousted from landmark 
lot, leaving for new locations
SEE SWEETBERRIES,  PAGE 6The restaurant closed SundayFOOTBALL
THE REDSHIRT SOPHOMORE 
WILL REBRAND AS ‘AR’  
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
Florida Gators redshirt 
sophomore Anthony Richardson 
announced Sunday he will 
shorten his standing “AR-15” 
nickname to “AR.”
“It is important to me that my 
name and brand are no longer 
associated with the assault rifle 
that has been used in mass shootings, which I do not condone 
in any way or form,” Richardson 
wrote in a Twitter statement.
Gun violence has claimed 
24,039 American lives this year 
as of Sunday night, according to 
gunviolencearchive.org. 347 mass 
shootings occurred this year, the 
most recent incident killing seven 
people in Highland Park, Illinois, 
on the Fourth of July.
The “AR-15” moniker, which 
grew popular during Richardson’s 
breakout last season, merged his 
initials and jersey number and appeared in his branding and 
apparel series featuring a scope 
reticle.  
The Gainesville native was 
a spokesman for the Gainesville 
Police Department’s gun buy-
back program last Fall. 
Richardson will be one of 
three Florida players to speak 
during SEC Media Days in Atlanta 
Wednesday.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgGators quarterback Anthony Richardson drops 
‘AR-15’ nickname amid gun violence surgeBy Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Chants for justice filled the air 
Sunday evening as protestors lined 
downtown Gainesville to protest the 
July 10 police K-9 mauling of Terrell 
Bradley.
About 200 people gathered at 
the Santa Fe Blount Center, located 
at 401 NW 6th St., to demonstrate 
their anger and demand change after 
a Gainesville Police Department K-9 
allegedly mutilated Bradley’s eye. 
Bradley, a 30-year-old Gainesville 
resident, faces charges from Alachua 
County for weapon and drug pos -session and violent resistance of an 
officer.
Bradley’s encounter with law en -
forcement July 10 evening began as 
he left the Sweetwater Square Apart -
ments complex, located at 3501 NE 
15th St., and committed a traffic vio -
lation, according to a statement from 
the Gainesville Police Department 
released Saturday night.
Bradley exited his vehicle, as re -
quested by the officer, but then took 
off running, according to the GPD 
statement. Law enforcement found a 
stolen gun and ammunition in Brad -Residents protest police brutality after K-9 severely injured Gainesville man
TWO YEARS AFTER 
COMPLETE CLOSURES, LOCAL 
VENUES WELCOME ARTISTS 
AND FANS ONCE MORE
By Heather Bushman
Avenue Staff Writer 
Like a selection from a prover -
bial box of chocolates or a toy at the 
bottom of the cereal box, the nightly 
offerings at Gainesville’s High Dive 
remain a consistent mystery.
A group of actors presented 
the second performance in their semi-annual series of “The Rocky 
Horror Picture Show” Wednesday. 
National touring artist Matt Maeson 
stripped down his usual high-energy 
shows for an acoustic set Thursday 
and Forever Ozzy paid tribute to the 
Black Sabbath frontman Friday.
Saturday, adorned in red and 
black with instruments at the ready, 
The Thunderstorm — a group of 
girls ages 10-14 from Gainesville 
Girls Rock Camp — stood center-
stage, primed for their debut perfor -
mance.
The showcase came at the end Gainesville venues continue post-pandemic 
recovery amid Independent Venue Week
MUSICMUSIC
Omar Ateyah / / Alligator Staff
Protesters gathered in the streets chanting “No Justice, No Peace” for T errell Bradley Sunday, July 17, 2022.
SEE INDEPENDENT,  PAGE 8SEE RALLY,  PAGE 6Images posted to social media 
show Terrell Bradley lost his eyeT oday’s WeatherTHE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE 
INDEFINITELY POSTPONED 
TWO BILLS SUNDAY AHEAD 
OF A CENSURE HEARING FOR 
CHAIRMAN JOHN BRINKMAN 
FOR ABUSE OF POWER
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Student Government 
Senate Judiciary Committee in -
definitely postponed a bill Sun -
day — which would have com -
pelled the committee to give 
official reasons why it postpones 
and fails future bills — three days 
after SG had to cancel abuse of 
power and bad conduct censure 
hearings due to a lack of public 
notice.
The proposed bill did not 
make sense based on its termi -
nology, committee members said, 
and it would restrict the commit -
tee’s power to table or postpone 
bills if there is a reason beyond 
the five criteria — constitution, 
implication, legality, format and 
clarity — to do so.
Though committee members 
said indefinitely postponing a bill 
is not failing it, no bills indefi -
nitely postponed this semester 
have been discussed again and 
therefore all failed. The commit -
tee blocked half of the 35 pro -
posed bills brought before them 
this Summer from reaching the 
Senate floor.
The committee, made entirely 
of Gator Party senators, blocked 
another bill Sunday that would 
have expanded the parameters 
of public comment to allow writ -
ten submissions to be read aloud 
by the Senate Secretary. Minor -
ity Party Leader Faith Corbett (Change - District D), the author 
of both bills, said the second bill 
would extend accessibility to -
ward UFOnline, PaCE and other 
students who may not be able to 
attend meetings in person. 
The committee worried the 
policy might open public com -
ment to abuse. It maintained  
constituents must make email 
requests to the Senate President 
and Secretary by 5 p.m. the day 
of the meeting and be physically 
present at the meeting to give 
public comment.
Senator Jonathan C. Stephens 
(Change - Replacement District 
D), who authored 16 bills blocked 
by the committee this Summer, 
said he asked the committee for 
input on his most recent legisla -
tion prior to official submission 
to avoid it being blocked. No one 
responded, he said, and the com -
mittee again postponed his bills 
indefinitely at its next meeting.
One of Stephens’ bills would 
have required the Senate Infor -
mation & Communications com -
mittee to post legislation passed 
by the Senate on SG’s social me -
dia accounts. It was postponed 
indefinitely, and later failed, be -
cause it would clutter people’s 
feeds, according to the commit -
tee. Passed legislation is avail -
able on SG’s website.
Dual censure hearings into the 
Judiciary Chairman John Brink -
man (Gator - CLAS) for abuse of 
power and Stephens for bad con -
duct were also canceled Thurs -
day evening due to a lack of pub -
lic notice.
Failure to provide public no -
tice was an oversight, Jackie 
Phillips, SG adviser under the UF 
Division of Student Life, wrote in an email to Senator Oscar San -
tiago Perez (Change - District D), 
the petitioner against Brinkman 
and Rules & Ethics Chairwoman 
Tanner Thompson. The meeting 
must be rescheduled with proper 
notice. 
SG must give at least 24 hours 
public notice for its meetings, 
in accordance with Florida Sun -
shine laws and its own constitu -
tion. Historically, this require -
ment is satisfied with a sign on 
the SG bulletin board on Reitz 
Union’s ground floor outside of 
POD Market, although there are 
still concerns about this manner 
of public notice. 
Some meetings are announced 
over the Senate ListServ, a pri -
vate by-request email list meant 
for senators and other interest -
ed parties. Only Replacement & 
Agenda and Judiciary meetings 
are typically announced over the 
ListServ. 
The Rules & Ethics Committee 
will set a new hearing date at a 
meeting later this week.
The next Senate meeting will 
be held in the Reitz Union Senate 
Chambers Tuesday at 7 p.m.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 41 SG Senate Judiciary committee blocks 
transparency bills, censure hearings rescheduled
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorsthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Luigi Bencosme, lbencosme@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather 
Bushman, Namari LockIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Lonnie Scott, the Gainesville Police Department’s 
acting chief, will officially take over as its head July 
25.
Scott’s career with GPD began in 1985 and con -
tinued until he started working in Tallahassee law 
enforcement in 2014. He returned to serve as GPD’s 
assistant chief of police in 2020 and has worked with 
the department’s Community Oriented Policing Team 
to resolve neighborhood problems, the release said. 
As chief of police, Scott said he would focus on im -
proving his department’s relationship with the gen -
eral community.
“No more community separated from law 
enforcement. Law enforcement is part of the 
community, just like teachers are [and] doctors are.”
- Lonnie Scott, Gainesville Police Department acting chief
Scott recognized law enforcement is a generally 
reactive profession, responding to crimes when they 
occur. The department should work with the com -
munity to address underlying causes of law-breaking, 
he said, whether it’s poverty, lack of educational op -
portunities or mental health issues.He thinks the community must overcome division 
to address concerns of violence, an issue he said he 
would prioritize during his time as chief.
“You keep pointing at the other side saying that 
they’re wrong,” he said, “but we all are standing by 
while our children are being killed and not taking the 
measures that are necessary to stop it.” 
Value systems play a role in the proliferation of 
violence, Scott said, and parents need to instill a val -
ue for human life in their children in order to curb 
violence in the city. 
Scott hopes his tenure leads to a removal of the 
barrier between the police department and the com -
munity and reduces the number of deaths from gun 
and other types of violence.
Curry also announced Tony Jones, the city’s act -
ing chief operating officer, will become a special 
adviser for juvenile justice and community support 
programs.
Jones took the position earlier this year after serv -
ing as the city’s police chief since 2009.
A new interim chief operating officer has not yet 
been named, according to a City of Gainesville news 
release.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgActing chief to step up as head of Gainesville Police Department
Lonnie Scott seeks to mend community relationsMONDAY, JULY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Layla Fuller felt uncomfortable 
when Alachua County Public 
Schools announced a clear 
backpack mandate for the 2022-
2023 school year. She worried her 
peers would see the menstrual 
products she concealed with her 
opaque bag. 
The reversal of this mandate 
confirmed the 16-year-old Buchholz 
High School student’s assumption 
about how the district jumped 
to extremes without considering 
potential backlash.  
Fuller hopes the new mental 
health training, one part of the 
district’s multi-pronged approach 
to address gun violence, is more 
effective than the clear backpack 
mandate, which was reversed a 
day after students, parents and 
teachers took to the internet 
to express their disapproval. 
However, her experience watching 
a full schoolday’s worth of required 
mental health videos has been less 
than positive.“It doesn’t help,” she said. 
“Most kids are actually 
annoyed by it, at least from 
my perspective.”
- Layla Fuller, Buchholz High School student
ACPS is also working with a 
multidisciplinary team to establish 
a behavior support plan and 
address mental health crises, ACPS 
spokesperson Jackie Johnson said. 
This summer, ACPS trained about 
2,700 employees in youth mental 
health, and Johnson expects more 
employees will complete this 
training before the school year 
begins. 
Local high and middle schools 
will host two informational 
sessions for sixth and ninth graders 
to discuss topics from behavioral 
expectations to graduation 
requirements Thursday.
ACPS will also host a Family 
Empowerment Summit to provide 
families with tips on how to 
support their children’s mental 
health Aug. 8 at Trinity United 
Methodist Church at 5 p.m.Anne Brown, CEO of the Cook 
Center for Human Connection, will 
speak at the event, and ACPS may 
implement one-on-one coaching 
for families that experience issues 
with their children’s behavior 
through the center’s partnership 
with ParentGuidance.org. 
Sarah Rockwell, a School Board 
District 3 candidate, said the 
county needs more community 
collaboration to combat severed 
connections. She hopes these 
events will focus on building 
relationships with children and 
not punishment.
In May, the Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office arrested a Fort 
Clarke Middle Schooler for 
bringing a loaded gun to school 
after another student alerted a 
teacher. Strong student-teacher 
relationships allowed the student 
to feel comfortable reporting 
the incident and thus prevented 
it from turning into a school 
shooting, Rockwell said. 
Law enforcement recommended 
clear backpacks as a response to 
the Robb Elementary shooting in 
May and recent community youth violence, according to an ACPS 
press release. It was intended 
to discourage students from 
bringing anything illegal to school, 
Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
spokesperson Art Forgey said. 
A clear backpack mandate is 
more akin to security theater, 
Anahied Rayzian, a 30-year-
old Alachua County parent and 
resident, said. These measures 
create the illusion of safety instead 
of promoting legitimate security. 
Rayzian has a 4-year-old 
daughter who has not started 
school yet, but she does not 
trust law enforcement to protect 
children.
The issue of gun violence is 
being tackled from two sides, she 
said. One side supports mental 
health resources while ignoring 
legislation, and the other side 
advocates for stricter gun laws, 
leaving public infrastructure 
aside. She called this “swiss 
cheese problem-solving.” Instead, 
the federal and state governments 
need to pass stricter gun laws. 
Angela Casteel, a 46-year-
old Alachua County parent, said clear backpacks give school staff 
a window into what students 
have going on, but a long-term 
solution would be for parents to 
be involved in their kids’ lives.
Now that the mandate is no 
longer in place, Casteel said the 
school board is not taking enough 
steps towards solving the problem.
ACPS expects metal detectors 
will be brought up in discussions 
with the community and law 
enforcement, Johnson said, but 
the district would need to consider 
the practicality of installing 
these in schools with over 2,000 
students, she said.
Not only do metal detectors 
affect the flow of student traffic, 
but there are also the issues of cost 
and staffing, Johnson said. 
It is possible clear backpacks 
will be brought back to the 
drawing board, but for now, 
mental health awareness and 
relationship-building remains the 
foremost focus.
@fernfigue
figueroa@alligator.orgACPS targets mental health after clear backpack mandate reversal
Houston Harwood / / Alligator Staff
A sign in front of the Alachua County Public Schools district office building is seen Sunday, June 6, 2021.
ACPS will have informational sessions on behavioral 
expectations and graduation requirements discussions4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville police arrested 
a man for allegedly murdering 
a Gainesville woman at a hotel 
about two miles from UF’s campus 
last weekend.
Police arrested Brian Burns, a 
25-year-old Gainesville resident, at 
the Stayable Select Hotel, located 
at 2900 SW 13th St. near IHOP, for 
an unrelated misdemeanor July 9, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
Department arrest report. Burns 
confessed to murdering a woman 
prior to his arrest, according to the 
report; GPD arrested Burns for the 
murder early July 10.
He faces homicide and evi -
dence tampering charges, accord -
ing to the report, and is being held 
at the Alachua County jail on a $2 
million bond.
A hotel resident discovered the 
victim’s body and alerted an em -
ployee who called police, accord -
ing to a GPD press release.
Police found the victim on the 
floor with a black garbage bag 
around her head, a brown belt 
tied around her neck, four stab 
wounds in her chest and two bot -
tles of bleach cleaning products 
next to her body, according to the 
report. Burns and the victim, who lived 
together and were known to use 
drugs, got into an argument Sat -
urday, according to the report. A 
witness said they were known to 
argue in their “on and off again” 
relationship.
After murdering the victim, 
Burns said, he took a shower, 
changed his clothes and left the 
hotel to hide. He slept in a vacant 
nearby apartment complex and 
came out of hiding because he was 
hungry, according to the report.
His criminal history includes 
traffic, drug possession and theft 
charges. According to a first ap -
pearance order filed July 10, Burns 
has six drug misdemeanor adjudi -
cations — the most recent in 2021.
Stephen Nalley, the hotel’s 
CEO, said the homicide was a 
tragedy.
“Our hearts and prayers go 
out to the victim’s friends and 
family members,” 
- Stephen Nalley, Stayable Select Hotel CEO
While the victim’s room is 
closed due to the ongoing investi -
gation, Nalley said the hotel is still 
operating.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgGainesville man arrested, charged with homicide, evidence tampering
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville mayoral candidates’ community outreach 
commenced with short-lived debate over utility rates, 
roads and multi-family buildings in standing single-fam -
ily zones.
City commission, school board and mayoral candi -
dates had just one minute to answer each question from 
about 80 Oak Hammock residents Tuesday. The exclusive 
forum, hosted by the League of Women Voters, allowed 
Harvey Ward, Edward Bielarski, David Arreola, July Thomas and Donald Shepherd to voice plans on topics 
from climate change to housing zones. Adam Rosenthal, 
Gary Gordon, Gabriel Hillel Kaimowitz and Ansaun Fish -
er, Sr. were not present. 
Arreola openly supported the city’s proposal to elimi -
nate exclusionary single-family zoning, which only al -
lows single-family home construction in specific neigh -
borhoods. The zones currently hold 63% of Gainesville 
homes, according to a Gainesville Sun article.
The community needs to move past exclusionary zon -
ing and discuss what new housing could look like, espe -
cially with Gainesville’s increasing population, he said.“We’re talking about small-scale multi-family addi -
tions to neighborhood residential areas,” Arreola said. 
A majority of the candidates, including Ward, opposed 
eliminating single-family zoning. Candidates need to have 
in-depth conversations within each community to best 
understand how to solve the housing crisis, Ward said. 
Bielarski, Gainesville Regional Utilities’ former general 
manager, said the mayor and city commission need to 
listen to the community to decide what should be done 
about the city’s housing crisis, which exponentially wors -
ens with new students’ arrival. 
Jeani Valter, a 77-year-old Oak Hammock resident, 
wanted to hear candidates’ plans to address issues in -
volving GRU’s rising rates and city roads’ conditions. She 
was unimpressed with the answers some of the candi -
dates were able to provide with their one-minute time 
slots.
“It was embarrassing to me,” she said. “They’re not 
professional and didn’t express themselves well.”
- Jeani Valter, Oak Hammock resident
Alice Gridley, an 84-year-old Oak Hammock resident 
said candidates did not have enough time to completely 
explore the issues, namely single-family zoning. 
The forum was her chance to learn more about candi -
dates she normally wouldn’t get the chance to speak to, 
Gridley said, but the one-minute time slots dampened the 
potential for further connection. 
“I would have really liked to have heard more about 
their planning for the future,” Gridley said.
The next mayoral candidate forum is July 20 at the 
Cotton Club Museum and Cultural Center. The election 
for Gainesville’s next mayor is Aug. 23.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgMayoral candidates discuss zoning, utility ratesFernando Figueroa / / Alligator Staff
Stayable Select Gainesville, an extended-stay hotel , sits at 2900 SW 13th St. Sunday, July 17, 2022.
Jackson Reyes / / Alligator Staff
Gainesville’s mayoral candidates speak to about 80 Oak Hammock residents Tuesday, July 12, 2022.
A woman was found dead in hotel about two miles from campus
Candidates running for public office spoke to Oak Hammock residentsLUNES, 18 DE JULIO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caimán, s íganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.SEC Media Days offer early look for 2022 season
Billy Napier and three UF football players will take the mic in Atlanta 
Wednesday,  pg. 12El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con El 
Caimán en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
Current openings:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the 
Editorial Division and as an unpaid 
member of the Board of Directors
 
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
AND
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid 
members of the Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerFor an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 26th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Tuesday , July 2 6th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by 
the Board of Directors will be held on Friday, July 
29th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be degree-seeking college 
or university students. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator.LONNIE SCOTT 
BUSCA MEJORAR LAS 
RELACIONES COMUNITARIAS  
Por Omar Ateyah
Escritor del Caim án
Traducido Por Ana Trias
Escritora del Caim án
El miércoles, la ciudad anunció 
que Lonnie Scott, el jefe interino 
del Departamento de Policía de 
Gainesville (GPD, por sus siglas en 
inglés), asumirá oficialmente el cargo 
el 25 de julio. 
La carrera de Scott con GPD inició 
en 1985 y continuó hasta 2014 cu -
ando comenzó a trabajar con las 
fuerzas del orden en Tallahassee. 
Regresó para servir como el sub -
jefe de GPD en el 2020 y, según el 
comunicado, ha trabajado con el 
Equipo de Policía Orientada a la Co -
munidad para resolver problemas en 
vecindarios. Scott dijo que como jefe 
de policía se concentrará en mejorar 
la relación entre su departamento y la 
comunidad en general. 
“No más separación entre la co -
munidad y las fuerzas del orden”, 
dijo Scott. “El cumplimiento de la 
ley es parte de la comunidad, al igual 
que los maestros [y] los doctores”. 
Scott reconoció que la aplicación 
de la ley es una profesión general -mente reactiva, que responde a los 
delitos cuando ocurren. Dijo que el 
departamento debería trabajar con la 
comunidad para abordar las causas 
por las cuales se rompe la ley, ya sea 
por pobreza, falta de oportunidades 
educativas o problemas de salud 
mental. 
Él cree que la comunidad debe 
superar la división para abordar las 
preocupaciones sobre la violencia, 
un problema que dijo que priorizaría 
durante su tiempo como jefe.
“Sigues señalando al otro lado 
diciendo que están equivocados pero 
todos nos quedamos de brazos cru -
zados mientras matan a nuestros hi -
jos y no tomamos las medidas nece -
sarias para detenerlo”, dijo. 
Los sistemas de valores desempe -
ñan un papel en la proliferación de 
la violencia, dijo Scott, y los padres 
deben inculcar un valor por la vida 
humana en sus hijos para frenar la 
violencia en la ciudad.
Scott espera que su mandato lleve 
a la eliminación de la barrera entre el 
departamento de policía y la comuni -
dad y reduzca la cantidad de muertes 
por armas y otros tipos de violencia.
Lea el resto en linea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org
atrias@alligator.orgLOS RESIDENTES DE OAK 
HAMMOCK ESCUCHARON 
A LOS CANDIDATOS QUE SE 
POSTULAN PARA ALCALDE
Por Jackson Reyes
Escritor del Caim án
Traducido Por Manuel Tunez
Escritor del Caim án
Los residentes de Oak Hammock 
escucharon a algunos de los candi -
datos a la alcaldía de Gainesville por 
primera vez el martes por la noche.
La Liga de Mujeres Votantes or -
ganizó el foro exclusivo para per -
mitir que cerca de 80 residentes de 
la comunidad de jubilados escucha -
ran a los candidatos a la alcaldía, 
la comisión de la ciudad y la junta 
escolar hablar sobre temas que van 
desde el cambio climático hasta la 
zonificación unifamiliar.
Hablaron cinco de los nueve 
candidatos a alcalde: Harvey Ward, 
Ed Bielarski, David Arreola, July 
Thomas y Donald Shepherd. Mien -
tras que Adam Rosenthal, Gary 
Gordon, Gabriel Hillel Kaimowitz 
y Ansaun Fisher, Sr. no estuvieron 
presentes.
Cada candidato tuvo un minuto para responder preguntas de un 
moderador y para hacer una de -
claración con apertura y cierre.
Los residentes estaban más 
preocupados por la propuesta de la 
ciudad de eliminar la zonificación 
unifamiliar excluyente, que solo 
permite la construcción de vivien -
das unifamiliares en vecindarios 
específicos. Actualmente la zona 
alberga el 63% de las viviendas de 
Gainesville, según un artículo de 
Gainesville Sun.
Si bien la mayoría de los can -
didatos se opuso a la eliminación 
de la zonificación unifamiliar en 
la ciudad, Arreola apoyó abierta -
mente la propuesta. La comunidad 
necesita superar la zonificación de 
exclusión y discutir cómo se verían 
las nuevas viviendas, especialmente 
con el aumento de la población de 
Gainesville, dijo.
“Estamos hablando de adicio -
nes multifamiliares a pequeña es -
cala a las áreas residenciales del 
vecindario”, dijo Arreola.
Ward dijo que está en contra de 
la eliminación de la zonificación 
unifamiliar. Los candidatos deben 
tener una conversación profunda 
dentro de cada comunidad sobre 
cómo resolver la crisis de la vivi -
enda. 
Bielarski, exgerente general de Gainesville Regional Utilities, dijo 
que el alcalde y la comisión de la 
ciudad deben escuchar a la comuni -
dad para decidir qué se debe hacer 
con respecto a la crisis de vivienda 
local.
A Jeani Valter, residente de Oak 
Hammock de 77 años, también le 
hubiera gustado saber más sobre 
cómo los candidatos abordarían 
los problemas relacionados con el 
aumento de las tarifas de GRU y el 
estado de las carreteras de la ciu -
dad. No quedó impresionada con 
las respuestas que algunos de los 
candidatos proporcionaron en sus 
intervalos de tiempo de un minuto.
“Fue vergonzoso para mí”, dijo. 
“No son profesionales”.
Valter dijo que eliminar la zonifi -
cación unifamiliar preocuparía a las 
personas propietarias de viviendas. 
Ella no estuvo de acuerdo con la 
propuesta, pero dijo que debería de -
jarse en manos de la nueva comis -
ión de la ciudad.
Lea el resto en linea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.org
@mtunezb
mtunez@alligator.orgEl jefe interino asumirá nuevo cargo como cabeza 
del Departamento de Policía de Gainesville  La Liga de Mujeres Votantes organiza un 
foro de candidatos en Oak Hammock6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
ley’s vehicle.
Back-up units, including a K-9 officer, par -
ticipated in the search for Bradley, and he was 
found hiding in the bushes after about an hour 
of tracking aid from a police dog. The K-9 unit 
was summoned because of Bradley’s status 
as a firearm possession as a convicted felon, 
according to the statement. Alachua County 
court records show Bradley was convicted of 
robbery in 2010; he was also convicted of drug 
equipment possession in 2012 and 2015.
He was booked into a Hillsborough County 
jail on Wednesday after he was transported to 
Tampa due to the severity of his injuries, ac -
cording to an Instagram post by Danielle Chan -
zes, a local community organizer who facili -
tated Sunday’s march. The post garned more 
than 1,400 likes and 110 comments.
The GPD statement confirmed Bradley was 
taken to the hospital by EMS, and, according 
to Chanzes’ post he lost his eye. She also wrote 
Bradley suffered other injuries including bro -
ken fingers and spinal leakage.
Protestors, some wearing shirts depicting 
Bradley’s bloodied eye socket, marched down 
Northwest 6th Street to the GPD building locat -
ed about a half mile north of the Blount Cen -
ter. As demonstrators of all ages marched, they 
chanted “No justice, no peace” and “Whose 
streets? Our streets.” Protestors blocked the 
intersection of Northwest 8th Avenue and 
Northwest 6th Street as they demanded police 
accountability.
Victor Bradley, Terrell’s father and 60-year-
old lifelong Gainesville resident, only saw K-9s 
used against Black males when he served in 
the police department in the 1990s. Officers 
need to be held more accountable when their dogs act violently, he said, and people should 
be more involved in local politics and the po -
lice department.
He said his son was in good spirits and was 
not bitter about the incident, but Ashley Burke, 
Bradley’s cousin and 33-year old Gainesville 
resident, suggested the charges against him be 
dropped because of how much he’s suffered 
from the K-9 mauling.
“He’s lost enough. He lost an entire eye 
when it wasn’t even necessary. I feel like 
they punished him in just doing that. You’re 
gonna mutilate him, take his eye and then 
turn around and try to punish him with jail 
time or anything else? That’s not right.”
- Ashley Burke, cousin of Terrell Bradley
      
Although GPD’s statement acknowledged 
members of the community may feel disturbed 
by Bradley’s injuries, it does not expand on 
the nature of what occurred; it simply says the 
K-9 apprehended Bradley. K-9 handlers are ex -
pected to be judicious in their use of the dogs, 
according to GDP guidelines.
“Canine force shall be utilized only when 
necessary,” a section reads. “Handlers will uti -
lize all reasonable means to affect apprehen -
sion, without incurring a bite.”
The guidelines further state handlers should 
consider the severity of the crime and the threat 
level posed to law enforcement when deciding 
whether to use K-9s in apprehensions. 
“Police K-9s will normally be released to 
make apprehensions only in forcible felony 
cases … where the suspect continues to resist 
arrest and because of the seriousness of the 
crime, poses a danger to others, and when no 
lesser means of apprehension are practical,” 
according to the guidelines. 
“Forcible felony” is a legal term that encom -
passes a broad range of offenses from murder 
to sexual battery to burglary and other crimes as listed in the guidelines.
The guidelines also allow for the use of 
K-9s in cases where violence is feared, such 
as cases of drug possession or sales where the 
suspect possesses a weapon or has a known 
history of violence. Another example given is 
of a suspect who flees from law enforcement at 
a speed that puts others at risk.
An Eden Park resident who wished to re -
main anonymous said residents gathered 
around the area as Bradley screamed during 
the K-9 assault. After the incident, she started 
a Facebook live video and said he was in se -vere pain. 
The severity of Bradley’s injuries raises 
questions about law enforcement’s deploy -
ment of the K-9 and the extent to which he 
may have been abused by Gainesville police.
GPD Chief Lonnie Scott asked for a review 
of the incident to be completed within the next 
week to 10 days, according to the police de -
partment’s statement.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgRALLY,  from pg. 1K-9 brutality
Omar Ateyah / / Alligator Staff
Protester holds a sign reading “Justice 4 T errell Bradley” during a rally Sunday, 
July 17, 2022.
victim to big developers. The 
Swamp, a long-standing restau -
rant and bar in Midtown, was de -
molished in 2020 and replaced by 
apartments; it will reopen in the 
Gainesville Innovation District in 
August. 
SweetBerries’ trademark patio 
remains stocked with memories 
for Romy Miller, a 23-year-old 
UF law student and food blogger. 
She frequented the restaurant 
during her undergraduate experi -
ence, and it remains one of her 
favorite local establishments.
“This is definitely a trend, it’s 
definitely upsetting,” Miller said. 
“I don’t know why so many 
apartments are being built.”
- Romy Miller, UF student
The original restaurant, driv -
en out by townhouse develop -
ment plans that have been un -
derway since a Jan. 27 City Plan 
Board meeting — one component 
of a lengthy process involving 
the City Commission to develop 
student housing along 13th Street 
— may not be as popular with 
students farther from UF’s main 
campus, she said. A contract 
with Chartwells Higher Educa -
tion, UF’s primary on-campus 
food provider, may ease some of her nerves. 
An on-campus location may 
replace the Au Bon Pain in New -
ell Hall and serve grab-and-go 
items, breakfast sandwiches, 
pastries, and its usual lunch 
sandwiches and salads from 7:30 
a.m. to 3 p.m., Osmond said. She 
is unsure if frozen custard will be 
available, but the off-campus lo -cation’s menu will remain largely 
the same with only less popular 
food items swapped with new 
specials. 
Though Chartwells’ contract 
with SweetBerries has not been 
finalized, Osmond is optimistic 
about the second location. Chart -
wells, which replaced Aramark 
July 1, hopes to establish several 
local restaurants as permanent 
campus fixtures.
UF Business Services commu -nications manager Analee Rodri -
guez declined to discuss contract 
details, but she wrote the uni -
versity looks forward to “sharing 
specific information about loca -
tions soon” in an email to The 
Alligator.
SweetBerries and other local 
restaurants offer healthier and 
more accommodating options 
compared to the fast food chains 
in the Reitz Union, 21-year-old 
UF dietetics senior Lexye Hill said.
“Local food and places that 
have those healthier options 
are going to immediately 
benefit students because 
they're going to have more 
energy in classes, and they're 
going to be able to actually 
focus on their work.”
- Lexye Hill, UF student
Hill, a vegan with several class -
es near Newell Hall, expects to 
stop at the on-campus SweetBer -
ries frequently.
Rachel Diaz-Evans, a 62-year-
old retired Gainesville resident, 
visited the cafe twice the week it 
closed to savor one last Caribbean 
chicken salad and pesto chicken 
sandwich. She will miss the breezy 
outdoor patio that welcomed her 
when she moved to Gainesville 
about a year ago, she said, but the 
extra seven blocks east do not faze 
her.
On-site parking and quintessen -
tial outdoor seating will live on as 
the new property’s old pecan trees 
shade customers enjoying custard 
and ice cream on balmy summer 
afternoons, Osmond said. The hos -
pitality will not change either; Os -
mond is relieved to keep her staff, 
who detracted her from retirement 
plans and motivated SweetBerries’ 
reopening.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgSWEETBERRIES,  from pg. 1Landmark relocates
Fernando Figueroa / / Alligator Staff
Patrons order their favorite menu items at Sweetberries Eatery and Frozen Custard for the last time 
before the shop relocates Sunday, July 17, 2022.
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
Turlington Plaza is a 45-year-old campus landmark; but for 
some, it’s simply a cue to put on sunglasses and headphones. 
The bustling intersection of classrooms, restaurants and 
Marston Science Library is one of the campus’ official public 
forum areas, along with Plaza of the Americas and the Reitz 
Union’s North lawn. Clubs continuously advertise through the 
brick-laden strip as students hurriedly make their way to class, 
most preferring to avoid eye contact, ducking and dodging ea -
ger club representatives. 
Jaret Tran, a 20-year-old UF history junior, tables for UF at 
Turlington to spread word about events celebrating Gator pride, 
like Homecoming and Gator Growl. He said most students walk 
past without a word.
He understands, he said — he doesn’t always stop at the 
tables himself.
“Ninety percent of people are just going to walk by, and 
that’s just how it is,” Tran said.  
Robert Schachel, a 47-year-old English professor in Orlando, 
attended UF from 1993-1996 for his undergraduate in English 
and from 2002-2006 for his PhD. Turlington, housing the Eng -
lish department, was his home base.
It acted as a common medium for students who wanted to 
explore what UF had to offer, Schachel said. He was in the cast 
of the local Rocky Horror Picture Show and went to Turlington 
to inform students of the upcoming production.
“There was no social media,” he said. “That was social me -
dia.”
He said credit card companies, like Discover or Visa, put up 
foldable tables to offer students Slinkys, Tootsie Pops or Skit -
tles if they signed up for a credit card. UF quickly stopped the 
practice in 1995 to deter companies from taking advantage of 
students who didn’t understand what they were signing up for.
The tables were replaced with concrete pillars and brick 
slabs by the time Schachel returned to pursue his PhD.Ilana Herman, a 22-year-old UF visual art studies senior in 
UF Hillel, said the now perdurable plaza is valuable for orga -
nizations advertising to new Summer B and Fall students who 
flock toward the area. 
“They’re curious,” Herman said. “They want to get involved 
in things.”
UF Hillel often uses falafels and shawarma to persuade stu -
dents to learn more about the club, she said.
Meka Acholonu, a 31-year-old UF civil engineering alumnus, 
graduated in 2014 and said Turlington was a high-traffic area 
and served mostly as a hangout spot between classes. The Reitz 
Union was where he was approached by clubs, but Turlington 
never overwhelmed him.
“It was kind of like an area to destress,” Acholonu said.
Sheila Corzo, a 28-year-old UF architecture alumna who graduated in 2019, trekked through Turlington when she was 
scheduled to work in Marston. By that time, the scene was com -
parable to a crowded concert, and religious groups would rou -
tinely yell at students.
“If I walked through there, I knew what I was taking on,” 
Corzo said.
But the plaza turned peaceful as bats flew overhead after 5 
p.m.
Lamia Elmahdawy, a 48-year-old Gainesville resident, at -
tended UF from 1991-94 as an undergraduate student and from 
1994-98 as a medical student. 
She said the campus grew, and the student population in -
creased over the years, but when she drops her kids off at Tur -
lington, for activities like SAT testing, the plaza looks mostly 
the same.
“It’s always kind of been considered the central 
location of the university,” Elmahdawy said, “No 
matter how much it expands.”
- Lamia Elmahdawy, Gainesville resident
Michelle Sullivan, a 20-year-old UF architecture junior, 
walks through Turlington three times a week on her way to 
class or an on-campus restaurant. Club members try to catch 
her attention with music, flyers and free items roughly 75% of 
the time, she estimated. 
Sullivan said she seeks out clubs she’s interested in, like 
Gator Christian Life or clubs related to the UF College of De -
sign, Construction and Planning, but otherwise, she just keeps 
walking. 
“It can be a bit much,” Sullivan said. “Most people seem to 
try to avoid the area.”
As a freshman in Fall 2020, Sullivan used to keep Turlington 
at arm’s length, but she’s now accustomed to the maneuvers 
needed to pass through tables: secure headphones, don shades 
and push through with the determination of a Gators football 
player.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.org
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville may become the first Florida 
city to eliminate single-family zoning in an 
effort to offer additional housing near cam -
pus and in residential areas.
The potential amendment mirrors Min -
neapolis, Portland and Seattle’s systems, 
which allow developers to build two-story 
multifamily units, like quadruplexes, in 
residential areas. The proposal also re -
moves restrictions that limit occupancy to 
one family and limit the number of bed -
rooms per structure.
Residents expressed opposition to 
amendments in public meetings, petitions 
and online. They fear the city may con -
tinue to lose its charm to developers after 
the closures of Sweetberries Eatery, Frozen 
Custard Sunday and The Swamp Restau -
rant in 2020. 
Kurt Johnsen, a 66-year-old Gainesville 
resident and landlord who lives in the 
Kirkwood neighborhood off of South Main 
Street, created a petition to alert commis -
sioners toward resident opposition. It has 
garnered more than 2,100 signatures and 
about 100 comments since July 1.
“The one certain thing we’re going to 
have is change,” he said, “But you can 
manage the change, and you can look for 
consensus.”   The city commission has not done that, 
he said.
“They preach from the altar,” he said. 
“They’re going to pass this whether we like 
it or not.” 
Johnsen rents properties to students, 
who bring youth, vitality and diversity to 
single-family residential neighborhoods. 
The new changes push that dynamic in the 
opposite direction and do not solve afford -
able housing issues, he said — developers 
would likely demolish existing affordable 
houses to build the multifamily units.
Mariah Rollins, a 48-year-old Gainesville 
resident who lives in the Hazel Heights 
neighborhood, said the commission’s push 
to eliminate single-family zoning is meant 
to appease people who profit from the stu -
dent population, like developers.
As a Gainesville resident for nearly 17 
years, Rollins said she has noticed the 
commission caters more to the student 
population and less to local or low-income 
residents.
“It seems like people owning their own 
homes has become more of a liability,” 
she said. “It doesn’t seem like they’re 
really trying to find ways for people to 
own their own homes.”
- Mariah Rollins, Gainesville resident
The issue is much bigger than zoning changes, she said. She fears the commission 
is steering towards a dystopian agenda.
City Commissioners and mayoral can -
didates David Arreola and Harvey Ward 
shared their opposing stances at an Oak 
Hammock candidate forum Tuesday. Arreo -
la, along with Mayor Lauren Poe and Com -
missioners Adrian Hayes-Santos and Reina 
Saco, assured the change will help solve 
Gainesville’s affordable housing crisis. 
Ward, with commissioners Cynthia Chest -
nut and Desmon Duncan-Walker, opposed 
the proposal. 
Chestnut said she has never seen an is -
sue unite Gainesville more than the opposi -
tion for eliminating exclusionary housing. 
The proposal will not help gentrification, 
but it will reduce residents’ property value, 
she said.
“It’s not going to help achieve that goal 
for African Americans and for anyone 
who’s really trying to achieve the American 
dream,” she said.
The commission should explore inclu -
sionary zoning, an approach that incentiv -
izes developers to help provide affordable 
housing for moderate-income households, 
she said.  
Residents recommended the city pause 
the elimination of single-family zoning city -
wide and only implement zoning changes to 
select neighborhoods, but Johnsen said the 
commission dismissed their recommenda -tion formed at the city plan board meeting 
June 6.
Chestnut said the city’s dismissal of the 
recommendation was disconcerting.
A gradual citywide implementation 
would allow multi-family units to develop 
in historically white neighborhoods, Hayes-
Santos said, rather than exclusively histori -
cally Black neighborhoods. It would level 
the playing field and tailor development to 
each neighborhood’s character.
“We have to start somewhere,” he said. 
“We can’t keep delaying dealing with the 
housing issue … We’re having a housing 
crisis because we’ve continued to delay 
things.”
The elimination of exclusionary zon -
ing — which commissioners first passed in 
the 1950s — would increase the number of 
houses inside the city limits and reduce gen -
trification, traffic, housing cost and urban 
sprawl, he said.
Melanie Corrales, an 18-year-old UF digi -
tal arts and sciences sophomore, was able 
to secure housing at Oakbrook Walk Apart -
ments with her sister’s guidance, which, 
she said, is difficult for most residents to 
achieve.
Even though college students account for 
50% of Gainesville’s population and their 
ability to obtain affordable housing is cru -
cial, Corrales said, there are other residents 
within the city that also need affordable 
housing.
The city commission rescheduled its vote 
from July 13 to Aug. 4.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgUF’s Turlington Plaza: crossroads for current and former students  
City split on residential zoning changesKiara Cline / / Alligator Staff
Students walk through Turlington Plaza in between 
classes on Monday, Aug. 23, 2021.
The decision would change occupancy limits, amend residential zoningTurlington, the heartbeat of campus, continues to beat through centuriesKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gators get drafted
A trio of Florida baseball players had their MLB dreams realized 
Sunday night, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE NINE-PIECE SOUL GROUP KICKED OFF THEIR 
FIRST TOUR IN THREE YEARS ON JULY 8
By Kristine Villarroel 
Avenue Staff Writer
Soaring horns and dynamic rhythms made fans dance under 
cloudy skies at the Heartwood Soundstage. While others sat in 
lawn chairs, some concertgoers gathered near the stage. Savants 
of Soul frontman Justin McKenzie fed off their energy to deliver 
an energetic vocal performance when the group took the stage 
on Friday. 
The nine-piece soul band kicked off their summer tour July 8 
at the outdoor stage among dozens of fans. Their first time hitting 
the road since before the COVID-19 pandemic, the tour will cover 
six Florida cities throughout July. 
The band has existed under different lineups and varying 
sounds since 2011, but it morphed into its current form in 2020 
with the release of its self-titled album. 
While their recording process is as intricate as their sound, 
the live show is where they let all the elements shine the best. 
Dressed in coordinated outfits, the nine members bring all their 
energy and vibrance to the stage. 
“Everyone should just come to our shows so I don't ever have 
to record another album,” McKenzie said. 
One of the dates on their tour will be a block party in Gaines -
ville’s downtown, where they will invite a group of musicians 
including the Late Night Losers, Shine and the Shakers, Mad -
woman, Dionysus and others to jam in the street outside The 
Bull. There will also be food vendors, including local favorite 
Germain’s. 
The July 22 event will raise funds for UpbeatGNV, a non-prof -
it that helps musicians connect with mental health services. Band 
member John Gray Shermyen co-founded the organization dur -
ing the COVID-19 pandemic as a way to try to tackle the “accept -ed secret” of musicians’ struggle with mental health concerns. 
The group hopes to release their next album — which they 
still have to finish recording — sometime next year. Until then, 
they will play their new, old, and unreleased songs to anyone 
listening. 
While their sound is big, anthemic and crowded, instrumen -
talists and songwriters Shermyen and Zack Emerson said a major 
part of the recording process consists of simplifying each player’s 
part to create a smoother sound that lets each element shine. 
“Recording is a big mirror that you don't have any choice but 
to get right up close and look at,” Emerson said. “So you see all 
your flaws and mistakes and where you need to grow.” 
In a democratized music landscape, as Shermyen describes 
it, nearly anyone can create a record with minimal equipment 
needed. This freedom allows for creativity, he said, but too much 
of it hinders it. 
“Because you have so many options, it can be a little bit over -
whelming to think that way,” Shermyen said. “Sometimes it is 
nice to be like ‘No, I'm going to make myself work under these 
more difficult conditions.’” 
The Savants have since taken a tape-only approach to music 
recording. The analog technology takes the sound signals from a 
microphone and converts them to magnetic energy that is then 
stored on a plastic film tape. This means that the editing process 
is reduced to a minimum as it would require physically cutting 
and rearranging the tapes. Every take has to work for the record -
ing to sound good. 
“It forces a little bit of perfect imperfection,”
- John Gray Shermyen, Savants of Soul
For a nine-piece group, getting the right take takes practice 
and coordination. The group rehearsed for months leading up to 
their album recording session at the legendary FAME recording 
studio in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, where Aretha Franklin, Etta 
James, and Wilson Pickett, among other soul legends, recorded some of their hits.
For them, the recording sessions held some form of irony 
— as they recorded in a space where music history had been 
made for so many decades, tour groups visited the place with its 
gold-records-covered walls while they tried to use broken coffee 
machines and tiny bathroom stalls in between takes. Outside of 
the legendary studio, a CVS parking lot welcomes visitors. 
Since then, the group has recorded mostly at Gainesville’s 
Pulp Arts studio, which they credit for helping them develop 
their sound. Pulp Arts is the only place in town where they have 
been able to keep their tape-recording habit. 
The Savants of Soul aren’t trying to replicate the sounds from 
the era from which they draw inspiration. Instead, they use the 
musical vocabulary of those influences to communicate current -
ly relevant messages. 
Their latest single, “Spot At The Top,” narrates the point 
of view of a person experiencing what Shermyen describes as 
“temporarily embarrassed millionaire syndrome,” or someone 
who votes against their best interests hoping that one day they 
will be rich and benefit from the system that hinders them where 
they are now. 
The song is narrated from a third-person point of view, with 
the singer describing how a character feels. This was a change 
that occurred during the recording process, McKenzie says. The 
original demo had him singing as the character, which he de -
scribes as a right-wing lunatic. 
Along with some politics-inspired songs, the lyrics in the 
Savants’ music deal with mostly universal human topics, like 
heartbreak, love and other emotions. 
Their composition process is based on collaboration. Nearly 
everybody writes songs, and members usually contribute ar -
rangements to their parts.
@ktnedelvalle
kvillarroel@alligator.orgThe Savants of Soul hit the road again after energetic performance at Heartwood Soundstage
MUSICMUSICof Independent Venue Week, an annual na -
tionwide event celebrating the contributions 
of more than 400 entertainment locales not 
owned or funded by larger corporations. The 
week highlighted Gainesville’s music scene — 
a once booming, then barren, and now recov -
ering collection of community staples.
Pat Lavery, High Dive’s facility and events 
manager, said the weekly schedule reflects the 
venue’s strength: a variety of shows night in 
and night out.
“We do this every week,” he wrote in an 
email to The Alligator. “It’s what we love and 
what we’re good at.” 
IVW commemorates the survival of local 
stages like High Dive and Heartwood Sound -
stage, through elongated COVID closures. 
Though the week is in its fifth year, the past 
two years punctuate major lobbying efforts 
from the National Independent Venue Associa -
tion — a collection of show promoters, venue 
personnel and festival employees — for relief 
funding amid the mass shutdowns.
The Shuttered Venue Operators Grant, in -
troduced by Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) and 
passed by Congress in December 2020, allo -
cates over $16 billion in grants to recovering 
venues. NIVA members like High Dive are only 
open today because of the aid, which helped 
cover bills and operational costs that climbed with the absence of revenue amid the closures, 
Lavery said.
High Dive and Heartwood benefitted from 
the grant; each received around $161,000 in 
funding.
“The funding that was secured collectively 
by NIVA through nonstop lobbying was the 
only way we survived the situation,” Lavery 
said.
High Dive closed completely at the onset 
COVID closures in March 2020 until late Au -
gust 2020; Heartwood reopened a month later.
Dave Melosh, Heartwood’s owner and gen -
eral manager, said the venue barely made it 
through.
“We lost a good amount of money but man -
aged to hang on,” he wrote in an email to The 
Alligator.
The relief grant revives venues where artists 
like Austin Brockner, a 30-year-old blues rock 
musician, cut their teeth.
Brockner played a series of house shows, 
markets and smaller venues around Gainesville 
before booking High Dive. The venue, which 
featured local upstarts like flipturn and national 
touring artists like Mitski and Mayday Parade, 
is among Gainesville’s most iconic stages, he 
said.
“If you’re going to try to make it, this is the 
place you play,” Brockner said. “You go there 
once you’ve proved you’ve got a sound.”
These venues also cultivate community. 
Lavery said High Dive raises around $40,000 
annually for national and local charities with 
events like the Original Gainesville Food Truck 
Rally, which recruits regional food trucks to fundraise for local organizations.
The GGRC showcase tacks onto High Dive’s 
history of local engagement. Coral Smith, the 
co-director of GGRC, said her experience in the 
Gainesville music scene, High Dive’s notoriety 
and a combined interest in encouraging young 
musicians led to a longstanding partnership.
“There’s been a deep relationship from the 
beginning with them,” Smith said.
Saturday’s GGRC showcase was only the 
first show High Dive hosted that day, followed 
by an indie rock show featuring St. Peters -
burg’s Speakeasy and Gainesville’s Madwom -
an. Heartwood continued its ongoing partner -
ship with the GNV Farmers Market, hosting the 
event and an after-market concert with new-
age jazz group Electric Kif Thursday.
The bills at local venues now brim with art -
ists, but pandemic wounds still sting. Shortages and cancellations persist, Lavery said, and the 
added issues of inflation and rising gas prices 
hinder venues from offering traditional costs 
and bands from touring altogether.
Despite the obstacles, local venues perse -
vere. Melosh said Heartwood is profitable for 
the first time in two years, and Lavery said 
High Dive hasn’t let the roadblocks prevent 
regular operations. 
“We are still here and we are doing great 
things right here down the street,” he wrote.
That’s what IVW is about, Lavery said — 
celebrating the small victories and the everyday 
musical miracles settled right in Gainesville’s 
backyard.
@hmb_1013
hbushman@alligator.orgINDEPENDENT,  from pg. 1Venues' vitality
Heather Bushman / / Alligator Staff
High Dive hosted the Gainesville Girls Rock Camp showcase Saturday, July 16, 2022.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
7-18-19-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Beautiful 2/2 condo for rent In quiet neigh -
borhood close to UF campus on bus route. 
Tile floors throughout, central heat & air, 
washer/dryer included. $950/mo w/ $950 
deposit. Call 352-514-8156 for application.    
8-17-22-4-2
Charming 3BR/1BA brick home w/ large 
fenced backyard. Easy walk/bike to UF cam-
pus. New cent ac+heat, washer & dryer, large 
Florida room, hardwood floors. Yard serv & 
pest control incl. Avail Aug 1st. $2,100/mo 
+ 1 mo sec. Call Tom Davis, 352-215-4990.  
8-1-22-3-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
11..    ________  ggaatthheerriinngg
11..    SSmmookkeedd  ________55..    RReecclluussee
22..    ________  PPaarrkk66..    SSuummmmaarryy
33..    ________  ttrreeee77..    OOvveerrjjooyyeedd  
44..    SSnnoooozzeedd  bbrriieeffllyy  AASSCCIIOOLL
NNAAMMLLSSOORROOLLEENN
PPAACCRREE
RREECCNNTTLLAA
PPAACCIIOORRTTLLDDEEEETTAA
DDAAEEPPNNPPAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSoocciiaall    55AA--LLoonneerr    66AA--RReeccaapp    77AA--EEllaatteedd
11DD--SSaallmmoonn    22DD--CCeennttrraall    33DD--AApprriiccoott    44DD--NNaappppeedd    BB--MMoonnttee  CCaarrlloo77--1188--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  mmuunniicciippaalliittyy  ooff  ________  ________  
wwaass  ccrreeaatteedd  iinn  11991111.. BONUSThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds10 For Sale
By Howard Barkin
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/18/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/18/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 18, 2022
ACROSS
1 Karaoke devices, 
for short
5 Chip maker 
__-Lay
10 Big rig
14 Dept. of Labor 
div.
15 First name of 
Yankee manager 
Boone and 
Yankee slugger 
Judge
16 Mimicked
17 *Fried seafood 
appetizer
19 Small container  
in a chemistry  
lab
20 Stage hog
21 Blackjack cards
22 Frozen spike
24 Savanna 
antelopes
26 Emotionally 
detached
27 *Sandwiches  
with leafy 
exteriors
31 “Catch those 
villains!”
34 Cooking  
vessels
35 Debtor’s letters
36 “We try harder” 
car rental chain
37 Faceplanted off a 
skateboard, say
39 Unmitigated joy
40 Sleep stage 
letters
41 Pizazz
42 Bridge positions
43 *Starchy and 
eggy dessert
47 Zero
48 Takes down, as 
a flyer
52 Know-it-all’s  
taunt
54 Fashion monthly
55 Canyon edge
56 Love, in Spanish
57 Budget option at 
a fast-food joint 
that the answers 
to the starred 
clues could all 
belong to?
60 Walking aid
61 Initial stage
62 Contributes
63 Hoops long shot
64 Honking birds
65 LuxuriousDOWN
1 Chewy rice cake
2 Ramadan faith
3 Tourney winner
4 “You Send Me” 
singer Cooke
5 Big shot with big 
bucks
6 Least likely to be 
found
7 Colorful eye part
8 Spinning toy
9 Like a cellphone 
in a theater, 
hopefully
10 Knight in shining 
armor
11 Major faceplants
12 Brunch, e.g.
13 Inactive
18 Oregon capital
23 Dairy farm 
animals
25 Gastropub pours
26 Smoothie berry
28 Flip over
29 Maya Angelou, 
for one
30 Seeks damages 
from
31 Attire
32 Happily __ after
33 Chance to 
unwind and read 
a book, perhaps37 Pack leader
38 Lacking slack
39 “Born This  
Way” singer  
Lady __
41 Tense and 
irritable
42 Word near a 
maze arrow
44 “Sabrina”  
actress  
Hepburn
45 Airport serving 
the D.C. area46 Arriving after 
curfew
49 Statement of  
faith
50 “It takes all __”
51 Flatten
52 Social finesse
53 “Doctor  
Zhivago” actor 
Sharif
54 “What __ can  
I say?”
58 Individual
59 Atlas page
By Catherine Cetta
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/12/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/12/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 12, 2022
ACROSS
1 California wine 
region near 
Sonoma
5 Not quite
11 Zamboni surface
14 Nowhere to be 
seen, for short
15 Simple shelter
16 Prom rental
17 *Performer who 
may wear harem 
pants
19 Lob’s path
20 “Star Wars” 
heroine
21 Taylor Swift’s  
“__ Song”
22 If not
23 Tree frog sound
25 *People in a  
love-hate 
relationship
27 Transmission 
choice for driving 
uphill
29 Stockpile
30 Chips __!: cookie 
brand
31 Creme Egg 
candymaker
35 Hearty holiday 
drink
36 *Body-lifting 
exercises
37 Spigot
40 Ambushed
41 Corn Belt tower
42 Storybook brutes
45 Tracks down
47 *Veers from 
the straight and 
narrow
51 Pet rabbit’s  
home
52 Wallop
53 Feel crummy
54 Carpenter’s 
clamp
55 Source of milk  
for pecorino 
cheese
56 Dieting advice, 
and what the 
answers to the 
starred clues 
literally do
60 Time zone word: 
Abbr.
61 Dined at a bistro, 
say
62 Nerd
63 That lady
64 Tinkers (with)
65 Avant-gardeDOWN
1 Capture
2 Knock the socks 
off
3 Tadpole
4 Hay fever, e.g.
5 “Marriage Story” 
actor Alan
6 Actress 
Thompson
7 Regal home
8 Promptly
9 Rudder’s locale
10 Only Canadian 
MLB city
11 Firenze locale
12 Swear words
13 More than 
necessary
18 Cry of pain
22 Television  
award
23 Tartan-sharing 
kin
24 Santa’s jolly 
syllables
25 Physically 
delicate
26 Disneyland hat 
pair
28 Sore
32 Genetic  
material
33 Construct
34 Bun, e.g.36 Wine barrel
37 Giggled  
self-consciously
38 Smart __:  
know-it-all
39 Swanky
40 Like 
disappointing 
coffee
41 McMuffin meat 
option
42 Think too much 
(about)
43 Old-__ forest44 Ebb
46 Rather smart
48 Cook in some 
olive oil, say
49 Tugs at a fishing 
line
50 Choir section
54 November 
honorees
56 Pic taker
57 Shade on a color 
wheel
58 Plead
59 Big __ Country
07/11/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
Green Mountain Pools in Vermont is hiring 
pool plasterers, mixers, and laborers starting 
at $18-$25/hr depending on experience. Call 
Nick 802-356-1482 or email grnmntpools@
comcast.net     7-18-1-14
Looking for student to help keep up home / 
yard. Move in / live RENT FREE, in furnished 
efficiency apt. Close to UF. No pets.
● OR ● Part-time job $15/hr. 
Short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com
8-1-22-4-14
HELP old retired dude needs help with web-
site for an online bookstore. It seemed like 
a good idea when set up with GoDaddy . 
Still have one month for free tweaks. Would 
like to work with like-minded person. Active 
website: inspirationpointers.com. Contact 
tomprahl@outlook.com, 352-481-3322    
7-18-22-2-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
8-24-22-5-14
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in-
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
15 Services
PROTECT YOUR HOME from pests safely 
and affordably. Pest, rodent, termite and 
mosquito control. Call for a quote or inspec -
tion today 888-498-0446                   7-18-4-15
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      7-18-7-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
7-18-24-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            7-18-7-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                7-18-18-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover-
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                    7-18-7-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
7-18-4-15
16 Health Services
Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816              7-18-6-16
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifiedsATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       7-18-24-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Counseling that is Professional
Afforable, Adults and Couples
Telehealth or in person
LMHC harrisdk1012@gmail.com
352 642-5176                             7-25-22-5-16
817 NW 57th Terr, Ste B
Gainesville, Florida 32605
            ● Urgent and Primary Care
            ● Walk-Ins Welcome
            ● Minimal Wait
            ● Rapid Molecular Covid Testing
            ●**24hr STD Test Results**
Phone 352-554-5977
Website: 1stchoiceicc.com
8-1-22-4-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Bonzi Wells.
2. Mills Lane.
3. 76.
4. The Commonwealth Games.5. The Cayman ball.
6. The Cincinnati Bengals.
7. AstroTurf.Sports Quiz answersanswers below1. What Ball State Cardinals basketball standout 
was selected 11th overall by the Detroit Pistons in 
the 1998 NBA Draft, but had his rights traded to 
the Portland Trail Blazers?
2. Name the boxing referee who served two terms 
as a Nevada district court judge and had a court -
room TV show in syndication from 1998 to 2001.
3. In 2021, competitive eating legend Joey Chest -
nut broke his own record at the Nathan's Hot Dog 
Eating Contest by consuming how many hot dogs 
and buns (HDBs) in 10 minutes?
4. What international multisport event, first held 
in 1930, was conceived as a competition among 
territories of the British Empire?
5. What golf ball, developed by MacGregor Golf 
in the 1980s for use on small island courses, 
weighed half as much and flew half as far as a 
standard golf ball?
6. Ohio State Buckeyes defensive tackle Dan "Big 
Daddy" Wilkinson was chosen first overall in the 
1994 NFL Draft by what team? 
7. What product was originally patented and sold 
under the name ChemGrass in 1965?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
I WAS TAUGHT THAT THE WAY OF PROGRESS WAS NEITHER SWIFT NOR EASY.
— MARIE CURIE
solution  below
scan the code to
SUBSCRIBE
to our 
NEWSLETTER!10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
Pokotylo Patent Services
www.pokopat.com
732-796-8430                                  7-18-1-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Trivia Test  answers1. Princess Leia. 2. The Sahara. 3. President Theodore Roosevelt, Peace Prize. 
4. Bone marrow. 5. "Deliverance". 6. Massachusetts. 7. Sea of Tranquility. 8. 
"The Member of the Wedding". 9. "Love Me Tender," 1956. 10. Walgreensanswers below1. TELEVISION: Which "Star Wars" character did 
Tina Fey dress as in the sitcom "30 Rock" to avoid 
jury duty?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What is the largest desert in Africa?
3. HISTORY: Who was the first American to win a 
Nobel Prize?
4. ANATOMY: Where in the body is blood produced?
5. MOVIES: Which movie features a theme song 
titled "Dueling Banjos"?
6. U.S. STATES: Which state was the first to make 
same-sex marriage legal?
7. SCIENCE: Where did the first manned spacecraft 
land on the moon?
8. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century Southern novel 
features a character named Frankie Addams?
9. MUSIC: What is the first movie that featured the 
singer Elvis?
10. AD SLOGANS: Which company's slogan once was  
"At the corner of happy and healthy"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.19 Connections
MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
BASEBALLBy Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
Although redshirt sophomore Taylor 
Roberts hasn’t made a tournament appear -
ance for UF yet, she is already at work.
Roberts, along with Duke golfer Phoebe 
Brinker, will host the American Junior Golf 
Association (AJGA) Impact Cup July 25-26 
at the Bobby Jones Golf Club and the East 
Lake Golf Course in Atlanta. 
The Impact Cup is a unique college 
golf tournament that provides competitive 
golfers the opportunity to showcase their 
talents and develop important life skills. 
Roberts created the tournament with the 
mission to educate, foster and support 
awareness around youth mental health 
while establishing a peer-to-peer network 
where no one feels alone. 
“I started the Impact Cup because when 
I was going through my own struggles. I 
realized how lucky I was to have resources 
that my parents provided for me,” Roberts said.
The lifelong friends brought the idea 
of the Impact Cup to the AJGA. The asso -
ciation loved the idea, connecting the two 
athletes with the Generation Next Project, 
a charity aimed at providing tools to com -
bat mental health in golf. Everything was 
envisioned all on a sit-down Zoom call 
when discussing the tournament. The main 
message, bringing awareness and ending 
the stigma on mental health. 
Each participant of the tournament has 
agreed to raise at least $1,000 to benefit the 
AJGA’s ACE Grant Program, which pro -
vides financial assistance to young golfers 
who aspire to earn a college golf scholar -
ship through competitive junior golf, and 
The Generation Next Project. 
The goal for the Impact Cup is to raise 
$100,000. Roberts leads all participants 
with $65,691 raised as of Sunday. 
“A lot of people don’t have access to re -
sources, and I wanted to raise money that 
would eventually help people learn more about mental health and how to better 
themselves,” Roberts said.
The golfers’ partnership with the AJGA 
has already been utilized once. In 2020, 
Roberts and Brinker hosted the Senior Cup 
in Parkland, Florida, for high school golf -
ers whose senior seasons were cut short 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Roberts and Brinker respond to their 
mental health struggles by being vocal 
about them and creating outlets for young -
er athletes who share similar experiences.
“I hope that bringing together collegiate 
golfers who have faced similar 
circumstances and struggles can start 
the necessary conversation surrounding 
mental health."
- Phoebe Brinker, Duke golfer
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.org
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
The 2022 MLB Draft kicked 
off Sunday, and Florida made its 
presence known early.
The Colorado Rockies selected UF outfielder Sterlin Thompson 
with the 31st overall pick, earning 
him a slot value of more than $2.4 
million. Sophomore ace Hunter 
Barco was next, getting drafted 
by the Pittsburgh Pirates with the 
44th overall pick. Center fielder Jud Fabian was the third UF player 
selected, this time by the Baltimore 
Orioles with the 67th pick.
Thompson was one of the 
cornerstones of the Gators’ offense 
in 2022. An Ocala native from North 
Marion High School, Thompson 
lasted just two years at UF before 
receiving the call up to the big 
leagues. The slugger recorded 145 
hits, 98 runs and 16 homers on 
a .332 batting average during his 
collegiate career.
He moved up in the lineup his 
sophomore year, starting in the 
three-spot before sliding up to 
second for the latter portion of the 
season. The 6-foot-4 lefty batter 
caught fire and never burned out, 
recording 51 RBIs and 90 hits in 
2022.
The highlight of Thomson’s 
season came May 17, when he 
drilled a ninth-inning walk-off home 
run against Florida State. The feat 
marked the second consecutive 
Gators walk-off against FSU at home, 
and Thompson fully embraced the 
moment.
“I knew it was gone and I threw 
my bat,” Thompson said after the 
game. “That’s something I dreamed of as a kid.”
Barco, after his freshman year 
was canceled due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, excelled in both of his 
final two years in Gainesville. The 
Jacksonville native earned 2021 
Southeastern Conference All-
Newcomer Team honors allowing 
just 77 hits and dealing 94 strikeouts 
in 83 innings of work.
Barco was electric in his 2022 
starts, thriving as UF’s bonafide ace. 
He averaged an ERA of 2.50 and a 
record of 5-2, allowing just 14 runs 
in 50.1 innings of action.
Then, after an abbreviated start 
in Nashville, Tennessee, against 
Vanderbilt, Barco was sent to the 
dugout indefinitely with elbow 
soreness. Barco announced he 
would miss the remainder of the 
season May 3, as he underwent 
Tommy John surgery.
Despite the shortened season, 
Barco showed all he needed to for 
Pittsburgh to be interested in taking 
the southpaw. He is eligible for more 
than $1.7 million at his slot value.
Fabian returned to Gainesville 
for one more year after declining 
a contract from the Boston Red 
Sox, who drafted Fabian 40th in the 2021 MLB Draft. The year 
gave him a chance to play with his 
brother, Deric, but his reasons to 
return stretched further than blood. 
Fabian looked to improve his plate 
discipline, and the effort paid off.
He recorded 10 less strikeouts 
in 2022 than 2021 in nine more 
at-bats and increased his walk 
total from 40 to 62. While Fabian 
worked on his plate discipline, his 
power didn’t skip a beat. The Ocala 
native rocketed 24 homers in his 
final UF campaign, a record-setting 
accomplishment. He is the only 
Gator to ever record back-to-back 
seasons with more than 20 homers.
Fabian recorded a perfect fielding 
rating in the Condron Ballpark 
outfield. His fielding and batting 
combined made him into the type 
of player the Orioles were seeking in 
the second round. His slot value is 
listed at more than $1 million.
As the draft unfolds, more 
teammates will surely join Florida’s 
superstar trio on the list of drafted 
Gators.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.orgFlorida golfer Taylor Roberts to host Impact Cup
Florida baseball trio selected in first two rounds of 2022 MLB DraftLeslie White / / University Athletic Association
Redshirt sophomore T aylor Roberts 
practices Feb. 14, 2022, at the Mark 
Bostick Golf Course in Gainesville, Florida. 
Roberts is hosting the Impact Cup.
The event aims to bring awareness to youth mental health
Sterlin Thompson, Hunter Barco and Jud Fabian were selected by Colorado, Pittsburgh and Baltimore, respectively
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Sterlin Thompson eyes a hit and runs down the first 
base line against Jacksonville March 14, 2021. Thompson was 
drafted 44th by Colorado Sunday.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 18, 2022
WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY
LADIES nightLADIES night
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE DRINKSFREE DRINKS   
For the ladies!For the ladies!
FRIDAYFRIDAY
Beat the clock!Beat the clock!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
(WELLS & DRAFTS(WELLS & DRAFTS
START @ 25¢START @ 25¢  and go up and go up ))
SATURDAYSATURDAY
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE FREE WELLS & DRAFTSWELLS & DRAFTS   For EVERYONE!For EVERYONE!
@Grog.House@Grog.House @groghouse@groghouse www.groghouse.comwww.groghouse.com 1718 West University Ave1718 West University Ave
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRESEC
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
In the era of mega conferences and NIL 
deals galore, the 2022 Southeastern Conference 
Media Days — when the country gets its first 
glimpse at the coaches and teams primed to 
take the next leap forward —  looks to be one 
of the most hectic ever. 
SEC Media Days in Atlanta begin Monday 
and end Thursday. Florida Gators head coach 
Billy Napier and a trio of UF players, including 
redshirt sophomore quarterback Anthony 
Richardson, senior linebacker Ventrell Miller 
and junior offensive lineman Richard Gouraige, 
will all take the mic Wednesday.
The entirety of Gator nation will be listening. 
Napier makes the biggest headlines for the 
Gators, making his first official SEC media 
session since he took over for former Florida 
coach Dan Mullen.The SEC can be an old boys club at times, 
with many of the same faces occupying the 
coaches panel each year, so each newcomer 
causes excitement within the conference.
While the media will likely grill Napier on 
topics like recruiting, his previous work under 
Nick Saban and a difficult 2022 schedule — 
anything is on the table. The period between 
spring camp and SEC Media Days is quiet, 
so the press conference will answer burning 
questions fans have asked since April’s Orange 
and Blue game. Napier has proven he can 
maintain a cool head in front of the press 
before, so don’t expect any viral outbursts.
After turning heads during his redshirt 
freshman season, Richardson has set himself 
up for a huge follow-up year. The Gainesville 
native owns the starting quarterback role and 
already received plenty of buzz for a potential 
Heisman-level season. 
Most know of Richardson’s talent, and his raw ability and flashy playstyle will garner 
attention from a media standpoint, but few 
members of the national media have gotten to 
know him personally. 
Miller and Gouraige don’t carry the same 
expectations into media days as their superstar 
signal caller. However, their attendance plays 
into an important narrative: the transition from 
Mullen to Napier.
Both players started their collegiate careers 
with Mullen, making them perfect candidates 
to provide interesting insight on similarities 
and differences between the two staffs.
The moment the regular season actually 
arrives, SEC Media Days become virtually 
irrelevant; all talk fades when the teams hit the 
gridiron. Until that day comes, though, it’s time 
to analyze any crumb of information divulged.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgWhat to expect from Florida at SEC Media Days 2022
Multiple Gators will be making media appearances in Atlanta Wednesday
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Florida football coach Billy Napier greets 
fans during his first day on the job Dec. 5, 
2021 in Gainesville. Napier will address 
the media at SEC Media Days Wednesday.
