AFTER SEVEN SEASONS 
UNDER WHITE, FLORIDA WILL 
BEGIN THE SEARCH FOR ITS 
NEXT HEAD COACH
By Joseph Henry
Sports writer
With the end of his seventh 
season at the helm, former Florida 
head coach Mike White, 45, has 
stepped away from the Gators, 
filling the vacant head coaching 
position at the University of 
Georgia.Calls for his job were 
deafening and failing to make the 
NCAA Tournament for the first 
time since his 2015 inaugural 
season Sunday only amplified the 
already nauseating frequency. 
The news was first reported by 
CBS Sports insider Jon Rothstein 
via Twitter Sunday and later 
confirmed by Georgia’s official 
athletics account. 
White is leaving Gainesville 
due to a toxic environment 
created by the fanbase and fear 
it would begin to affect his five young children, according to a 
tweet from the Associated Press’ 
Mark Long.
Georgia brings in White to 
replace Tom Crean, who was 
fired March 10 after an abysmal 
6-26 season. The Bulldogs posted 
a statement from White Sunday 
evening. 
"I am extraordinarily grateful 
to the leadership of Scott 
Stricklin and to the entire Florida 
Athletics staff for an amazing 
experience during my tenure," 
White said. "Thank you to each and every one of our current and 
former players. Your hard work, 
commitment and dedication 
was and continues to be an 
inspiration. I will cherish our 
relationships forever.”
After losing to Texas A&M 
in the second round of the SEC 
Tournament Thursday, White 
called the overtime defeat “a two-
hour microcosm of the season.” 
Taking the comparison further, 
this season was representative of 
his entire UF tenure. 
Both have now come to a 
close. 
White is the third Florida head 
coach to leave the university after receiving a contract extension.
On June 1, White, former 
football head coach Dan Mullen 
and former women’s basketball 
coach Cameron Newbauer were 
granted extensions. Mullen was 
canned after a mediocre season 
and Newbauer exited with 
allegations of an abusive program 
looming.
White’s tenure was a full circle 
story, his final season playing out 
similar to his first. 
This season’s Gators and 
the 2015-16 team finished with 
an under .600 regular-season We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperFormer fraternity member accused of sexual violence 
by mulitple women
Two UF students speak out,  pg. 6
Fitness for all
Gainesville fitness instructors uplift plus-sized community,  pg. 10How Clifford Taylor IV made it
The UF alum scored a social media and 
design position with the Rams June 2021. 
Find this story on pg. 11
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 26
SPRING BREAKERS 
NAVIGATED TRAVELS AMID 
ONGOING REGULATIONS 
AND THE DEVELOPING 
RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR
By Fernando Figueroa & 
Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writers
Students enjoyed their first Spring 
Break since March 2020 exploring 
Florida, traveling out of state and 
visiting hometowns. As this year’s 
Spring Break commences, so does 
yet another unexpected global con -
flict. 
Two years ago, UF students re -
turned from Spring Break to a fully 
online university. The pandemic 
postponed flights, canceled events 
and had students studying from their 
beds until Fall 2021, when in-person 
classes returned. 
Last year, UF students did not 
partake in their long-awaited Spring 
Break. Administration canceled the 
break “for the purpose of making the Spring semester as successful and 
healthy as possible” and instead gave 
students an extra week of Winter 
Break. 
This year, students’ mid-semester 
break from March 5 to 13 came amid 
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine invasion. 
Milo Murrell, 23, a UF internation -
al student from the Royal Holloway, 
University of London, was eager to 
explore more of Florida .
“I think it's really easy to be here 
and be able to put the blinkers on 
and not think about it,” Murrell said. 
“Sitting in Florida, surrounded by 
palm trees, millions of miles away 
from anything.”
She hadn’t experienced a typical 
spring since the beginning of the pan -
demic. 
During the break, Murrell and 
four other international students en -
joyed the beach under the Fort Lau -
derdale sun. 
“The internationals are really 
keen on seeing Florida,” Murrell said. 
After her quick stint in Fort Lau -
derdale, Murrell visited more beach -Students experience first Spring 
Break since pandemic shutdowns
SEE SPRING BREAK,  PAGE 4
SEE WHITE,  PAGE 11
  Roksolana Myktiuk, 25, a non-degree seeking 
UF women’s studies exchange student (left) 
and Sasha Nelson, 19, UF microbiology 
sophomore lead a group of about 30 in a 
moment of silence for the Ukrainian lives 
lost in their ongoing Russian invasion on 
Thursday, March 3. Read this story on pg. 4.
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
MEN'S BASEKTBALL
Mike White’s tenure comes to an endT oday’s WeatherSTUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
PROTESTED TAPS DECISIONS 
TO CONVERT 40 SPACES TO 
FACULTY PARKING
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s Transportation and 
Parking Services will convert 40 
parking spots in Norman parking 
garage from student to faculty 
parking. Student Government 
leaders protest.
The Student Body president 
and Student Body president-
elect released a statement 
via Instagram and Facebook 
Saturday opposing the decision.  
President Cooper Brown was 
notified of the decision in an 
email Thursday, he wrote in 
a text message. TAPS Director 
Scott Fox’s email returned an 
automatic response stating that 
he is out of town until Mar. 15.TAPS oversees parking, 
transportation-related fees and 
services on campus. Parking is 
designated through decals sold 
by TAPS. Decal colors correspond 
to locations where students and 
faculty can park.
The spots were originally 
designated Red 3 for students 
who live on campus and have 
completed less than 50 credits. 
They will become orange for 
faculty and staff members. 
The change comes amid 
ongoing campus construction 
that has caused detours and road 
closures. The Office of Business 
Affairs sent an email to students 
acknowledging challenges and 
thanking them for their patience 
Friday.
SG’s post also acknowledged 
these inconveniences but wrote 
that punishing students is not 
the right answer. 
The decision went against SG’s mission to expand the garage’s 
student parking and increase 
safety. The post encouraged 
students with concerns to contact 
Fox.
The post was shared over 
Facebook and Instagram and 
had more than 1500 likes and 30 
comments on the two platforms 
by Sunday afternoon.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 26 SG opposes recent parking changes
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
SENATE VERIFIED ELECTION RESULTS 
AND CHOSE SENATE PRESIDENT 
AND PRO-TEMPORE
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government’s Gator Party widened its 
supermajority last UF Senate meeting, grabbing one 
more seat in a tiebreaker and filling one of two open 
member-at-large positions. 
The March 1 meeting marked the beginning of 
the legislative session. The second member-at-large 
position will be voted on Tuesday.
UF Senate swore in its batch of 50 newly elected 
senators and chose a new Senate president and 
president pro-tempore at the meeting. It was in the 
process of electing the members-at-large when the 
meeting was cut short, as the Reitz Union building 
closes at 11 p.m.
The election results bring few changes to the 
chamber. Gator Party remained the supermajority 
while Change party remained the minority party. 
Gator Party’s candidates also won the election for 
Student Body president, vice president and treasurer, 
who will take office in April. 
Senators elected last Spring said their goodbyes, 
including the former Senate President Annabelle 
Groux and Senate President Pro-Tempore Noah 
Fineberg, both members of Gator Party. 
“Coming to work each day doesn't feel like a job 
and I am very sad to be leaving this post,” Fineberg 
wrote in an email. “I hope my successor will carry 
on the proud legacy of this office. The job of the 
President Pro-Tempore is often misunderstood, but it 
is extremely important.”
Newly elected Senators were sworn in, and Elizabeth 
Hartzog (Gator, Accounting) and Olivia Green (Gator, 
District A) were elected as the Senate president and 
Senate president pro-tempore, respectively. They ran 
unopposed.
Both served in the Budget and Appropriations 
Committee, with Hartzog as former chair and Green 
as former vice chair.
The nominations were supported unanimously by 
senators from both parties.
The Senate president serves as the Senate’s chief 
executive and administrative officer and is responsible 
for overseeing and leading meetings. The pro-tempore 
serves as the president’s right-hand and is the chair 
of the Replacement and Agenda Committee, which 
reviews the meetings agenda and replacement 
senators’ applications.Throughout their speeches, Hartzog and Green set 
initiatives like establishing relationships with each 
Senator, making Senate inclusive and representative 
and re-organizing the website Docutraq, which is used 
for student funding. 
Senators also voted in two senators from a 
tiebreaker and a member-at-large position.
Senators broke the tie for one Liberal Arts and 
Science seat. Mohammed Faisal (Change) and Justin 
Lanzuela (Gator) both received 877 votes during the 
elections last month. 
Lanzuela won the seat in a Senate vote of 58-18.
Both candidates gave a brief speech before 
answering five minutes of questions.
Lanzuela talked about initiatives for first-generation 
students and his high school leadership experience. 
“I like to work towards more programs that help 
first generation students who share the same problem 
of not knowing where to start, and really helping 
them all succeed as a Gator,” Lanzuela said during 
his speech. 
Faisal spoke about his previous time and 
achievements as a Senator, his bipartisanship and his 
goals if he were elected, like editing the 800 codes that 
define funding for student government organizations 
to be more easily understood. He is happy other 
Change Party Senators like Grace Shoemaker and 
Gabriela Montes won their seats but using Senate 
votes to determine tiebreakers can lead to majority 
parties retaining their power, he said.
“60 plus seats are seated to Gator party,” he said. 
“We see time and time again that Senate tries to do 
work sometimes, but it's blocked by this partisan 
mindset.”
For the member-at-large positions, Change Party’s 
Faith Corbett and Gator’s Christine Locascio ran for 
one open seat. Locascio won in a vote of 54-15, but 
because the two seats are separate positions, Corbett 
plans to run again to fill the second seat, she said. 
Members-at-large serve as nonpartisan 
representatives in the Replacement and Agenda 
Committee and help represent the overall goals of 
Senators. 
Senate President Hartzog announced the election 
of the second member-at-large position and remaining 
agenda items would be postponed until the next 
meeting. 
The next Senate meeting will be held at 7:30 p.m. 
in the Chamber on Tuesday. There will also be a 
mandatory orientation for new Senators March 15 at 
6:30 p.m.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgUF Senate begins new legislative session, elects Senate leadersMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022es in the Florida Keys. 
She said COVID-19, now being treated like 
the flu by UF, was not a main concern. 
UF recommended that students get their 
booster shots before going on Spring Break in a 
UF Health Facebook post released on March 1.
The post also recommended travelers 
choose outdoor destinations, adhere to travel 
guidelines that require the use of masks and 
plan ahead for COVID-19 testing requirements. 
“I haven’t even considered COVID as a fac -
tor in my Spring Break,” Murrell said. “I’m not 
concerned that I’m going to have my AirBnB 
canceled because suddenly there are lock -
downs.”
Some students are using the break to edu -
cate themselves on the Russia-Ukraine conflict 
happening overseas. 
“We are in the middle of an informational 
pandemic,” said Ukrainian international stu -
dent and admin of the @ufukraine Instagram 
account Roksolana Mykytiuk. 
As for COVID-19, Mykytiuk believes that 
everyone has their priorities. Talk about pan -
demic has lost the fervor it once had, and it is 
time for the Russian invasion of Ukraine to get 
more coverage.
Erin Hu, a 21-year-old digital arts and sci -
ences senior, sympathized with those affected 
by the Russia-Ukraine war and was fortunate 
her spring break plans were not affected by the conflict.
Hu and three others also secured a rental 
house for the week-long break and visited 
Joshua Tree National Park in California.
“I'm definitely excited to experience that 
California desert vibe,” Hu said. “Plus to just 
relax, rejuvenate and reconnect.”
Hu has not experienced a single Spring 
Break the entire time she’s been a student at 
UF because she took a gap semester during 
what would’ve been her first Spring Break on 
campus. 
Hu and her group of friends contemplated 
leaving the country but decided against it be -
cause of COVID-19. She did not want to catch 
the virus and complicate her return to school.
Even if this year’s Spring Break does cause 
a COVID-19 spike, Hu believes it won’t change 
much in terms of policies.
“I don't think UF takes COVID seriously,” 
Hu said. “Even if it does get bad again, I'm 
sure it will be swept under the rug and moved 
on from.”
Gabrielle Adekunle, Change Party’s Mi -
nority Leader in the Senate, noticed changes 
compared with her breaks as a freshman and 
sophomore, when COVID-19 was first begin -
ning and later in full-swing.
“I’m actually able to go out and do things 
and enjoy Spring Break and not feel as guilty 
about it,” she said. “Now we have the vac -
cines, we have masks and everything so we're 
able to properly protect ourselves.”
Adekunle, 21, feeling safer with COVID-19 regulations, was looking forward to spending 
time with her family after the Spring SG elec -
tions.
“I definitely felt a lot better about this 
Spring Break and getting to enjoy it,” she said. 
Student Body Treasurer-elect Sierra Kan -
tamneni, 21, also usually uses the break to 
relax with family. After winning the Spring 
election alongside President-elect Lauren Le -
masters and Vice President-elect Daniel Badell, 
the three wanted to take a break before starting the transition into office, she said.
“With elections and everything like that I 
was really tired, so I wanted a week to myself,” 
she said. “I’m excited to go back and hear ev -
eryone's stories and what they did and where 
they traveled. It was a really good break.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgSPRING BREAK,  from pg. 1Students visit crowded beaches
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
Roksolana Mykytiuk, 25, stood 
alone at Turlington Plaza Feb. 28. 
She held a poster: “Stand with 
Ukraine.” As hundreds of students 
passed through the mid-campus 
hub, she noticed a girl with braids 
intertwined with blue and yellow 
fabric walking toward her.
Mykytiuk and Sasha Nelson 
hugged each other, crying for five 
minutes before uttering a word. 
The conflict in Ukraine has dis -
placed more than 4 million Ukra -
nians and gained worldwide media 
attention.
UF’s Ukrainian students have felt 
the negative effects of the invasion 
back home. Their loved ones are 
under attack and while their com -
munity in Gainesville is small, it has 
brought them closer together. There 
are only three Ukrainian internation -
al students at UF, Mykytiuk said. 
Students like Mykytiuk and Nel -
son have family and friends living 
in Ukraine and can only watch as 
their nation, families and friends suf -
fer through a war. They’ve found 
solidarity in each other and hope 
to help their country by spreading 
awareness. They are sharing fund -
raising efforts and trying to encour -
age Americans to become activists in 
whatever way they can. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin 
justified the invasion by claiming 
it was an act of self-defense. The 
Russian media portrays Ukrainian 
leadership as anti-Russian and Nazi, 
claiming that there is a genocide 
happening against ethnically Rus -
sian people in the Donbass region of 
Ukraine. Putin claims he is protect -
ing Russians in Ukraine, but Ukraine 
and most of the world say these ac -cusations lack any support.  
East Slavic countries including 
Russia, Belarus and Ukraine share a 
common language, culture and are 
traditionally tight-knit, Michael Gor -
ham, a UF Russian Studies professor, 
said. 
“The idea of one of their coun -
tries invading the other country is 
virtually unheard of,” Gorham said. 
“So it's a very difficult time.”
Mykytiuk, a Ukrainian exchange 
student at UF, wants people to un -
derstand that the conflict did not 
begin recently. It has been going on 
for eight years; the media is cover -
ing it now because it has escalated 
to a war. 
“Our children are being killed 
right now,” she said. “Our women 
are forced to give birth in basements, 
our grandmothers are suffering, our 
schools and hospitals have been de -
stroyed.”
She was born and raised in 
Ukraine and arrived at UF’s cam -
pus in January. When the invasion 
began, she was alone, new to the 
United States and unable to connect 
with other Ukrainians. 
This isolation continued until she 
took her sign and protested in Tur -
lington Plaza, where Mykytiuk met 
Nelson and Anna Meltsaieva. The 
trio formed their own club, created 
an Instagram account and organized 
a demonstration on March 1 to 
spread awareness.
“We're hoping to just raise 
awareness and also collect dona -
tions because what's going on right 
now is really a humanitarian crisis, 
and people need donations,” Nelson 
said. “We're trying to do what we 
can to help our loved ones back in 
Ukraine.”
Donations would help families in 
need, like the Svirskyi family.
Anton Svirskyi, 20, a member of the UF diving team and the Ukrai -
nian Olympic team, was born and 
raised in Ukraine. His family moved 
to the U.S. in 2015 to escape the 2014 
conflict. 
Some family members returned 
home two weeks ago to fight. His 
grandparents are feeding soldiers 
and volunteers; his uncles are in 
territorial defense; his friends have 
been building barricades; and those 
with large cars are distributing hu -
manitarian aid supplies throughout 
the country. 
“The Ukrainian people are just 
coming together and are trying to 
stop what's happening,” he said.
Svirskyi has been able to contin -
ue in classes and athletics but with 
some difficulty, he said. His fellow 
Olympic athletes in Ukraine have 
stopped training.
“I don't think it's fair to them. 
They didn't start the war, but they're 
the ones defending,” Svirskyi said. 
“They had to sacrifice their educa -
tion and their sports.”
You learn to cherish the people 
around you because anything can 
happen, he said. He never thought 
his friends would have to pick up 
AK-47s to fight the Russian Army as 
civilians. People need to realize that 
it is taking a toll on everybody, he 
said. 
“Even right now, a week after 
the invasion has happened,” Svir -
skyi said. “It sort of feels like a bad 
dream. I still can't believe it, my fam -
ily can’t believe it, nobody can be -
lieve that this is happening. That this 
is the new way of life that they have 
to endure.”
He hopes people in the U.S. will 
not be ignorant and will realize that 
every bit helps. His worry is that 
people get too caught up with hear -
ing two sides of the story.
“A lot of people are hung up on Russia's side of the story,” he said. 
“But it's all propaganda.”
Anna Meltsaieva, 24, is original -
ly from Donetsk, an industrial city 
filled with coal mines. She said her 
hometown has been under occupa -
tion for the last eight years. 
She, like thousands of others who 
did not want to live under the Putin 
regime, fled the area after 2014. She 
was only 16. Her family still lives in 
the Donetsk region, but they are pro-
Ukrainian. Her grandma had lived 
there for 80 years and has lived in 
her current home for 52 years.
“She said that she would rather 
die than leave her own house,” Melt -
saieva said.
Her brother is the only person 
in her family that has access to the 
internet, and even his connection is 
unreliable. Every day she hopes to 
get a text message from him. 
Ukrainians living in other coun -
tries are limited in the support they 
can give to their loved ones and 
country. They are all trying their best 
to advocate and help efforts to fight 
back.
She believes most people who 
live in that area support Russia be -
cause of the propaganda that they 
have been fed. 
She studied in Ukrainian schools 
with pro-Ukrainian teachers. None 
of them support Ukraine anymore, 
she said. They’ve been told for eight 
years that the Ukrainians have been 
the ones bombing them. 
A friend of hers, who lives in Rus -
sia, called her to ask if the U.S. was 
bombing Ukraine. She explained 
that Ukraine was at war with Russia. 
He was in disbelief because that 
was not at all what he had seen on 
TV. He believed that Russia was 
only attacking military bases to stop 
Ukraine from joining NATO, not 
bombing civilian areas.
“Even though no one knows 
what’s going on,” Eltsaieva said, “On TV, whatever is happening, 
they always blame Ukraine.” 
Iryna Kanishcheva, 40, has a sis -
ter who is stuck in Kyiv, the capital 
of Ukraine, and cannot cross the 
bridge to the other side of the city to 
see her daughter. The roads leading 
there are all closed.
The Warrington School of Busi -
ness graduate said the panic in 
Ukraine reminded her of Floridans 
preparing for a hurricane. People 
grab all the food they can find, be -
cause they don’t know if there will 
be any later. 
Family members are hiding in 
basements every night as alarms ring 
through the city.
“I don’t know what to do,” she 
said. “It seems to be surreal.”
She was born in Ukraine and 
moved to Gainesville nine years 
ago. Her family still lives in Kyiv and 
western parts of Ukraine. 
She and another Ukrainian friend 
went to the demonstration led by 
Mykytiuk, Nelson and Eltsaieva.
“We’re just like everybody else 
who are trying to find ways to help,” 
Kanishcheva said. “Demonstrations 
are one of the ways we can raise 
awareness, get attention and show 
that we are against it.”
Kanishcheva said the only way to 
stop the war is to be harsh on Rus -
sia’s businesses.
One country cannot just easily 
invade another country while the 
whole world is looking and doing 
nothing, she said.
She encourages people not to be 
silent and to express their opinions. 
Students can help by posting in sup -
port of Ukraine, using hashtags and 
donating to the several resources 
available. She urges students to help 
because “United we have power,” 
she said.
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgUkrainian students stand together against invasion happening back home
Students organize demonstrations, spread awarenessMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.The pandemic hit our state hard over 
the past two years. We’ve lost nearly 
70,000 Floridians to the virus, our chil -
dren’s schooling has been interrupted 
and supply chain problems have made every -
thing more expensive.
But we’re finally seeing the light at the end 
of the tunnel. And while we may never elimi -
nate COVID-19 like the flu, we should be able 
to live with it without a major disruption to 
our lives.
Finally, it’s time to think about moving 
forward. 
We got here because while some of our 
leaders played partisan politics, others got to 
work — and together, we all did our part. We 
developed the best vaccines in the world in 
record time and distributed over 250 million 
of them to Americans. We passed legislation 
that kept small businesses open and put mon -
ey in people’s pockets to ride out the crisis. 
Local leaders made the tough calls to keep 
people safe despite intense political interfer -
ence from Tallahassee.
But there’s still a lot of work to do to 
strengthen our economy and our state. 
We have to help our children make up for 
the learning loss from two years of COVID-19. 
We have to fix the supply chain issues that 
are jacking up prices and making basic neces -
sities like gas, clothes and food hard to get. 
We have to help workers get off the sidelines 
by getting them reliable childcare and sick 
leave so they can get back to work easier and 
faster.
And as a precaution, we need to prepare 
for the next pandemic. We need to stockpile 
basic lab testing materials and medical cloth -
ing and equipment now, so if we need them 
again, we aren’t caught off guard. And we 
need to move this manufacturing to the Unit -ed States, so we aren’t 
reliant on China in the 
event of a future crisis.
Finally, we need to 
keep promoting vac -
cines and boosters to 
the millions of Florid -
ians who still haven’t 
gotten the shot. Other 
states and countries are 
already doing this. Florida needs to catch up.
And it’s clear Gov. DeSantis isn’t up for 
the job. Our governor opposed the American 
Rescue Plan that saved our economy from the 
kind of crash we experienced during the Great 
Recession. And instead of championing life-
saving vaccines, he catered to anti-vaccine 
and anti-mask conspiracy theorists — even 
appointing one as Florida’s Surgeon General.
Today, Florida has one of the lowest rates 
of booster shots for seniors, and the Omicron 
variant has killed more seniors than most 
states.
And right now, the Governor is doubling 
down on his war on our schools, trying to 
strip $200 million from schools that disagreed 
with him on masking efforts, promoting 
“Don’t Say Gay” legislation that discriminates 
against Florida kids and trying to silence the 
teaching of our nation’s heroic civil rights 
struggle because it makes him feel “discom -
fort.”
I don’t know about Gov. DeSantis, but my 
parents raised me to follow the Golden Rule, 
to tell the truth — to be kind to others. 
I’m running for Governor of our great 
state, because I’ve led our state out of tough 
times before. 
It’s time to end these politics of division. 
We can and will come together to build 
a Florida that works for everyone — not just 
for some. It’s time to turn the chapter on this 
pandemic in our state; it’s time to rebuild and 
restore our Florida. It’s time we get new lead -
ership back in Tallahassee.    As a graduate student and 
a leader in the Gainesville 
music community, see -
ing that Student Govern -
ment Productions recently spent 
$350,000 on one performer 
shocked and appalled me. 
That also doesn’t include the 
opener fee, venue fees, staff or 
any other expenses — so one can 
safely assume the total cost of the 
event was even higher.  
SG paid Roddy Ricch to perform at the 
O’Connell Center Feb. 8. In 2021, UF Student 
Government transferred $1.55 million from 
its reserves to improve the student experi -
ence “as in-person activities return[ed].” Of 
that money, $750,000 went to SGP.
I don’t have an issue with Roddy Ricch as 
a performer. In fact, I was at the show. But 
as someone who has worked in live event 
production for years, I can tell you that’s an 
obscene amount of money for one act — es -
pecially given the turnout of the event. 
According to The Alligator, of the 6,500 
seats available, only about 3,000 were filled.
Even if every one of those 3,000 tickets 
were sold at the non-student price of $20 
(they weren’t — students paid $10-15), UF 
would have still lost upwards of $290,000 on 
Roddy Ricch’s fee. 
For reference: In 2017, SGP spent $130,000 
to bring Snoop Dogg to the university and 
only $91,500 to book Tory Lanez in 2020.
A few years ago, I helped run a multi-day, 
multi-venue music festival in Gainesville. 
The total budget — including talent fees, 
venue rentals, staff costs, marketing and all 
other fees — was around $117,000 (to be 
spent on the event annually). Over a few 
years, we booked artists including Big Free -
dia, Japanese Breakfast, Talib Kweli and the 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band.
Any given year, we had a much larger 
turnout than the 3,000 people who bought tickets to see Roddy Ricch.
This is because we worked 
with industry professionals and 
hired a local booking agent that 
negotiated reasonable rates for ev -
ery artist involved. Working with 
professionals who have decades of 
industry experience would gener -
ate much better results than the 
current situation at SGP. 
There is a lack of transparency 
regarding how student funds are used for 
concerts through SGP. I also question the log -
ic of having college students who do not ap -
pear to know the ins and outs of the concert 
booking industry choosing where hundreds 
of thousands of dollars of other students’ 
money goes — all without an industry vet -
eran at the table to advise them.
The $750,000 allocated for SGP alone is 
more than the annual budget of many profes -
sional music organizations. With this amount 
of money, financial responsibility is key.
Alternative models exist for using stu -
dent entertainment fees. With this budget, 
rather than simply booking a small number 
of shows per year and massively overpay -
ing artists for half-sold concerts, SGP could 
partner with a professional booking agent 
and downtown music venue within walking 
distance of campus. 
If it really wanted to, SGP could divide 
that $750,000 into numerous concerts of na -
tionally-touring acts throughout the year that 
UF students could attend for free. 
This model is how FSU runs its “Club 
Downunder” concert series. They partner 
with professionals and local venues to book 
shows but still have a strong student board 
and student presence in the decision-making.
Spending $350,000 and not even selling half 
of the available tickets is an irresponsible 
way to use the money students are entrusting 
them with, especially when there are profes -
sionals in the area operating with a fraction 
of that — and doing much more with it.Moving Past COVID-19 Student Government overspends on Roddy Ricch  Column Column
Charlie Crist
Former Governor
Brandon T elg
Co-Leader, MusicGNV
American Medical Program Tel Aviv University
American Medical Program/Tel Aviv University/Sackler Faculty of MedicineSackler Faculty of Medicine
Applications for the Class of 2026 are available on our websiteoffers an outstanding four year medical school curriculum, taught in English, leading to the M.D. 
degree. The Program is chartered by the Regents of the University of the State of New York and 
is accredited by the State of Israel.
Students do their clerkships and electives in the hospitals in Israel, the U.S. and Canada. One of 
these hospitals, Sheba Medical Center, was selected by Newsweek magazine as one of the top 10 
hospitals around the world for the last three years.
Graduates participate in the National Resident Matching Program and return to the United States 
for their residency training. Since its commencement in 1976, over 2,100 alumni have completed 
their residency training at the most distinguished hospitals in the United States and Canada.
www.sacklerschool.org provides extensive information about the Program. 
For further information, e-mail sacklermed@sacklermed.org
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
ANYONE CAN DRAW A CROWD ON 
CAMPUS IN ALL OUTSIDE AREAS
By Ashleigh Lucas
Alligator Staff Writer 
Plaza of the Americas has always been a 
quieter part of UF’s campus. Students come 
in waves every weekday afternoon to buy 
vegan lunch sold by the Hare Krishnas, read 
a book or leisurely relax on a hammock. 
Thanks to legislation passed in 2018; how -
ever, Plaza was everything but tranquil on 
Monday, Feb. 7.
Waving a bright red communist flag, vig -
orously shaking a sign that reads “Welcome 
to the Whoring Grounds,” and screaming 
chants like “Ho No Mo” at the top of their 
lungs, more than 500 UF students egged on a 
controversial TikTok internet sensation, Sis -ter Cindy, 63. Cindy Smock, better known as 
Sister Cindy, is an evangelist with more than 
360,000 TikTok followers who draws crowds 
at universities across the country. 
“Welcome to the Ho No Mo’ revolution,” 
she shouts, as students holler in unison. 
Despite the rowdy crowd that dwindled 
throughout the day, campus police were no -
where to be found.
Freedom of speech is one of the funda -
mental rights protected by the First Amend -
ment, along with freedom of the press, as -
sembly, religion, petition and expression. 
Florida public universities are obligated by 
law to protect First Amendment rights and 
cannot deny people anyone’s right to vocally 
— and visually — express their opinions on 
campus. 
Specific areas known as “free speech 
zones,” used to be designated to those like 
Smock who wanted to come to campus and 
express their views. 
As of 2018, though, choosing just one 
space on campus to be a free speech zone 
would be outlawed. 
Gov. Ron DeSantis signed the Campus 
Free Expression Act in March of 2018, for -
bidding the establishment of designated free 
speech zones and instead made all spaces ac -
cessible for free speech demonstrations.  
Clay Calvert, a UF law professor and direc -
tor of UF’s First Amendment Project, said the 
law transformed the scope of where outsiders 
could come onto UF campus to draw crowds. 
“The notion that free speech is confined to 
a particular area on campus by state law — 
that’s invalid,” Calvert said. “Public spaces 
outside grassy areas, sidewalks, public areas like that. All of those are really considered 
areas where students can engage in free 
speech.”
The University Police Department did not 
respond to requests for comment via phone 
and email.
UF spokesperson Cynthia Roldan affirmed 
the university’s commitment to protecting 
free speech on campus.
“UF does not restrict free expression rights 
to specific areas of campus,” Roldan wrote 
in an email. “Rather, UF considers outdoor areas of campus as traditional public forums. 
In those areas, any person can engage in 
spontaneous or contemporaneous expressive 
activity so long as the person’s conduct re -
mains lawful.”
Read the rest online at 
wheresthelinefreedomofspeech.alligator.org
@ashlucas01
alucas@alligator.org
TWO UF STUDENTS 
SPEAK OUT
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Editor’s Note: This story 
contains graphic depictions 
of sexual assualt and rape by 
coercion. Read with caution. 
A former Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity member has been 
accused by multiple women of 
sexual violence.  
The Alligator spoke to two 
female UF students who accused 
the same man of sexual violence. 
Their identities remain anonymous 
to protect their privacy and safety. 
One of the women came forward 
and filed a police report and a 
Title IX. There are more than 
two women The Alligator did 
not speak with who made similar 
claims over social media.
The Alligator’s three month 
investigation shows that the 
University Police Department 
investigated the fraternity member 
but ended the investigation on Jan. 
20 due to the victim withdrawing 
her complaint. UPD Captain Rick 
Taylor and Detective Bonnie 
Boland declined to comment on 
the investigation. 
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity’s 
president declined to comment on 
the investigation, but said the man 
was a member of the fraternity until December 2021. The victim’s 
accusations that sparked the 
investigation occurred while he 
was a member. 
A 20-year-old electrical 
engineering junior was the first 
to file an investigation against the 
man through Title IX and UPD.  
They went out, they laughed 
and they talked, she said. By the 
book, she thought everything 
went well.  
Not long after, she said she 
received the text everyone waits 
for after a good first date. 
When are you free again?
The UF student said she was 
excited for her second date with 
him in October.  
That evening, she said, she 
had her first kiss. What should 
have been a memory to treasure, 
she said, became a recurring 
nightmare. 
“We’re kissing and then all of 
a sudden he pulls me on top of 
him,” she said. 
In the Title IX report, she 
accused him of pulling off her 
dress.
She told him she would not 
do anything else after having her 
first kiss, according to the report. 
Instead of stopping, he started 
making deals. 
It’s just your dress; you can 
keep everything else on and I’ll 
take off my shirt. 
Without much say in the 
matter, the report states he removed her remaining clothing 
and sexually battered her.
The victim said she remembers 
being stressed and unsure of how 
to make him stop. 
He eventually stopped, she 
said, and started to be romantic 
by picking her up, spinning her 
around and kissing her forehead. 
Confused and in shock, she said 
she didn’t realize she had been 
sexually battered until weeks 
later. 
“It really took a toll on me 
mentally,” the victim said. “I 
remember thinking: ‘I’m so smart, 
how could I have let this happen to 
me? I should have known better.’”     
Since the first victim came 
forward, at least three other 
women said they had similar 
unreported experiences with the 
same former fraternity member. 
The Alligator emailed, called 
and texted the accused man 
more than 10 times. The Alligator 
reached out to his lawyer listed as 
Kozlowski in the police report. The 
Alligator emailed Ron Kozlowski, 
a Gainesville lawyer who declined 
to comment on whether he was 
involved in the Title IX or UPD 
case.
Sexually explicit Snapchat 
messages and screenshots of an 
Instagram post were included in 
records given to The Alligator by 
UPD. 
The victim messaged the 
fraternity president, Ryan Erickson, over Instagram on Nov. 
30. 
Screenshots the victim gave 
to The Alligator show she direct 
messaged him detailing the sexual 
violence.
“I’m horrified to hear about 
this and am so sorry … we do 
not take anything like this lightly, 
and if we ever learn about it, we 
take swift action to remove and 
disgrace the brother from the 
chapter,” Erickson wrote. 
His words were promising, 
but then he stopped replying, she 
said. After four days of silence, 
she told him she had to get the 
police involved.
He responded Dec. 10, 
accrediting his delayed response 
to a stressful exam, she said. He 
wrote the issue would become 
an external investigation, and 
he could no longer directly 
communicate with her, she said.
Any reports brought to the 
Interfraternity Council are taken 
seriously and reported to the 
appropriate offices, Reid Marlett, 
UF’s Interfraternity Council 
president, wrote in an email. 
But the council itself has no 
authority to bring repercussions 
to a fraternity for reports about a 
member. 
Individual chapters, however, 
may take action against an 
individual member, he wrote.
The victim said she knew she 
had to do something but was hesitant to go to the police without 
concrete evidence; she did not 
believe they would help.
Capt. Taylor said when students 
don’t report sexual violence until 
months or weeks after they occur, 
it becomes harder for UPD to 
investigate.
“If you see something, please 
contact us immediately,” Taylor 
said. “If you feel as though you are 
a victim, contact us immediately. 
Report it to us.” 
All sexual violence cases from 
last year involved a suspect the 
victim already knew, Taylor 
said. Perpetrators are often 
acquaintances or people met 
online and at bars.
The victim and fraternity 
member met on Bumble, an 
online dating application. On Jan. 
6, three months after the violence, 
she filed a police report and Title 
IX complaint. 
When she told the police what 
happened, officers told her it 
wasn’t sexual assault. Police told 
her that what happened is known 
as sexual battery, according the 
state’s definition.
“I cried last night because I was 
like: ‘Oh my gosh I was raped,’ 
which is a scary thing to think 
about,” she said.
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgWhere’s the Line: UF’s entire campus qualifies as a free speech zone
Former fraternity member accused of sexual violence by multiple womenLeo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
See the full multimedia project at 
wheresthelinefreedomofspeech.alligator.org.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Over 500 UF students stormed Plaza of the Americas to catch a glimpse of “Sister Cindy, ” 
a TikT ok famous, slut-shaming evangelist who has over 380,000 followers and 6.4 million 
likes on Monday, Feb. 7. There was no police presence that Monday because the space is 
dedicated as a free speech zone.
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
Freon Wanted : We pay $$$ for old refrig-
erants: R11, R12, R113 & more! Certified 
Professionals. Call 312-313-9671 or visit 
RefrigerantFinders.com Te pagamos por tu 
refrigerante!      3-14-1-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
3-14-4-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    AAcchhiieevvee,,  aaccccoommpplliisshh  
11..    PPuurrssuuee,,  ssttrriivvee55..    ________  ppiiee
22..    TThhoouugghhttffuull,,  ccaarreeffuull  66..    IInniittiiaall
33..    NNeegglleecctteedd  77..    QQuuiieett  ppllaannee  
44..    BBootthheerrNNTTAATTIIAA
EERRSSIIAAPPNNAAPPCCEE
RRFFSSIITT
AACCUUTTFFLLTT
DDGGIIOOEENNRREERRLLGGDDII
EEEESSRRPPTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AAttttaaiinn    55AA--PPeeccaann    66AA--FFiirrsstt    77AA--GGlliiddeerr
11DD--AAssppiirree    22DD--TTaaccttffuull    33DD--IIggnnoorreedd    44DD--PPeesstteerr    BB--SSppaaccee  SSttaattiioonn33--1144--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ttoottaall  wweeiigghhtt  ooff  tthhee  IInntteerrnnaattiioonnaall  
________  ________  iiss  aabboouutt  11  mmiilllliioonn  ppoouunnddss.. BONUSCASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497      
3-14-4-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Zachary David Levy
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/14/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/14/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, March 14, 2022
ACROSS
1 South America’s 
westernmost 
mainland point 
is in it
5 Not that
9 James of  
“The Blacklist”
15 “Sign me up!”
16 Call at third base
17 Printing mistakes
18 Remark that  
may elicit  
“None taken”
20 Line dance step
21 Coffee 
dispensers
22 Garnish for a 
margarita
23 Ride with wooden 
horses
28 Singer with 
numbered 
albums
29 Advance to repay
30 Check no.
34 Drips started by 
RNs
35 “Let’s change the 
subject”
38 Network with 
science shows, 
familiarly
41 Listened to, as 
advice
42 St. Patrick’s day 
shout
47 Clean-up hitter’s 
stat
48 Walgreens 
product
49 Gaseous: Pref.
50 Short
52 Without a care in 
the world
55 President Hoover
59 Company that’s 
“calling”
60 Picture next to a 
username
61 Intermediary ... 
or a hint to 23-, 
35-, 42- and 
52-Across
66 Poet Pablo with a 
Nobel Prize
67 Real hassle
68 Wheel shaft
69 Formal, as an 
affair
70 Crafts partner
71 Oxen connector
DOWN
1 Wrestling win
2 Moody genre
3 Carnival city4 Roll out, as a  
flag
5 Former LPGA #1 
golfer Yani __
6 Jabba the Hutt 
foe
7 Conditions
8 “Understand?”
9 Take effect
10 High school 
corsage wearer
11 Greek war god
12 Facts and figures
13 List-ending abbr.
14 Unable to look 
away
19 Boots brand
22 Ladder step
23 Stephen King’s 
home state
24 “The Scream” 
artist Munch
25 Mix again
26 Harry’s pal 
Weasley
27 Cheerios bit
31 Michael of “SNL”
32 __ the 
Entertainer
33 Beloved 
“Jeopardy!” host
35 __-wop music
36 “I get it now”
37 Enlighten
39 Wildebeest
40 Brainiacs43 Protestant 
denom.
44 Dem.’s foe
45 Suffix with 
custom
46 Data transfer 
measure
50 Inky stain
51 Model’s 
sashaying path
53 Wide  
assortment
54 Appliances that 
may be Dutch55 “Give me a __”: 
“Help!”
56 At any time
57 Like many 
collectibles
58 A/C units
61 3.0, e.g.: Abbr.
62 Rowing tool
63 Prefix with 
skeleton
64 Deer in a lodge 
logo
65 Hillary Clinton, __ 
Rodham
By Jerry Edelstein
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/01/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/01/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, March 1, 2022
ACROSS
1 Gaming site 
whose machines 
originally took 
pennies
7 Invite (to)
10 Serve, as coffee
14 Jumped
15 Wide-angle view
17 Mom or dad
18 Sequence of 
missed calls
19 Pitcher’s control, 
say
20 Wood-splitting 
tool
21 Place for Oreos
25 Extra
30 New England 
cape
31 Fountain 
offerings
33 When tied NFL 
games may be 
decided
34 Spanish folk hero
36 Does some self-
grooming, as a 
bird
38 Let it slide
42 Counsel
43 Things one can’t 
do without
44 Bearing
45 Salt or fresh 
follower
47 Mayo, por 
ejemplo
50 North Atlantic 
hazards
52 Wallet or purse 
alternative
55 “What was __ 
do?”
57 Lord’s home
58 Fashionable 
group ... and 
what the starts of 
18-, 21-, 38- and 
52-Across form
63 Barely manage, 
with “by”
64 Lone Ranger, to 
Tonto
65 Kitchen 
appliances
66 Inside scoop
67 Force (through), 
as legislation
68 Evaluate
DOWN
1 Andes grazer
2 Motive3 Novelist 
McCullers
4 Sneak __: look 
secretly
5 Teeth: Pref.
6 Georgia summer 
hrs.
7 Uber or Lyft
8 African desert
9 Kentucky fort
10 Eminent leader?
11 Cereal grain
12 Thurman of  
“Pulp Fiction”
13 Torn old shirt, 
perhaps
16 Small bills
22 Avoid
23 __ de vivre
24 Expand, as a 
house
26 Places to fish 
from
27 From the 
beginning
28 Gossip  
columnist  
Barrett
29 Website featuring 
crafts
32 Ball shape
34 Barely managing, 
with “by”
35 Sgt.’s superiors37 Color suggesting 
anger
38 Mary’s was little
39 Drooling comics 
dog
40 Done
41 High schooler, 
usually
46 Microscopic 
organism
47 Household, from 
the French
48 Marries in secret
49 Emphasize51 Remains on the 
shelf
53 Some youth ctrs.
54 Structures raised 
by Amish
56 Peter the Great, 
e.g.
58 Enjoy Aspen
59 Chess pieces
60 Big initials in 
bowling
61 Friend of Pooh
62 President pro __
63 Mexican Mrs.
02/28/2022
solution  on page 9answer on page 13
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
HELP WANTED - DONUT CONNECTION
Counter / Drive-thru Sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com    3-21-22-4-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Arts & Engineering Day Camp Counselors
Seeking creative out of the box thinkers who 
want to build and play with kids this summer! 
Looking for engineers, builders, artists, mak-
ers! FT (M-F) May 18th-Aug1st. $15/hr Send 
resume to masterbuildercamp@gmail.com 
for more info                                 4-4-22-4-14
Tropical Smoothie - Now Hiring!!!
Tropical Smoothie on 3345 SW 34th 
Street and 4125 NW 16th Blvd is now 
hiring! Come in and fill out an applica-
tion or apply online https://www.tropi -
calsmoothiecafe.com/work-with-us/
apply/?cafeId=420    3-21-22-2-14
●●● COME JOIN THE ADVENTURE! ●●●
●●●● CAMP KULAQUA is HIRING! ●●●●
FT / PT / Seasonal Positions
Food Services, Housekeeping, Building/
Property Maintenance, Horse Wrangler, 
Animal Tech.
SEASONAL: Lifeguarding, Challenge Tower 
Workers, Go-Cart Attendant
For more info call 386-454-1351
Or Visit www.campkulaqua.com
23400 NW 212th Ave, High Springs
●●●● JOB FAIR COMING SOON! ●●●●
March 20th & April 10th, 2022, 1-7 pm
Camp Kulaqua Gymnasium
4-4-22-4-14
15 Services
●● Blake Enterprises & Cleaning Service ●●
Commercial & Residential Cleaning.
Strip & Refinish Floors.
Licensed & Insured. 
Call 352-660-5912                     3-14-22-2-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 3-14-4-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
3-14-9-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
3-14-8-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          3-14-9-15
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
SCIENCE IS THE BEST IDEA HUMANS HAVE EVER HAD. THE MORE PEOPLE WHO 
EMBRACE THAT IDEA, THE BETTER.  — BILL NYE
solution  belowATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen      3-14-9-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
answers to the left1. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the Adriatic Sea located?
2. MEASUREMENTS: How many centimeters are 
equivalent to 100 inches?
3. MOVIES: Who was the famous person portrayed in 
the movie "The Aviator"?
4. FOOD & DRINK: When did the first self-serve 
grocery store open?
5. FAMOUS QUOTES: Which 19th century author 
once wrote, "It was one of those March days when 
the sun shines hot and the wind blows cold: when 
it is summer in the light, and winter in the shade"?
6. TELEVISION: Frank Costanza was the dad in which 
1990s TV comedy show?
7. LITERATURE: Sir Walter Scott wrote novels about 
which country?
8. ART: What kind of stone did the Renaissance art -
ist Michelangelo like using in his sculptures?
9. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: What product did the "Most 
Interesting Man in the World" advertise on TV?
10. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What unique sense do but -
terflies have in their feet?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Between the Italian and  
 Balkan peninsulas
2. 254 centimeters
3. Howard Hughes  
 (by actor Leonardo DiCaprio)
4. 1916, Piggly Wiggly store in 
Memphis, Tennessee5. Charles Dickens
6. "Seinfeld"
7. Scotland
8. Marble
9. Dos Equis beer
10. Taste
1. The Green Bay Packers, 
in 1961.
2. Peaches.
3. Jimmy Kimmel.4. Buster Olney.
5. Christy Martin.
6. Jason Grimsley.
7. The Michigan State 
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answersanswers to the left1. Which team used the oval "G" logo first: 
the Georgia Bulldogs, the Grambling State 
Tigers or the Green Bay Packers? 
2. In 1891, James Naismith created "basket 
ball" using wooden baskets designed to col -
lect what fruit?
3. College football's LA Bowl began in 2021 
with what late-night TV talk-show host serv -
ing as title sponsor?
4. Name the ESPN sportscaster and columnist 
who authored the books "The Last Night of 
the Yankee Dynasty" and "How Lucky You 
Can Be: The Story of Coach Don Meyer."
5. What member of the International Boxing 
Hall of Fame was known as "The Coal Miner's 
Daughter" during her professional career 
from 1989-2012?
6. In 1994, what Cleveland Indians relief pitch -
er broke into the umpire's room at Comiskey 
Park and stole an allegedly corked bat belong -
ing to Indians outfielder Albert Belle?
7. Jud Heathcote was head coach of what col -
lege basketball team from 1976-95?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
SKATEBOARD FOUND
ON CAMPUS
Land Yatzee
Call to identify 406-208-5900
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.24 PetsMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Track and field claims second NCAA Indoor National Championship
The latest title is the 11th in UF program history. Find this 
story on pg 12.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
UNDER NEW OWNERSHIP! vapecompanyWE CARRY  : CBD • DELTA 8 • KRATOM
MUST BE 21 AND UP WITH VALID ID• MEDICAL MARIJUANA SUPPLIES
• HUGE SELECTION OF DISPOSABLES
• GLASS AND PIPES
• BEST PRICES IN TOWN!BOGO
ON ALL 
HOUSE JUICE
WITH STUDENT ID
LIMIT 1 PER CUSTOMER407 NE 23RD AVE  |  GAINESVILLE, FL 32609  |  (352) 672-6799
NE 23RD AVE
N MAIN ST.
Operation PetSnip
Low-cost spay/neuter clinic
Feline Packages 
starting at $50
Canine Packages 
starting at $80
352.373.5855
4205 NW 6th St.
 Gainesville, FL 32609
alachuahumane.org/spay-neuter
INCLUSIVE FITNESS 
AND DANCE CULTURE 
PERVADES GAINESVILLE
By Jared T eitel
Avenue Staff Writer
For about seven years, Leila 
Nogueira was out of the fitness 
scene. Her pregnancies, back in -
jury, busy work life and the onset 
of the COVID-19 pandemic kept her 
from daily lunges, squats, core ex -
ercises and cardio. 
Even before, the 31-year-old 
docketing clerk avoided public fit -
ness studios. The idea of being the 
only one in the room with her body 
type and disability has fed the inse -
curities she faces.  
“I really felt like I need to be ac -
tive — I need to get back and work 
on my health,” Nogueira said. 
Nogueira recognizes the judg -
ment her and plus-sized individu -
als are vulnerable to within fitness 
environments for failing to meet the 
image of what ‘healthy’ or ‘capable’ 
people look like, making it hard to 
commit to a workout regime. 
“Of course, I can get looks, and I 
can get small comments,” she said. 
“It can exist and that can really tear 
a person down.”
The world is beginning to em -
brace plus-sized beauty in the 
media and fashion industry. Some 
Gainesville studios and personal 
trainers are advocating for inclusiv -
ity. Local studios and personal train -
ers dismissed the atmosphere of 
anxiety and pressure that may often 
penetrate public, commercial gyms. 
Nogueira found her inspiration 
for getting back into fitness with 
Blanca Fernandez, a 28-year-old 
physical therapist assistant who 
turned her work as a personal train -
er into a virtual endeavor once the 
COVID-19 pandemic hit. 
With three yoga mats and a car, 
Fernandez took to teaching fitness 
in local parks in 2017 to pay off her 
student loans. Five years later, her 
work has since expanded into Built 
by Blanca, a business tailored to 
body confidence. 
Nogueira began her fitness jour -
ney at Fernandez’s Zoom class for 
plus-sized patrons along with Curvy 
Confidence, a Gainesville-based 
social organization for plus-sized 
individuals. Nogueira has credited 
the organization and Fernandez for 
making exercise comfortable again. 
“That made me feel like, okay, 
other people that are going through 
similar problems — that might 
have the same abilities or disabili -
ties are going to be doing this, too,” 
Nogueira said. 
Although she said that she had 
to start from square one due to her 
back injury, Fernandez has since 
reinvigorated her sense of mobility 
that has changed Nogueira’s per -
ception of herself.
“Mentally, she has given me a 
lot of confidence,” she said. “I felt 
more comfortable going out more — I felt really good.” 
Prone to injury from a life re -
volved around athletics, Fernandez 
knows first-hand what it’s like to 
feel incapable. Having overcome 
these setbacks, she has since sought 
to leave an imprint of strength and 
determination within her students 
that may share similar sentiments. 
“No matter what life throws at 
you, all you got is yourself. Keep 
going, keep moving, keep taking 
care of yourself. And that applied to 
things I was going through at that 
time,” Fernandez said. 
Outside of personal training, 
Gainesville’s inclusive fitness com -
munity has grown to include other 
forms of staying active  — with one 
being dance. 
Jacqueline Valdez, 49-year-old 
instructor and owner of Jacque -
line Valdez Dance, teaches classes 
ranging from adult ballet to pole 
dancing. Living with Sjögren’s syn -
drome and surviving multiple car 
accidents —of which she had de -
veloped spondylosis — inspired her 
to begin her business.
“I was told to give up my fitness 
career,” she said. Not only was she 
determined to continue bettering 
her own health issues, but she set 
out to equally help others fight their 
battles. 
Clients of Valdez attest to what 
she preaches, who have gained a 
reinvigorated confidence in both 
body and mind. 
While on a cross-country road 
trip, Natalie Warriner, a 37-year-old dog trainer, was on a search to find 
a dance studio she was comfortable 
committing to. 
But, the studios Warriner did en -
counter whilst traveling the country 
added to her discomfort, flaunting 
single body types and tight sports -
wear that discouraged a positive 
body image. In fact, some of the 
studios posed health hazards to her 
as a plus-sized individual. 
“It felt a little bit like all the girls 
who were flexible, a bit skinnier, 
a bit prettier were focused on be -
cause they were going to be com -
peting, and they were going to be 
the ones representing the studio 
— to the point that I would often 
injure myself because no one was 
watching or helping me,” she said. 
As a serendipitous encounter 
with Gainesville’s inclusive fitness 
scene, Warriner stumbled upon 
Jacqueline Valdez Dance during 
her quest to find pole fitness and 
aerial silk classes that were best for 
her. 
“By far, she was the least of the 
cliquey places we went to,” she 
said.  
Returning home to Virginia, 
Warriner and her husband knew 
they had found the perfect place 
to relocate to. Valdez’s one-on-one 
instruction was the attention she 
needed to truly take care of her 
body. 
Since attending the studio last 
Fall, Warriner has not only a new -
found confidence through her body 
and health, but her perspective of what fitness should look like has 
been shaped by the diverse clien -
tele. 
“There is this kind of stigma,” 
she said. “Look at all the compe -
tition people — look at the people 
that go on America’s Got Talent. 
They’re not really representing 
normal-sized people, in my opin -
ion. They’re the kind of people that 
we’re meant to look up to.” 
Struggling to feel content in her 
body, Kimberly Toske, a 34-year-
old information technology techni -
cian, began pole conditioning and 
pilates in November 2021. These 
classes have since become the 
source of strength she had been 
looking for entering the studio. 
“It’s done wonders for my con -
fidence level. I’ve been wearing 
shorts more often – tank tops,” she 
said. “Everybody’s so happy to see 
you; they don’t care if you make a 
fool of yourself. It’s just a great en -
vironment.” 
Sonya Alexander, a 35-year-old 
stay-at-home mother of four, was 
initially hesitant to begin classes 
at Valdez’s studio. However, Val -
dez’ teaching style has shaped her 
approach to fitness, having long 
avoided it because of her shyness. 
“I absolutely love it,” she said. 
“She helps you with your body con -
fidence, and at any size you have to 
have body confidence.”
@jaredteitel
jteitel@alligator.orgFitness for all: Gainesville fitness instructors uplift plus-sized community
HEALTH & FITNESSHEALTH & FITNESSrecord, a 9-9 conference record 
and got bounced from the SEC 
Tournament by the Texas A&M 
Aggies. 
In his first season, White 
failed to lead Florida to the NCAA 
Tournament.
He brought the Gators 
into the 68-team postseason 
tournament four times during 
his eight-season stint. The last 
three appearances resulted in 
UF winning just a single game 
and getting eliminated before the 
opening weekend concluded. The 
trend became an infamous trait 
of White’s teams. 
His best season came in 2016-
17. The Gators forged a deep 
run into the NCAA Tournament, 
knocking off Wisconsin in the 
Sweet Sixteen on one of the most 
iconic plays in Florida basketball 
history: a miracle shot by guard Chris Chiozza. The Elite Eight 
appearance was his best result 
while at UF. 
White was always in the 
shadow of his predecessor, 
legendary head coach Billy 
Donovan. 
During his 19 seasons, 
Donovan’s Gators made 14 NCAA 
Tournament appearances, mixing 
in seven Elite Eights, four Final 
Fours, a runner-up finish and 
two-consecutive national titles.
There’s a reason the court in 
the O’Connell Center will forever 
bear his name.  
Prior to this season in August 
2021, UF Athletic Director 
Scott Stricklin spoke about the 
trajectory of the program under 
White. 
“I think Mike has an incredibly 
bright future,” Stricklin said. 
“Mike is going to win a ton of 
basketball games and he’s going 
to be on teams that cut down nets. I think the Gators are really 
fortunate to have him at such a 
young age.” 
With Sunday’s developments, 
he will have to start from scratch. 
“The search for the next Gator 
men’s basketball coach has 
already begun,” Stricklin said. 
“I look forward to identifying 
a leader who will embody the 
UAA’s vision of providing a 
championship experience with 
integrity.”
Florida named Al Pinkins, 
a longtime assistant of White, 
interim head coach for the 
National Invitation Tournament. 
The Gators were selected as a No. 
3 seed Sunday and will host Rick 
Pitino, who is a former mentor of 
Donovan, and the Iona Gaels in 
the first round. Tipoff is set for 
Wednesday at 9 p.m. on ESPN2.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgMONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FEATURE
THE UF ALUM SCORED A SOCIAL 
MEDIA AND DESIGN SPECIALIST 
POSITION WITH THE RAMS JUNE 2021
By Madeline Lawson 
Sports Writer
Clifford Taylor IV attributes his success to 
one thing.  
“There’s no Rams without the Florida 
Gators,” Taylor said. 
Taylor, 22, walked on to the Florida foot -
ball team in Summer 2019. He never saw any 
game time, but his determination and resilience 
proved to be his biggest asset. Taylor became 
the LA Rams social media and design special -
ist in June 2021 by having a knack for finding 
closed doors, knocking on them and getting an 
answer. 
“I always tell people: ‘not bad for a walk-on, 
huh?’” Taylor said.
The Charlotte, North Carolina, native came 
across his life-changing opportunity while me -
andering around social media. 
“I saw the Rams post on Twitter looking for 
a social media coordinator,” Taylor said. “So, I 
hit them back with the eyes emoji.” 
At that time, Taylor had already completed 
an internship with Wilson, a sporting goods 
manufacturer. Wilson reached out to the Rams 
via Twitter on his behalf. A few days later, the 
Rams were requesting Taylor’s cover letter. 
Taylor wasted no time introducing himself 
to the staff. 
“Before I got an interview, I was talking to 
everybody from player engagement to PR, to 
ticketing and marketing,” he said. “The more people I connect with the better, and I recom -
mend that to anyone trying to work in sports.” 
The interview process was strenuous. The 
candidate list dwindled from 400 to 14. Once 
again, Taylor had just barely made the cut.
The Rams informed Taylor they couldn’t 
give him the coordinator role, but they wanted 
him for social media and design instead. He re -
ceived a degree in graphic design Aug. 2021, 
which helped prepare him for the position. 
Before the Rams made the call, an old 
Florida teammate spoiled the news while Tay -
lor was enjoying a double tasty from Relish, a 
Gainesville burger joint.
“Van Jefferson actually spoiled it for me,” 
Taylor said. “I was at home [Gainesville] when 
he texted me ‘Congrats my boy’ and I was like, 
‘congrats on what?” 
About five minutes after receiving Jeffer -
son’s text, Taylor got a call offering him the 
social media and design position. 
“I thought, ‘I guess I’m going to LA,’” Taylor 
said.
Taylor had just signed with agent Michael 
Raymond whom he began making arrange -
ments with.
“My parents thought it couldn’t get any bet -
ter than playing football,” Taylor said. 
Things have only taken off for Taylor since 
he hung up his pads.  
While still in Gainesville, Taylor created his 
TikTok account Nov. 18, and it has grown to 
334,000 followers with 12.5 million total likes. 
“If it wasn't for coach Mullen, if it wasn't 
for this team, if it wasn't for these [UF] experi -
ences, I wouldn’t have a TikTok platform,” he 
said. 
Taylor made a promise to the Rams social media team to grow their TikTok following to 1 
million, a goal that was hit on Super Bowl Sun -
day. After Odell Beckham Jr. joined the team in 
Nov. 2021, Taylor said the wide receiver helped 
him create more exciting and enticing content. 
As of Thursday, the Rams have 1.2 million fol -
lowers. 
“I feel like the media’s most wanted now,” 
he said. “I told my bosses, ‘I’m going to get us 
to a million, and I promise you that.’”
A typical day with the LA Rams  
On a typical day working for the Rams, Tay -
lor went over content plans, community events 
to visit or stops by practice to get more content. 
“They’d have us driving around and killing 
that gas,” Taylor said. “That’s one thing about 
LA, I’d never recommend living there unless 
you got it because it costs a grand to live in the 
trenches.”
Taylor also designed the endzone for the 
Rams home game against the Chicago Bears 
Sep. 21. A game Los Angeles won 34-14. 
Reminiscing on the Rams season and play -
off run, Taylor recalls playing the Arizona Car -
dinals in the Wild Card Round.
“They smacked us in SoFi [Stadium] to be -
gin the season,” he said. “We were all kinda 
looking around thinking we might be done.”
Taylor remembers when the Rams picked 
up star wide receiver OBJ from the Browns and 
got the team's spark back. 
“In my mind, I thought we’ve got the tal -
ent, it's just a matter of making no mistakes,” 
Taylor said. “Play your best football for the next 
month and a half.” 
The Rams went on to defeat the Cardinals, 
followed by the 49ers in the NFC Conference Championship, sending them to the Super 
Bowl.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@MadsLaws
mlawson@alligator.orgUF walk-on turned Super Bowl Champion: How Clifford Taylor IV made it
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Clifford T aylor IV returns to Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium after the Los Angeles Rams 
victory in the 2022 Super Bowl.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Former Florida head coach Mike White leads his team during a timeout 
Feb. 19. White accepted a job with the Georgia Bulldogs Sunday.
WHITE,  from pg. 1Coach White departs for UGA12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRETRACK & FIELD
By Ethan Eibe
Sports Writer
They say Disney World is the place where 
dreams come true. For Florida Gators Track 
and Field, that place is Birmingham, Alabama. 
The No. 1 Florida women’s program cap -
tured its first indoor track championship since 
1992 Saturday night, ending a 30-year drought. 
The Gators earned 68 team points to cement its 
11th title in the program’s history. 
Florida finished 12 points clear of No. 3 
Texas, with Kentucky, Arkansas and LSU 
rounding out the top 5. UF surged to the title 
with impressive performances on the second 
day of competition, clinching the top position 
with just three events remaining. 
Sophomores Anna Hall and Jasmine Moore 
shined on the first day at the Birmingham 
Crossplex. Hall followed up her record-setting 
pentathlon performance at the SEC meet by re -
cording the first individual pentathlon champi -
onship in Gators history Friday.
The Highlands Ranch, Colorado, native 
earned the pentathlon title with 4,586 points. 
She placed first in the high jump and 800-me -
ters, second in the shot put and 60-meter hur -
dles and seventh in the long jump.
Moore leapt to the first ever Florida cham -
pionship in the long jump with a 6.57-meter 
showing. Moore and Hall’s domination resulted 
in a combined 20 competition points, translat -
ing into a one-point advantage for Florida over 
Ole Miss heading into the final day of events. “I was very proud of [Hall and Moore],” 
head coach Mike Holloway said. “A little bit of 
pressure on both of them being the No. 1 seed 
but they both came in and performed well and 
got the job done.”
Florida captured three more individual titles 
on day two, bringing the weekend total to five 
— the second time any school has achieved 
that mark in NCAA meet history. 
Sophomore Grace Stark tied the collegiate 
record with a 7.78-second 60-meter hurdles. 
Freshman Talitha Diggs recorded a 50.98-sec -
ond time in the 400-meter race to grab her first 
individual national title.
“To win the 400 title was a dream come 
true because I prepared for the moment and 
visualized it happening,” Diggs said. “To get 
the win for me, my coaches and my team was 
the best.”
Moore followed Diggs with her second in -
dividual title of the meet, a 14.57-meter first 
attempt in the triple jump that broke her own 
collegiate record. Her initial leap was all she 
would need to bring home the 10 champion -
ship points. 
Moore’s two NCAA solo titles tied the knot 
on an incredible indoor season. The Grand Pra -
rie, Texas, native broke two school records, 
took down a national benchmark and garnered 
a pair of SEC titles.
Senior Natricia Hooper tacked on eight ad -
ditional points by placing runner-up in the tri -
ple jump (13.99-meters), allowing the Gators to 
comfortably watch the final three events before celebrating their long-awaited national cham -
pionship.
“It is a blessing to have all our hard work 
come out at the best time,” Diggs said. “Our 
team made sacrifices and truly did it together. 
To be team champions is a display of our to -
getherness and love for each other.”
This is the 10th national championship for 
the program under the leadership of Holloway, 
who became the 10th Division 1 track and field 
coach to hit the double-digit title mark. He is 
also one of only two Black head coaches in Di -vision 1 history to reach ten team champion -
ships. 
The Gators now shift focus to the outdoor 
campaign, which takes off on March 23 and 
will last until mid-June. Florida’s next action 
will be a pair of away meets to ring in the out -
door season at the University of Texas and 
North Carolina State University from March 
23-26.
@EthanEibe
eeibe@alligator.orgFlorida claims first NCAA Indoor National Championship in three decades
Courtesy to The Alligator
The Florida women’s indoor track and field team surrounds head coach Mike 
Holloway and celebrates its second national title in program history.
The latest title is the 11th in UF program history