We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Residents raise voices for police responsibility
About 60 people protested outside City Hall Wednesday after one 
man lost eye to K-9, anoth er arrested after his home was invaded , pg. 6
Gainesville tattoo artists to host flash abortion fundraiser
All proceeds from Sunday’s 9-hour event will be donated to 
Florida Access Network,  pg. 5Sports analyst advises authenticity
Stephen A. Smith took to UF’s University 
Auditorium Wednesday. Find this story 
on pg. 12.
MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 43
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
ALACHUA COUNTY ADVOCATES FOR 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION THROUGH 
EDUCATION, PROVIDES FREE 
SCHOOL SUPPLIES  
By Rylan DiGiacomo-Rapp
Alligator Staff Writer
Ethel Porras, a 38-year-old UF student 
adviser, fears sending her son to school in 
Gainesville.
She feels overwhelmed ahead of her son’s 
first day of kindergarten at Stephen Foster El -
ementary this Fall, and the looming threat of 
violence only feeds her fear, she said.
Thousands of Alachua County residents 
including students, parents and teachers filled 
Santa Fe’s gymnasium Saturday for Alachua 
County’s 23rd annual Stop the Violence Back 
to School Rally. Attendees learned how to pre -
vent and spread awareness for gun violence 
while they collected back-to-school materials 
and reviewed vaccination information. 
“The whole explosion of school shootings 
recently is really, really scary, but I’m hoping 
events like this will help,” Porras said. 
The U.S has seen 384 mass shootings this 
year alone, 24 of which were school shoot -Rally addresses Gainesville gun violence prior to school year’s start
Photo by Meghan McGlone
Thousands of Alachua County residents including students, parents and teachers 
filled Santa Fe College’s gymnasium Saturday, July 30, 2022.
POLICE ARRESTED MAN FOR 
TRESPASSING AND ASSAULTING 
COMPLEX RESIDENT TUESDAY
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
“You're sure to find a space that is 
perfect for sharing with your future room -
mates,” Midtown Apartments’ website 
reads.
But residents’ group chats detail experi -
ences with unwarranted guests: trespass -
ers, squatters and homeless people. Ala -
chua County Sheriff’s Office received 132 
calls to the apartment site since May 2019, 
according to a report.
Gainesville police arrested Troy Robin -
son, a 34-year-old Atlanta resident, for tres -
passing and assaulting a 19-year-old female 
resident and UF student at the complex, 
located at 104 NW 17th St. behind Social at 
Midtown, Tuesday.
Robinson maintained he lived in the 
building despite management’s insistence 
he does not, according to the police report. 
Police found him with three pairs of long 
socks in his possession.
Management requested he be trespassed 
upon finding out he was also occupying 
one vacant apartment after another, ac -
cording to the report. He was being held at 
Alachua County jail on a bond of $200,000 
as of Sunday.
The Alligator was able to contact man -
agement after seven attempts via email 
and several calls to three different phone 
numbers. On-site management, who did 
not want to be named due to not receiving 
prior permission from supervisors, denied 
Robinson occupied vacant units. The man -
ager maintained he resided in the victim’s 
apartment; his belongings were only found 
within that unit, they said. 
Carmen, a 22-year-old Midtown Apart -
ments resident and UF astrophysics senior 
who requested to conceal her last name 
due to fear of retaliation, said she has seen 
propped doors, broken locks and missing 
door handles during her one year of resi -
dence.
“If it ends up that one of your residents 
gets murdered because of it or severely 
hurt because of it, that blood is not only on 
the criminal’s hands,” she said. “It is also 
on the apartment complex’s hands.”FLORIDA PLAYERS RECEIVED $500 
OF BASE FUNDING FOR FALL; IT 
TYPICALLY RECEIVES $18,000
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
Jacqueline St. Pierre’s group did ev -
erything right, she said, but they still 
lost funding.
St. Pierre and the other theater club 
leaders set alarms for 8:30 a.m., skipped 
class and refreshed SG’s website over 
and over to access the club funding 
request form the moment it opened. 
They drafted requests ahead of time and 
quickly pasted them into the applica -
tion. They did everything right to bol -
ster their chance of respectable funding.
It didn’t work. 
UF’s Florida Players club typically 
receives $18,000 from SG per semester. 
This Fall, it will receive $500.
But St. Pierre, this year’s Artistic Di -Midtown Apartments 
residents fear security 
breach, management 
denies allegations
Thespians bear 
brunt of thinning 
SG funds
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
Alyssa Soejima knew she wanted to be a 
teacher when she was in first grade. 
The 21-year-old UF education sciences 
senior lived in Florida for most of her life, 
but amid rising statewide teacher vacan -
cies, she opted to move to Nashville once 
she graduates in December. 
Factors like HB1557/SB1834 (commonly 
known together as the “Don’t Say Gay” bill) 
made teaching in Florida less appealing and 
hurt the classroom environment, she said. 
“They can’t even wear rainbow. 
That’s just so absurd.”
- Alyssa Soejima, UF student
 
While she does not want to run away 
from the problems teachers face in Flori -
da’s education system, she said she felt 
there was not much she could do to fix 
them. She’ll work as an English as a second 
language teacher for Teach for America, a nonprofit organization. 
About 9,000 teacher vacancies need to 
be filled statewide for the upcoming school 
year, according to the Florida Department 
of Education. In an effort to help fill some 
vacancies, Florida recently announced 
military veterans and their spouses could 
teach without a teacher’s degree. 
Alachua County Public Schools dealt 
with 265 resignations from teachers, coun -
selors and media specialists over the 2021-
2022 school year. 
While UF’s College of Education has 
seen a steady increase in annual enroll -
ment, UF’s total elementary education ma -
jors dropped from 647 students in 2009 to 
only 248 in 2021.
Abigail Darius, a 22-year-old former Ala -
chua County Public School reading teach -
er, taught at Fort Clarke Middle School for 
the 2021-2022 Spring semester after she 
graduated last December. 
She studied elementary education, but Alachua County, College of Education 
face Florida’s teacher vacancies
SEE MIDTOWN,  PAGE 4 SEE BUDGET,  PAGE 4 SEE TEACHER,  PAGE 5SEE RALLY,  PAGE 5
UF students voice concerns about teaching in stateT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 43
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorsthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Luigi Bencosme, lbencosme@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather 
Bushman, Namari LockIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
Two hours into my first day as Engagement Managing 
Editor, I locked our entire editorial staff out of our pri -
mary Twitter account, froze the account for six days 
and lost our verification check. 
I leaned into the joke all afternoon, but the second I got 
into my car, I let my head fall forward and hit the steering 
wheel as I sat in complete silence. There’s a certain shock 
to getting yourself ready for a prize fight, weeks of mental 
preparation and positive self-talk, only to hit the mat sec -
onds after the opening bell. 
One partial day and I made the biggest social mistake in 
years. How in the world could I survive 15 weeks?
When you show up to UF’s College of Journalism and 
Communications, everyone tells you The Alligator is a great 
place to cut your teeth and gain experience, and even more 
tell you the paper brings you your closest friends. You’re 
warned about how much you’ll learn about the news, 
Gainesville and your coworkers. No one prepares you for 
how much you’ll learn about yourself.
Local journalism, especially on a student level, exists in 
a perpetual state of information, communication, deadlines, 
and pressure. A source won’t leave a writer alone. A court 
case set a new date for a hearing next week. UF just sent an -
other press release about mask guidelines. Someone called 
in a tip. Newsletter needs to be made by the end of the 
night. You had an assignment due last night. Don’t drown.
I know the cheeky, inspiring narrative is how pressure 
makes diamonds. If pressure forces carbon atoms together 
and solidifies them, I think it does the opposite to people; 
it strips you down until there’s nothing left but who you 
are, deepest inside, and shoves a mirror in your eyes. And, 
somewhere in all the split-second decisions and time on the 
clock, that mirror made its way to me.
I learned I’m fine with being the butt of a joke if it makes 
a room more comfortable. I learned I handle tight deadlines far better than I expected. I learned 
I know how to take professional 
criticism as constructively as pos -
sible. I learned I know how to be 
constructive while being kind, and 
I learned I know when to put a 
person before their work. 
I learned when my mental 
cues mean I need to take a walk. 
I learned I respond to stress with 
attempts at humor and do so far 
more often I can proudly admit. I 
learned I need to set better bound -
aries with my time. I learned the people around me usually 
owe more of my attention than I always give, and I learned 
exactly how poorly I can react when I neglect myself.
I also learned, while I may beat myself up for them, I 
know how to move forward quickly from the inevitable 
mistakes I made. I give myself a second to rest my head 
against the steering wheel, but the world keeps turning. It 
always will.
More than anything, I learned how much I love every -
one in this newsroom. The passion, dedication and drive 
every writer, editor, audience team member, copy editor, 
photographer and graphic designer brought through our 
doors each and every week made this paper what it is this 
summer, something I’m forever proud of. The compassion, 
kindness and wisdom of every previous coworker, confi -
dant and mentor made me who I am today, something I’m 
forever grateful for. 
There will never be enough words for what this paper 
and this family has meant to me.
I can’t wait to see what I learn about myself next.
Ryan Haley was the Engagement Managing Editor 
of The Independent Florida Alligator.Gainesville isn’t what it used to be. 
Campus isn’t quite as scenic once you’ve photo -
graphed protest after protest through its brick-lined 
pathways. 
The Swamp doesn’t sparkle quite as much when you 
discover all the ways the athletics department has failed its 
players. 
Lecture halls aren’t half as enthralling when you realize 
the person to your left was arrested for sexual assault. 
Gainesville isn’t what it used to be. It’s not an utopia.
Every journalist at The Alligator eventually faces that re -
ality. We trade our orange-and-blue-colored glasses for just 
blue-light glasses as we enter our dusty corner of the office 
and hunch over computer screens every week. It’s the price 
we pay to report the news — to put together a paper — and 
we’re (begrudgingly) happy to do it.  
The newsroom’s soda-spotted carpets, crumb-ridden 
couch and nerd-infested nooks somehow kept my eyes 
bright as the rest of the city dimmed.
I never knew what curveball was coming my way: an 
essential editorial, a breaking-news story, a peeved PR per -
son.
But I did know who I’d see: the sports desk huddled 
together, talking about last night’s game; the managing edi -
tors recounting the weekend’s endeavors; the budding of -
fice romances; the lone freshman. 
The sights that used to perplex me became comforting. 
The dimly lit conference room — lined with bulletin boards 
overflowing with niche, archaic references I once desper -
ately wished I understood — became adorned with my own 
arbitrary contributions. Generations of staffers to come will 
know about one former editor’s love for pickles, affinity for 
emo music and tendency to sage the office before every 
print night (hey, it worked). 
I hope those future journalists know the newsroom can be a home to all; it witnessed me 
through multiple relationships, at 
least five hairstyles and a handful 
of wardrobe experimentations, so 
it’s basically a parental figure now. 
I hope they know what they’re 
part of. I hope they read about 
our journey to independence, our 
status as the largest student-run 
newsroom in the county and our 
ever-expanding quote bag (confi -
dential, sorry). 
I hope they know the culture 
I’ve come to adore wasn’t always there. The unused sta -
tions I saw on my first day on staff slowly became occupied 
with every passing semester. Six people in the office and 
the rest on Zoom became a bustling newsroom with only a 
handful of remote employees. 
Print nights became my beacon. Friend groups grew. 
We returned to The Alligator I had only heard tales of from 
my first editor. 
Despite the comforting buzz, I always left the office ex -
hausted after the presses started up every Sunday night. I 
wondered if I was doing a good job. I worried I was pushing 
the staff too much. I worried maybe I wasn’t pushing them 
enough. I never went straight to sleep. Sometimes, I didn’t 
sleep at all. 
But I was always ready to tackle the next week, the next 
story, the next phone call. As I close the office doors one last 
time, I’ll be forced to face this seemingly dystopian world. 
At least I’ll be armed with the lessons I’ve learned in this 
shabby basement.  
Gainesville, the country and this planet isn’t what it 
used to be, but it gave me The Alligator. That’s more than 
enough.
Julia Coin was the Editor-in-Chief of 
The Independent Florida Alligator.
What I saw in the mirrorMore than enoughGoodbye Columns
Ryan Haley
@ryan_dhaley
rhaley@alligator.org
Julia Coin
@juliamcoin
jcoin@alligator.orgMONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022Carmen, who is originally from Orlando, 
related the security at Midtown Apartments 
to the death of Miya Marcano, a 19-year-old 
University of Central Florida student who was 
found dead in the woods near an apartment 
complex in Orlando last September.
An investigation discovered Armando Ca -
ballero, a 27-year-old maintenance worker 
employed by Marcano’s apartment complex, 
illegally used a maintenance on-call key fob 
to enter her apartment and kill her after she 
denied his sexual advances, according to the 
Orange County Sheriff's Office.
“Maintenance workers are not permitted 
into an apartment without being granted ac -
cess via resident entered work order or un -
less otherwise noticed via written notice via 
the office staff,” Scott Manning, the senior 
vice president of CA Ventures Student Living 
operations — which helps oversee Midtown 
Apartments — wrote in an email.
Florida lease laws require landlords to in -
form residents at least 12 hours before entry, 
according to a 2022 Florida statute.
If management needs to enter a unit for an 
emergency without appropriate notice issued, 
Manning wrote, “All staff team and vendors 
must knock and announce themselves before 
entering in any unit.”
Construction, which began when Mid -
town Apartments replaced the 100-year-old 
Hurley House Catholic Gator members used in 2018, remains unfinished. Roger Develop -
ment Group, the apartment’s previous owner, 
sold the 589-bed student housing complex to 
CA Ventures, according to a January press re -
lease.
While the old management was more 
diligent about informing residents about in -
spections and maintenance entry, Carmen 
said, new management became more relaxed 
about issuing entry notices.
“The standard for that has gone down 
significantly. And it's something that 
worries me a lot.”
- Carmen, Midtown Apartments resident
Midtown Apartments employs S3, a se -
curity company, to conduct routine patrols 
during the hours the Midtown Apartments’ 
front office is closed — Monday through Fri -
day from 7 p.m. to 9 a.m., according to its 
website.
The security contract also requires patrol -
lers to control and walk the building sev -
eral times, the on-site manager said. Latch, 
a digital lock system residents use to enter 
apartment corridors and units, was installed 
June 13.
In the span of one month after its in -
stallation, Carmen returned to an unlocked 
apartment door twice. She said she still fears 
the ease of access non-residents have to the 
building and individual units. 
But, unless required by law, the former 
management’s rental agreement states, man -
agement is not liable for any loss, injury or 
damage to a person caused by criminal con -duct of other persons. 
“They're taking steps to not give us safety 
and security,” she said, “but they are taking 
steps to be quiet.”
Manning advised residents to voice con -
cerns to the office phone number, one that 
is not provided on the apartment’s website. 
The complex, Carmen said, has changed its 
phone numbers and emails several times.
It has also ignored photos of homeless 
people sleeping in elevators and on lounge 
couches, Katelyn Gonzalez, a 24-year-old 
Midtown Apartments resident and UF mass 
communications law graduate student, said. 
Some residents have resorted to last-stitch 
security measures. Sticky notes line several 
doors to warn people to stay away or knock 
before entry. 
The day before Robsinson’s arrest, she 
heard someone rattle her door handle. She 
soon learned other female residents wit -
nessed Robinson roam the hallway, knock 
on doors and claim he was locked out of his 
apartment.
“With maintenance regularly entering 
units,” she said, “I fear I may have let the 
strange man into my own unit.”
Management maintains it has not re -
ceived resident complaints about squatting, 
but Gonzalez said she fears for her safety ev -
ery time she goes to sleep or leaves her unit 
to walk her service dog.
“We don't have any semblance of privacy 
or safety here,” she said.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.org
rector and club leader, refuses 
to cancel the season, no matter 
what it takes.
“We’re going to make theater 
— if it’s on top of the parking ga -
rage, if it’s in someone’s house, 
if it’s outside in a grassy knoll, if 
it has to be filmed instead,” she 
said 
St. Pierre asked SG in a July 
11 email to explain the club’s 
low funding and said she was 
met with a vague response: 
there is no money left.
There was about $800,000 to 
allocate among more than 300 
SG-funded clubs for the Fall 
semester. The total funding for 
student clubs decreased about 
$200,000 from the last fiscal 
year and did not increase for the 
2023-2024 budget.
According to SG’s financial 
guidelines, available funds are 
set based on the average amount 
spent between all SG-funded 
organizations over the last five 
fiscal years. Club activities and 
events ground to a halt during 
campus’ pandemic-induced clo -
sure two years ago.
This semester’s funding ran 
out before all but one of Flori -
da Players’ requests were pro -
cessed; the one request that 
got through was denied, but St. 
Pierre said she didn’t know why.
In 2018, the Young Ameri -
cans for Freedom, a conserva -
tive club, filed a lawsuit against 
UF’s Board of Trustees because SG did not provide funding to 
invite conservative speakers to 
UF; YAF said it was a breach of 
the university’s commitment to 
the marketplace of ideas. They 
agreed upon a $66,000 settle -
ment in 2019 and SG rewrote 
its budget procedures to ensure 
every club had equal access to 
funding.
The cost of fulfilling this se -
mester’s 1,600 funding requests 
for Fall would have been $2.9 
million, according to an email 
from Budget & Appropriations 
Chairwoman Catherine Giorda -
no and Student Body Treasurer 
Sierra Kantamneni.
Florida Players must pay for 
actors’ scripts and the rights to 
put on its shows, which exceeds 
$500. The club is scrambling to 
come together and find solu -
tions, she said.
“Art has always had a difficult 
relationship with money, 
because as creative people, 
we dream really big. And 
sometimes, budgets just don’t 
allow for that.”
- Jacqueline St. Pierre, Artistic Director, 
UF's Florida Players club
The club has used the Squi -
tieri Studio Theatre for the last 
two years to practice and per -
form their upcoming plays, 
which will cost them $3,500 
for one week at a reduced price 
due to their financial situation. 
Florida Players opened a Go -
FundMe, which has raised more than $7,000 to support the club 
for the upcoming semester.
For now, the members must 
consider reserving a room in 
the Reitz Union or holding its 
plays outside, like the Cypress 
and Grove Brewing Company. 
Florida Players planned its Fall 
season in the Spring to show 
its stage renditions of “Lemons 
Lemons Lemons Lemons Lem -
ons” and “Push Up.” 
Show essentials, such as cos -
tumes, props and practice spac -
es, will suffer significantly due 
to the low funding, St. Pierre 
said. 
“That is nothing short of dev -
astating for us,” St. Pierre said.
The total SG budget for the 
next fiscal year is more than $23 
million and awards $7.5 million 
to Rec Sports, $6.5 million to the 
Reitz Union, $6.5 million to SG, 
$1.9 million to Student Activities 
and Involvement and $720,000 
to Sorority and Fraternity Life. 
The Activities and Service 
Fees pending budget for the next 
fiscal year, approved by SG Sen -
ate Tuesday, asks for a 3% in -
crease in total funding, but there 
is no planned increase in the 
budget for club finances.  
“I think this just reflects poor -
ly on our culture as a university 
because I know how much stu -
dent involvement is essential to 
what we do as Gators,” St. Pierre 
said.
The last Senate meeting of 
the Summer will be held in the 
Reitz Union Senate Chambers 
Tuesday at 7 p.m.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgMIDTOWN,  from pg. 1
BUDGET,  from pg. 1Security breach
Club budget cutsIsabella Douglas / / Alligator Staff
Midtown Apartment residents said 
propped doors, like the one pictured above 
July 27, 2022 contribute to the security 
breaches seen in the complex recently.
THE REQUEST CAME FROM 
A SECRETIVE OUTSIDE 
ORGANIZATION
By Lindsay Schindler 
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF accepted a state grant after a 
secretive group requested funding for 
a new civic institution on behalf of 
the university.
The Council on Public University 
Reform, a nonprofit organization es -
tablished in 2021, requested UF be 
granted $3 million by the state to fund 
the Hamilton Center for Classical and 
Civil Education — a new undergradu -
ate academic institution focused on 
civic education for students. 
Little is known about this organi -
zation, and it did not consult with UF 
prior to making the request in June. 
The group declined an interview but 
released a general statement saying it 
thinks the U.S. faces a crisis of civic 
literacy, which they hope the Hamil -
ton Center will help combat. 
No outside organization will be 
involved in the civic institution’s 
development or its civic curricula, 
wrote John Stinneford, Edward Root 
Eminent Scholar Chair and professor 
of Law at UF, in his proposal for the 
center.
“As UF emerges as a leader among 
the ‘public ivies,’ we have an open -
ing to set a model for our peers,” he 
wrote. 
The institute will offer a major 
and minor of its own, separate from 
the preexisting political science ma -
jor, Stinneford wrote. Courses will 
reflect those of Arizona State Univer -
sity’s School of Civic and Economic 
Thought and Leadership, he wrote. 
Sample courses include “Federal -
ists, Anti-Federalists and Enduring Debate,” “The Trial of Galileo” and 
“Justice and Virtue.” 
UF has not detailed where the 
Hamilton Center will be located, and 
its opening will be determined by the 
timing of faculty hires. 
“It was surprising that UF wasn’t 
really involved in the [proposal of 
the] project,” Dr. Benjamin Smith, a 
UF political science professor, wrote 
in an email, “more so that neither our 
department nor the Graham Center 
were part of it.” 
UF accepted the government grant 
and began planning for the new insti -
tution in June; its development was 
not a part of UF’s 2023-2024 proposed 
budget, Cynthia Roldan, UF’s Interim 
director of strategic communications 
said.
Civil discourse and debate among 
people of differing political opinions 
are needed now more than ever amid 
the nation’s deeply split political cli -
mate, Stinneford wrote. The univer -
sity needs an intellectually diverse 
community who will both support 
and challenge one another, he said.
The center will work with neigh -
boring universities’ civic institutions 
— namely the Florida Institute of 
Politics at Florida State University and 
the Adam Smith Center for the Study 
of Economic Freedom at Florida Inter -
national University — to advance the 
missions of the institutes. 
“We look forward to collaborating 
in any way that advances the mission 
of the Institute of Politics,” said Dr. 
Hans Hassell, director of FSU’s Insti -
tute of Politics. 
UF plans to offer civics courses in 
the new institution as soon as Spring 
2023.
@lindsschindler 
lschindler@alligator.orgUF receives $3 million 
for new civic centerings, according to the National Gun Violence 
Archive and The Washington Post. Firearms 
are now the leading cause of death for children 
over the age of 1 in America, according to the 
CDC. 
Buchholz, Newberry, Gainesville and East -
side High Schools received numerous bomb 
threats throughout the past year, as did Oak 
View Middle School. Police arrested a Fort 
Clarke Middle student for bringing a loaded 
gun to campus in May. A downtown drive-by 
shooting killed a Gainesville man May 1. A 
recent home invasion resulted in a woman’s 
death. 
The rally’s “Getting to the Root of the Mat -
ter — Youth Violence” theme centered around 
finding and addressing the origin point of vio -
lence, Karl Anderson, the founder and presi -
dent of People Against Violence Enterprises, 
said. The best policy for violence prevention is 
“see something, say something,” he said.
Anderson believes encouraging nonvio -
lence in children is the key to preventing vi -
olence in the future. Seven out of ten school 
shootings are committed by young adults un -
der the age of 18, according to data from the 
Washington Post.  
“Parents are glad to hear an encouraging 
and advocating message of violence preven -
tion,” he said. “We’re just letting them know 
that we support them in helping them with 
their children.”
While UFPD’s safety protocols will not 
change in preparation for the new school year, 
it did announce it would hire two mental health 
counselors to accompany officers to respond to 
calls — potentially shootings — by the Fall se -mester. The department will need to deem the 
scene safe before it deploys the clinicians, but 
they could help victims and witnesses address 
traumatic events. 
Anderson said a major part of every rally is 
having children pledge to turn in any guns or 
other weapons they find to authorities. Parents 
and other members of the community are also 
encouraged to take this pledge, he said. 
Anderson, through his parent and student 
violence prevention symposiums, serves as an 
adviser for an Alachua County student who 
made a bomb threat. He’s worked to transform the situation into a learning experience for 
good decision-making skills and strives to do 
the same with as many students as possible, 
he said. 
The rally featured activities that would 
amplify the message of nonviolence. It host -
ed Grammy Award-winning Christian rap -
per Thi’sl and the Infamous Diamonds, a 
Gainesville dance group. Attendees also took 
part in spontaneous activities like a dance bat -
tle for children and parents, he said. 
Thi’sl, 45, shared his personal story of 
growing up in St. Louis in an area prone to 
shootings. He spent his childhood without a 
parental figure and watched a friend die when 
he was just 15 — tragedies he said pushed him 
to turn his life around.“I have a heart for trying to catch kids be -
fore they get to the places that I went through 
in life, places I’ve been,” he said. 
Violence perpetuates generational trauma, 
Thi’sl said. Not only does it affect victims, it 
also affects their loved ones, causing people to 
give up hope, he said.
He believes this type of back-to-school rally 
will catalyze change because it spreads aware -
ness and shows children they are valued.
The rally also focused on providing Alachua 
County students and parents with useful back-
to-school resources. 
Aaron Shtid, a 15-year-old Gainesville High 
School freshman, looked forward to collect -
ing a backpack passed out at the end of the 
rally. Meridian Behavioral Healthcare, a long-
standing sponsor of the event, provided free 
backpacks filled with school supplies for the 
first 5,000 students to arrive — an exponential 
leap from the 100 offered at the first rally 23 
years ago.
Angelina Armstrong, a 31-year-old Alachua 
County parent, has continued to bring her fam -
ily to the rally for years. Easy access to school 
resources gave her peace of mind, she said.
“It helps a lot, especially with my young -
est,” she said. “He has some trouble in school, 
so it helps to know where to go.”
Skyler Burleigh attended the rally to collect 
supplies for the first time Saturday because her 
family has been struggling financially. 
The 15-year-old Santa Fe High freshman 
felt encouraged to see her community unite 
against violence, and she said it made her feel 
safer as she prepared to begin high school.
“It makes me feel a lot better that these 
people are actually out here trying,” she said.
@rylan_digirapp
rdigiacomo-rapp@alligator.orgRALLY,  from pg. 1Combating violenceMONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Averi Kremposky
Alligator Staff Writer
When the Supreme Court over -
turned Roe v. Wade in June, Maria 
Arjona responded in the one way she 
knows how: tattoos. 
Permanent art on your skin is the 
ultimate demonstration of bodily au -
tonomy, the 29-year-old tattoo artist 
at Oasis Tattoo Collective said.
“When we’re born, we don’t 
really get to choose anything 
about ourselves, not even our 
name and the way our body 
looks. I think tattoos are one of 
the only things that allow you 
to take full control of yourself.”
- Maria Arjona, Oasis Tattoo Collective
Artists from tattoo studios around 
Gainesville will gather in the tattoo 
studio for a “Bans Off Our Bodies” 
flash fundraiser event Sunday noon 
to 9 p.m. The artists will donate all 
proceeds from the event to the Flori -
da Access Network, a nonprofit orga -
nization and abortion fund. 
Customers will choose tattoos 
from a preset collection of designs. 
They are typically palm-sized or 
smaller, and in comparison to cus -
tom tattoos, flash tattoos aren’t cus -tomizable. Arjona described them as 
“get it, or don’t.”
Arjona said artists will see cus -
tomers on a first-come, first-serve 
basis, and artists don’t know which 
designs they’ll pursue until the event 
starts. Some designs may take only 
15 minutes, but others could take 
two hours.
On March 5, Arjona and other 
Oasis artists hosted a similar event 
for a friend who was in a motorcycle 
accident. The artists raised around 
$3,000 for one person, and the event 
showed Arjona the ability of Gaines -
ville’s tight-knit community to make 
an immense difference. 
After seeing Atlanta colleagues 
host similar symbolic flash tattoo fun -
draisers, Arjona was eager to bring 
the same concept to Gainesville. 
However, she didn’t expect the event 
to gain this much anticipation. 
Oasis’ flash tattoo events usually 
bring in sizable crowds. Now, with 
the help of other local artists, Arjona 
expects a staggering turnout. 
“I think the community is excited 
to see different artists from across the 
board coming together under one 
roof,” she said. “It shows we’re all 
here for the same reason and we all 
have the same goal.” 
Aubrey Brand, a tattooist at An -
them Tattoo Parlor, helped Arjona 
plan the event. Brand said she’s ex -cited to see a progressive and loving 
community come together for the 
same cause. 
Though she’s at a different studio, 
Brand embraces the opportunity to 
unite with other artists who share 
her passion for using their work to 
impact the community. 
“Tattooing is about having auton -
omy over our own bodies, and this 
is such a great platform to do that 
— to show our community and give 
back,” Brand said.
Oasis will also partner with lo -
cal restaurants like Afternoon, Cry 
Baby’s and Boca Fiesta to host raffles 
during the event. 
“That was kind of crazy,” Arjona 
said, “seeing the amount of people 
who wanted to help.  Everybody has 
a stance and that we all are coming 
together for one collective reason.” 
Arjona, Brand and other artists 
are determined to combine Gaines -
ville’s camaraderie, activism and 
love for tattoos in one space. Even 
passerbys should be able to feel the 
community spirit, Arjona said. 
“Our thing is always about good 
vibes, that’s the Oasis motto,” she 
said. “If that’s not what you’re com -
ing to bring to the event, then don’t 
show.”
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgOasis Tattoo Collective to host flash 
fundraiser for reproductive rights
Photo by Meghan McGlone
A young boy smiles with his tote bag full of supplies given to him at the Stop the 
Violence Back to School Rally Saturday, July 30, 2022.
her short stint as a teacher was 
extremely taxing. She resigned 
to work toward her master’s de -
gree in entrepreneurship.
“Even if you’re not teaching, 
you still have to do lesson plan -
ning; you’re still grading papers, 
you’re still contacting parents, 
you’re going to meetings,” Dar -
ius said. 
Darius wished teachers would 
receive more support and re -
spect. She stressed how crucial it 
is to rally behind teachers rather 
than view them as a babysitter 
for parents’ kids. 
New requirements to teach 
in Florida and COVID-19 have 
made it difficult to fill statewide 
teaching positions, ACPS spokes -
person Jackie Johnson said. 
“There are a lot of controver -
sial laws that have been put in 
place in the past couple of years 
related to education,” Johnson 
said. “So that creates a chal -
lenge.”
It is a top priority for ACPS to 
increase teacher salaries, John -
son said. The school board has 
been able to increase salaries 
and receive more funding for 
education, she said.
As of Sunday, 83 ACPS teach -
er jobs and five substitute teach -
er positions remained posted on 
ACPS’ website.
Casey Shaha, a 22-year-old UF elementary education gradu -
ate, said she will move to Cali -
fornia after graduate school 
because Florida’s salaries re -
mained stagnant. 
The average teacher salary 
in Florida is $51,009 — which 
ranks 48th in the country — ac -
cording to the National Educa -
tion Association. The average 
teacher salary in California is 
$85,856, the third-highest mark 
in the nation. 
Teachers’ treatment also 
pushes candidates from the 
state, Shaha said, and especially 
Gainesville. She helped teach 
at Myra Terwilliger Elemen -
tary School and Meadowbrook 
Elementary School while she 
completed her undergraduate 
degree.
“It just seems like there’s 
a lack of attention to how 
much work teachers put in."
-Casey Shaha, UF student
The second-grade class she 
helped teach at Myra Terwil -
liger dealt with suspensions and 
a suicidal student, she said. The 
teacher she worked with strug -
gled to witness the issues her 
students faced, Shaha said. 
She has since resigned.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgTEACHER,  from pg. 5Teachers flee Florida
Several Gainesville tattoo artists will gather Sunday 
to raise money for the Florida Access NetworkBy Omar Ateyah & 
Rylan DiGiacomo-Rapp
Alligator Staff Writers
Terrell Bradley stood on the steps of city hall, his 
injuries from a Gainesville Police Department K-9 at -
tack freshly bandaged. 
He donned a black eye patch and a cast on one of 
his arms. The 30-year-old Gainesville resident lost an 
eye to a Gainesville Police Department K-9 after he 
fled from officers during a traffic stop July 10. 
Bradley attended the police advisory council meet -
ing at City Hall Wednesday alongside about 60 dem -
onstrators. He did not offer public comment, but after 
all of the demonstrators left the hall’s basement, he 
took a pause outside.
“I’m blessed. I can’t complain. I’m alive. 
I got another chance.”
- Terrell Bradley, Gainesville resident
Hours earlier, Monique Miles wiped away tears in 
front of City Hall as her mind took her back to July 19 
— the day her daughter, D’halani Armstrong, died and 
police took Dovico Miles, her brother, to jail. Dovico 
Miles was taken into custody after defending himself 
during a deadly home invasion. 
The 44-year old Gainesville resident faces charges 
for tampering with evidence and possessing a weapon 
as a convicted felon after his home was invaded July 
19. His niece died before he shot at one of the invaders 
as he fled his home, according to Miles’ arrest report.
Monique Miles believes GPD saw nothing but a 
convicted felon when they arrested her brother, caus -
ing them to overlook the details of the incident. She 
said police searched the home and ruined many of her 
family’s belongings.
Miles is many things, his sister said, but a felon is 
no longer who he is today.
Miles’ criminal history dates back to the 1990s with 
convictions of theft, battery, weapon and drug posses -
sion. Police booked him in the Alachua County Jail July 19 on a bond of $150,000. 
His release is a pressing matter, Monique Miles 
said. Had he not taken action, she believes she and 
her son may not have survived the event.
Brittany Miles, a 35-year-old Gainesville resident 
and Miles’ other sister, felt GPD failed her brother.
“What you came out here to do was investigate a 
murder,” she said, “not investigate a convicted felon 
who protected his home.”
She said her brother and other convicted felons 
should be able to legally own and operate a firearm 
for self-defense.
“There’s a lot of convicted felons in Gainesville,” 
she said. “What are they to do when their life is in 
jeopardy or if somebody else’s life is in jeopardy?”
Rickylah Manuel, a 21-year-old Gainesville resi -
dent, attended the rally because she felt Miles’ actions 
were justified during the home invasion.
“It’s not like he broke into somebody’s house and 
tried to steal from them,” Manuel said. “He was pro -
tecting his family.”
In the wake of such frequent violence, she said it’s 
important to not allow cases like this to slide.
“We need to stop all the violence,” she said. “Peo -
ple shouldn’t be losing their lives to nonsense.”
Miles and Bradley serve as new symbols of a re -
invigorated movement for police accountability in 
Gainesville.
One by one, speakers, including relatives of both 
Bradley and Miles, expressed their dissatisfaction with 
the police department’s relationship with Gainesville’s 
Black community.
Bruce Williams, a 63-year-old lifelong Gainesville 
resident among Wednesday’s group, bluntly assessed 
the city’s approach to racial equality after the meet -
ing’s conclusion.
“Gainesville is a racist town,” he said. “Stupid rac -
ist.”
The Bradley incident sparked community action: a 
protest July 17 and a people’s investigation July 23. 
Family members and residents alike pressured the po -
lice to make the facts of Bradley’s encounter with law 
enforcement known.
Andrew Milman, the officer who initiated Bradley’s 
traffic stop, found a gun, ammunition and marijuana 
in Bradley’s car after Bradley struck him to escape, 
according to the affidavit. The K-9 later found and at -
tacked Bradley in nearby bushes. The affidavit did not 
mention Bradley’s injuries from the K-9 apprehension, 
but the dog was temporarily suspended, police chief 
Lonnie Scott announced July 22. Scott did not mention 
any repercussions for the K-9’s handler. 
Scott expressed regret for Bradley’s loss of an eye 
during the K-9 encounter and said police would care -
fully review video of the incident. The crowd demand -
ed the footage be released, but Scott said he could not 
comment on the specifics of Bradley’s or Miles’ cases 
because they are both still under investigation. 
Attendees interrupted his speech, shouting for real 
answers.
“If we find inappropriate activity on those videos, 
we’ll take appropriate action.”
- Lonnie Scott, Gainesville Police Chief
He did not elaborate what the action would entail. 
Scott announced an extension of GPD’s investiga -
tion into the Bradley incident July 22, which could 
last up to 90 days.
Danielle Chanzes, a co-organizer of the protest, 
said the community needs to demand change. 
“The police aren’t going to start treating commu -
nities right just because we ask them nicely,” Chan -
zes said. “If they’re not treating us right, we need to 
let them know who is in charge.”
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org
@rylan_digirapp
rdigiacomo-rapp@alligator.org6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
Gainesville’s Gainesville’s 11stst RV Resort RV Resort
  Located in the City LimitsLocated in the City Limits   just minutes fromjust minutes from ::
• • UUniversity of Floridaniversity of Florida :: Sporting Events and Ceremonies Sporting Events and Ceremonies
• • Gatornationals: Gainesville Raceway 4.6 milesGatornationals: Gainesville Raceway 4.6 miles
• • SHANDS, NFRMC, VA hospitals: Patients, Family members, SHANDS, NFRMC, VA hospitals: Patients, Family members, 
and Travelling professionalsand Travelling professionals
• • Convenient to Dining, Shopping, Culture, Adventure, all that Convenient to Dining, Shopping, Culture, Adventure, all that 
Gainesville has to offer!Gainesville has to offer!
        Amenities:Amenities:
• • Gated Access, Security Conscious, High-Speed Fiber Optic Gated Access, Security Conscious, High-Speed Fiber Optic 
Wi-Fi, Beautiful Lanai and Swimming Pool, Fitness Room, Wi-Fi, Beautiful Lanai and Swimming Pool, Fitness Room, 
Walking Path, Laundry FacilitiesWalking Path, Laundry Facilities  
  All Sites Full Hook-up and many Pull-throughAll Sites Full Hook-up and many Pull-through
Pet Friendly!Pet Friendly!
Locally owned and operated. Locally owned and operated. 
Enjoy Small-Town Charm and Hospitality in the City!Enjoy Small-Town Charm and Hospitality in the City!
3013 NE 53rd Avenue   |   (352) 451-45663013 NE 53rd Avenue   |   (352) 451-4566
Get the news 
while it’s new. 
Find out about 
upcoming events. 
Read about sports. 
Stay up to date on 
what’s happening in 
Gainesville, FL.
The list goes on.
www.alligator.org@FloridaAlligator
@TheAlligator
@TheAlligator_
follow 
us on 
social 
mediaWE INFORM.
YOU DECIDE.
BREAKING NEWS
& DAILY UPDATES
Omar Ateyah / / Alligator Staff
T errell Bradley sits at a police advisory council 
meeting Wednesday, July 27, 2022.
Protestors pressure police advisory council 
for law enforcement accountability
The demonstrators decried the treatment of Terrell 
Bradley and Dovico Miles by Gainesville policeMONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida football, men’s basketball enter critical new eras
This year marks the first time new coaches will helm both 
programs since 2015, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
By Kyle Bumpers
Avenue Staff Writer 
Abortion rights became a focal 
point of national discussion June 
24 following the overturn of the 
original Roe v. Wade decision. 
However, films have talked about 
the issue for decades, and the 
representation of the issue in 
media is more relevant than ever.
Happening (2021)
A French-language film directed 
by Audrey Diwan, “Happening,” 
features a student named Anne 
in 1963 France who finds out she 
is pregnant and goes to extreme 
lengths to try and get an abortion. 
This was one of the most intimate 
films of this year and a necessary 
watch for anyone who cares about 
the topic.
Diwan’s direction paired with 
Anamaria Vartolomei’s vulnerable 
performance as Anne created a 
film that showed me just how 
much women can be impacted by 
abortion, especially with a negative 
perception. 
Anne went through physical 
and emotional hardships and put 
her body through torture to abort 
her baby, all while her family 
and peers judged her every step 
of the way. She sought medical 
professionals for help and even 
took matters into her hands 
multiple times, trying to induce an 
abortion herself knowing she could 
face prison time.
“Happening” accurately 
depicted the personal urgency of 
women who feel the need to save 
themselves from a dire decision, 
a powerful example of potential 
dangers of the criminalization of 
abortion.
Never Rarely Sometimes Always (2020) 
While “Happening” showed 
how people sought abortions 
in ‘60s France, “Never Rarely 
Sometimes Always” showed how 
people in the United States might 
respond to unplanned pregnancy 
today. The film, directed by Eliza 
Hittman, centers around two 
teenage girls, Autumn (Sidney 
Flanigan) and Skylar (Talia Ryder), 
who travel from Pennsylvania to 
New York on an interstate journey 
for medical attention following an 
unplanned pregnancy.
While Anne puts herself through 
physical torture in “Happening,” 
Autumn puts herself through 
uncomfortable social situations to find someone who can help her, 
spending multiple nights in New 
York with no place to sleep.
“Never Rarely Sometimes 
Always” also succeeds because of 
its direction and acting. The film, 
a slow burn despite only a days-
long plot, uses many small details 
to portray the difficulties faced by 
Autumn and how she feels in those 
moments, as extended shots linger 
on her with an uncomfortable 
silence to highlight her persistent 
anxiety.
4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days (2007) 
While the aforementioned films 
focus on the plight of two women 
who find themselves unexpectedly 
pregnant, “4 Months, 3 Weeks 
and 2 Days” revolves around the 
perspective of a university student, 
Otilia, with a pregnant roommate.
The Romanian film’s unique 
point of view shows how the 
community around whoever seeks 
an abortion can be affected by 
the decision. As Otilia helps her 
roommate deal with the effects 
of her pregnancy and abortion, 
the viewer sees Otilia’s own 
relationship with her boyfriend 
become strained as a result of an 
increasingly packed schedule.
However, in this film, the 
viewer doesn’t feel as emotionally 
impacted because Otilia isn’t 
the character going through 
the abortion, something I felt 
lessened the emotional impact as 
the roommate not going through 
the abortion remains slightly less 
sympathetic.
Juno (2007) 
Many films making a statement 
on unplanned pregnancy detail the 
troubles people face while finding 
an abortion. “Juno,” instead, 
shows the struggles of a high 
school girl who becomes pregnant 
but forgoes an abortion when she 
sees a classmate protesting outside 
the abortion clinic.
The classmate’s words about 
how the fetus has a heartbeat and 
can feel pain ring true in Juno’s 
ears as she decides to put the baby 
up for adoption once it’s born. The 
film’s light-hearted tone contains 
enough heart to keep the viewer 
emotionally invested while making 
Juno’s struggles easier to digest, as 
she gets uncomfortable stares and 
extra attention while at school.
Many films have a grim outlook 
on unplanned pregnancy, but this 
film shows what can go right when someone unexpectedly pregnant 
can rely on a positive support 
group. Juno’s parents and the 
child’s father never pressure Juno 
or make her feel uncomfortable 
or unwanted because of her 
situation, something the film 
shows can drastically change a 
teen pregnancy.
Black Christmas (1974)
“Black Christmas,” released the 
year after the original Roe v. Wade 
decision, works as a landmark film 
contextualizing the original shift in 
attitudes.
Jess, the protagonist, finds 
out she is pregnant and tells 
her boyfriend the day before 
an unknown killer begins to 
stalk her sorority house. The 
killer repeatedly asks about the 
baby, and Jess struggles with 
understanding who is behind the 
threatening phone calls and her 
roommates’ murders. 
The film freely uses the word 
abortion without fear of scrutiny, a landmark approach for the ‘70s. 
The film provides a great sense for 
the overwhelming feeling some 
people go through when deciding 
what to do in the case of an 
unplanned pregnancy.
Similar to her troubles to 
avoid the killer and unmask 
their identity, Jess struggles to 
understand who she can turn to in 
the wake of the recent discovery of 
her pregnancy. The duality of not 
knowing who is on her side during 
the slaughter spree or who will 
support her through her unwanted 
situation are the plot’s central 
themes.
Persona (1966) 
The Swedish film “Persona” 
details the story of a nurse, Alma, 
who cares for actress Elizabet. 
Elizabet suddenly stops 
speaking for personal reasons 
despite appearing healthy, and the 
two build a strong relationship and 
share secrets with each other. Each 
woman grapples with their own experiences in regards to abortion. 
Alma, who had an abortion, 
regrets her decision, while Elizabet 
underwent a failed abortion and 
now resents her child.
“Persona” is full of strong 
symbolism that links the characters 
together, while the writing shows 
how distinctly impactful their 
struggles are. The film opens with 
a child touching an image of a 
woman as the face fades in and 
out, seemingly representing an 
aborted child trying to understand 
his mother’s decision.
These films show every 
woman’s experience is unique 
if she unexpectedly finds herself 
pregnant. Elizabet recludes within 
herself once her operation fails, 
resentment simmering below the 
surface, while Alma’s talkative 
nature offers a stark contrast in 
their relationship. 
Whether they see the result 
they want, these films indicate 
that the women who persevere 
through these turbulent times do 
so because of their own resolve 
and support from the people 
around them.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.orgFilms record evolving attitudes on abortion
MOVIESMOVIES
Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
A timeline showing a number of movies with mentions of abortions and unplanned 
pregnancies across the years.
Films show how these opinions vary between people, countries and decadesBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NURSERY FOR SALE.
1.3a, 26' x 45' greenhouse, rooting shed, 
office, shop, kit/bath, travel trailer, storage 
shed, well, septic. $155k obo. Mike - (202) 
246-2001 Broker www.garciabroker.com   
8-29-22-5-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $249: NEW 5-DRAWER 
CHEST $229: WE HAVE OVER 300 
MATTRESSES IN STOCK: SAME DAY 
DELIVERY: WE DELIVER: COME TO OUR 
STORE LOCATED AT 4390 SW 20TH AVE 
GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953         9-6-22-5-6
10 For Sale
BCI Walk In Tubs are now on SALE! Be one 
of the first 50 callers and save $1,500! CALL 
888-687-0415 for a free in-home consultation.      
8-1-2-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
3 APARTMENTS AVAILABLE:
4BR/4BA, 2BR/1BA, 1BR/1BA
NW 3rd Ave. Walking distance to UF.
Call Brenda: 352-672-8657        8-28-22-5-2
Beautiful 2/2 condo for rent In quiet neigh -
borhood close to UF campus on bus route. 
Tile floors throughout, central heat & air, 
washer/dryer included. $950/mo w/ $950 
deposit. Call 352-514-8156 for application.    
8-17-22-4-2
Charming 3BR/1BA brick home w/ large 
fenced backyard. Easy walk/bike to UF cam-
pus. New cent ac+heat, washer & dryer, large 
Florida room, hardwood floors. Yard serv & 
pest control incl. Avail Aug 1st. $2,100/mo 
+ 1 mo sec. Call Tom Davis, 352-215-4990.  
8-1-22-3-2
Beautiful 4BR/2BA home Large backyard on 
Nature Preserve in the Broadmoor Community. 
Vaulted ceilings, open living space, light/bright, 
lots of windows/skylights. Split floor plan. Move 
in ready. Close to Santa Fe College, Hidden 
Oaks Elem & Ft Clarke Middle School, Publix, 
restaurants,  access to I-75. Yard serv/pest 
cont incl. Avail. Aug 1st $3500 per mo. + 1 mo. 
Call Andreas 352 474-8889               8-1-22-2-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
11..    SSuuddddeenn  eexxcciitteemmeenntt  
11..    SSttuuddiioo  sseessssiioonn55..    ________  rroooomm
22..    LLeeaassiinngg66..    ________  cciirrccllee
33..    AAuutthhoorriittyy,,  ppeerrmmiissssiioonn77..    WWaayy  oouutt
44..    ________  RRiivveerrRRLLIILLTTHH
AAPPTTGGIINNNNIICCAAPP
NNEERRIINN
RRIIEETTGGNNNN
SSIICCEELLNNEESSGGEESSEERR
RRIIGGSSTTIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TThhrriillll    55AA--PPaanniicc    66AA--IInnnneerr    77AA--EEggrreessss
11DD--TTaappiinngg    22DD--RReennttiinngg    33DD--LLiicceennssee    44DD--TTiiggrriiss    BB--PPeenniicciilllliinn88--11--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ddiissccoovveerryy  ooff  ________  ddaatteess  bbaacckk  ttoo  11992288..
BONUSCASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org5 Real Estate
By Paul Coulter
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC08/01/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
08/01/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, August 1, 2022
ACROSS
1 “Same here”
6 Chesapeake Bay 
crustacean
10 Lavish party
14 Stand-up 
performer
15 Top-quality
16 Iraq’s eastern 
neighbor
17 Muscat native
18 Grazing grounds
20 *Clickable device 
with a light 
sensor
22 __ Beta Kappa
23 Chemical in oven 
cleaners
24 “How 
unfortunate”
28 “Comprende?”
29 Lavish party
31 “Wheels down” 
stat, for short
32 Confined, with 
“up”
35 *One who’s easily 
frightened
38 Merit badge 
earner
40 Tolkien monster
41 Bizarre
42 *Simple riding toy
45 Clearance rack 
caveat
46 Craft brewer’s 
brew
47 Snail-paced
48 R&B’s Boyz II __
50 Bruce of the  
“Die Hard” films
52 Auction offer
53 Director’s shout
56 Anti-cruelty 
movement, and 
what the answers 
to the starred 
clues literally 
have
60 Citrus drink
63 Big name in 
water filters
64 Bookish sort
65 GPS suggestions
66 Prying tool
67 “To a ... ” poems
68 Cravings
69 Decorative jugs
DOWN
1 Ice cream serving
2 Get-up-and-go
3 Violin master who 
taught Stradivari
4 __ Cooper: small 
car made by 
BMW5 Spiky winter 
hanger
6 Kid-lit writer/
illustrator Eric
7 Knock about
8 __ Domini
9 Enchant
10 Contents of a 
backup drive
11 Chapter in history
12 Light brown color
13 See 51-Down
19 Chihuahua or 
Sonora, por 
ejemplo
21 “The __ have it”: 
“Motion carries”
25 Religious splinter 
groups
26 Video game 
pioneer
27 Goes out with
28 Bang, as one’s 
toe
29 Actor Shandling
30 Curved sections
32 “Oh, nonsense!”
33 Bacteria that may 
trigger a food 
recall
34 Prestigious 
prize with six 
categories
36 Downton Abbey’s 
Mrs. Patmore, 
for one37 Chinese  
currency
39 Skill measured in 
wpm
43 Stockings
44 Mideast leader
49 Safe to  
consume
51 With 13-Down, 
clothing retailer 
that began as 
a mail-order 
yachting supply 
company52 “God __  
America”
53 Onion kin
54 Say out loud
55 Bygone Russian 
rulers
57 Life partner
58 Yemen coastal 
city
59 Increased in size
60 Peace activist 
Yoko
61 Crimson
62 “__ you sure?”
By Mary Lou Guizzo & Jeff Chen
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/26/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/26/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 26, 2022
ACROSS
1 Rental for some 
exercise classes
8 Vice President 
Harris
14 Make move, as a 
cartoon
15 Grapefruit kin
16 *“Now you see 
what I deal with 
every day”
18 Clandestine org.
19 Shortfin shark
20 Facts and figures
21 EMT’s skill
24 More than fix up
26 *“Our goose is 
cooked”
32 Color selection 
tools
33 Defeat badly
35 Extended a 
performance, in 
a way
36 “The Good 
Doctor” actress 
Thomas
38 “Their Eyes Were 
Watching God” 
novelist Zora __ 
Hurston
39 Stereo 
components
40 *Tools that may 
make one say, 
“Damn you, 
autocorrect!”
43 Fly high
44 “Jeopardy!” 
co-host Jennings
45 Regarding
49 Heavy burden
51 Cake mix need
54 *“No idea”
59 Desert illusions
60 Source of  
pint-sized 
beverages?
61 Use
62 Last stage of a 
chess match, 
and what each 
answer to a 
starred clue 
literally has
DOWN
1 Show sleepiness
2 Tip jar bills
3 __ monster: lizard
4 Theater chain 
initials5 Chairman who 
led China’s 
Cultural 
Revolution
6 Bank drive-thru 
device
7 Swarm (with)
8 __ dragon: lizard
9 “Vice” Oscar 
nominee Adams
10 Blend
11 “Search Party” 
actress Shawkat
12 Hay storage area
13 Drifting aimlessly
15 “__ Face”: Lady 
Gaga hit
17 Small fruit 
pastries
21 New Orleans 
cuisine
22 Seabirds that 
often follow ships
23 Solemn ceremony
25 Scene not meant 
to be seen
26 Decreases in 
strength
27 Yosemite peak, 
familiarly
28 “The Simpsons” 
neighbor 
Flanders29 Kaput
30 Solitary sort
31 Kuwaiti rulers
32 Ballpoint, e.g.
34 Faux __
36 Tailless primate
37 Bottle part
39 “So what” 
shoulder gesture
41 __ Tunes
42 Leans to one side
45 Je t’__: French “I 
love you”46 Leveling device
47 Canvas cover
48 Avocado shape
50 A few
51 Idris of “Luther”
52 “Where America’s 
Day Begins”
53 “Chicago” star 
Richard
55 Sense of self
56 Metal container
57 Plus
58 Smoke, briefly
07/25/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.12 Autos16 Health Services 13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HELP WANTED - DONUT CONNECTION
Counter/Drive-Thru Sales. 
$11.50 / hr to start + tips. 
Text 352-214-1506; 
email donutconnection1@aol.com    
8-29-22-4-14
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
Green Mountain Pools in Vermont is hiring 
pool plasterers, mixers, and laborers starting 
at $18-$25/hr depending on experience. Call 
Nick 802-356-1482 or email grnmntpools@
comcast.net                                      8-1-3-14
Looking for student to help keep up home / 
yard. Move in / live RENT FREE, in furnished 
efficiency apt. Close to UF. No pets.
● OR ● Part-time job $15/hr. 
Short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com
8-29-22-7-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
8-24-22-5-14
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in-
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
Caregiver needed
Compassionate caregiver needed for Adults 
with intellectual disability. Must have a reliable 
vehicle, and high school diploma or higher 
education. Over-nights and weekend shifts 
available. Starting at $15 per hour. 
Text Roxana at (352) 225-8382 or email us at 
Covenantagencygainesville@gmail.com   
8-29-22-5-14
15 Services
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      8-1-9-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
8-1-26-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!             8-1-9-15
BATH & SHOWER UPDATES in as little as 
ONE DAY! Affordable prices - No payments 
for 18 months! Lifetime warranty & profes-
sional installs. Senior & Military Discounts 
available. Call: 888-460-2264           8-1-1-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
8-1-6-15Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816               8-7-8-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       8-1-26-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
817 NW 57th Terr, Ste B
Gainesville, Florida 32605
            ● Urgent and Primary Care
            ● Walk-Ins Welcome
            ● Minimal Wait
            ● Rapid Molecular Covid Testing
            ●**24hr STD Test Results**
Phone 352-554-5977
Website: 1stchoiceicc.com
8-1-22-4-16
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. Art McNally.
2. Paul Pierce.
3. Under Armour.
4. Slovenia.5. 6 inches.
6. The Colorado 
Avalanche.
7. DePaul University.Sports Quiz answersanswers below1. What member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame Class 
of 2022 was known as the "Father of Instant Replay"?
2. Name the Boston Celtics star who was stabbed 
11 times at a nightclub in September 2000, but still 
started every game in the 2000-01 season.
3. What sports apparel and equipment company was 
founded in Baltimore in 1996 by Kevin Plank, a 
former University of Maryland football player?
4. Tadej Pogacar, winner of cycling's Tour de France 
in 2020 and 2021, hails from what country?
5. According to the American Cornhole Association's 
regulations and standards, what is the diameter of 
the hole in an official cornhole board?
6. Joe Sakic won two Stanley Cups (1996, 2001) as 
a player and one as general manager (2022) with 
what NHL franchise?
7. In the first round of the 1988 NBA Draft, the New 
York Knicks selected Rod Strickland, a star point 
guard from what university?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
TECHNOLOGY IS A WAY OF ORGANIZING THE UNIVERSE
 SO THAT MAN DOESN'T HAVE TO EXPERIENCE IT. — MAX FRISCH
solution  below10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Trivia Test  answers1. Crest.  2.  The Battle of Thermopylae.  3.  One. Franklin D. Roosevelt.
 4. About 10-20 feet. 5.  Cape Town.  6.  Tightrope walker.  7.  Bobbi Gibb, 
1966. The race was opened to women in 1972.  8.  Pacific Princess.
  9.  Blue, yellow, red, green and black.  10.  Cacao trees.answers below1. AD SLOGANS: Which product's advertising slogan is 
"Look, Ma, no cavities!"?
2. MOVIES: The movie "300" is based on which fa -
mous historical battle?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: How many presidents have 
served more than two terms?
4. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How far can a skunk's 
spray reach?
5. GEOGRAPHY: What is the southernmost major city 
on the continent of Africa?
6. LANGUAGE: What is a funambulist?
7. HISTORY: Who was the first woman to complete the 
Boston Marathon (unofficially)?
8. TELEVISION: What was the name of the cruise ship 
on the sitcom "The Love Boat"?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: Which colors make up the 
five-ring Olympic symbol?
10. FOOD & DRINK: Which plant produces cacao 
beans, which are used to make chocolate?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.18 Personals
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.“How are we doing, guys? We doing alright?”
Former UF football head coach Jim McElwain 
— donning an alligator pin on the left lapel of his 
black suit jacket and a big, toothy smile — began a 
new period of Florida Gators football history with those words 
at his introductory press conference Dec. 6, 2014.
McElwain, as it turned out, was soon not alright. The former 
Colorado State coach took over after Will Muschamp’s failed 
tenure and lasted less than three full seasons. His final farewell 
was a 42-7 drubbing at the hands of the rival Georgia Bulldogs. 
Five months and five days after McElwain’s introduction, UF 
welcomed yet another new face; Mike White — who sported a 
cleaner, even understated look — served as legendary men’s basketball coach Billy Donovan’s successor. White, to his cred -
it, served at the helm of the men’s hoops program for seven sea -
sons before his departure after the 2021-2022 season (although 
many fans likely would have wanted that run to end a season 
or two earlier).
The last time UF brought a new football and men’s basket -
ball coach in the same year, neither lived up to expectations. 
As the Fall semester looms, Gator nation finds itself at a similar 
watershed. 
Billy Napier. Todd Golden. Through one door, the two 
coaches could return Florida to glory. Through another, the 
“Gator Standard” could be plunged further into question.
It is, without hyperbole, do-or-die time in Gainesville. 
The men’s basketball program saw a single Southeastern 
Conference championship in the past decade. Predating White, 
Donovan led the hoops squad to a 2014 conference title. 
The football program has been less fortunate; then-head-
coach Dan Mullen’s tight loss to Alabama in the 2020 SEC 
Championship was the closest the Gators have come since 
Urban Mayer paced the sidelines of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
Less than one year later, Mullen was fired on the basis of a 6-7 
season
Four schools in the SEC have won more combined football 
and men’s hoops conference titles in the past decade than Flori -
da. Gator nation prides itself on boasting elite programs in both 
sports -– UF is still the only school with national titles in both 
sports this century — but the report card from the past decade 
in the land of “It Just Means More,” might suggest otherwise. 
It’s a what-have-you-done-for-me-lately atmosphere.
Florida sits firmly outside the danger of losing its competitive 
credibility, for now.
Both Napier and Golden appear successful, so far. Golden 
brought in elite transfer talent, while Napier arguably hit the 
recruiting trail harder in one offseason than his predecessor did 
in four years.But the duo’s accolades from lower-
caliber programs at their previous stops 
sound eerily similar to those of the ill-
fated 2015 hires. McElwain came to 
UF after success at CSU, where he was 
named the 2014 Mountain West Con -
ference coach of the year, and White 
arrived after a 27-9 season at Louisiana 
Tech. 
Translating Napier’s success at Lou -
isiana-Lafayette and Golden’s at San 
Francisco to Gainesville will determine 
both coaches’ legacy and test whether or not they can prevent 
history from repeating itself. Early returns look promising, but 
the proof will come in the “W” column.
Their performances will also likely determine the fate of UF 
athletic director Scott Stricklin, who took over for Jeremy Foley 
in 2016. 
After Mullen, his first big-fish hire, left the football program 
unceremoniously, and two other hires — former women's bas -
ketball coach Cam Newbauer and former soccer coach Tony 
Amato — left the university amid claims of abuse earlier this 
year, the ice under Stricklin is thin.
The cloudy nature of the two programs doesn’t necessar -
ily represent all of UF athletics. The men’s and women’s track 
and field teams currently reign as national champions, and 
women’s basketball head coach Kelly Rae Finley restored that 
program in just one season.
Regardless, money talks. Football and men’s hoops tradi -
tionally turn the most profit for the university. A significant 
impact on UF’s athletic revenue would be more than enough 
cause for the university to part ways with Stricklin.
While one semester will be inadequate in determining the 
two programs’ long-term outlook, this Fall is the beginning of 
a crossroads that fans and historians alike will look back on. It 
will be the beginning of a successful decade or the beginning 
of a Tennessee-esque downturn, or somewhere in the middle; 
either way, the seasons are guaranteed to be eventful.
For now, all eyes rest upon the two venues that hug Gale 
Lemerand Drive.Familiar territory: all eyes rest on Napier, GoldenMONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.GYMNASTICS
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
Gators gymnastics’ chemistry, helped 
with a string of fifth-year returns, will con -
tinue this Fall while incorporating former 
Bulldog and Florida legacy Rachel Baumann. 
Fifth-year Florida senior Savannah 
Schoenherr announced she will return for 
one more year via Twitter Wednesday. The 
announcement comes three days after Bau -
mann announced her transfer from the Uni -
versity of Georgia to Gainesville for her final 
year of eligibility.
Schoenherr, an all-around gymnast, set a 
collegiate-best 9.975 on vault against North 
Carolina State March 11, and she equaled 
that score on the uneven bars versus Arkan -
sas Jan. 28. 
A Gators Gymnastics Heart and Soul 
Award honorable mention, Schoenherr’s re -
turn to UF keeps the continuity of the 2022 
Southeastern Conference champions. She 
joins seniors Nya Reed and Trinity Thomas 
who also announced their returns earlier this 
summer.
Baumann, the younger sister of former Gators All-American Alyssa Baumann, trans -
ferred to Florida for her final year of eligi -
bility. The move will make 2023 the sixth 
straight season a Baumann has been on UF’s 
roster.
 
“I am very blessed for the opportunity to 
pursue my dream graduate program…
and get one more year to do the sport I 
love. Hope y'all are ready for another 
Baumann in the O’Dome.”
- Rachel Baumann, UF gymnast
 
The Texas native spent her undergradu -
ate years in Athens, Georgia, competing for 
the Bulldogs. She led UGA with 12 perfor -
mances on beam and 11 on vault and floor 
last season. She recorded a perfect 10.0 on 
floor at home against the Gators Jan. 21. 
The SEC Academic Honor Roll athlete 
joins Victoria Nguyen as the second Bulldogs 
transfer to join the Gators for the upcoming 
season.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgGators Gymnastics adds a transfer and fifth-year return to its 2023 lineup
Emily Felts / / Alligator Staff
UF gymnast Savannah Schoenherr announced she will return to the Gators' 
program for her fifth and final year of eligibility.Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of Billy Napier and T odd Golden. Photos by 
Samantha Harrison and Joseph Henry.
Carson Cashion
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.orgSports Column
Savannah Schoenherr announced her return for a fifth year three days after Rachel Baumann transferred to Florida12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, AUGUST 1, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRE
WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY
LADIES nightLADIES night
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE DRINKSFREE DRINKS   
For the ladies!For the ladies!
FRIDAYFRIDAY
Beat the clock!Beat the clock!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
(WELLS & DRAFTS(WELLS & DRAFTS
START @ 25¢START @ 25¢  and go up and go up ))
SATURDAYSATURDAY
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE FREE WELLS & DRAFTSWELLS & DRAFTS   For EVERYONE!For EVERYONE!
@Grog.House@Grog.House @groghouse@groghouse www.groghouse.comwww.groghouse.com 1718 West University Ave1718 West University Ave
ACCENT
By Kyle Bumpers & 
Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writers
Between his prediction for a sec -
ond consecutive Golden State War -
riors NBA championship and an 11-6 
record for the Dallas Cowboys, Ste -
phen A. Smith remained unapologeti -
cally himself in UF’s University Audi -
torium. 
The sports analyst said his success 
— like his spots on the ESPN shows: 
“First Take,” “NBA Countdown” and 
“SportsCenter” — stems from his au -
thenticity and willingness to defend 
his takes. His viewers know to expect 
well-researched and well-defended ar -
guments when he shares his opinions, 
he said.
“You can trust Stephen A. to be 
Stephen A.,” he said.
The secret to his popularity, Smith 
told more than 300 students, is an un -yielding commitment to staying true 
to his personality. 
Journalism department chair and 
professor Ted Spiker interviewed him 
before the guest fielded questions 
from the ACCENT Speakers Bureau 
event’s crowd Wednesday.
While Smith said he doesn’t keep 
up much with Florida football — a 
statement followed by lighthearted 
boos from UF students — he still de -
scribed his Mount Rushmore of Gators 
sports: Al Horford, Tim Tebow, Urban 
Meyer and Billy Donovan.
“Back in the day, it was always 
Florida,” Smith said. “That’s the stan -
dard.”
He said the team needed to move 
in a different direction following last 
season’s disappointing outcome. 
Florida finished with a 6-7 overall re -
cord and lost at the hands of Central 
Florida 29-17 in the Gasparilla Bowl 
December 2021, a game Smith could not recall the name of. 
First-year Gators football head 
coach Billy Napier captured Smith’s 
interest, but he said the Southeastern 
Conference will be no easy competi -
tion for the newcomer. 
That pressure to perform, he said, 
carries over to UF students, as well.
“Everyone you’re sitting next to is 
competition,” Smith said.
He advised students to become 
indispensable to their bosses. Intern -
ships and real-world experiences, 
Smith said, can be even more impor -
tant than education.
Smith nodded to his own journey 
from living off a $15,000 salary at the 
beginning of his career to his current 
status as a multimillionaire.  Valuable 
relationships with players and other 
television personalities, along with 
the trust of his audience, propelled 
him throughout his career. 
Students applauded after he de -tailed his relationships with sports 
personality Skip Bayless and long-
time Philadelphia 76er Allen Iverson, 
whom Smith likened to brothers. He 
explained the ups and downs of both 
relationships and stressed the impor -
tance of perseverance. 
Smith, who was Summer’s first 
speaker after TikTok star Josh Rich -
ards postponed his $60,000 event 
last month indefinitely, was William 
Shaoul’s first speaker event at UF. 
The 18-year-old UF computer science 
freshman said Smith’s story teaches 
students to stay candid as they work 
toward success.
“To do what you want to do, you 
have to work hard,” he said.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.org
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgStephen A. Smith encourages UF students to be authentic, competitive  
The ESPN personality spoke to over 300 UF students at ACCENT Speaker’ s Bureau event Wednesday
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
ESPN’s Stephen A. Smith 
walks across the stage at 
the University Auditorium 
Wednesday, July 27, 2022.
