We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Stephen A. Smith to speak at UF
Accent Speakers Bureau will host the sports personality 
Wednesday,  pg. 3
Multiple nature trail harassments reported
Police arrested a 33-year-old Gainesville man Friday,  pg. 6Football representatives speak at SEC 
Media Days
Billy Napier, 3 pla yers took to conference-
wide Atlanta event . Read more on pg. 11
MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 42
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
University Police Depart -
ment officers arrested a UF 
student in an alleged sexual 
assault and kidnapping of a 
woman next to an on-cam -
pus daycare center earlier 
this month.
Zhishen Wang, a 27-year-
old UF pharmaceutical sci -
ences graduate student, was 
arrested Tuesday for assault -
ing an acquaintance July 8 
at Corry Village Apartments 
— UF’s graduate and family 
housing behind the campus’ 
bat houses and next to a 
Baby Gator Child Develop -
ment Center — according to a UPD arrest report. 
UPD barred Wang from 
campus by issuing a trespass 
warning, but the univer -
sity did not issue a warning 
about the incident. The Clery 
Act requires UF, at its discre -
tion, to notify students and 
faculty of campus threats, 
such as sexual assault and 
gun violence, through “time -
ly warning messages.”
The university did not vi -
olate the act, UF spokesper -
son Cynthia Roldan wrote 
in an email to The Alligator 
after this article's initial pub -
lication, because there was 
no threat to public safety. 
Wang was swiftly arrested, 
she said, and there was not 
an ongoing threat because his actions appeared targeted 
toward one individual.
UF’s most recent warn -
ing, issued two days after 
Wang’s arrest, alerted the 
community to multiple on-
campus catalytic converter 
thefts. 
According to the police re -
port, Wang’s alleged victim 
came to retrieve her belong -
ings at his apartment around 
5:46 p.m July 8. Wang did 
not leave the items outside 
as she requested, she told 
police, so she had to enter 
his apartment, where Wang 
hugged her and refused to let 
her go.
Wang confined the victim UF student arrested for on-campus sexual assault, kidnapping
A JUDGE RELEASED TERRELL 
BRADLEY FROM JAIL 4 DAYS BEFORE 
A PEOPLE’S INVESTIGATION INTO 
THE INCIDENT
By Jackson Reyes & Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writers
Three days after the man who was 
mauled by a Gainesville Police Depart -
ment K-9 was released from jail, the new 
police chief suspended the dog involved in the incident.
A judge released Terrell Bradley, the 
30-year-old Gainesville resident who lost 
an eye to the K-9 attack, from the Alachua 
County jail on bail Tuesday. Lonnie Scott, 
GPD’s acting police chief who is slated to 
officially assume the position Monday, 
extended the initial review process con -
ducted by the department’s Internal Af -
fairs Division and promised a thorough Police chief suspends K-9 involved in man’s mauling
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
The playground found in the center of Corry Village seen empty on Sunday, July 24, 2022.
The Florida Department of 
Health reported Alachua County’s 
first confirmed monkeypox case 
last week.
The World Health Organization 
declared the monkeypox outbreak 
a global health emergency Saturday 
after it was discovered in 74 coun -
tries, 68 of which had not histori -
cally reported monkeypox.
Florida’s first presumptive case 
was identified May 22, and the 
state’s 264 probable cases cases 
rank it third in the U.S. as of Fri -
day. Broward County had the high -
est count, with 129 cases.Alachua County may not be able 
to do much to prevent the spread 
of monkeypox, Alachua County 
spokesperson Mark Sexton said. 
Public health protocols typically op -
erate under the state’s Department 
of Health. 
Paul Myers, an administra -
tor for the Florida Department of 
Health in Alachua County, could 
not be reached for comment in time 
for publication after numerous at -
tempts by phone Sunday.
Infected people typically experi -
ence flu-like symptoms at first, like 
fever, chills, headache, tiredness 
and muscle aches — this usually worsens with lymph node swelling 
and a rash on the face and body. 
The illness usually lasts two to four 
weeks.
Though monkeypox is a rare dis -
ease caused by a virus most com -
mon in central and western Africa, 
infections have increasingly spread 
to other parts of the world starting 
in late June. It is transmitted from 
animals to humans, but an infected 
person can spread it to other people 
through prolonged face-to-face con -
tact or contact with an active rash, 
according to the Florida Depart -
ment of Health website. By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
 The UF Student Government 
Senate passed a resolution ap -
proving 24-hour on-campus ac -
cess to morning-after pills and 
failed an amendment to restore 
Marston Science Library’s 24-
hour availability.
The resolution announced 
the Senate’s unilateral support for emergency contraceptive 
vending machines, but it does 
not require UF administration 
to implement them. Senator Joe 
Andreoli (Change - Graduate), 
the bill’s author, said he would 
continue to work closely with 
the Student Health Care Center 
pharmacy and UF administra -
tion to see action come out of 
his legislation.Alachua County sees first monkeypox case  Student Senate passes resolution for 24-
hour morning-after pill vending machines, 
blocks 24-hour Marston fundingSEE BRADLEY,  PAGE 4SEE KIDNAPPING,  PAGE 4
SEE MONKEYPOX,  PAGE 4 SEE PLAN B,  PAGE 5Students spoke in support of both at 
Tuesday night’ s Senate meetingThe university did not alert the community
The county becomes impacted by a global public health emergencyT oday’s WeatherBy Christian Casale
Alligator Staff Writer
UF students will be ticketed for 
parking violations via a virtual 
system linked to license plate 
readers starting next month.
The system, which will replace 
the $80 sticker decals with virtual 
permits, will allow campus 
security to digitally scan and 
cross-check license plates against 
a database to determine if the 
driver holds the correct permit 
status for the lot it is parked in. 
Patrol cars mounted with 
license-plate-reading cameras will 
monitor and enforce violations, 
according to a UF explanation 
video, and parking in a way 
that blocks a license plate will 
be prohibited. Any driver who 
prefers to back into a parking 
space would have to purchase 
a $25 vanity license plate from the Transportation and Parking 
Services Office to place at the 
front of their vehicle.
The transition from physical 
to virtual decals will save UF 
more than $50,000 a year and 
allow for quicker and more 
accurate verification, said Scott 
Fox, the senior director of UF’s 
Transportation and Parking 
Services.
“It will allow staff to spend less 
time patrolling the campus for 
parking enforcement purposes 
and more time supporting 
special events, managing traffic 
and delivering other services to 
the university community,”
- Sen. Director Scott Fox, 
UF Transportation & Parking Services
Students will be allotted one 
car to register per parking permit. 
Faculty and staff can register up to three vehicles, but only one 
can be parked on campus at a 
time, the video explained.
Danielle Saunders, a 24-year-
old UF public health and 
epidemiology graduate student, 
approved of the change; she 
preferred the option to avoid 
putting a sticker on her car. The 
new system, she said, will give 
students, faculty and staff more 
time to purchase a parking permit 
because they won’t need to wait 
for the stickers to arrive via mail. 
Virtual parking decals for Fall 
semester can be purchased for 
students starting Aug. 8 and Aug. 
15 for faculty and staff.
@vanityhack
ccasale@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 42 UF details new 
virtual parking decal
Namari Lock / / Alligator Staff
Graduates students are allowed to park with a green decal and students living in family housing 
are allowed to park with a brown decal as pictured Sunday, July 24, 2022.
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorsthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Luigi Bencosme, lbencosme@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather 
Bushman, Namari LockIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
License plate readers will help 
authorities ticket vehicles  on campusMONDAY, JULY 25, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
By Rylan DiGiacomo-Rapp
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County’s 23rd 
annual Stop the Violence Back 
to School Rally aims to combat 
rising tension amid an influx of 
mass shootings under this year’s 
theme: “Getting to the Root of the 
Matter — Youth Violence.” 
The rally will present parents 
— some of whom are UF faculty 
— and students with backpacks, 
school supplies and safety 
lessons in the Santa Fe College 
gymnasium Saturday from 9 a.m. 
to noon. People Against Violence 
Enterprises and Alachua County 
Public Schools will review free 
meal programs, vaccination 
expectations and supply needs 
tangentially with violence 
prevention.
Reccurring mass shootings 
across Florida and consistent 
bomb threats in Alachua County 
high schools seem to have 
no concrete solution, Jordan 
Marlowe, an English and history 
teacher at Newberry High School, 
said. The idea of enforcing clear 
backpacks was proposed and 
swiftly dismissed, but safety 
measures must be determined 
and implemented to see safer 
conditions, he said. 
“I think anything that we do 
to raise awareness of the issue is 
helpful, but if all we do are public 
events and there is no follow up 
on real policy change, then it 
won’t be,” he said.
Reinforcing non-violent 
ideologies in elementary schools 
is paramount, he said.
While the main goal of this event is combating violence, 
Karl Anderson, the founder and 
president of People Against 
Violence Enterprises, said it 
will also bring the students 
and parents together before the 
beginning of a new school year.
“It’ll serve as a reminder when 
the kids see everybody come 
together, shoulder-to-shoulder 
and side-by-side with one voice,” 
he said. “The rallying cry will 
really get their attention and 
cause them to think about the next time they find a gun and 
what to do with it.”
If we can find the origin of 
violence, we can begin to make 
change and redirect the trajectory 
of our problems, Anderson said. 
The current system awards 
positive behavior, Marlowe said, 
but sometimes that only increases 
bullying toward students who 
report alarming behavior. 
A lack of trust and connection 
between teachers and students, 
he said, could also increase instances of violence within 
school.
 
“There’s just no way that a 
teacher who has to watch 40 
kids at one time is going to 
be able to catch everything,”  
- Jordan Marlowe, 
Newberry High School teacher
Meridian Behavioral 
Healthcare, a long-standing 
event sponsor, will provide free 
backpacks filled with school supplies and resources for 
reporting violence or threats of 
violence. The organization was 
able to offer only 100 backpacks 
23 years ago, Richard Anderson, 
Chief Clinical Officer for Meridian 
Behavioral Healthcare, said — 
this year, the first 5,000 students 
to arrive will receive one. 
Thi’sl, a person who 
transformed himself from a 
criminal into a Grammy Award 
winning musician, will be a guest 
speaker. There will also be a Q&A 
session to understand the mindset 
of not only the parents, but also 
the children, Karl Anderson said.
“We’ll just have a community 
talk with some music, some 
dancing and a plethora of prizes,” 
he said.
The rally also provides vital 
information for parents and 
students regarding back-to-school 
necessities, Alachua County 
Public School Spokesperson 
Jackie Johnson said.
ACPS will provide information 
on its free meals program, school 
calendars and other resources 
that will help families have 
a smooth start to the school 
year, she said. ACPS will also 
coordinate transportation for the 
rally, Johnson said. 
“We participate in a number 
of ways, and we do that because 
we feel that the message of 
nonviolence is absolutely critical 
for students and families both in 
and out of school,” she said.
@rylan_digirapp
rdigiacomo-rapp@alligator.orgBack-to-school rally revolves around youth violence
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
The Santa Fe logo as seen at Blount Hall located at 401 NW 6th St. Sunday, July 14, 2022. 
By Omar Ateyah 
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Sheriff’s son, a 
habitual traffic offender, faces a charge of 
driving on a suspended license. 
Police served a warrant to 30-year-old 
Clovis Watson IV early Thursday morning 
at the Alachua County jail. The court 
released Watson on the condition he not 
drive without a valid license. 
Watson’s crime history dates back to 2010 
with multiple traffic violations, according 
to court records. He was also arrested for 
burglary, trespassing and stalking, but the 
charges were either dropped or Watson was 
put on probation.
He pleaded not guilty to the traffic 
offense, which occurred June 3 at 3300 SW 
Archer Road near the MetroPCS store, June 
28. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis issued an 
executive order July 6 appointing state 
attorney John Durrett of the Third Judicial 
Circuit to prosecute the case to avoid any 
conflict of interest. Brian Kramer, the state 
attorney for the Eighth Judicial Circuit, 
which includes Alachua County, said he 
notified the governor of the conflict and 
requested a different prosecutor last week.
Watson declined to comment on his 
charge. Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
spokesperson Kaley Behl declined to 
comment on Sheriff Clovis Watson Jr.’s 
behalf and said it was a GPD matter. 
GPD could not be reached for comment, 
and GPD’s spokesperson Graham Glover 
announced he will no longer serve in the 
position as of 5 p.m. Thursday.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgSheriff’s son faces charge for 
driving with suspended license
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
Stephen A. Smith, a prominent sports 
journalist and TV personality, will speak 
at UF July 27 at 7 p.m., the UF Accent 
Speakers Bureau announced via an 
Instagram post Monday.
A host of ESPN’s sports talk show 
“First Take” since 2012, Smith is known 
for his over-the-top reactions and sports 
commentary. He frequently appears as an 
NBA analyst on SportsCenter. 
Smith, who started his career as a 
basketball and sports columnist for 
The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1994, 
transitioned from print to radio and 
television in 2010.
He has been notably missing from 
“First Take” since the beginning of July 
to recover from shoulder surgery. He announced his return next month in a 
Twitter post Thursday. 
The University Auditorium doors 
will open at 6 p.m. The event is free for 
students with a valid Gator1 card. 
The announcement comes one week 
after university police lodged a felony 
complaint against a UF student after a 
death threat forced a “guest speaker” 
to cancel his appearance on campus, 
according to reports. 
The investigation came about two 
weeks after TikTok star Josh Richards 
postponed his $60,000  June 29 event two 
days before it was scheduled, citing an 
unforeseen family obligation. The alleged 
death threat was reported to police June 
28.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgStephen A. Smith to speak at UF
Gov. Ron DeSantis appoints different state attorney 
to avoid conflict of interest in prosecutionThe ESPN ‘First Take’ television 
personality will speak WednesdayFirst 5,000 students who arrive will receive free backpacks with school supplies4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022to the apartment against her will and raped her sev -
eral times as she repeatedly tried to escape, according 
to the report.
His arrest comes months after Antwine Johnson, 
a 32-year-old Gainesville resident, allegedly kid -
napped one woman on the outskirts of UF’s campus 
and raped another at Gainesville Place Apartments in 
September. 
Oscar Vargas, a 21-year-old Santa Fe College stu -
dent and past social events chair of the UF fencing 
club, was arrested Dec. 7 after police said he admit -
ted to detectives that he sexually assaulted an ac -
quaintance in June. He pleaded not guilty Dec. 15, 
2021, and attended a case management hearing July 
18 — his next court date is Oct. 10, case prosecutor 
Ryan Nagel said.
Andrew C. Smith, a 19-year-old UF student, was 
arrested on Jan. 21 after Gainesville police recom -mended charging him with sexual assault. He alleg -
edly raped his accuser after a semi-formal fraternity 
event on Dec. 9. 
Michael Nanosky Jr., a 20-year-old former phi -
lanthropy chairman for UF’s Theta Chi fraternity, 
was arrested for sexual assault last year and pleaded 
guilty to a lesser felony, aggravated assault. A judge 
sentenced him to five years of probation and ordered 
him to drop out of UF, stay out of Gainesville and 
pay for his victim’s therapy. He also forbade him 
from contacting the victim, her family and her soror -
ity, and ordered him to attend mandatory counseling 
twice a month and complete 750 hours of community 
service.
Wang is being held at Alachua County jail on a 
bond of $150,000.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgAssault near on-campus daycarereview of the incident Friday.
The review process could take up to 90 
days to wrap up, he said, and the depart -
ment will not be able to share additional 
information until the investigation is over.   
Police pulled Bradley over for an al -
leged traffic violation July 10; he did not 
stop at a stop sign at Sweetwater Square 
Apartments at 3501 NE 15th St., according 
to court documents, and fled after a physi -
cal encounter with the officer who pulled 
him over. 
Bradley was convicted of robbery in 
2010, according to court records, and he 
faces charges for weapon and ammo pos -
session as a convicted felon, marijuana 
possession, violent resistance to arrest, 
theft of a firearm and carrying an unli -
censed firearm.
According to a sworn complaint affida -
vit, Andrew Milman, the officer who initi -
ated the traffic stop, asked Bradley to leave 
the car after he moved his hand toward the 
front seat. Milman found a gun, ammuni -
tion and marijuana in Bradley’s car after 
Bradley struck him with his elbow and es -
caped, according to the affidavit.
A K-9 officer, identified as “K-9 Ofc. 
Meurer” in the affidavit, responded to the 
incident. Police have not identified the 
dog, but a press release acknowledged a 
K-9 tracked Bradley in Eden Park bushes 
about half a mile from the traffic stop at 
Sweetwater Square Apartments. 
According to GPD’s website, Joshua 
Meurer handles a K-9 named Ranger.Milman’s narration in the affidavit con -
tains only one sentence about the circum -
stances of the apprehension. 
“After a short struggle the DEF was 
placed in to custody,” the report read.
Yolanda Means, the attorney who rep -
resented Bradley in court, said the sworn 
complaint’s omission of Bradley’s injuries 
was considered when Green made his deci -
sion to release Bradley.
Per the conditions of his release, he 
must cover the costs of the electronic mon -
itoring with GPS, not consume alcohol or 
illegal drugs and not possess any weapons 
or firearms.
An investigation by the Marshall Proj -
ect found 150 incidents across the country 
from 2010-2020.
Residents originally protested the inci -
dent July 17 and continued with a people’s 
investigation after Bradley was released.
Bradley’s father, 60-year old former 
GPD officer Victor Bradley, said his son’s 
return home would allow him to heal prop -
erly both physically and mentally, noting 
the trauma of his apprehension by GPD.
About 20 residents rallied at Sweetwater 
Square Apartments Saturday, to learn more 
about what happened. Attendees walked 
to Eden Park at Ironwood at 1330 NE 39th 
Ave., where Bradley allegedly hid from po -
lice before the K-9 mutilated his eye.
The event's goal was to break down 
step-by-step what happened using the in -
formation available to the public, Danielle 
Chanzes, the 29-year-old organizer, said. 
She encouraged residents to keep showing 
up to protests and events to hold GPD ac -
countable as it conducts the investigation. “Seeing is believing,” she said.
While Chanzes wants a thorough inves -
tigation, she said that it could be shortened 
with the release of the body and dash cam -
era footage. 
The walk consisted of six stops. It start -
ed where the alleged traffic violation oc -
curred — where residents noted there was 
no stop sign — and continued through the 
half-mile stretch to Eden Park apartment 
complex — where Bradley fled and hid 
from the cops. 
Chanzes led attendees to where Bradley 
hid in the bushes. Dried blood still stained the side of the wall; people noted how thin 
the bush was and questioned how it took 
cops an hour to find Bradley. 
She hoped the mobile teach-in shed 
light on the incident, she said. 
“When you look at the bushes and how 
thin they were,” Chanzes said, “it drums 
up a lot more emotion because now you’re 
actually physically seeing it.”
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.org
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgBRADLEY,  from pg. 1People's investigation
Jackson Reyes / / Alligator Staff
Residents attending a walking teach-in for T errell Bradley cross Northeast 15th 
Street Saturday, July 23, 2022.
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Gainesville Police arrested four 
Gainesville residents, including a 
man defending his home, in con -
nection to a home invasion that led 
to the death of a woman last week.
Alderious White, 28, and Jason 
Ward, 38, were arrested for the kill -
ing of D’Halani Armstrong, accord -
ing to arrest reports. White shot 
Armstrong after he broke into the 
home at Northeast 16th Terrace, 
about a quarter of a mile away 
from Satchel’s Pizza, at about 7 
a.m Tuesday. She later died at UF 
Health Shands Hospital.
Ward also held Armstrong’s un -
cle, 44-year-old homeowner Dovico 
Miles, at gunpoint as two of the 
house’s occupants hid in a bathtub, 
according to court records. One of 
them was 10 years old. 
Miles managed to disarm Ward, 
but the gun went off during the 
struggle. He then shot White as he 
fled into the front yard, when he 
recognized him as the “son of a 
longtime friend,” according to the 
report.
Miles told police he hid his guns 
and Ward’s gun outside after the 
incident, according to court re -
cords. Police arrested Miles for evi -
dence tampering and possessing a weapon as a convicted felon. 
Miles was booked in the Ala -
chua County jail Tuesday on a 
bond of $150,000. His criminal his -
tory dates back to the 1990s with 
convictions for offenses including 
theft, battery, weapon and drug 
possession.  
Both Ward and White were 
treated at Shands before they were 
booked in the Alachua County jail.
They are being held on bonds 
of $6 million each for premeditat -
ed murder, robbery with a deadly 
weapon and firearm possession as 
convicted felons. White has prior 
weapons, drug and battery convic -
tions. Ward has prior robbery and 
theft convictions.
The fourth suspect arrested in 
the case, 30-year-old Tiara Luckie, 
allegedly dropped Ward and White 
off at the house; her arrest report 
identifies Ward as White’s uncle. 
After Ward was shot, she dropped 
him off at the home of a relative, 
according to court records, before 
fleeing. She now faces an accessory 
charge for her role in the incident.
Luckie was booked into the 
Alachua County jail on a bond of 
$250,000 Wednesday.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgGainesville police make arrest 
in home invasion killing
The homeowner was among those arrested
As the virus spreads in the U.S., 
the CDC advises people to be cau -
tious in situations where one may 
experience skin-to-skin contact; 
being in crowded areas, like clubs, 
and sharing bedding and towels, 
could lead to exposure. It is im -
portant to wash hands frequently 
with soap and water.
If you come into contact with 
someone infected, the WHO rec -ommends monitoring for signs 
and symptoms 21 days after ex -
posure time and limiting close 
contact. If you have symptoms, 
contact a healthcare provider for a 
test and self-isolate at home, away 
from pets, roommates or family 
members. 
The CDC also recommends 
vaccinations for people who have 
been exposed to monkeypox or 
those at higher risk for being in -
fected. 
The infection is rarely fatal; over 99% of people who are in -
fected are likely to survive, accord -
ing to the CDC. Smallpox vaccines 
have been proven to be effective 
in preventing monkeypox, and the 
risk of contracting monkeypox for 
the general public remains low be -
cause it is not very contagious, ac -
cording to the Florida Department 
of Health.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgMONKEYPOX,  from pg. 1First infection reaches AlachuaKIDNAPPING,  from pg. 1MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following positions for the FALL semester:
Current openings:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the 
Editorial Division and as an unpaid 
member of the Board of Directors
 
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
AND
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid 
members of the Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerFor an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Tuesday, July 26th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Tuesday , July 2 6th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by 
the Board of Directors will be held on Friday, July 
29th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be degree-seeking college 
or university students. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator.UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
The Student Government Sen -
ate Rules & Ethics Committee voted 
unanimously to exonerate one sena -
tor and recommend censure for a 
second.
The committee exonerated Ju -
diciary Chairman John Brinkman 
(Gator - CLAS) from charges of 
abuse of power, malfeasance and 
nonfeasance Thursday. An hour 
later, it recommended a censure, or 
a formal reprimand, of Senator Jona -
than C. Stephens (Change - District 
D) for poor conduct during Senate 
meetings.
A personal censure of Brinkman 
would not appropriately judge the 
actions of his committee as a whole, 
the committee ruled. The issue at 
hand, a disagreement on Brinkman’s 
interpretation of the Senate Rules & 
Procedures governing the Judiciary 
Committee, does not fall under the 
Rules & Ethics committee’s jurisdic -
tion. 
A pending UF SG Supreme Court 
case, the committee said, would ad -
dress those issues when it is in ses -
sion in Fall. 
The censure meeting into Ste -
phens was rescheduled from last 
Friday due to a lack of public no -
tice. His consistent disrespectful 
and disruptive behavior during Sen -
ate meetings, Majority Party Leader 
Emily Pecora said Thursday, should 
warrant his censure.  
Stephens made a personal attack 
on Senate President Elizabeth Hartz -
og during the July 5 Senate meeting, 
according to Pecora’s censure peti -
tion. 
After Hartzog had already issued 
Stephens two warnings during the 
meeting, he noted External Affairs Director Noah Fineberg’s presence at 
the meeting and referred to him as 
Hartzog’s husband, causing Hartzog 
to become visibly upset. 
Stephens told The Alligator his 
statement — which he described as 
an inside joke between Senate mem -
bers — was intended to lighten the 
mood after the tense meeting. 
The statement, Pecora said, was 
not an inside joke but rather insinu -
ated Hartzog could not do her job 
without a man present.
“I’m here because I’m upset 
as a Senator, upset as a friend 
and upset as a woman.”
- Emily Pecora, Majority Party Leader
Hartzog, as a courtesy, was made 
aware of the censure petition against 
her earlier this semester before it was 
filed — but this courtesy was not ex -
tended to Brinkman or Stephens.
Stephens said he was not aware 
people took offense to his comments 
and did not know of Pecora’s cen -
sure petition until The Alligator 
reached out for comment.
Stephens apologized to Hartzog 
during his testimony. He said he did 
not apologize immediately after the 
incident because it would have been 
disrespectful. 
The committee’s resolution to 
censure Stephens will be discussed 
on the Senate floor Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
at the Southwest Recreation Center.
The committee, during delib -
eration, concluded it would reflect 
poorly on the behavior expected in 
the Senate if Stephens is not formally 
censured.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgJudiciary chairman exonerated from abuse of power 
charges, senator will face poor conduct censure  
SG Senate will vote on censure into 
Senator Jonathan C. Stephens Tuesday Fiona Harris, a 26-year-old 
UF PhD student and member of 
the National Women’s Liberation 
movement, spoke in support of 
the bill at Tuesday’s meeting by 
sharing her experience taking the 
morning-after pill. A vending ma -
chine would address price barri -
ers, help consumers avoid social 
stigma and provide 24-hour ac -
cess to emergency contraception, 
she said. 
"In a post-Roe world,” Har -
ris said, “It is critical to protect 
young people who are particu -
larly vulnerable to federal and 
state restrictions to healthcare 
and abortion."
SHCC, located next to the Stu -
dent Recreation Center and Ben 
Hill Griffin Stadium, provides 
emergency contraception at a 
reduced cost from 8 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. Monday through Friday and 
12 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sundays during 
the Fall and Spring.
During the Summer, it is open 
from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday 
through Friday with no weekend 
hours. The morning-after pill, 
which is 95% effective if taken 
within 24 hours of unprotected 
sex, becomes less effective over 
time, according to Planned Par -
enthood. The vending machines 
would provide most adequate ac -
cess for students, Andreoli said.
The overturn of Roe v. Wade 
30 days ago prompted students 
to call for a better response from 
leadership and fight for their right 
to an abortion.
NWL last pushed for vending 
machines with emergency contra -
ception on campus in 2018, but the initiative failed. The Univer -
sity of Texas at Austin’s Student 
Government Assembly passed a 
similar resolution in April. 
An amendment which may 
have extended 24-hour access to 
Marston Science Library failed in 
the UF Student Government Sen -
ate Tuesday night. 
In the past, Library West and 
Marston library were 24-hour 
libraries, but funding post COV -
ID-19 has met resistance from UF 
administration and SG officials. 
Marston and Library West are 
currently open from 8 a.m. to 11 
p.m. Monday through Thursday, 
8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Friday, 10 a.m. 
to 6 p.m. Saturday and 10 a.m. 
to 11 p.m. Sunday. Marston also 
closed its fourth and fifth floors 
this Summer for updates to furni -
ture and power outlets.
The failed amendment, pro -
posed by Change Party, would 
have allocated part of the 2023-
2024 Activities and Service Fees 
budget to library support. The 
proposed $130,000 fund would 
draw from cuts to the ACCENT 
Speakers Bureau and Student 
Government Productions pro -
gram budgets. 
Decreasing SGP and the 
Speakers Bureau funding, Bud -
get Chairwoman Catherine Gior -
dano said, would fundamentally 
change their ability to function in 
the upcoming fiscal year.
“The role of Student 
Government is to enhance the 
student experience outside of 
the academic setting, which 
SGP and Accent does,”
- Catherine Giordano, 
Budget ChairwomanWhile opinions on the bill 
were mostly divided by party 
lines, Senator Oscar Santiago 
Perez (Change - District D) 
spoke against the bill in a public 
comment. UF administration’s 
pockets should feel the cost of 
extending library hours, he said, 
not SG’s. Santiago and members 
of the Budget & Appropriations 
Committee were concerned li -
braries could misuse funds, 
as the bill would not enforce 
the funds to be used to extend 
hours.
The proposed fund would 
not fully support a 24-hour open 
Marston, but it would contrib -
ute to the expansion of hours 
— with funding from SG. The 
Provost and the libraries would 
be needed to support a 24-hour 
schedule Sunday through Thurs -
day, Senator Grace Shoemaker 
(Change - Engineering) wrote in 
public comment.
In an unfinished 23-page 
report supporting the amend -
ment, Shoemaker said students 
preferred a library setting, like 
Library West or Marston, to 
the SG-funded Newell Hall so -
cial study space because of 
space constraints and noise 
level. She plans to continue 
her monthslong research on the 
benefits of 24-hour libraries at 
UF on a larger scale in the Fall.
The budget is expected to 
pass next week with no library 
funding. The next Senate meet -
ing will be held Tuesday 7 p.m. 
in the Recreational Sports Cen -
ter, not in the Senate Chambers.
smcdonald@alligator.org
@sn_mcdonaldPLAN B,  from pg. 1Around the clock6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
THE SUSPECT WAS ARRESTED UNDER INDECENT 
EXPOSURE CHARGES
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public Works began construction on 
a new trail along Archer Road July 14, nine days after a 
man allegedly sexually harrassed a woman on the popular 
nearby Hawthorne Trail. 
It was not an isolated incident.
Police arrested Jonathan Dow, a 33-year-old person 
without a home, for allegedly sexually harrassing a wom -
an near the La Chua Trail overlook. One victim filed a 
complaint after being harassed July 5, and law enforce -
ment made contact with Dow July 12, Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Art Forgey said. He was con -
nected with medical professionals, but police arrested him 
for the same offense Friday. 
According to the arrest report, Dow allegedly sexually 
harrassed and exposed himself to several citizens on the 
Hawthorne Trail. He is currently being held at the Alachua 
County Jail on a bond of $10,000.
Friday’s victim was at the Alachua Lake Overlook on La 
Chua Trail — about 2 miles away from the July 5 incident 
near the Sweetwater Overlook — when she noticed Dow 
exposing himself, according to the arrest report. She de -
clined Dow’s verbal advances, but he began following her. 
She was able to escape on her bike. 
Bianca Maesa, a 25-year-old Gainesville resident, said 
she had a similar experience on Hawthorne Trail about 
four months ago. She was biking when she noticed a man 
with his pants down. She rode past him without stopping, 
she said. She was also hit by a car around the same time; 
her head broke the car’s windshield, she said, and she was 
launched 20 yards.
She would like Gainesville to prioritize pedestrians and bikers, rather than cars, when constructing the new -
est trail, which will span from Southwest 75th Terrace to 
Southwest 41st Boulevard in December. She said she looks 
forward to greater trail accessibility amid recent gas price 
hikes, but speed bumps near crosswalks would help en -
sure the best trail experience.
Noah Hagen, a 23-year-old Gainesville resident, is ex -
cited for the trail’s connection to Archer Braid Trail, but 
she hopes proper lighting will prevent people like Dow 
from populating the path at night. 
Existing street lights will illuminate the trail in this sec -
tion of Archer Road, Thomas Strom, transportation engi -
neering manager of public works, wrote in an email. 
The 10-foot-wide asphalt trail, which will be built on 
land that belongs to Gainesville Regional Utilities and the 
Florida Department of Transportation, will cost more than 
$1 million and will be maintained by the county, he said. 
The Florida Greenways and Trails System Priority 
Trails Network determines which shared-use non-motor -
ized trails receive funding. 
The county commission applied for SUNtrail funding in 
2016, and the project was placed in the FDOT Five Year 
work program in 2017.
Tourism is another reason to invest in trails, Kristen 
Young, vice president of Gainesville Citizens for Active 
Transportation, said. 
“Trails are the number one requested amenity in com -
munities in Florida,” Young said.
Outdoor tourism such as bicycle tourism, which is fa -
cilitated by robust trail networks, benefits smaller towns 
because it allows people to bike places they would other -
wise not visit by car, she said.
Construction is not expected to create any major traffic 
delays, and no lane closures are anticipated, Strom wrote. 
Not only does the new trail provide an opportunity for 
Gainesville residents to exercise and have some outdoor 
recreation, Hagen said, but it also makes transportation for those without a car or motorcycle more accessible. 
“It’s really important to provide these sorts of amenities 
so people can get around in an environmentally sustain -
able way,” Hagen said.
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
By Rylan DiGiacomo-Rapp & 
Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writers
Anastasiya Naplekova finds peace of mind 
in piano keys as conflict continues thousands 
of miles away in her home country, Ukraine. 
Naplekova, a UF College of Music gradu -
ate from Kharkiv, Ukraine, raised more than 
$1,000 in donations to help Ukrainian musi -
cians by gliding her fingers across Oak Ham -
mock retirement community’s piano in two 
concerts this past week. She played the mu -
sic of Sergei Rachmaninoff — a 1900s Rus -
sian composer who was highly critical of his 
country’s government —  to about 75 residents 
Wednesday. 
Naplekova’s GoFundMe, which she cre -
ated in March, has raised more than $26,000 
to help musicians in Ukraine living paycheck 
to paycheck.
It is her duty to support her home country, 
Naplekova, who moved to the U.S. when she 
was 23 years old, said. 
“Seeing every street I walked on, I grew up 
on, every building I’ve been to being bombed is 
not something you would want to go through,” 
Naplekova said. 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began in Feb -
ruary, but took a strategic pause after Russia 
seized the Luhansk province July 3, according 
to UF History Professor Seth Bernstein. While 
fighting persists in places like Donetsk, Rus -
sian forces have stalled slightly in their advanc -
es, Bernstein said. The Russian military units 
involved in Ukraine were given time to rest to 
recover from combat on July 6, according to an 
AP News article. 
Marta Whipple, a 92-year-old Oak Ham -
mock resident, said the concert — especially 
the elegy from “Pieces-Fantasies, Op. 3” — re -focused attention on the importance of helping 
Ukraine in whatever way people can. Ukrai -
nian citizens should know the world is still 
thinking of them, she said.
Whipple experienced life under Russian 
rule while growing up in Yugoslavia. She un -
derstands what the Ukrainian people are going 
through and feels terrible for them, she said. 
“I am a Slav,” Whipple said. “Ukrainians 
are Slavs — not Russian, but Slavs — and 
somehow I feel a sort of kinship with them.” 
Svitlana Parker, a 22-year-old UF graduate 
student, lost all communication with her fam -ily members in Ukraine. She last heard from 
her brother March 27 — it was a 30-second 
phone call.
“I know he wasn’t able to tell all the de -
tails,” she said, “Or even all the truths.”
As time passes and people become desen -
sitized to the media’s war coverage, advocat -
ing for resolution is more important than ever, 
Parker said. Even she has slowly returned to a 
form of normalcy; she can finally sleep a few 
more hours and eat more than once a day.  
“I was getting calmer and calmer, but I 
was still feeling guilty for being in a peaceful place,” she said, “Guilty for other people go -
ing through such tough times … and I couldn’t 
help them.”
Darya, a 22-year-old UF graduate who did 
not share her last name, moved to the U.S. 
from Ukraine when she was just two years old. 
Her grandma, who lives in an area separated 
from most of the conflict, will describe air raid 
sirens and ongoing bombing or shootings.
“If anything, it’s getting scarier now be -
cause there’s less press about it,” she said, 
“But the consequences of the war are getting a 
little more grave.”
Roksolana Mykytuik, a 26-year-old UF 
graduate student raised in Ukraine, organized 
a peaceful demonstration in Turlington Plaza 
in March, and quickly began making bigger 
plans to raise awareness for her home country, 
where the rest of her family remains.
These students built connections through 
the demonstration to form the Ukrainian Stu -
dent Association, which allows them to distin -
guish themselves from the pre-existing Russian 
Culture Club. 
The club has already raised money by sell -
ing baked goods and handmade jewelry at 
farmers markets, but Mykytuik plans to begin 
a fund similar to Naplekova’s musician fund 
to maintain awareness and direct support to 
displaced Ukrainian women during the Fall 
semester. 
“I do realize that there are a lot of issues 
happening in the world, but I don’t want peo -
ple to forget about Ukrainians dying every day 
and fighting for their freedom,” she said. “I 
don’t want it to become just a routine.”
@rylan_digirapp
rdigiacomo-rapp@alligator.org
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgAlachua County breaks ground on new trail, man arrested in nature walk sexual harrasement incident
Ukrainian university students, retirement residents maintain steady support amid Russia invasionFernando Figueroa / / Alligator Staff
La Chua Trailhead overlooking the water as seen 
January 30, 2022.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Anastasiya Naplekova plays the piano for Oak Hammock residents to raise money 
for Ukrainian musicians, Wednesday, July 20, 2022.
Ukrainian pianist raises money through retirement community concert series, students call for supportKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Previewing Gators season slate
Florida’s 12-game campaign begins Sept. 3, pg. 12
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
2 UF STUDENT ARTISTS CHANNEL 
ABORTION RIGHTS ACTIVISM 
THROUGH ART
By Amanda Friedman
Avenue Staff Writer
Instead of taking to the streets with a poster 
board and Sharpie, pro-choice UF students are 
protesting against the June 24 Roe v. Wade 
overturn by striking paintbrushes across can -
vases. 
Alison Garland, a 20-year-old UF biotechnol -
ogy junior and multimedia artist, has expressed 
herself through art her entire life. Much of Gar -
land’s art explores the complexities of her inter -
secting identities of being queer, autistic, Jewish 
and Hispanic. Struggling at times to commu -
nicate verbally with others due to her autism, 
she finds comfort in conveying her emotions 
through art.
She recalled getting in trouble with her 
middle and high school teachers for doodling 
inside her notebook instead of paying attention 
in class. 
The Hollywood, Florida, native is creating 
a series of paintings centered on reproductive 
rights. She plans to share the series on her art-
dedicated Instagram account.
“Like a lot of women, I feel frustrated and 
trapped,” she said. “It feels like such a reductive 
idea of womanhood is being forced onto me and 
my existence.”
Garland’s series will feature five to seven 
collages made from magazines and newspaper fragments with words and phrases relating to 
body autonomy.
When she moved to Gainesville to attend UF 
in 2020, Garland used her art to cope with her 
anxious feelings about entering her freshman 
year of college in the middle of the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
That fall, she began selling her artwork at the 
How Bazar markets. Gainesville’s tight-knit arts 
community quickly welcomed her with open 
arms, she said. 
“The connections I’ve made with other art -
ists and people who enjoy my art,” she said, 
“It’s been life-changing.”
With her upcoming series, Garland aims to 
create a piece reflecting beauty within tragedy. 
She hopes those who see the series will feel 
both inspired and uplifted.
“I want people to feel emboldened to speak 
up,” she said. “Even in grassroots action, ex -
pressing ourselves can help and motivate each 
other to make change in our communities.”
Garland has channeled activism through art 
before; she frequently donates proceeds from 
her art to local organizations, like Gainesville 
Books to Prisoners, a nonprofit that provides 
funds and books for Florida inmates. 
“It’s important to give back to the commu -
nity that helps you,” she said. 
Anna Gorostiaga, a 20-year-old UF biology 
and plant science senior and local artist, de -
cided to create art focused on abortion rights at 
the end of May, when a leaked Supreme Court 
opinion suggested its intent to overturn Roe v. 
Wade.
Gorostiaga felt compelled to use her artis -tic talents to protest the decision after swiping 
through countless reposted social media info -
graphics.
“I think social media is a great way to make 
people aware of things, but you do have to go 
beyond that as well,” she said.
Gorostiaga’s art print depicts two hands 
forming a heart around the gender-neutral sym -
bol to reflect gender inclusivity with the phrase 
“I love my body! Don’t touch it,” written above 
and below the hands.
“I just really wanted to try and pivot my art towards speaking my mind,” she said. “I 
think with reproductive rights, we’re all feeling 
pain, so it was really important to me to say my 
piece.”
Through her art print sales, Gorostiaga 
raised and donated $300 to the Florida Access 
Network, an organization that advocates for re -
productive rights and provides abortion care to 
those in need across Florida. 
To Gorostiaga, art is a powerful form of 
peaceful activism. It has a unique ability to effect 
change by emotionally connecting with people 
to a level other mediums cannot, she said. 
“People need to keep creating, because it’s 
amazing what can come out of it,” she said.
Jianna D’Addario, a 22-year-old UF psychol -
ogy alum and former President of UF Planned 
Parenthood Generation Action, recognizes art 
as a transformative political tool that can unify 
different types of people under one cause. 
“Art is a really meaningful medium through 
which we can connect to each other,” she said. 
“It’s a great way to feel that sense of commu -
nity.”
She has witnessed multiple efforts from lo -
cal organizations to platform creative activists 
within the abortion rights movement. The Civic 
Media Center recently hosted a benefit concert 
to levy funds for the “Ain’t No Shame” abortion 
fund July 17. Additionally, Planned Parenthood 
Gainesville is trying to fund reproductive rights 
murals, she said.
“Working within social and reproductive 
justice, it’s really cool to see how much space 
there is for creativity,” she said. “Art has a very 
significant role in this movement.”
@afriedmanuf
afriedman@alligator.org
A NEW PLAY BY LOCAL 
CREATIVES SATIRIZES THE 
CURRENT STATE OF THE 
CITY CENTER
By Fernando Figueroa & 
Kristine Villarroel
Avenue Staff Writers
Lauren Warhol Caldwell never 
intended to stay in Gainesville after 
she moved from New York for UF’s 
master’s program in the ‘90s. 
Twenty years after earning her 
Masters of Fine Arts, however, she’s 
stuck around. In her time as a resi -
dent, she has developed a strong 
view of the place, and she has some 
complaints. 
Warhol Caldwell and perfor -
mance artist Tom Miller presented 
their satirical piece in development, 
“Jack and Jill Go Downtown,” to a 
crowd of about 20 people at the Black 
C Art Gallery Wednesday. The play, 
which they will perform again July 
27, addresses the complicated park -
ing, QR code menus and other issues 
in downtown Gainesville.The show features Miller and 
Warhol Caldwell’s characters en 
route to a play at the Hippodrome 
Theater and details a series of comi -
cally inconvenient struggles that de -
rail their trip. 
Warhol Caldwell said the script 
was inspired by her and Miller’s 
shared frustrations about the difficul -
ty of Gainesville’s inefficient down -
town district. Most of the content, 
she said, came from improvisations 
between the two creatives.
The room filled with laughter 
from audience members familiar 
with the city’s pitfalls. 
Former Gainesville Mayor Jean 
Chalmers, who held office from 1984 
to 1985, stood among the attendees. 
The play reflected her recent expe -
riences in the downtown area, she 
said, especially after she paid $75 in 
parking fees to visit the public court -
house.
Gainesville should go back to the 
days of parking meters, Chalmers 
said. Not only would meters create 
jobs, but the money collected would 
help keep streets clean and function -
al by financing the wages of parking ambassadors.  
“I have a couple of quarters,” 
Miller’s character says in the perfor -
mance after the couple finds a paid 
parking spot. 
“It’s not that kind of paid spot,” 
Warhol Caldwell’s character says.
On the characters’ way home 
from their failed attempt at finding a 
parking spot, a radio announcement 
alert listeners of a murder in the 
downtown parking garage and the 
new contruction of luxury apartment 
complexes. 
“The minute you get out of your 
car, you’re afraid,” Miller said. 
“You’re afraid you’ll have to pay a 
fee. You’re afraid you won’t be able 
to fill out the information, you’re 
afraid you might get shot.” 
Streets residents can walk easily 
and leisurely will make downtown 
feel more like a city center, Warhol 
Caldwell said. To her, the growth and 
development of the area feels rushed 
with a lack of thought behind it. 
“They’re growing downtown, 
which is great, but they’re growing 
it without solving the issue,” War -
hol Caldwell said. “We’ve got a great thing here, so let’s get together and 
figure out how to make this more 
friendly”
Miller sees an unhealthy competi -
tion between a growing city attempt -
ing to innovate and out-of-town de -
velopers trying to cash in on luxury 
student housing. These luxury build -
ings, coupled with rent prices he de -
scribed as astronomical, drive low-in -
come workers out of Gainesville and 
worsen homelessness, he said. 
When the characters in the play 
finally arrive downtown, most busi -
nesses are closed, revealing an emp -
ty and quiet city center. Among the 
crickets and inactivity, the two reflect 
on downtown’s status as a commu -
nity hub. 
Miller does not know what the 
most effective solution is, but he said 
he knows how to find it. Gainesville 
can either model its parking after sim -
ilar-sized cities with efficient parking 
options or consult UF for help instead 
of out-of-town consultants, he said.
During a question and answer 
segment after the play, one audience 
member jokingly proposed residents 
take the matter into their own hands by “guerilla-dismantling” all parking 
signs. 
Because of downtown’s unwel -
coming parking situation, the fringes 
of Gainesville — like Celebration 
Pointe, located west of Interstate 75 
— have begun to sprout with life, 
Miller said. Their newfound popular -
ity drains downtown of its patrons, 
he said. 
Establishments like Cry Baby’s, 
The Bull and The How Bazar keep 
the downtown dream alive, Miller 
said. The pedestrian-friendly block 
parties and arts-focused events host -
ed by the How Bazar are the kind 
of community events downtown 
Gainesville needs to thrive, he said. 
The community has to declare its 
support of the arts and downtown 
creative spaces by attending shows, 
Warhol Caldwell said. She encour -
aged residents to seek out events and 
performances, even when parking 
makes it a hassle.
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
kvillarroel@alligator.org 
@ktnedelvalleUF student artists protest overturn of Roe v. Wade  
Sitting in the backseat of Gainesville’s downtown parking struggles
ARTART
THEATRETHEATRECourtesy to The Alligator
Alison Garland’s painting titled 
“Straw House, ” a multimedia 
collage and acrylic painting as 
seen Saturday, July 23, 2022.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
By Allyssa Keller
Avenue Staff Writer 
Gainesville model Amanda Jimenez posted a collection 
of photos from her Y2K-inspired modeling session on Ins -
tagram. Naturally, Silly Bandz made an appearance. 
The nostalgic bracelet company posted Jimenez on 
its account with a fully capitalized caption: “We are ob -
sessed.”
“My childhood was so fulfilled,” she said. “Child me 
was like, ‘Oh my God, this is not real.’”
Jimenez, a 20-year-old Santa Fe business administra -
tion sophomore, worked with Saeed Fareeduddin, a local 
photographer, to develop the colorful shoot they could 
both share online.
Gainesville offers plenty of opportunities for aspiring 
models to express themselves artistically and build a pro -
fessional portfolio. Student-run magazines like Rowdy and 
Strike allow models to explore the setting of an editorial 
photoshoot, while fashion shows held by the How Bazar 
provide people the chance to walk in front of a live audi -
ence.
Jimenez has only modeled in Gainesville for a year, 
but she has already worked with a number of local pho -
tographers and publications, like Fareeduddin and Strike. 
Despite her initial hesitation, she jumped at opportunities 
to book shoots.
“There’s so many creative people here willing to collab -
orate,” Jimenez said. “Even though it might not seem like 
that because Gainesville is such a small little ghost town.”
Jordie Ortiz, a 22-year-old model in Orlando, was fea -
tured on the cover of the April 22 Strike Magazine issue 
and in Rowdy Magazine before he worked with the com -
panies 47, Dickies and Pagoda. He started modeling be -
cause his friend, a photographer, asked to use him as a 
“lab rat” for his shoots. After his first time in front of the 
camera, Ortiz was hooked.
It was unbelievable and surreal when he first saw his 
face in Strike and Rowdy, he said. A 21-year-old nonbi -
nary Gainesville model who goes by both Nina and Nino 
Franklin has not found as much local success as some of 
their colleagues. Most talent agencies prefer to hire college 
students over people without a long-term plan or those 
who might leave soon, they said.Franklin also struggled to find work because of Flori -
da’s smaller market for non-binary and androgynous mod -
els, they said.
Creatives need to expand opportunities for models 
themselves, Franklin said.
“I don’t think it will be easy, but I think it’s going to be 
worth the fight to see some representation that looks like 
us,” Franklin said.
Vèeronique Deverson, a 21-year-old Santa Fe nursing 
student who modeled for the student-run Gelée magazine, 
said Gainesville modeling spaces and magazines can be 
performative and inauthentic when it comes to activism, 
but she has already seen progress.
Gainesville magazines are slowly becoming more true to themselves and embracing their personal style of work, 
she said. 
“Even in my past two years doing modeling and meet -
ing different people, some people I’ve met in 2020 are 
completely different now,” Deverson said.
The Gainesville modeling community changed as well. 
The individuals that make up this group have slowly be -
come more comfortable in their own skin, more confident 
and more accepting of different styles of modeling, Dever -
son said.
@allygatorkeller
akeller@alligator.orgGainesville models find confidence and self-identity in fashion shows and photoshoots
LIFESTYLELIFESTYLE
By Averi Kremposky
Avenue Staff Writer
More than 900 miles from home, 
Philadelphia musicians Kev Nenkov, Jon 
Herroon and Brian Trifaro took to the 
Wooly stage to present a Green Day cover to 
Gainesville Saturday.
The trio, who make up an emo band 
known as Precious Little Life, piled into their 
car for the 16-hour trek to play at Knifest, a 
Knifepunch Records music festival highlighting 
voices in the industry who usually go unheard. 
They shared the stage with more than 15 other 
bands for a room of mask-clad fans ready to 
mosh. 
Lead singer Nenkov said the band wanted 
to create a live atmosphere where people felt 
like they could be themselves, even if only for 
a split second. 
Other artists expressed themselves with 
existential lyrics about being a robot or by 
tucking a collection of dainty flowers into 
their guitar strings. The night delighted Dani Northup, who helped found Knifepunch 
Records in 2019. 
“Not that there’s anything bad with it, but 
we’ve heard the same four white guys making 
a band singing about their ex-girlfriends,” 
Northup said. “We want different voices to be 
heard.”
Each attendee simultaneously occupied the 
roles of fan and artist, with lively chatter and 
encouragement across the venue running wild. 
“A lot of these people are actually friends 
and care about each other and they do take 
care of each other,” Northup said. 
In an industry typically difficult to break 
into, Knifest aims to feature musicians, many 
of them minorities, who have a harder time 
getting their foot in the door, Northup said. 
Knifest challenges the music industry 
to prioritize community over competition. 
Katherine Cornelison and Jackson Shook, 
two concertgoers from Jacksonville, felt the 
community spirit at the Wooly. 
“It’s a lot of friendly, loving people here, 
and you feel like you can talk to anyone,” Shook said. 
Cornelison was enamored by the do-it-
yourself scene unfolding in front of her. She 
watched as each artist brought out, set up and 
loaded their equipment back into their cars.
“It’s people who care a lot about music 
and care a lot about sharing it with people,” 
Cornelison said. 
Upholding the theme of community, 
Precious Little Life’s friendly banter on stage 
helped it connect with the crowd.
The group brought new facets to its music 
by adding Herroon on bass and Trifaro on 
drums to songs Nenkov used to play alone. 
“Getting to write my own parts and fully 
flesh out songs that I was already familiar with 
is just really cool,” Herroon said. 
Sofia Poppert, who performed at Knifest 
under the name Funeral Homes, took the stage 
with a dreamy set that she hoped transported 
the audience to something that felt like another 
world. Poppert simultaneously strummed a 
guitar and a tremolo bar to achieve a unique 
shoegaze sound. Even though she was alone on the stage, 
Poppert had friends like Oddie Seccob in the 
crowd to cheer her on. Seccob, a Cocoa Beach 
resident, said they drove three hours to watch 
Poppert, but they also enjoyed the environment 
and the excitement of finding new music. 
In a place where bottled emotions seemed 
to explode, artists at Knifest promoted the idea 
that local music is a safe space for all. They 
cried for inclusion and advocated for each 
other, filling The Wooly with remarks like “tip 
your bartenders; pay your bands.”
Nenkov said events like Knifest highlight 
the importance of local music scenes. Though 
the band is far from its Philadelphia home, 
Nenkov said Precious Little Life’s appreciation 
for local artists remains unchanged.
“Support your local artists, no matter what 
craft they’re doing,” Nenkov said. “This is 
what drives our scene.”
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgMore than the music: Knifest punk and metal festival welcomes artists from across the country
MUSICMUSICStudent-run magazines and the How Bazar offer unique opportunities for aspiring models
Knifepunch Records strived to open the stage for artists whose voices usually go unheardCourtesy to The Alligator
Gainesville model Veronique Deverson poses for Gelée magazine’s first student publication in 2021.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
NURSERY FOR SALE.
1.3a, 26' x 45' greenhouse, rooting shed, 
office, shop, kit/bath, travel trailer, storage 
shed, well, septic. $155k obo. Mike - (202) 
246-2001 Broker www.garciabroker.com   
8-29-22-5-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
BCI Walk In Tubs are now on SALE! Be one 
of the first 50 callers and save $1,500! CALL 
888-687-0415 for a free in-home consultation.      
7-25-1-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
3 APARTMENTS AVAILABLE:
4BR/4BA, 2BR/1BA, 1BR/1BA
NW 3rd Ave. Walking distance to UF.
Call Brenda: 352-672-8657        8-28-22-5-2
Beautiful 2/2 condo for rent In quiet neigh -
borhood close to UF campus on bus route. 
Tile floors throughout, central heat & air, 
washer/dryer included. $950/mo w/ $950 
deposit. Call 352-514-8156 for application.    
8-17-22-4-2
Charming 3BR/1BA brick home w/ large 
fenced backyard. Easy walk/bike to UF cam-
pus. New cent ac+heat, washer & dryer, large 
Florida room, hardwood floors. Yard serv & 
pest control incl. Avail Aug 1st. $2,100/mo 
+ 1 mo sec. Call Tom Davis, 352-215-4990.  
8-1-22-3-2
Beautiful 4BR/2BA home Large backyard on 
Nature Preserve in the Broadmoor Community. 
Vaulted ceilings, open living space, light/bright, 
lots of windows/skylights. Split floor plan. Move 
in ready. Close to Santa Fe College, Hidden 
Oaks Elem & Ft Clarke Middle School, Publix, 
restaurants,  access to I-75. Yard serv/pest 
cont incl. Avail. Aug 1st $3500 per mo. + 1 mo. 
Call Andreas 352 474-8889               8-1-22-2-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
11..    RReebboouunndd
11..    ________  lliisstt55..    CClloouuddlleessss
22..    EEaattiinngg  ________66..    DDeellaayy
33..    SShhoowweerr  ________77..    ________  EEaarrtthh
44..    NNooccttuurrnnaall  wwiillddccaattNNCCEEOOUUBB
EEKKUUCCBBTTRRCCAALLEE
AALLTTSSLL
UUEEIINNLLTTSS
UUIINNRRCCAATTNNPPAATTLLEE
LLOOTTOOCCEEAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--BBoouunnccee    55AA--CClleeaarr    66AA--SSttaallll    77AA--PPllaanneett
11DD--BBuucckkeett    22DD--UUtteennssiill    33DD--CCuurrttaaiinn    44DD--OOcceelloott    BB--CCaallccuuttttaa77--2255--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  iiss  hhoommee  ttoo  IInnddiiaa’’ss  oollddeesstt  ppoorrtt..
BONUS● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org5 Real Estate
By Joe Deeney
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/25/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/25/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, July 25, 2022
ACROSS
1 Lifetime pals, 
briefly
5 Periodontist’s 
concern
9 Brand of facial 
tissue
14 Sign on for more 
service
15 Indiana neighbor
16 Facing the  
pitcher
17 “Brooklyn Nine-
Nine” actor 
Samberg
18 Decomposes
19 Milk seller
20 Hale and hearty
23 Taken care of
24 Play-__: kids’  
clay
25 That girl
28 Pixie
29 Native of Pre-
Columbian Peru
32 Reacted to a 
surprise, perhaps
34 Muscles worked 
by crunches
36 “Any time now!”
38 __ and for all
40 African country 
on the Gulf of 
Guinea
41 “If all __ fails ... ”
42 Gathering spot 
for thirsty  
animals
44 NCO below sgt.
45 “You’re not alone 
in that”
46 Hockey Hall 
of Famer Phil, 
familiarly
48 Pair
51 Gift for music
52 Hunted for fossils, 
say
54 Mixed nuts nut
56 “What have 
we here?” and 
20-, 36-, and 
42-Across
59 Strictly forbidden
62 Very small bit
63 Great Plains 
natives
64 Distant and cool
65 Lacking color
66 Sit for a spell
67 Employees
68 Long, wriggly 
swimmers
69 Satisfies the 
munchiesDOWN
1 Slow-cook in a 
closed pot
2 Bulb with an 
aniselike flavor
3 Exaggeration 
allowance in 
estimates
4 Watch secretly
5 “If You Could 
Read My Mind” 
singer Lightfoot
6 “This looks bad!”
7 Teeny plant pest
8 “Such a pity”
9 Noodle dish 
topped with 
crushed peanuts
10 Six-sided state
11 “Fidelity, Bravery, 
Integrity” org.
12 Distant
13 Pen with a  
trough
21 __ Spunkmeyer: 
cookie brand
22 Boston airport
25 Share juicy 
gossip
26 Farm cluckers
27 Microsoft’s web 
browser
30 Breezy goodbye
31 Stroll along
33 Escalator part35 Borscht base
37 Nagging troubles
38 Cut covered 
by a Snoopy 
bandage, e.g.
39 Zilch
40 Grave-robbing 
demon
43 Departed into the 
sunset, say
44 West Virginia 
natural resource
47 Tech training 
sites49 “The other team 
clobbered us”
50 Big-eyed 
nestlings
53 Coast
55 Used cusswords
56 Husky’s “Hello”
57 Had on
58 “And some other 
people” abbr.
59 Prof. helpers
60 __-country music
61 Constricting 
snake
By Nancy Serrano-Wu
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC07/19/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
07/19/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, July 19, 2022
ACROSS
1 Use a swizzle 
stick
5 Soothes to sleep
10 Poker pot starter
14 Skin opening
15 Starting lineup
16 Read, as a QR 
code
17 Wide-eyed with 
anticipation
18 Hollywood 
headliners
20 Wild “adios”?
22 “Cornflake Girl” 
singer Amos
23 Dodge pickup 
truck
24 Wild “goodbye”?
31 All-important
32 + or - particles
33 “Real Sports With 
Bryant Gumbel” 
cable network
34 Targets of Terro 
bait traps
35 Popovich who is 
the winningest 
coach in NBA 
history
37 Track competition
38 Emulate Eileen 
Gu and Lindsey 
Vonn
39 __ and rave
40 Hunts, with “on”
41 Wild “auf 
wiedersehen”?
45 “Big Blue” on the 
Big Board
46 Fill a position
47 Wild “au revoir”?
53 Sign of stress?
55 French Quarter 
city, informally
56 Skinny tropical 
tree
57 Take place next
58 Bryce Canyon 
state
59 “Good point”
60 Cook in the oven
61 Pad thai protein 
option
DOWN
1 Canned meat 
used in Hawaiian 
cuisine
2 “Julius Caesar” 
costume
3 Multivitamin 
ingredient
4 Meets on the 
river?5 Actress Hedy 
in the National 
Inventors Hall of 
Fame
6 Paradise
7 Jeans maker 
Strauss
8 Villain’s hideout
9 Using 
questionable 
campaign tactics
10 Inhaler user’s 
malady
11 Campus sports 
gp.
12 Road goo
13 USN rank
19 Unexpected 
hiccups
21 Yuletide song
24 Clickable 
connections
25 High point of a 
home tour?
26 Deliberately 
deceive
27 Ship captain’s 
journal
28 Org. exited in 
Brexit
29 Minds
30 Turns rancid
31 Seemingly 
limitless
35 Utility gauge36 Many ICU 
professionals
37 Snack food 
mascot with a 
monocle
39 Apply by 
massaging, as 
barbecue spices
40 Politically 
motivated 
spending
42 Fugitive’s plea
43 Repeated song 
part44 Unwelcome 
windshield item
47 Rights advocacy 
gp.
48 “Let’s ... never do 
that”
49 The Madrigal 
family home in 
“Encanto,” e.g.
50 Dog in Oz
51 Norwegian saint
52 Pearl Harbor site
53 Well-put
54 Catmobile, e.g.
07/18/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted16 Health Services 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
Green Mountain Pools in Vermont is hiring 
pool plasterers, mixers, and laborers starting 
at $18-$25/hr depending on experience. Call 
Nick 802-356-1482 or email grnmntpools@
comcast.net                                    7-25-2-14
Looking for student to help keep up home / 
yard. Move in / live RENT FREE, in furnished 
efficiency apt. Close to UF. No pets.
● OR ● Part-time job $15/hr. 
Short resume. ghpolkgator@gmail.com
8-1-22-4-14
LifeSouth seeking Med Tech Students
Get paid while training for career to become 
a Medical Technologist. BS required.
Go to lifesouth.org/careers for more info
8-24-22-5-14
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in-
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
Caregiver needed
Compassionate caregiver needed for Adults 
with intellectual disability. Must have a reliable 
vehicle, and high school diploma or higher 
education. Over-nights and weekend shifts 
available. Starting at $15 per hour. 
Text Roxana at (352) 225-8382 or email us at 
Covenantagencygainesville@gmail.com   
8-29-22-5-14
15 Services
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      7-25-8-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
7-25-24-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            7-25-8-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                7-25-19-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction and 
Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & Confidential 
Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.com    
7-25-5-15
16 Health Services
Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816              7-25-7-16ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       7-25-25-16
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Counseling that is Professional
Afforable, Adults and Couples
Telehealth or in person
LMHC harrisdk1012@gmail.com
352 642-5176                             7-25-22-5-16
817 NW 57th Terr, Ste B
Gainesville, Florida 32605
            ● Urgent and Primary Care
            ● Walk-Ins Welcome
            ● Minimal Wait
            ● Rapid Molecular Covid Testing
            ●**24hr STD Test Results**
Phone 352-554-5977
Website: 1stchoiceicc.com
8-1-22-4-16
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. The Special Olympics 
World Games.
2. Hubert H. Humphrey.
3. Slazenger.4. The UNLV Runnin' Rebels.
5. The Banjo Bowl.
6. Pickles.
7. The Indiana Pacers.Sports Quiz answersanswers below1. What sports event was founded by Eunice Kenne -
dy Shriver and first took place in Chicago in 1968?
2. The Metrodome in Minneapolis was named in 
honor of which U.S. politician?
3. What brand of tennis ball has been used at the 
Wimbledon Championships since 1902?
4. Former NBA player and coach Reggie Theus had his 
No. 23 jersey retired by what college basketball team?
5. The annual rematch game between the CFL's Sas -
katchewan Roughriders and Winnipeg Blue Bombers 
is known by what nickname?
6. What was the name of the dog who found the 
FIFA World Cup's Jules Rimet Trophy after it had 
been stolen in London in 1966?
7. In July 1977, what NBA franchise held a telethon 
for season-ticket pledges in order to save the team 
from being sold?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
WE ARE HERE AND IT IS NOW. FURTHER THAN THAT
 ALL HUMAN KNOWLEDGE IS MOONSHINE. — H.L. MENCKEN
solution  below10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money.
Trivia Test  answers1. Baffin Island. 2. Sid. 3. A crossword puzzle designer/enthusiast. 4. Archie 
Bunker, "All in the Family." 5. A tax used to buy off Viking invaders and 
provide for defense. 6. The Beatles. 7. Theodore Roosevelt. 8. About 1 inch. 
9. Henry David Thoreau. 10. Sprite.answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the largest island in Canada?
2. MOVIES: What is the name of the bully neighbor 
boy in Disney's "Toy Story"?
3. LANGUAGE: What is a cruciverbalist?
4. TELEVISION: Which TV sitcom character calls his 
son-in-law "Meathead"?
5. HISTORY: What is the Danegeld, a tax levied 
in Anglo-Saxon England from the ninth through 
11th centuries?
6. MUSIC: Which pop music band was the first to 
appear on children's lunchboxes?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president is linked to 
the teddy bear?
8. ANIMAL KINGDOM: How big are baby kangaroos 
when they're born?
9. FAMOUS QUOTES: Which 19th-century author 
and philosopher once said, "One must maintain a 
little bit of summer, even in the middle of winter"?
10. AD SLOGANS: Which product's advertising slo -
gan is "Obey your thirst"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.18 Personals
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.SEC
By Jackson Castellano & 
Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writers
Dressed in his new blue suit 
and orange tie, first-year head 
coach Billy Napier placed his 
opening address on the lectern 
before him.
He stood before the media 
for his inaugural venture 
at the annual Southeastern 
Conference Media Days in 
Atlanta Wednesday. After four 
seasons at Louisiana-Lafayette, 
closing with three straight 10-
win seasons, Napier moved up to 
the big leagues with a seven-year 
contract to coach the Gators.
Napier, along with quarterback 
Anthony Richardson, linebacker 
Ventrell Miller and offensive 
lineman Richard Gouraige, 
addressed offseason staff 
changes, culture development 
and the forthcoming 2022 
campaign.
Napier spoke extensively 
about the new environment 
he is cultivating at Florida. 
The beginning of his opening statement resembled a recruiting 
pitch, as Napier highlighted UF’s 
academics and its support for 
athletics.
“We’re seven-and-a-half 
months into this journey. 
We’re thankful for their 
belief in our plan and the 
resources they’ve provided 
for this great challenge.”
- Billy Napier, UF football coach
Napier did more than brag 
about his university. He touched 
on off-season training, his 
approach to coaching and the 
state of his team and the SEC as 
a whole.
Napier acknowledged his 
excitement to return to the 
SEC, calling it “the league.” He 
previously worked multiple stints 
at Alabama under head coach 
Nick Saban, most recently as his 
wide receivers coach from 2013-
2016. 
The rookie SEC coach spoke 
honestly about the process of 
bringing a new staff to a relatively 
inexperienced team. Napier spoke on the work 
necessary to redirect a Gators 
team left aimless after a deflating 
final season under former head 
coach Dan Mullen.
“We’re consumed with Florida 
right now,” Napier said. “We’ve 
got a lot of work to do, and it’s 
critical that we stay on task and 
focus on what we can do to get 
the Gators better each and every 
day.” 
Napier seemed hopeful about 
the steps he wants to take in year 
one, stressing the importance 
of giving each player the best 
opportunities possible. 
Richardson, now a locker 
room leader in his third season, 
talked about Napier’s trust in 
himself, his system, his players 
and his staff.
“His confidence is unmatched. 
He puts people before himself, and 
I definitely respect that because I 
try to do the same thing.”  
- Anthony Richardson, UF quarterback
The Eastside High School 
alum's bond with Napier helped 
him further grow into his role as 
a leader. 
“A lot of people look up to 
me, looking at me and expecting 
a lot of things,” Richardson said. 
“With coach Napier, I understand 
that means connecting with 
people, building relationships 
and bonds. If people can trust 
you and rely on you, it makes it a 
lot easier to lead them.”
The star signal-caller received 
preseason praise, finding himself 
on this season’s Maxwell Watch 
list and among the 15 shortest 
Heisman odds. However, 
Richardson’s actions on and off 
the field are still put under a 
microscope.
Along with balancing 
expectations for a season slightly 
more than a month away, he 
made off-field headlines for a 
speeding ticket in April and 
recently removed the “AR-15” 
nickname from his branding. 
Miller, who made his second 
appearance at SEC Media Days, 
represented the Florida defense 
after a torn bicep tendon cut 
his 2021 season short. As a 
seasoned veteran with five years of collegiate experience, Miller 
spoke about missing time and his 
excitement to return to action.
“Definitely devastating, I can't 
be out there with my boys going 
to war with them,” he said about 
last season. “I'm looking forward 
to this season and being out there 
this year.” 
Miller offered nothing but 
praise about what Napier brings 
to the team.
“Coach Napier has done a great 
job emphasizing accountability,” 
he said. “Teamwork, bringing 
the team together… building 
relationships and I feel like that’s 
a big thing that he has brought 
in.” 
Napier brought many new 
faces to the Florida football 
program, including Miller’s new 
position coach Jay Bateman. 
Miller said Bateman, with 24 
years of coaching experience, 
placed significant emphasis on 
preparation.
“Coach Bateman has done 
a great job getting us prepared, 
teaching us the playbook,” Miller 
said. “He’s emphasizing the 
techniques and stuff in his drills, 
so coach Bateman has done a great job so far.”
Gouraige, who is tasked 
with protecting Richardson’s 
blindside, also changed position 
coaches this offseason. He said 
the new offensive line coach duo 
of Rob Sale and Darnell Stapleton 
offer an advantage for the whole 
unit. 
“Even for the rookies, even 
for the vets, just getting different 
points of view and how to 
increase your game,” Gouraige 
said. “Just getting different 
coaches has been great so far.”
Although he started 24 
games over the past two 
seasons Gouraige doesn’t see 
himself leading alone. He and 
other experienced players, like 
Miller, know guiding younger 
players will be a key to Florida’s 
sustained success.
“The veteran guys definitely 
know the Gator standard,” 
Gouraige said. “What to live by, 
they've been doing a great job so 
far.”
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.org
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgNapier, players discuss upcoming season at SEC Media Days
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
Florida Football Coach Billy Napier arrives with his family at 
Ben Hill Griffin Stadium for his first day on the job on Sunday, 
Dec. 5, 2021.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Ventrell Miller and his teammates tackle a Georgia 
ball carrier Nov. 7, 2020. Miller returns to UF this season after 
tearing his bicep last year.
The UF representatives traveled to Atlanta and spoke to the media Wednesday12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JULY 25, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREFOOTBALL
MATCHUPS WITH UTAH, LSU 
AND TEXAS A&M WILL DEFINE 
THE GATORS’ CAMPAIGN
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
The structure of a team’s sched -
ule can drastically shape how fans 
view their team and its season.
Gator nation rode high after a 3-1 
start to the 2021 season, as Florida 
only fell to then-No. 1 Alabama in 
the opening month. The hot start 
was a distant memory after UF lost 
five of its last seven games to finish 
the season. 
As the 2022 season edges clos -
er, Florida looks to rebound with 
a schedule including top-10 oppo -
nents, the annual trip to Jackson -
ville and UF’s first trip to Florida 
State since 2018.
Head coach Billy Napier’s era at 
UF begins with three consecutive 
home games. Although the week 
three matchup with South Florida 
offers a potentially comfortable 
win, the opening two games of the 
season are anything but guaranteed 
wins.
The reigning Pac-12 champions, 
the Utah Utes, will travel more than 
2,000 miles for a week-one matchup 
in The Swamp. Most preseason pro -
jections place Utah among the na -
tion’s elite, and the Utes are ranked 
13th in ESPN’s initial FPI rankings. The game offers an opportunity for 
a signature win to kick off Napier’s 
tenure.
Southeastern Conference play 
opens the next weekend against 
Kentucky, another likely top-25 
opponent. The Wildcats threw a 
wrench into Florida’s season last 
year, as Mark Stoops’ squad dealt 
Florida a 20-13 defeat in Lexington, 
Kentucky, for the Gators’ second 
loss of the year.
History favors the Gators in 
week two — UF hasn’t lost back-to-back games to the ‘Cats since 1977 
— but a confident Kentucky could 
prove too much yet again.
SEC play will take a back seat 
when the South Florida Bulls travel 
to Gainesville week three. Florida 
won the first edition of the intra -
state rivalry last season, 42-20.
The Gators hit the road for the 
first time in week four for a trip to 
Knoxville, Tennessee, to take on the 
Tennessee Volunteers. The Vols’ 
suffered a blowout loss in Ben Hill 
Griffin Stadium last season, but mo -mentum trends upward in Rocky 
Top with head coach Josh Heupel 
after UT won three of its last four 
regular-season games.
Florida beat UT in 16 of the last 
17 appearances; there won’t be a 
game circled with darker ink on 
Tennessee’s calendar than its date 
with UF.
Aside from the USF matchup, 
Florida’s first four games could 
prove daunting. The road gets no 
easier in the latter portion of the 
schedule.
Another three-game homestand 
awaits UF after it returns from 
Tennessee. The first two, against 
Eastern Washington and Missouri, 
figure to be two tallies in the “W” 
column for the Gators. 
The third Saturday in October 
will be yet another pivotal matchup 
in how fans remember the 2022 sea -
son. 
The Louisiana State Tigers, led 
by new head coach Brian Kelly, will 
seek their third straight win over 
Florida. Both head coaches will get 
their first taste of the rivalry, but 
Napier, the former coach of Louisi -
ana-Lafayette, has marked familiar -
ity with the Bayou.
Halloween weekend will once 
again occupy the annual pilgrim -
age to Jacksonville for the Florida-
Georgia game. Despite losing no -
table players on both sides of the 
ball, including five defensive play -
ers selected in the first round of the 2022 NFL Draft, the reigning na -
tional champions will be the Gators’ 
toughest test all season. A UF upset 
win in Duval County would send 
shockwaves through the nation.
Florida closes the season on the 
road for three of its last four games. 
Texas A&M, a consensus pre -
season top-10 team, will be a colos -
sal opponent for the Gators. Beyond 
the trip to Kyle Field, the remaining 
three games should all be winnable. 
A home tilt against South Caro -
lina, an away game against Vander -
bilt (which usually sends Gator fans 
flocking to Nashville) and a trip to 
Tallahassee to take on the Florida 
State Seminoles provides potential 
for UF to end the season on a roll. 
The questions surrounding 
Florida’s football program, com -
bined with the competitiveness of 
its schedule, makes predicting a fi -
nal record nearly impossible. Tons 
of pressure falls on the shoulders 
of redshirt sophomore quarter -
back Anthony Richardson. If the 
Gainesville native produces an elite 
campaign, and the defense takes 
a step forward, UF could rebound 
from a mediocre 2021. 
If one or both of those things 
don’t work out, though, Florida 
could be in for a rocky first trip 
around the SEC with Napier.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.orgNapier, Richardson face gauntlet in Florida’s 2022 football schedule
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida quarterback Anthony Richardson sets to throw against 
South Florida Sept. 11, 2021.
