We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_newspaperCity event planner retires
Ended 14 years dedicated to local arts,  pg. 5
County animal shelter quarantining dogs
Deadly canine virus infected three,  pg. 2What happened in sports over break?
Gator football, basketball struggles, pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 17
SOME STUDENTS 
CONCERNED ABOUT THE 
SPREAD OF THE VIRUS 
AND SAFETY IN CLASSES
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
As the first day of UF Spring 
2022 classes rolls in, some stu -
dents worry about safety with in-
person classes and no mask man -
dates amid rising COVID-19 cases.
UF Health Screen, Test & Pro -
tect discontinued its COVID-19 
data dashboard Dec. 31. The on-
campus COVID-19 data is now 
only available through the Florida 
Department of Health.
“Requests for up-to-date data 
starting Jan. 1 should be directed 
to the Department of Health,” Ken 
Garcia, UF Health spokesperson, 
wrote in an email.
Some university campuses 
across the country prepared to go 
online for the start of the semester. 
Private universities such as Har -
vard, Howard and the University 
of Miami plan to teach classes re -
motely for a portion of the Spring. 
In contrast, students and faculty at 
UF brace for in-person classes. 
The decision for classes to re -
main in-person was made in con -
sultation with UF Health experts 
and following guidance from the 
Florida Board of Governors, Gar -cia wrote. He added that testing is 
being expanded at Ben Hill Griffin 
Stadium beginning Jan. 5 but did 
not elaborate.
Last Friday, UF sent out a cam -
pus brief detailing information 
about the university’s response to 
the rising COVID-19 cases across 
Florida. The email encouraged 
students and employees to get 
tested, vaccinated — including the 
booster shot — and wear a mask. 
Previously student and staff 
testing services were provided un -
der UF Health Screen, Test & Pro -
tect but transferred to the Student 
Health Care Center. 
Garcia wrote in an email that 
UF Health Screen, Test & Protect 
was part of the initial emergency 
response to the pandemic. The 
university has now moved to the 
next phase of its response by tran -
sitioning services to local and state 
health infrastructure, he wrote. 
Testing and the weekly health 
screener remain available to stu -
dents, faculty and staff. 
These changes caused concern 
in the past week as students who 
attempted to sign up for COVID-19 
testing before the start of classes 
were met with a limited number of 
testing blocks. As of Jan. 4, there 
are more available testing blocks. 
Brendan Wernisch, a 20-year-
old UF chemical engineering ju -
THE REQUIREMENT SEEKS TO KEEP PEOPLE 
SAFE AFTER THE RISE IN COVID-19 CASES 
OVER WINTER BREAK
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Public Schools will require employees, 
volunteers and visitors to wear masks when they return from 
winter break on Jan. 4 due to the uptick in COVID-19 cases. 
ACPS has been monitoring the rise in cases in Alachua 
County, ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson said. In the last 
two weeks, county COVID-19 cases increased from 677 to 
more than 2,000, contributing to Florida’s nearly 300,000 
cases this past week. ACPS announced the change in mask 
requirements for staff Sunday in an update for families on its 
website.
As people head back to Alachua County, ACPS felt that 
mandating masks for everyone except students was an 
appropriate step to combat the spread of COVID-19, especially 
the omicron variant, Johnson said. She hopes the mandate 
will be temporary. 
ACPS cannot mandate mask-wearing for students, due to a 
Florida law, but strongly encourages students to wear masks.
The school district and state government struggled in a 
legal battle over masks for months. Back in July, Gov. Ron DeSantis issued an executive order to ban mask mandates. 
Alachua County defied these rules and established a mask 
mandate for the beginning of the school year. 
Then, in September, ACPS filed a lawsuit against the Florida 
Department of Health to challenge the surgeon general’s rule 
that limits mask mandates in public schools and allowed 
parents to opt their students out of wearing a mask. Now, there is a new state law in which public schools cannot impose 
mask mandates for students, and an opt-out form is no longer 
required for families that prefer their child not wear a mask, 
ACPS’ website states. 
“The state legislature has taken away the option for 
requiring masks for students and quarantines for students,” 
Johnson said. “But we still have some options for requiring 
masks for employees.”
Students who test positive for COVID-19 or have symptoms 
must stay home until they receive a negative test and are 
asymptomatic, orthey receive written permission from a 
medical professional or 10 days have passed since the onset 
of their symptoms. 
However, state limits have made direct-contact quarantining 
optional. If a student comes within 6 feet of someone with 
COVID-19 for at least 15 minutes, quarantine is recommended 
but no longer required, according to the surgeon general’s 
emergency rule. 
This mask mandate for employees, visitors and volunteers 
is an effort to protect students, staff and families, Johnson said. 
This month, the Alachua County Health Department will 
offer vaccinations at ACPS elementary and middle schools. 
Students at least 5 years old are eligible for their vaccine.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgUF classes to remain in-person with no mask or vaccination requirement
Alachua County Public Schools mandates masks for employeesMelanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
Melanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
SEE COVID,  PAGE 4T oday’s Weather
THE SHELTER IS NO LONGER 
ACCEPTING DOGS FOR 
TWO TO FOUR WEEKS
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
Alachua County Animal Shelter 
has quarantined more than 60 dogs 
since Dec. 31 after three dogs were 
infected with a deadly, incurable 
canine virus.
The facility announced it will 
close dog adoptions and will not be 
accepting owner-surrendered dogs 
for the next two-to-four weeks, 
according to a news release from 
Alachua County. The dogs that 
have been in contact with the 
distemper virus will be kept in 
isolation as the shelter monitors 
them for infection.
All of the dogs the shelter must 
accept, including those that are 
unowned or considered a risk to 
public safety, are being housed in 
a separate area away from those in 
quarantine.
Distemper initially looks 
similar to viral infections seen in 
humans, causing dogs to develop 
a fever, nasal discharge, coughing 
and vomiting. When the virus 
reaches the nervous system, it 
can cause dogs to twitch, seize, 
convulse or develop partial to 
complete paralysis, according to 
the American Veterinary Medical 
Association.  
It is incurable and often fatal 
— those that survive usually have 
permanent, irreparable nervous 
system damage.
The facility isn’t capable of 
housing and treating dogs with canine distemper virus (CDV), 
Animal Resources & Care Director 
Ed Williams said.
The three dogs that tested 
positive were euthanized. 
“We need to go for at least two 
weeks without anybody becoming 
symptomatic and without any new 
positive test results,” Williams 
said. “So every time we get a new 
test result or we get a new dog 
that’s symptomatic, it moves that 
clock out further.”
It can take up to six months 
to treat an animal with canine 
distemper virus, Williams said. 
There is no cure for the distemper 
virus and while a dog is receiving 
supportive care, the virus is 
transmittable.
Dr. Lance Baltzley, CEO of 
Newberry Animal Hospital Group 
in Alachua County, specializes 
in veterinary medicine. While 
every dog can be at risk of canine 
distemper virus, a disease that 
invades the animal’s nervous, 
gastrointestinal and respiratory 
systems, puppies and dogs that 
are unvaccinated against CDV face 
a higher risk, Baltzley wrote in an 
email. 
The shelter euthanizes wild 
animals, like raccoons, that are 
found with distemper virus to stop 
the spread.
“The interactions between 
wildlife animals and our pets 
can expedite the spreading of the 
virus. Although more commonly 
transmitted through a cough or 
sneeze, the disease can be spread 
through shared objects such as toys 
or drinking bowls,” Baltzley wrote.Baltzley wrote the easiest 
and most effective form of 
protection against distemper is 
vaccine immunity. CDV vaccines 
are available from any licensed 
veterinarian or local animal hospital 
and puppies should receive at least 
two vaccines by 16 weeks old.
The shelter has a proactive 
response plan for when dogs 
get a virus like this to maximize 
lifesaving and minimize spread of 
the virus. 
It checks what cages or kennels 
the dogs were in at the shelter and 
how long they stayed, Williams 
said. Then the shelter looks to see 
what other dogs were in that area 
at that same time. Those dogs that 
were potentially exposed are then 
put into a quarantined area.
The facility advised those who 
adopted dogs in December to 
watch for symptoms. The shelter 
also offers distemper testing in its 
parking lot.
The shelter asks Alachua County 
residents to notify it about stray 
dogs so the shelter can document 
the stray, check lost reports and 
arrange for the dog to be scanned 
for a microchip. 
The shelter is also asking 
residents to help foster stray dogs 
until their owners can be found by 
housing the dogs for a few days or 
more, reaching out to friends and 
family or other shelter and rescue 
groups who can help.
“We’re just trying to minimize 
to the extent we can,” Williams 
said. “The shelter was already full 
when this happened and we’re 
trying to prevent unnecessary 
euthanasia just for space.”
Cats and other small pets such 
as bunnies, hamsters and guinea 
pigs are not at risk for infection 
by canine distemper virus, so the 
shelter will remain open for cat 
adoptions.
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 17
 Alachua County Animal Shelter quarantines 
dogs, three infected with canine virus
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, Anna 
Wilder, Sara LindsayAllessandra Inzina, ainzina@alligator.orgJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
4   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022By Allyssa Keller
Alligator Staff Writer
For Kristen Louder, a 
21-year-old UF dance junior, 
winter break meant the op -
portunity to step away from 
the stage, sit in her room and 
just breathe. Her last semes -
ter was filled with long, ex -
hausting hours running from 
event to event.
“I feel like it’s definitely 
important to have a break 
now more than ever, cause 
I’m a dance major, and we 
dance with masks on 24/7,” 
Louder said.
And yet, the chance for 
her and other students to en -
joy this time away from the 
stress of campus life was cut 
short by a decision to reduce 
the length of winter break 
made by UF several years 
prior.
Louder said that several 
people she knew are also 
experiencing mental burn -
out now due to the lack of 
breaks.
“So, with just that short 
amount of break, I don’t feel 
like it was enough time for 
everyone to recuperate and 
get themselves together for 
the next semester,” she said.
The reduced break is 
part of the natural calendar 
shift for the university, UF 
spokesperson Steve Orlando 
wrote in an email. To create 
a UF calendar, the university 
developed 13 years worth of 
calendars ahead of time to 
ensure that official UF dates 
can be adjusted accordingly 
for each term.
“This year’s break is the 
one that shifts back from the 
gradual lengthening we have experienced the last few 
years,” Orlando wrote.
Moving forward, UF Fac -
ulty Senate has approved 
changes to the academic cal -
endar that would allow for a 
longer Fall and Spring break, 
Orlando wrote. This change 
would start to take effect 
in the 2024-2025 academic 
year.
Fortunately, there are 
various ways for incoming 
students to take care of their 
mental health as the Spring 
semester starts. Students can 
become involved with cam -
pus groups focused on im -
proving mental health.
SKY at UF is one organi -
zation out of many others at 
the university dedicated to 
bettering community men -
tal health. Vignesh Subra -
maniam, the operations and 
finance director of SKY, said 
the organization offers hap -
piness retreats for students, 
faculty and staff. The retreats 
typically last for 10 to 12 
hours over the course of two 
days. 
Key mental health tech -
niques like yoga, meditation and breathing exercises are 
heavily emphasized at SKY.
“It’s very hard to get back 
to the routine like super 
quick [after break],” he said.
Subramaniam recom -
mends that students take a 
different moment each day 
to take a step back, take a 
deep breath and practice 
mindfulness.
Another key area on 
campus for students to im -
prove their mental health is 
UF’s Counseling and Well -
ness Center — a program 
that helps students cope 
with change through short-
term counseling, group and 
couple’s therapy and other 
services.
CWC provides students 
with access to clinical case 
managers that work to con -
nect students with mental 
health resources that fit their 
personal needs. Students 
looking to alleviate their anx -
iety can call the CWC for a 
brief consultation.
@allygatorkeller
akeller@alligator.orgShortened winter break may cause 
mental burnout for UF students
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
nior, tried to sign up for testing on New 
Year’s Eve. Like previous semesters, Wer -
nisch went to schedule a test through ONE.
UF.  This time there were no appointments 
available. 
“I wanted to feel safe returning to class -
es with the spike going on,” Wernisch said. 
“I thought it was important for my peers, 
classmates and friends.”
He decided to get tested at a local CVS 
pharmacy.
It’s important, he said, that with UF’s 
large population, students and faculty aren’t 
spreading the disease unchecked around 
campus and to the outside community. 
“In my eyes, we were more prepared at 
the start of school in Fall 2020 than we are 
now, and I would expect that UF would be 
able to meet the moment and proactively 
make decisions about increasing testing 
when cases are already increasing,” Wer -
nisch said.
Wernisch expressed that he would have 
liked for classes to be online for at least two 
weeks. “It reduces the risk of the second half of 
the semester being online,” he said. “I don’t 
think that we’re following the same guid -
ance that we have been following previous 
to oOmicron, and now it’s a time more than 
ever when we need to bring that back.”
Brian Iuchyk, an 18-year-old UF ac -
counting freshman, said he’s not feeling 
very optimistic about the start of the semes -
ter.
He believes that not enough is being 
done to protect the general student body 
and would like to see mask mandates in 
certain places, testing requirements and 
eventually a vaccine requirement.  
“I want to feel like someone in the ad -
ministration cares,” Iuchyk said. 
While UF was unable to provide com -
ment on questions about testing availabil -
ity, the campus brief said the university 
is “prepared to ramp up testing capacity 
quickly as needed” and that “as the pan -
demic evolves, our response to it will 
evolve as well.”
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgCOVID,  from pg. 1UF cut COVID-19 data dashboardCampus organizations to offer ways for 
students to prioritize mental healthWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
300 ATTENDED THE ANNUAL 
CONCERT AND FIREWORKS 
SHOW IN PERSON
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
While some Gainesville resi -
dents spent their last night of 2021 
indoors with loved ones, COVID-19 
didn’t hold back other residents 
who were determined to start 2022 
with a bang. 
Anahied Davenport, 30, and her 
family spent their first New Year’s 
Eve in Gainesville at home. 
Her 3-year-old daughter is un -
able to get a vaccine yet, and her 
husband is waiting for organ trans -
plants. This was the best way to cel -
ebrate, she said. 
“He’s listed out of Shands for a 
heart and a liver so we don’t have 
the luxury of being anything except 
extraordinarily careful,” Davenport 
said.
Being from Illinois, fireworks 
were never a holiday staple for Dav -
enport. However, she still got to see 
some thanks to her next-door neigh -
bors.  
“My next-door neighbor set off 
many, many fireworks,” Davenport 
said. “I was a little bit worried ini -
tially when I woke up at 2 o’clock.”
Davenport said her family has 
always been the type to stay in for 
the holidays. 
“Some people are older and 
tired, some people have kids, some 
people are waiting on organs in a 
global pandemic,” Davenport said.
Though many families like Dav -
enport’s stayed inside for New 
Year’s Eve, Gainesville put on an outdoor celebration. 
Nearly 300 attendees and 15 
livestream viewers chanted from 
ten to one as the clock ticked down. 
White sparklers shot 10 feet high 
from the foot of the stage as the air 
filled with bubbles. A band played a 
cacophony of rhythms and led the 
crowd in a countdown. The crowd 
buzzed noisemakers as Gainesville 
entered 2022 at Bo Diddley Plaza. 
The city’s annual two-part New 
Year’s celebration commenced with 
a fireworks show at Depot Park and 
a live concert at Bo Diddley Plaza 
Friday night. 
The City’s Parks, Recreation & 
Cultural Affairs coordinated the 
family-friendly, free night of fire -
works and live music. The city also 
live streamed each event on Face -
book, allowing participants to enjoy 
the festivities from home.
City Commissioner David Arre -
ola said he and his girlfriend en -
joyed going to the event in person 
together.
“What I love about it is you get 
to sort of see just the diversity of 
people who call Gaineville home,” 
Arreola said. “All ages and all eth -
nicities, everyone just enjoying 
the space and celebrating the new 
year.”
Sparks in the Park at Depot Park 
began at 5 p.m. A DJ played mu -
sic varying from the Beatles to the 
Black Eyed Peas as families waited 
for the sunset. The park provided 
spray painted circles about 6 feet 
apart on the lawn for each family 
to set up their blankets and chairs 
without intruding in other groups’ 
space and following social distanc -
ing guidelines.  At 6:30 p.m., there was an or -
chestrated firework show, launch -
ing each blaze in sync with the 
music playing, at Depot Park. The 
crowd watched the dazzling display 
burst into the night sky from over 
the main pond, accompanied by 
songs such as “Born in the USA” by 
Bruce Springsteen and “Firework” 
by Katy Perry.
Over 40 viewers were watching 
on the livestream when families 
cheered and shouted as the fire -
works peaked and ended at 7 p.m.
Families were able to go to the 
Bo Diddley Plaza for the Downtown 
Countdown. As part of the plaza’s 
Free Fridays Concert Series, the city 
hosted this live concert as a New 
Year’s Eve special. 
Each artist played timeless 
songs, such as “New York, New 
York” and “I Can See Clearly Now.” 
The crowd kept track of the count -
down through a digital clock hung 
above the stage, displaying the time 
down to the second.
David Ballard, the City of Gaines -
ville’s former event coordinator, 
organized the Downtown Count -
down. 
“The entertainers, musicians 
and the people that I have worked 
with just made my job easy,” Bal -
lard said. “We have wonderful local 
musicians in this town and I always 
said I would hire the best musicians 
I can find.”
According to Ballard, in years 
prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the crowd would brim the plaza 
for events like the countdown with 
thousands of people attending. At -
tendance this year was low, Ballard 
said, but many had the option to watch the events at home on the 
livestream which nearly 20 people 
were watching consistently through 
the night.
Jazz singer Decyo McDuffie 
opened the show with the Larry 
Newcomb Quartet at 9 p.m.
McDuffie, a 22-year-old entomol -
ogy graduate student at UF, said he 
loves how his passion for music al -
lows him to establish a bond with 
the community.
“To be in a college town, but 
also be connected at the same time 
to the actual Gainesville community 
and the older folks … really makes 
me feel special that I can bring those 
two worlds together and do my 
thing,” McDuffie said.
Couples slow-danced together 
and children chased each other 
around the plaza, enjoying the 
warmhearted atmosphere created by the musicians.
King Eddie and the Pili Pili Band 
also took the stage to bring the 
crowd into the new year with reg -
gae classics.
Both bands played at the venue 
earlier in the year and event orga -
nizers thought that combined they 
would give a great concert that 
would leave the audience pleased.
The night concluded around 
12:30 a.m. by wishing everyone a 
‘Happy New Year’ and also congrat -
ulating Ballard on his retirement.
“It’s been a great pleasure for me 
to build that program, Free Fridays, 
for the last 14 years,” Ballard said. 
“I could have retired sooner but the 
timing was right.”
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.org
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
After years of studying theater, 
puppeteering and coordinating renaissance 
fairs, David Ballard eagerly searched for a job 
in Gainesville. 
“Find jobs in the arts in your town,” read 
the popup ad on Ballard’s computer in 2007.
After quickly typing in his zipcode, one job 
popped up: Gainesville events coordinator. It 
was the last day to apply. Believing the job 
could be fun, he submitted the application. 
But as months passed by, he forgot about the 
position.
Until he received the call. 
The 69-year-old spent his life following his 
love for the arts, and after 14 years of bringing 
this passion to Gainesville, Ballard is retiring.
For most of the past two months, Ballard 
was on leave. After the city requested he 
return to in-person holiday events and work, 
heBallard decided the risk of catching COVID 
posed too high of a threat. 
“I was able to work from home for some 
time and got permission from the employee 
health services but they decided that we want 
everybody to come back,” Ballard said. “I 
weighed the risk of that and said ‘you know, 
I can retire.’” 
Ballard announced his retirement at the city’s annual New Year’s concert Friday. As 
the countdown to midnight began, a photo 
of Ballard flashed on the livestream. The 
city’s coordination staff captioned the portrait 
“Happy Retirement David!”
“It seemed like the right time to do it. I kind 
of liked that the countdown to midnight was 
actually the countdown to my retirement as 
well,” he said.
Over the course of his 14-year career, 
Ballard strengthened multiple Gainesville 
programs and community events. He directed 
theater performances for young audiences 
and created signature events such as the 
performing arts festival Jest Fest.
“Bringing laughter and joy to people is 
what it’s all about,” Ballard said.
Ballard recruited talent from all over 
the world for Jest Fest, including The 
Flying Wallendas and Parisian professional 
entertainer Arsene Dupin. This high level of 
talent was available to Gainesville for free. 
Dupin, 64-years-old, recalled how 
intricately organized the event had been. To 
this day, many performers in the field still wish 
Jest Fest was around after it was canceled in 
2020 due to the pandemic as well as a tTax 
gGrant from the Alachua County no longer 
being available. “To be quite honest, I don’t think I’ve seen 
any festivals better than Jest Fest,” he said.
Ballard’s projects wouldn’t have become 
a reality without the help of Suzanna Mars, 
city production coordinator, photographer and 
social media manager. Together they were an 
event-producing team.
Mars said Ballard was able to attract acts 
of that caliber because they could feel his 
enthusiasm and his love of arts and performers.
“We knew what it takes to put on a 
successful show,” Mars said.
One of Ballard’s first projects was the 
Free Fridays concert series —, a rebranded 
version of the previous series called Let’s Go 
Downtown. By publicizing and promoting the 
event extensively since 2007, Ballard increased 
attendance from 30 people to thousands. 
Together Ballard and Mars transferred 
the concert series online to continue music 
events through the COVID-19 pandemic. After 
teaching themselves how to live stream on 
social media, they resumed the concerts on the 
Free Fridays Facebook page. 
Prior to the pandemic, the concert series hit 
its peak at 20,000 in-person attendees per year 
but as the pandemic threatened safety, the 
concert series took a pause and went online. 
“He’d [Ballard] always sign off and he’d 
say ‘We’ll see you next spring for more Free 
Fridays fun.’ We didn’t know that we wouldn’t see them next spring,” Mars said. 
Due to Ballard and Mars’ broadcasting 
efforts, the event grew and Free Fridays 
saw 2,000 in-person attendees and more 
than 200,000 online viewers worldwide. 
AltogetherAll together, Ballard was able to 
put on more than 300 of these shows over 14 
years. 
Bo Diddley Plaza Program Coordinator 
Nigel Hamm and Bo Diddley Plaza Ambassador 
Jonathan Gaunt were in charge of Ballard’s 
responsibilities while he was on leave and will 
continue to run Free Fridays. 
“For the first year, there won’t be too many 
changes. We might add more than one band 
per show and also have some outside agencies 
curate some events,” Hamm said.
While Ballard is retiring from the position, 
his work in the arts will continue. 
He’s excited to return to what he studied 
in college and what first attracted him to the 
theater and performance field: playwriting.
“I’ve already been writing again so now I’ll 
be able to write full time,” he said.
His colleagues look forward to the creative 
work he will dedicate time to during his 
retirement.
“It’s at a time of his life where he’s full of 
creative possibilities that he’d like to expand,” 
Mars said.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgCity celebrates new year with fireworks, music but some stay home
Gainesville events coordinator retires after more than a decadeAsta Hemenway / / Alligator Staff
David Ballard served the community for 14 years and plans on returning to playwriting6   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
In UF Student Government, a new semester 
brings with it a new legislation season in 
which graduate students have had little to 
no say. The Graduate and Graduate Family 
Housing senate seats have remained vacant 
throughout the entire Fall semester and now 
leading into Spring.
Following the Fall 2021 elections, both the 
Graduate and Family Housing seats remained 
vacant. Seven total votes were cast for only 
write-in candidates. 
All 10 senate seats set aside for graduate 
students are vacant. Without distinct 
representation, graduate students lack the 
legislative ability to address their concerns. 
Senator Spencer Gorelick (Change, District 
D) is a graduate student but was not elected 
to specifically represent graduate students like 
himself. That, however, hasn’t stopped him 
from speaking about the lack of representation 
in the senate through public comment. 
“It seems that grad students are often forgot 
about when it comes to a lot of measures 
taken by the university,” Gorelick said. “Even 
though we provide so much to this university 
as researchers, as teaching assistants and even 
as students and student leaders.”
From burnout to the planned demolition of 
Maguire Village and University Village South 
to potential rent hikes for on-campus housing 
to mental health and expensive graduate fees — graduate students are facing stress. But 
Gorelick said SG can help ease the weight of 
those burdens.
“SG can help a lot in that way, even if it’s 
not doing anything concrete, also just the 
advocacy aspect of it,” he said. “Standing up 
and saying as student leaders, we’re not going 
to accept this.”
Throughout the Fall semester, less than 
five graduate students applied. None of the 
applicants were chosen to fill those seats.
Majority Party Leader John Brinkman 
(Gator, Sophomore) argued that not a large 
enough number of students applied for a 
senate seat, making it difficult to compare 
them to their peers and be sure they’re 
qualified candidates.
“Personally, I don’t want to give a Senate 
seat to just one person who comes in here. 
I would like to see multiple people apply,” 
Brinkman said in an Oct. 25 meeting. “I want 
very qualified people to come in here and be 
in Senate and be willing to work and make 
good change for their prospective college.”
Gorelick doesn’t agree.
“I think that’s a completely ridiculous 
argument when you have a tenth of the Senate 
that remains unfilled,” he said.
Bryn Taylor, communications chair of 
the Graduate Assistants United labor union, 
believes that SG should fill the seats with 
qualified and motivated candidates, regardless 
of how many apply.
“You’re not gonna get people knocking down your door for these positions. I mean, 
graduate students are swamped with stuff, 
Ph.Ds, families — things like that,” she said. 
“So I mean, we have a hard enough time 
getting people to be active with the union.”Taylor doesn’t believe graduate students 
have a clear idea of what SG can do for them. 
She suggested better outreach, such as emails 
explaining what exactly representatives are 
working on.
“It’s hard for me to want to get involved if I 
don’t know where I fit in,” Taylor said.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.orgGraduate Students still have little voice in SG
Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
UF’s weekly average of reported 
COVID-19 cases increased through -
out December. 
On Dec. 22, the seven day aver -
age was 68 after staying below 15 
most of November, according to the 
UF Health Screen, Test & Protect 
testing dashboard. UF has 845 stu -
dents, staff and affiliates currently 
in quarantine as of Friday. 
On Dec. 31, the number of hos -
pitalized COVID-19 patients in Ala -
chua County reached 57, with 19 patients in the ICU and seven on a 
ventilator, according to the Alachua 
County COVID-19 dashboard. New 
cases in Alachua County totaled 
2,072 the week of Dec. 31. 
UF Health Shands Hospital CO -
VID-19 hospitalizations reached 
60 on Tuesday, according to Ed 
Jimenez, UF Health Shands Chief 
Executive Officer. Of these 60, four 
were receiving treatment in the ICU. 
Jimenez said fewer patients in 
the ICU demonstrates the mildness 
of the Omicron variant. 
“So I think everybody has prob -
ably read something out there that 
says it’s less severe,” Jimenez said. “If a definition of less severe is that 
a patient doesn’t need the ICU then 
this would confirm that.”
Sixty percent of recent hospital -
izations are unvaccinated people, 
and of these people, 40% are at an 
increased risk for getting severely ill 
from COVID-19, Jimenez said. 
In about three weeks, COVID-19 
hospitalizations at Shands rose, he 
said. He believes overcrowding is 
something UF Health has to keep 
an eye on. In November, Shand’s 
weekly average of hospitalized CO -
VID-19 patients didn’t reach 11. As 
of Dec. 24, that number has more 
than doubled, reaching an average of 23, according to the U.S. Depart -
ment of Health and Human Servic -
es.  
“We’ve gone from small num -
bers to 60,” Jimenez said.
“Shands, as you know, is this 
major hospital that serves our lo -
cal community as well as serves 
the state,” Jimenez said. “So when 
we absorb 60 more patients, it will 
crowd out other patients.” 
Healthcare workers are frustrat -
ed over the debate on vaccination, 
Jimenez said.
“The evidence is clear,” Jimenez 
said. “The vaccine can lessen the 
impact of the virus, and so it strikes some providers that had the unvac -
cinated people been vaccinated, 
would they really be spending an 
overnight in the hospital?’”
UF is offering COVID-19 test -
ing through the Student Healthcare 
Center. UF Health is offering walk-
in vaccinations on the first floor of 
Shands, the first floor of Medical 
Plaza and the first floor of Sprin -
ghill. Alachua County is offering 
walk-up vaccinations at various lo -
cal pharmacies.
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgCOVID-19 Update: County cases more than double in a week, Shands hospitalizations riseOne-tenth of senate seats belong to graduate students — none are filled
EL CAIMÁN
TRADUCIDO POR MARIAN 
HERNANDEZ
Por Emma Behrmann
Escritora de El Caimán
Las escuelas públicas de Alachua re -
querirán que sus empleados, voluntarios 
y visitantes usen mascarillas cuando re -
gresen de las vacaciones de invierno este 
martes, dado el repunte de casos de CO -
VID-19. 
ACPS (Escuelas Públicas del Condado 
de Alachua) han estado monitoreando 
el aumento de casos en el condado, dijo 
Jackie Johnson, portavoz de las escuelas 
del condado Alachua. Durante las últimas 
dos semanas, los casos de COVID-19 au -
mentaron de 677 a más de 2,000, lo que 
contribuye a los 300,000 casos de Florida 
esta última semana. 
ACPS anunció el cambio con respecto al requerimiento del uso de mascarillas a 
su personal este domingo en una actual -
ización para las familias en su página web. 
Al las personas regresar al condado, 
ACPS sintió que requerir las mascarillas a 
todos, excepto a los estudiantes es un paso 
apropiado para combatir la propagación 
de COVID-19, especialmente del variante 
Omicron, dijo Johnson. Ella espera que el 
requerimiento sea temporario.  
ACPS no puede requerir que sus estu -
diantes usen mascarillas, dada la ley del 
estado, pero los animan a usarlas. 
El distrito y el gobierno estatal lucharon 
entre sí en una guerra legal con respecto al 
uso de las mascarillas durante meses. 
Este pasado julio, el gobernador Ron 
DeSantis emitió una orden ejecutiva prohi -
biendo el requerimiento de las mascarillas. 
El condado de Alachua desafió estas reglas 
y estableció un requerimiento de mascaril -
las para el comienzo del año escolar. 
Entonces en septiembre, ACPS presentó una demanda contra el Departamento de 
Salud de la Florida desafiando la regla 
del Cirujano General que limitaba los re -
querimientos de mascarillas en las escuelas 
públicas y permitía que los padres decidi -
eran si sus hijos llevaban mascarillas o no. 
Ahora hay una nueva ley del estado 
que no permite que las escuelas públicas 
impongan requerimientos de mascarillas, 
y las familias que prefieren que sus hijos 
no las usen ya no necesitan un formulario 
para que los estudiantes puedan optar por 
no usarlas, afirma la página web de ACPS. 
“La legislación nos ha quitado la opción 
de requerir mascarillas y cuarentenas de los 
estudiantes,” Johnson dijo . “Pero todavía 
tenemos algunas opciones para poder re -
querir mascarillas de nuestros empleados.”
Los estudiantes que den positivos al CO -
VID-19 o tengan síntomas deben quedar -
se en casa hasta que reciban el resultado 
negativo y sean asintomáticos, reciban un 
permiso escrito por un profesional de la salud o hayan pasado 10 días desde que 
comenzaron a sentir síntomas. 
Sin embargo, limitaciones del estado 
han hecho que las cuarentenas luego del 
contacto directo sean opcionales. Si un es -
tudiante llega a seis6 pies de distancia de 
alguien que tenga COVID-19 por al menos 
15 minutos, la cuarentena es recomendada 
pero ya no es requerida, de acuerdo con la 
regla de emergencia del Cirujano General. 
Este requerimiento de mascarillas para 
los empleados, visitantes y voluntarios es 
un esfuerzo para proteger a los estudiantes, 
al personal y a las familias, dijo Johnson. 
Este mes, el Departamento de Salud del 
Condado de Alachua va a ofrecer vacunas 
en las escuelas públicas primarias y se -
cundarias. Los estudiantes de por lo menos 
cinco5 años de edad ya son elegibles para 
recibir la vacuna.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgLas Escuelas Públicas del Condado de Alachua requieren que sus empleados usen mascarillas  WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
THERE'S NEVER BEEN A MORE
IMPORTANT TIME TO QUIT!
 
Start the year oﬀ right and make a plan to quit all forms of tobacco.
For more information on Group Quit classes, contact: 
352-273-5224
*If medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 Smoking can cause a higher risk of getting lung and chest infections, and using 
e-cigarettes can increase your odds of developing respiratory disease by 95%.
Tobacco Free Florida oﬀers in-person or virtual Group Quit sessions for all 
Florida residents. Upon class completion, participants are eligible to receive 
free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches, or lozenges.*  
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools
and services at tobaccofreeﬂorida.com/quityourway.
8   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
Hope Hersh’s space bread is 
one small step for baking, one 
giant leap for extraterrestrial 
dining. 
The UF doctoral student led 
one of 18 U.S. teams selected 
as winners in the Deep Space 
Food Challenge to each receive a 
$25,000 prize.
All 18 teams are invited to 
participate in the second phase of 
the challenge, which will feature 
a kitchen demonstration for 
NASA. No date is currently set.
The challenge, hosted by 
NASA and the Canadian Space 
Agency, sought tasty solutions 
to preserve nutrients in food for 
years-long journeys to Mars and 
beyond. Hersh, a 27-year-old 
UF plant molecular and cellular 
biology doctoral student, worked 
on the project with advice from 
her doctoral adviser, pProfessor 
Mark Settles.
“Dr. Settles was getting his 
blood drawn one day and had 
this brilliant idea,” Hersh said. 
“He was looking at the blood bags 
and was like, ‘Hhmm I wonder if 
we can grow living organisms in those.’” 
The bags, also known as 
Fluorinated Ethylene Propylene 
bags, or FEP bags, are 
multifunctional, tolerate extreme 
high and low temperatures 
and allow gas to flow between 
the plastic membrane, which 
preserves the cells inside. For 
space bread, this meant a process 
of making and baking bread with 
minimal tools and an environment 
where yeast could rise. 
From there, the two developed 
a way to grow algae in the bags 
and in Fall 2020, they discussed 
the idea of baking bread in a 
similar way. 
“We can store and combine 
ingredients, allow the dough to 
rise within the plastic bag, and 
then throw the whole bag in the 
oven and bake the bread,” Hersh 
said. “Doing the most simplest 
things here on Earth is much 
more complicated when you’re in 
space, and we had to take all of 
that into consideration.”
Hersh declined to answer 
questions regarding the project 
funding. 
Settles, who taught 
horticultural studies for almost 20 
years, left UF earlier this year to become a civil servant at NASA’s 
research center. Hersh continued 
the project and applied for the 
Deep Space Food Challenge in 
January independently while 
leading a team of undergraduate 
students. 
Though Settles has no 
monetary stake in whether the 
technology is adapted and was 
not a formal member of Hersh’s 
team, he said he had an academic 
interest in seeing how her project 
would develop. They share an 
interest in space and learning 
how to improve the nutritional 
value of extraterrestrial food.  
“I think Hope’s concept is 
the one that’s closest to actual 
implementation if it were to be 
followed up with the food systems 
group,” Settles said. “Many of 
the other ones have much more 
complicated, futuristic-looking 
solutions.”
Settles, in part, credits the 
pandemic baking phenomenon, a 
trend which saw the rise of easy 
and accessible recipes posted 
online. Hersh and Settles were 
inspired by the New York Times’ 
“no-knead bread” and converted 
the recipe into laboratory 
measurements for the project.Hersh needed to address 
factors like baking time, 
temperatures, ingredients and 
equipment available at the space 
station. 
Hersh plans to re-invest the 
prize money into the project to 
continue solving challenges like 
finding the best supplier of the 
bags. “We were both in shock at the 
time because $25,000 is a lot of 
money,” Hersh said. “I just want 
to contribute to science. I want to 
contribute to adventuring in space 
and discovering new things.”
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
THE OFFICE INCLUDES A NEW 
KITCHEN, LABORATORY AND 
300-SEAT AUDITORIUM
By Allyssa Keller
Alligator Staff Writer
Newberry’s agricultural history started 
with watermelon. The new UF/IFAS and 
Alachua County Extension Office continues 
celebrating its agricultural heritage and 
fondness for summer fruit.
UF/IFAS cut the ribbon on the 22712 W. Newberry Road location Nov. 30. 
The office is a modern version of the 
old campus, said Joy Glanzer, who had 
previously served as a Newberry city 
commissioner in the planning zone.
The UF/IFAS Extension Office contains 
new additions such as a kitchen, laboratory 
and 300-seat auditorium, according to the 
Alachua County Facebook page.
The kitchen has already been used to 
host cooking classes, Newberry Mayor 
Jordan Marlowe said. Eventually, the 
updated auditorium will be used to host the two to three international conferences 
that IFAS typically holds each year.
The new office will also have an 
extension agent on site to answer farming 
or livestock questions, Marlowe said.
Originally a mining town, the city made 
its living off phosphate, Marlowe said. 
After World War I, Newberry could no 
longer sell the material. It had to find a 
new solution.
The city found its land was perfect for 
growing watermelon and tobacco.
“Newberry was struggling to find 
an industry and we found that in 
watermelon,” Marlowe said.
This love for watermelon has persisted. 
To this day, Newberry boasts the longest 
continually running watermelon festival 
in the United States, Marlowe said.
“When we say Newberry’s an ag 
town, it’s not just because we’ve done 
agriculture, it’s cause we’ve done it well,” 
Marlowe said.
From the conception to the ribbon 
cutting, the project took about two to 
three years.
Most of the planning occurred between 
Alachua County and UF/IFAS.
“The city of Newberry was involved in 
things like utilities, wastewater, sewer, 
water, electricity, those kinds of things,” 
Marlowe said.
Marlowe says that Newberry 
contributed $1 million to the Alachua 
County Equestrian Center and $300,000 to 
purchase the land IFAS was on, making 
the city’s total financial contribution around $1.3 million.
“We think we’re right in the epicenter 
of an area that is primed for agricultural 
research,” Marlowe said.
There are three international airports 
located less than two hours away from 
Newberry. Next door to the extension 
office lies the Alachua County fairgrounds 
and Newberry’s plans for an agricultural 
technology research park.
It is still a few years before the 
proposed ag tech park next door can 
become a reality. However, Glanzer, 66, 
says that the park will generate attention 
for Newberry and introduce development 
agricultural companies to the area.
“It’s just a beautiful marriage [between 
the new office and the Agricultural 
Technology Research Park],” Glanzer said.
She said the extension office was 
needed because the old campus was so 
dilapidated. 
“They just needed to modernize their 
space and make it a viable place for 
people to come to learn, get educated 
and experience all things to deal with 
agriculture,” Glanzer said.
She hopes the new office will attract 
more agricultural professionals to the 
community.
“Anything that can count to a small 
community really helps to highlight who 
we are and what we do here,” Glanzer 
said.
@allygatorkeller 
akeller@alligator.orgUF graduate student wins $25,000 award in Deep Space Food Challenge
New UF/IFAS extension office facilitates agricultural research in NewberryCourtesy to The Alligator
Hope Hersh’ s contribution to the space 
food race could make it to Mars one day
Lauren Witte / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       
1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/Mopeds
2019 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
12-6-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680        
1-10-22-4-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    LLaasstt  ________
11..    WWoorrdd  jjooiinneerr  55..    CChhaarroonn  oorrbbiittss  iitt
22..    SSttiirrrreedd,,  pprroovvookkeedd  66..    SSuumm
33..    PPrreeaacchheerr,,  ssuuppppoorrtteerr  77..    BBrriittiisshh  ccoommmmeerrcciiaall  
44..    BBiillllffoolldd  RRHHAARRUUHH
PPYYHHHHNNEELLUUOOPPTT
TTAALLOOTT
RREEUUSSDDTTOO
LLPPSSAATTOOEEEETTRRVVAADD
EELLTTWWLLAAAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--HHuurrrraahh    55AA--PPlluuttoo    66AA--TToottaall    77AA--AAddvveerrtt
11DD--HHyypphheenn    22DD--RRoouusstteedd    33DD--AAppoossttllee    44DD--WWaalllleett    BB--HHaarrrryy  PPootttteerr11--55--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  bbooookkss  hhaavvee  ssoolldd  mmoorree  
tthhaann  550000  mmiilllliioonn  ccooppiieess  wwoorrllddwwiiddee.. BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-13
Dachshund Wanted
Purple Heart veteran looking for older dachs-
hund for companionship. My 19 year old 
dachshund died recently. I am 82 years young. 
Please call 904.536.6881 if you can help.     
1-18-22-3-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 6 Furnishings
By David Poole
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/05/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/05/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Wednesday, January 5, 2022
ACROSS
1 With regard to
6 One might be en 
route to the ER
9 Burn the 
midnight oil, 
perhaps
13 Leachman tied 
for the most 
(eight) Emmy 
wins as a 
performer
15 Immediately
16 Screenwriter 
Ephron
17 Greet with a 
honk
18 Gave the okay to
20 Where a ring may 
be left
22 Beauty
23 “Mangia!”
24 Like Vivaldi’s 
“Spring”
25 Like cartoons
28 Fröbe who 
played 
Goldfinger
30 Martial arts rank
31 Show with skits
35 Theater director?
38 Brunch  
standard
39 Noted Italian 
campanile that 
hints at each 
group of circled 
letters in this 
puzzle
43 Gregarious
44 Miller’s  
salesman
45 Name in book 
publishing since 
1915
46 “Silk Stockings” 
co-star Charisse
47 Yields to gravity
51 Fur coat quality
55 Water tester
56 Number of stars 
on Ghana’s flag
59 Vein contents
60 Singer Ed with 
albums titled “+,” 
“x” and “÷”
62 Like a tutor’s 
lesson, often
65 Wedding 
acquisitions
66 Dot-__
67 Punk rock 
offshoot
68 Respect
69 Lose one’s cool
70 Retired boomer
71 Some HDTVsDOWN
1 Feign toughness
2 She took a day 
off with Ferris
3 Page number, 
often
4 Sports med. 
branch
5 Ranchero’s rope
6 An official lang. 
of Malta
7 Actor Freeman
8 One in a storm, 
maybe
9 MSNBC rival
10 Solo, for Ford
11 Solo, for Fleming
12 “The Resident” 
star Czuchry
14 Flabbergast
19 Many a retired 
professor
21 Last of two 
Pennsylvania-
born presidents
26 Subject of a 
painting by Andy 
and a song by 
Elton
27 Exorcism targets
29 Dutch exports
32 Promise
33 Employ
34 Canal setting
36 Ceviche or 
sashimi37 Villain #13 
on AFI’s “100 
Years... 100 
Heroes & Villains”
38 “Thelma & 
Louise” studio
39 Sound of 
reproach
40 Sweetie
41 Friendly 
opening?
42 Connection 
points
46 Third-stringers48 Subway in an 
Ellington classic
49 Miss the mark
50 Feels
52 Fast-food favorite
53 Branch of Islam
54 Thrills
56 Tolkien monsters
57 Element #10
58 Madame Bovary
61 Ticklish Muppet
63 Clairvoyant’s 
claim
64 Filming site
By Jeff Stillman
©2021 Tribune Content Agency, LLC12/07/21Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
12/07/21ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, December 7, 2021
ACROSS
1 Sneaker feature
5 Balance scale 
container
8 Plays the role of
14 Milky white gem
15 Focus of modern-
day surfing
16 Most achy
17 *Spends time in 
the gym
19 Shrimp entrée
20 Prime meridian 
std.
21 Make into law
23 Quaking tree
24 One of the Coen 
brothers
26 *Upscale eatery 
service for topper 
wearers
28 Big-time celeb
31 P-like Greek letter
32 ACLU issues
33 Smell really bad
34 Crosses (out)
36 Antiquated
38 James Taylor 
classic ... or, 
respectively, 
what can precede 
the two words in 
each answer to a 
starred clue
42 “__ on my watch!”
43 Chaney of horror 
films
44 Where some 
surfers shop
47 Nonprofit URL 
ending
50 __ Lingus
52 Ophthalmologist’s 
field
54 *Times Square 
New Year’s Eve 
custom
57 Calf-length skirts
58 Like the sea 
when waves are 
crashing
59 NFL Dolphins’ 
home
62 Bloodshot
63 Broadway’s Ethel
65 *When 
employment 
ends, formally
67 Cheese in some 
bagels
68 Freight weight
69 Old Spice 
competitor
70 Balanced 
conditions71 Aardvark’s 
morsel
72 Common flag 
symbol
DOWN
1 Transmission 
choice for steep 
ascents
2 Biblical disciple
3 One driving the 
wrong way?
4 Lodge member
5 Menial laborer
6 Océano filler
7 V-shaped slit
8 Pack animal
9 Pepsi rival
10 Vandalize
11 Start of the 
Marines’ motto
12 Appearance
13 Smells really  
bad
18 Dispatched
22 Driveway 
material
25 Welcome to 
one’s home
27 Like rosebushes
29 New Hampshire 
prep school town
30 Actor Stephen
35 NBC weekend 
show37 Cinque times due
39 Blowup on the 
highway
40 Buck’s partner
41 Annual hoops 
player selection 
event
45 Short operatic 
solo
46 “Whatever you 
say, honey”
47 Trumps’ 
White House 
predecessors48 Least cooked
49 Vocalist  
Estefan
51 CD follower
53 Radiate
55 Asian priests
56 Michelangelo 
masterwork
60 Neural  
transmitter
61 Like new
64 Turndowns
66 Courtroom  
figs.
12/06/2021solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!18 Personals 13 Wanted
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
POLISH TEACHER NEEDED
Teachers of Polish and Romanian language 
needed for private lessons. Must be native 
speakers. Call 352 275 8171      1-5-22-1-14
Little Guys Movers
Now Hiring $14/hr. Plus TIPS
352-329-4040
1-31-22-5-15
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
15 Services
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        4-18-15-15
NEED HELP WITH MATH?
ONLINE tutoring for Math, any level and 
subject. Academic Support in all subjects 
offered, too. Call Lilly @ (305) 302-7170. 
Gator helping Gators!             1-10-22-2-15
16 Health Services
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
I FOLLOW THREE RULES: DO THE RIGHT THING,
 DO THE BEST YOU CAN, AND ALWAYS SHOW PEOPLE YOU CARE.
— LOU HOLTZ
10   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
solution  below1. Macy's
2. Who benefits?
3. Rudolph has a shiny red nose
4. Chuck E. Cheese
5. A cooler, darker area on the 
surface of the sun
6. Richard Nixon, who 
also could play four other 
instruments
7. "Hamilton"
8. A buffet with a variety of 
dishes
9. Caribbean Sea
10. "Little Women," by Louisa 
May Alcott1. The Portland Trail Blazers.
2. "Stump the Schwab."
3. Homer Bailey.
4. Ruud van Nistelrooy.
5. Kevin Dyson.
6. Lorena Ochoa.
7. "NFL SuperPro."Trivia Test answers Sports Quiz answersanswers below1. MOVIES: What is the name of the department 
store where Kris Kringle works in the 1947 "Mira -
cle on 34th Street"?
2. LANGUAGE: What is the English equivalent of 
the Latin phrase, "Cui bono"?
3. TELEVISION: Why do the other reindeer tease 
Rudolph in the Christmas TV movie?
4. AD SLOGANS: Which family restaurant adver -
tises itself as a place "where a kid can be a kid"?
5. ASTRONOMY: What is a sunspot?
6. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president was a classi -
cally trained pianist?
7. THEATER: What musical features a group of 
women called The Schuyler Sisters?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What is a smorgasbord?
9. GEOGRAPHY: In what body of water does the 
island of Barbados lie?
10. LITERATURE: Which famous 19th-century 
novel begins with the line, "Christmas won't be 
Christmas without any presents."1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE1 1: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED
15: SERVICES16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSubmit your ad to one of the following categories today!   Contact us:  alligator.org/ classifieds   | classified@alligator.org  |  (352)373- FIND
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury or 
loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We suggest 
that any reader who responds to advertising use caution and in-
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out personal 
information or arranging meetings or investing money.
answers below1. What team selected 17-year-old Jermaine 
O'Neal in the first round of the 1996 NBA Draft?
2. Name the ESPN game show that had contes -
tants taking on statistician Howie Schwab in a 
showdown of sports trivia knowledge.
3. During the 2012 and '13 seasons, what Cincin -
nati Reds pitcher threw the 279th and 280th no-
hitters in Major League Baseball history? 
4. What legendary Dutch striker played for Man -
chester United (2001-06) and Real Madrid (2006-
10), and scored 35 goals for the Netherlands 
national team from 1998-2011?
5. Name the Tennessee Titans wide receiver who 
scored the winning touchdown versus the Buffalo 
Bills in the "Music City Miracle" AFC wild-card 
playoff game in January 2000.
6. What World Golf Hall of Famer was the first 
Mexican golfer -- either male or female -- to 
achieve the world No. 1 rank? 
7. What short-lived Marvel Comics series, first 
published in 1991, centered on an ex-NFL player 
who derived special crime-fighting powers from 
spilled chemicals and a nearly indestructible 
football uniform?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022   ALLIGATOR   11 
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Brandon Grabhorn steps back 
to admire his work, an artistry 
belonging to a category of its own. 
A blank canvas transformed 
to a masterpiece. His canvas: a 
rising, self-started business. His 
masterpiece: gelati. 
As graduation quickly 
approached, Grabhorn was left with 
the big question every college senior 
grapples with — “I’m getting my 
degree, now what?” 
During winter break of his senior 
year at UF, he came up with the idea 
for his now thriving business, B’z 
Gelati, a food truck serving Italian 
ice layered with ice cream.
“I knew I just loved working with 
people, and having that human-to-
human interaction,” Grabhorn said. 
“I love feeling like I’m having an 
impact on the world.”
Grabhorn graduated Spring 2018 
with a business degree. He hit the 
ground running to bring his business 
idea to reality with the help of his 
mother. 
By the summer, they had a name, 
a logo and a food truck business 
model decided. The final task was to 
perfect the gelati. 
Choosing the flavors and 
perfecting the recipes to set them 
apart took months.
They homemake the ice cream 
with honey to combine with their 
homemade Italian ice. Most other 
gelati businesses tend to use soft 
serve or custard, Grabhorn said. 
With a product in place, it was 
time to bring it to the Gainesville 
community.“It was so nerve-racking,” he 
said. “At first it was like ‘Oh my gosh 
I hope they like this.’”
In the beginning, Grabhorn 
and his mother had an idea for the 
flavors, but a big factor in deciding 
the menu is the customers. They 
put out flavors, and if they don’t sell 
then they won’t bring them back, 
Grabhorn said. If a flavor keeps 
selling, it stays. 
“At the end of the day we’re 
doing this to make people happy; 
that’s why I chose a dessert option 
cause most people that come up to 
an ice cream shop, they’re happy or 
about to be happy,” he said. “We’re 
putting smiles on people’s faces.”
Grabhorn pushed to operate on 
UF campus more to serve students, 
one of his target customers. His 
business was given the opportunity 
to set up at the Reitz Union every 
Wednesday this year. 
The family-owned company first 
started working at UF’s football 
and baseball games. For the last 
six months, the food truck parked 
itself in the Oaks Mall parking lot 
Wednesdays through Fridays, and 
at Depot Park every other weekend. 
But B’z Gelati’s typical source of 
revenue is made through working at 
events or catering. 
When the COVID-19 pandemic 
hit, it threatened the business. B’z 
Gelati’s primary revenue source 
came from events, sports games and 
catering, which were canceled in 
response to the virus. To make up 
for this, Grabhorn adapted.
“We ended up becoming like 
an ice cream food truck during 
COVID, and went neighborhood to 
neighborhood,” Grabhorn said.  
As the challenges of the pandemic started to subside, another problem 
rolled into town. Jeremiah’s Italian 
Ice opened a storefront in Butler 
Plaza Oct. 26.
Many good artists’ work 
comes from good inspiration, and 
Grabhorn’s gelati is no different. 
Growing up in Orlando, where 
Jeremiah’s originated, he fell in love 
with Jeremiah’s product as a child 
and eventually took inspiration from 
it for his own business.
Grabhorn is looking at Jeremiah’s 
opening as a positive. A problem 
with B’z Gelati’s product is that a lot 
of people just do not know what it 
actually is, he said. 
“They say ‘What’s B’z Gelati?’ 
They think it’s gelato, which is like 
European ice cream,” Grabhorn said. 
“[Gelati] is the layering of Italian ice 
with ice cream.” 
Having another company 
promoting the same thing can 
raise awareness and further 
understanding, he said. 
Jeremiah’s is an established, 
nationwide company, but Grabhorn 
feels confident they are different 
enough to avoid any major hits from 
its opening in Gainesville. 
Looking forward, a goal of B’z 
Gelati is to make the business model 
easy to franchise. 
“We want to lay a foundation so 
other people that have some money 
and want to be their own business 
owner can take our model and take 
it to other college campuses,” he 
said. “We believe in this model and 
reaching people and meeting them 
where they’re at and creating a great 
experience for their events.” 
Starting out, only Grabhorn and 
his mother manned the trucks, but 
now he has a handful of employees.“I really enjoy it; it’s a really 
laid back atmosphere,” said 
Branyon Skinner, one of Grabhorn’s 
employees. “It’s been really cool 
to get to see some of the regular 
people, and he does a lot of events 
on campus so I get to see a lot of my 
friends and people I know.” 
Grabhorn is the housing director 
at Kappa Phi Epsilon, the UF 
Christain fraternity Skinner is a 
member of. The sports management 
junior knew his boss prior to working 
for him and always told Grabhorn if 
he needed help to let him know. Last 
Spring he finally took Skinner up on 
his offer. 
In addition to Skinner, Grabhorn 
has five or six other regular 
employees, most of which are 
members of Kappa Phi Epsilon, 
Skinner said. 
“It makes it very easy on him because all his employees literally 
live under the same roof, which 
makes it very easy to coordinate,” 
he said. 
Since its startup, the business has 
steadily grown and is starting to get 
too big for just him and his mother, 
Grabhorn said. 
The next steps for the family-
owned business are still undecided, 
but Grabhorn is pleased with the 
name he has built for himself. 
“It’s been a slow but very 
rewarding grind and a great 
experience,” he said. 
Some artists choose brushes and 
paint, but for this UF alum, an ice 
cream scooper and gelati is all he 
needed to make his mark.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgB’z Gelati: Where the buzz began
Courtesy to the Alligator
A UF graduate kickstarted Gainesville’ s staple gelati truck
CWC BEGAN REWORKING ITS OPERATIONS TO 
ACCOMMODATE HIGHER DEMAND, LEAVING 
STUDENTS TO FIND OUTSIDE HELP
By J.P . Oprison
Alligator Staff Writer
Following a nearly two-year long pandemic, UF’s Coun -
seling and Wellness Center saw an increase in demand for 
services last semester. However, limited staff left students 
searching elsewhere.
Ernesto Escoto, the CWC director, said as of Dec. 10, 
the number of clients at the CWC had risen 24% compared 
to Fall 2020, and the number of appointments is up about 
10%.
While stress, anxiety and depression have been the 
most common concerns for years, Escoto said social isola -
tion from the COVID-19 pandemic made these issues more 
prevalent, especially last Fall. 
“That speaks of the negative impact that the pandemic 
has had on people’s lives in so many different ways,” Es -
coto said. 
The center added 10 counselors to its Consultation and 
Referral Team in Summer 2020. Though the CWC took 
measures to accommodate more clients, demand for ser -
vices continues to outpace the CWC’s capacities. 
Michaelina Barker, a 21-year-old UF College of Law 
student, sought ADHD testing during a CWC consultation. 
Barker called the center to schedule a consultation at the 
beginning of Fall. After waiting two weeks for the consul -
tation, staff told her they weren’t offering testing at the 
time. 
The waitlist for ADHD testing was closed, Barker wrote, 
as the center had students on the list from last Spring. While she got an appointment with a counselor the fol -
lowing week for non-ADHD-related counseling, she still 
sought testing.
“The best thing the CWC could do is be more transpar -
ent about its availability,” Barker wrote.
If the CWC had told her earlier it didn’t offer testing, 
she might’ve made an appointment with another provider 
sooner, Barker said. The other provider had its own wait 
time. She didn’t get an appointment until October and 
didn’t receive a diagnosis until late November.
Barker still appreciated CWC’s efforts to help her find a 
local provider who could offer testing.
Escoto said one way the CWC used to combat limited 
staff and resources was group counseling, which was used more since the pandemic began. Escoto said there are about 
five students per group and runs roughly 100 groups and 
workshops annually. In the 2020-21 fiscal year, the center 
served 565 students in 92 different groups. The groups are 
just as helpful as individual services, Escoto said.
Juan Pachon, a 22-year-old UF food and resource eco -
nomics senior, returned to the center over Fall after a good 
experience in summer.
Pachon knew there were long wait times at the CWC. 
Slots get taken during the semester, so if a student needs 
help in the middle of the semester or toward the end, it 
can be hard to get it. It wasn’t a problem for Pachon, as he 
made an appointment within the first few weeks of Sep -
tember. 
While Pachon said the CWC seems to have limited staff 
and capacity for providing services, he doesn’t think the 
center needs to improve. His therapist was attentive. When 
they realized Pachon was doing better, appointments were 
every two weeks instead of weekly.
“That’s something that they actively try to do if they 
see that the person is doing well to try to open up spots,” 
Pachon said. 
With the CWC’s limited capacity, Pachon said UF should 
offer other services, like something similar to the Alachua 
County Crisis Center’s walk-in appointments, so students 
have other options. Pachon isn’t sure UF is distributing its 
resources enough or making them as accessible as possible 
as students have to find the resources themselves.
“Unfortunately, some people might not have that agen -
cy when they’re going through their own mental health 
illness,” Pachon said. “That’s where the gap exists with UF 
and the general student body.”
@joprison
joprison@alligator.orgCWC sees increased demand for services this Fall due to ongoing pandemic
Melanie Peña / / Alligator Staff
12   ALLIGATOR    WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREDeclan Walsh / / Alligator Staff
UPDATE
DARK DECEMBER FOR GATOR 
FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL
By Declan Walsh and 
Jesse Richardson
Alligator Staff Writers
While UF students enjoyed nearly 
a month away from their coursework 
in Gainesville, its student-athletes 
continued their schedules through the 
holiday season.
As Florida’s winter-sports teams 
near the start of conference play, these 
are the biggest storylines from over 
the winter break.
3-INT performance results in fitting 
end to Jones’ UF career
The Gators escaped rivals Florida 
State thanks to a whiffed onside kick 
by FSU kicker Parker Grothaus. The 
ball innocently fell to the turf and 
Grothaus bent down in shame as over 
88,000 fans in Orange and Blue erupt -
ed to celebrate the 24-21 victory.
Despite already declaring his entry 
into the transfer portal, Jones was se -
lected to start in Florida’s Gasparilla 
Bowl defeat. 
Jones’ erratic performance fur -
thered Gator nation’s  frustration to -
wards the junior quarterback, who 
completed just 38% of his passes 
against the Knights.
 Jones was handed the keys to the 
offense by former head coach Dan 
Mullen after waiting behind Gator 
phenom Kyle Trask. The anticipa -
tion for the junior echoed through the stands of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium all 
preseason but Jones failed to live up 
to expectations.
When Richardson took his first 
snap against FSU, he immediately 
took control of the Florida offense. 
Interim head coach Greg Knox kept 
the ball on the ground with senior 
Dameon Pierce and Malik Davis to let 
Richardson manage the offense to a 
three-point victory.
Florida football will return in Fall 
2022 with new head coach Billy Na -
pier plus his plethora of assistant 
coaches. Richardson is also expected 
to return under center.
Men’s basketball suffers December 
setback after strong start
With suffocating defense and dev -
astating ball movement, Florida’s 
team of misfit transfers channeled the 
Mike White philosophy into top-15 
success. 
The Gators dominated lesser com -
petition with 35-point victories against 
Milwaukee and Troy, snapped a sev -
en-game losing streak against Florida 
St. and bested Ohio St. on a game-
winning three from Tyree Appleby. 
UF entered its road matchup 
against Oklahoma ranked 14th in the 
country, but as the calendar turned to 
December, Florida’s hot start chilled 
into characteristic mediocrity. 
Coach White’s team suffered its 
first loss of the season against the 
Sooners, shooting a putrid 17% from 
beyond the arc. Previously winless 
Texas Southern pulled off a shock -
ing upset against the Gators in a 69-
54 victory five days later, and interim coach Danny Manning led Maryland 
to a surprising victory over UF at the 
Barclays Center. 
The Gators begin SEC play Wednes -
day against Alabama unranked and 
squarely on the NCAA Tournament 
bubble with a NET ranking of 44.
Women’s basketball continues surprising 
start after off-season turmoil
For a school that often holds its 
student athletes to the lofty Gator 
standard, expectations for the long-
suffering UF women’s basketball team 
were nearly non-existent at the start of 
the year. 
The Gators have spent the last 
three seasons chained to the cellar of 
the SEC and have spent the offseason 
dealing with allegations of abuse lev -
ied against former head coach Cam 
Newbauer. 
But UF has gotten off to its best 
start in years, entering conference 
play last Monday with a 10-3 record. 
The Gators dominated Florida St. in 
a 14-point rivalry win, bested NCAA 
Tournament regulars Dayton and 
pulled away from TCU for a quality 
road win. 
Even in defeat the Gators look 
markedly improved from last season, 
holding a fourth-quarter lead against 
No. 13 Georgia before falling by four 
on Sunday.
Florida will return to action 
Thursday against Ole Miss from the 
O’Connell Center.
dwalsh@alligator.org
jrichardson@alligator.orgHere’s what happened in Gator sports over winter break