Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
MEASURES FOR STUDENTS’ 
SAFETY INCLUDE BLUE LIGHT 
EMERGENCY PHONES AND 
SNAP VEHICLES
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Melanie Corrales doesn’t go 
grocery shopping without her 
pepper spray, her panic button 
and her defense key chain. One 
year ago, when a man lingered 
behind her as she tried to shop 
at the Publix next to campus, she 
wasn’t as prepared. 
Corrales was a new-to-campus 
freshman. She tried to get a 
pharmacist’s attention, but she 
didn’t pick up on Corrales’ cues. 
Corrales avoided the man 
only after bounding through the 
crosswalk to the other side of 
Southwest 13th Street.
The start of the academic 
year brings the excitement of 
independence for incoming UF 
students, but crime on campus 
and in surrounding areas — from 
sexual assault to hit-and-runs — 
demand preparedness.
A man who allegedly took 
videos of women on UF’s 
campus without their consent in 
December 2021 was booked into 
the Alachua County Jail Tuesday. 
Deontre Mason faces nine counts 
of video voyeurism charges, 
including an alleged recording of 
a woman showering in Murphree 
Hall. 
Blue light emergency phones 
scattered across campus allow 
students to quickly reach 
University Police in cases of immediate distress. In June 
2020, UF announced new blue 
emergency lights in the area of 
Fraternity Row were operational 
in response to a student protest 
calling for their installation.    
Since 2015, victims reported 
98 rapes at UF — nearly half 
happened in or near dorms and 16 
happened at or near fraternities.
In 2019, Ian Milaski, a former 
UF resident assistant, was 
arrested and charged with battery 
and false imprisonment when he 
sexually assaulted a UF student 
and tried to pressure her into 
sleeping with him. He was found 
guilty and sentenced to three 
years in prison for attempted 
sexual battery, burglary and 
kidnapping in 2021, according to 
court records.
Even the Reitz Union has been 
subject to sexual misconduct 
incidents. Last October, a 
man masturbated in front of a 
sophomore student as she sat 
in the union’s cafeteria. Despite 
a plan to increase the number 
of surveillance cameras in the 
union, the efforts are slow, and 
UF has not added cameras to the 
food court since the incident.    
The university does offer 
resources like the GatorSAFE 
app, which allows students to 
report and learn of crimes around 
campus. The app is a must-have 
for students, said University 
Police Department lieutenant Jake 
Pruitt. Its Personal Safety Toolbox 
includes location sharing and an 
alarm in cases of emergency.
The Rape Aggression Defense 
System self defense program 
can also teach women how to keep themselves safe, GPD 
spokesperson Graham Glover 
said. 
Students living in off-campus 
complexes should become 
familiar with the complex and 
know where the best lighting 
is located, Glover said. He also 
advised not walking alone after 
dark. 
Student Nighttime Auxiliary 
Patrol vans can transport 15 
people at a time and operate from 
6:30 p.m. to 3 a.m. in the Fall and 
Spring semesters and from 8:30 
p.m. to 3 a.m. in the Summer. 
Too few students know about 
transportation options that 
allow them to get around town 
in the new area, 19-year-old UF 
marketing junior Ethan Chen-
Fung said.
They’re especially important 
in light of recent hit-and-run 
incidents and pedestrian fatalities 
that have killed UF students. 
Prateek Sharma was killed 
after being struck by a drunk 
driver on Southwest 34 Street this 
March. Maggie Paxton was killed 
in December 2020 in a hit-and-run 
on West University Avenue, and 
a month later, Sophia Lambert 
died after being hit by a car on 
the same road. Denise Griffiths 
died in January 2020 after being 
hit on East University Avenue 
while walking onto a crosswalk.      
Mikalee Williams, a 21-year-
old business administration 
senior, said she would advise 
students to familiarize themselves 
with their phones’ built-in SOS 
features and avoid the University 
Avenue area after it gets dark.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgTHE INS AND OUTS OF SG 
AND HOW TO GET INVOLVED
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
According to its website, UF 
Student Government acts as 
“a direct liaison between the 
university and its students.” But 
what does that really mean? 
SG controls more than $22 
million and operates in three 
branches, much like the U.S. 
government: executive, legislative 
and judicial.
The executive branch is led by 
Student Body President Lauren 
Lemasters, who oversees 16 
agencies and four cabinets — 
Diversity, Student Life, Leadership 
and Service and Transition — that 
influence and organize student 
experiences on and off campus.
The legislative branch is made 
up of a unicameral Senate with 
a maximum of 100 members. 
Senators are elected in Fall or 
Spring and represent either their 
majors, class standing or housing 
areas on and off campus. Its 
public meetings are held Tuesdays 
at 7 p.m. in the Senate Chambers 
of the Reitz Union. The Senate 
passes legislation including the 
student activities and services 
fee budget, funded by over $22 
million in student tuition and fees, 
during the Summer. 
The judicial branch includes 
the UF SG Supreme Court and 
elections commissions, made up of UF law students. Ryan Wiele 
serves as Chief Justice alongside 
three other justices. The SG 
Supreme Court handles cases 
brought by students based on SG 
rules and codes.
Most SG officers have official 
email addresses and office hours 
open to students available on the 
UF SG website. 
Elections occur during the 
Fall and Spring, but students 
can still get involved with SG 
during Summer. The executive 
and legislative branches have 
vacancies, and the positions are 
available to all students taking 
summer classes.
Applications for replacement 
and permanent Senate seats will 
open for Tuesday. 
Senate President Elizabeth 
Hartzog and Senate President 
Pro-Tempore Olivia Green, who 
both serve on the Replacement 
and Agenda Committee, said new 
students who want to give back 
to the university and represent its 
population of more than 50,000 
students would benefit from 
holding a position. 
“One of the main pieces 
of advice we would give to 
incoming students who want to 
get involved, specifically within 
student government, is to not be 
afraid to step out of your comfort 
zone,” Hartzog and Green wrote in 
a joint statement to the Alligator.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.org
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Voting: it’s free, and it’s pretty easy.
Going to the polls is the foundation of our democracy and 
a right people in other countries sometimes don’t get, Dorothy 
Zimmerman, the communications director for the Bob Graham 
Center for Public Service, said. 
Voting is not a test of how knowledgeable someone is about 
politics, Zimmerman said.
“It’s simply a way for you to express your 
dissatisfaction or your satisfaction with what’s going on 
in our country and in our community,”
- Dorothy Zimmerman, Bob Graham Center for Public Service
Once students move to Gainesville, they must choose 
whether they want to change their registration information to 
vote in local elections or remain registered in their hometowns. 
Online Registration
Regardless of a student’s in- or out-of-state status, all students 
can register to vote or update voter registration information 
through the free TurboVote registration app.
Once students enter housing information, they will be linked 
to the appropriate Supervisor of Elections Office to register 
to vote. From there, students print, complete and turn the 
registration form into the corresponding office.
Using TurboVote also enrolls voters in a reminder service that 
provides important voting dates, voting location information and 
election policies. It also helps the center track data on voters 
within the student body.
In-Person Registration
Students can visit the Bob Graham Center, located on the second floor of Pugh Hall, to register to vote in person. Staff are 
equipped to assist students and are legally allowed to collect and 
turn registration forms into a student’s Supervisor of Elections 
Office.
Checking and Updating Registration Information
Voters can check their registration status online at vote.org 
or use TurboVote’s app to update information, including party 
affiliation and residency.
One of the biggest mistakes students make when voting is 
not knowing their address, Zimmerman said. Students living 
on campus should use their residence hall mailing address if 
they want to vote in Gainesville and Alachua County elections. 
Students who choose to vote in their local home elections would 
use their home address.
If a student is registered as a Florida voter, they can still 
update their voter information during the early voting period, 
which is Aug. 13 to Aug. 20 for primary elections and Oct. 29 to 
Nov. 5 for general elections.
Because Florida is a closed primary state, to vote in primary 
elections voters need to register as a Democrat, Republican or 
Independent by July 25.
Early Voting
During the early voting period for primary and general 
elections, voters can vote at any county precinct location, 
including the Reitz Union, the Supervisor of Elections Office, 
Millhopper Branch Library, Tower Road Branch Library, Orange 
Heights Baptist Church, Legacy Park Multipurpose Center and 
Alachua County Agriculture and Equestrian Center. 
Election Day Voting
Voters who choose to vote on primary and general election 
days, are required to vote at their designated precinct location. 
Students living on campus use the Reitz Union.Mail-in Voting
If a student chooses to vote in their hometown elections, they 
can request a mail-in ballot from their Supervisor of Elections 
Office. Because voting by mail differs for each county, students 
should research the requirements for the area in which they are 
planning to vote.
Events
The Bob Graham Center hosts events throughout the year 
to encourage and register students to vote. The center will host 
events to welcome and register students Aug. 31, Sept. 15 and 
during Homecoming Week Oct. 3-7.
Important Dates
• July 25 : Deadline to register to vote and change party 
affiliation for the 2022 Primary Election
• Aug. 13 : Early voting period opens and deadline to 
request a vote-by-mail ballot for the Primary Election
• Aug. 20 : Final day to vote early in the Primary Election
• Aug. 23 : Primary Election
• Sept. 20 : National Voter Registration Day
• Oct. 29 : Early voting period opens and deadline to 
request a vote-by-mail ballot for the General Election
• Nov. 5 : Final day to vote early in the General Election
• Nov. 8 : General Election
UF’s voter landscape is unique because the campus brings 
people from all over the place, Andrew Taramykin, a 20-year-old 
UF political science and economics junior who helps coordinate 
the Gator Get-Out-the-Vote Coalition, said. He recommended 
students create a personal voter plan — when, where and how 
they will vote. 
“Voting in a jurisdiction that isn’t necessarily familiar to 
them, with those additional barriers in place, students really do 
have to think ahead to make sure they can participate,” he said.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgStaying safe on UF’s campus What is UF Student Government ?
Voting for dummies, except you’re a top-5 student
Everything students need to know to vote this fallWe Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#The case for campus gyms
UF offers two on-campus gyms for students — Southwest Rec and 
Student Rec. But which gym is superior? Read more on pg. 10.
Continued competition
Not every new college student with an appreciation for athletics 
makes a D-I roster,  but club teams offer an alternative, pg. 8What to expect from Florida football in 2022
Anthony Richardson and Billy Napier lead 
the Gators into the first season of a new era. 
Read more on pg. 9 .
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 38
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
ABOUT 1000 
PEOPLE MARCHED 
DOWNTOWN SATURDAY
By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff Writer
 
Lavina Khan’s heart broke 
when she heard Roe v. Wade 
was overturned Friday. Her mind 
flooded with worries about her 
family members and everyone 
else who has a uterus; she feared 
they had lost control over their 
bodies.
The next day her heartache 
turned to fury as she held a 
sign that read “My coochie, my 
choice” alongside about 1,000 
protestors outside the Stephan P. 
Mickle, Sr. Criminal Courthouse 
in downtown Gainesville for 
about three hours Saturday. 
Following the Supreme Court’s 
decision, abortion was banned 
in some capacity in more than 
11 states, and trigger laws — 
abortion bans states began to 
enforce immediately after Roe v. 
Wade overturns — allow 12 other 
states to quickly ban or restrict 
access to them. Khan, a 20-year-old UF 
psychology junior, said two 
family members needed abortions 
in the last three decades. One did 
not have the financial stability to 
raise a child and the other faced 
medical complications that could 
have ended both the mother’s 
and baby fetus’ life. 
“You don't know what people 
are going through, and they might 
be in specific circumstances that 
don't allow them to have kids,” 
she said. “They might want to 
in the future or they might not 
want to at all, and it's not fair 
for someone else to make that 
decision.”
Brooke Eliazar-Macke, a 
38-year-old Gainesville attorney, 
froze in her seat when she heard 
the news. 
Doubts swarmed her mind. 
She had to reread the article 
before reality set in: She lost her 
right to an abortion. 
“There's fire in your belly to 
continue the fight,” she said.
Eliazar-Macke helped organize 
the courthouse protest with the 
National Women’s Liberation Gainesville protests overturn of Roe v. Wade
JOSH RICHARDS, WITH 25.6 
MILLION FOLLOWERS ON 
TIKTOK, WILL SPEAK 
AT UF JUNE 29
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF community will have a 
chance to rub elbows with internet 
fame this Summer.
Student Government’s Accent 
Speakers Bureau will welcome 
TikTok star Josh Richards to the 
University Auditorium Wednesday 
at 7 p.m. 
Josh Richards, a 20-year-old 
Ontario native with 25.6 million 
followers on TikTok, often posts 
short videos lip syncing to popular 
sounds and clips of his weekly 
podcast, “BFFs.” In 2020, he wrote 
a diss track on fellow TikTok star 
Chase “Lil Huddy” Hudson called 
“Still Softish,” featuring YouTuber 
and TikTok star Bryce Hall. 
The Accent event will feature a 
conversation between Richards and 
UF CJC Professor Andrew Selepak 
followed by a Q&A, according to Accent Chairman Tyler Kahan. It is 
part of SG’s Great Gator Welcome 
week-long event, which will also 
sponsor GatorNights at the Reitz 
Union 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. Friday.
“ACCENT decided on Josh as 
a possible speaker as he is a social 
media mogul, entrepreneur, writer, 
actor, and podcast host, as well as 
a fun, exciting, influential speaker 
who can focus on a wide array of 
topics,” Kahan wrote in an email to 
The Alligator.
The event is free with a valid 
Gator 1 card, and doors will open 
at 6 p.m.
Accent’s Instagram 
announcement post has received 
500 likes and 158 comments as of 
Sunday. The excitement of some 
individuals, mostly those associated 
with Student Government, was 
mixed with discontent from others. 
Megan Keating, a 20-year-old 
UF microbiology senior, called the 
decision embarrassing.
“I just think it’s weird we 
invited a TikTok star.”
- Megan Keating, UF student
Richards made news in Variety Magazine Thursday with an 
announcement of a first-look 
deal; he will produce content 
for Amazon Studios and Prime 
Video. His team did not respond 
to communications from The 
Alligator as of Monday.
Keating said she was 
disappointed with the choice and 
described Richards’ relationships 
with women as suspicious, 
referring to his drama-filled split 
in 2021 with ex-girlfriend and 
TikToker Nessa Barrett.
She said she hopes he gives 
genuine advice that may be useful 
to college students and strays 
from problematic remarks. Her 
curiosity, she said, might drive 
her to go.
UF’s public records center has 
not responded to The Alligator’s 
request for Richards’ contract with 
the Accent Bureau as of Monday. 
In the past, SG paid $110,000 
to host Howie Mandel Feb. 28 
and $350,000 for a Roddy Ricch 
concert Feb. 8.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgDEONTRE MASON WAS 
EXTRADITED FROM ILLINOIS
By Omar Ateyah
Alligator Staff Writer
Freshmen flooded residence 
halls this week. Many were 
unaware of the on-campus 
voyeurism case from six months 
ago. 
Police booked the man who 
allegedly took videos of 18 women 
in bathroom stalls, showers and 
stairwells on UF’s campus at the 
Alachua County Jail Tuesday.
Deontre Mason, a 25-year-
old Illinois resident, recorded a 
woman showering in Murphree 
Hall in December. He also 
allegedly filmed in Library West.
UF trespassed him from all 
properties from February to 
December 2024, and Alachua 
County court issued a warrant 
against Mason in late March.
The University of Central Florida Police Department arrested 
Mason for similar voyeurism 
allegations in December 2021. 
Mason admitted to recording a 
woman over the stall divider in a 
bathroom at UCF. In 2020, he was 
banned from Palm Beach Atlantic 
University for wandering the 
women’s dormitory. 
He also had a warrant put out 
for his arrest for alleged voyeurism 
at the University of Kentucky, 
according to court records. 
Local law enforcement arrested 
Mason in his home state, Illinois, 
in early June, Alachua County 
Sheriff’s Office spokesperson Kaley 
Behl said. A private transport 
company brought him to Florida. 
Mason faces nine counts of 
video voyeurism and had his first 
Alachua County court appearance 
Wednesday. His next court 
appearance is set for July 7.
@OAteyah
oateyah@alligator.orgTikTok star Josh Richards to speak at UF Man accused of taking videos of 
women without consent at UF arrestedCourtesy to The Alligator
About 1,000 protestors marched through Gainesville on Saturday, June 25, 2022 after the official 
announcement of the overturning of Roe v. Wade.
 SEE ABORTION,  PAGE 5T oday’s WeatherUF LIBRARIES AND TUTORING 
SERVICES LIKE STUDY EDGE 
AND KNACK ARE USED BY 
CURRENT STUDENTS TO 
HELP THEM EXCEL AT 
THE UNIVERSITY
By Kyle Bumpers
Alligator Staff Writer 
As Summer B students swarm 
the swamp, resources ranging from 
expansive libraries to curated study 
guides await them. 
Maisa Mirza, a 21-year-old UF 
information systems senior, is 
heavily involved with Study Edge, a 
study resource that creates packets 
and lectures for UF courses. She 
first used Study Edge her freshman 
year for her microeconomics class in 
Spring 2020 and worked as a Study 
Edge student assistant in Spring 
2022. 
Mirza said Study Edge helps her 
understand concepts she didn’t grasp 
in professors’ lectures. Oftentimes 
she feels the concepts are taught too 
broadly to students, she said.
“In terms of actually succeeding 
in the course, I feel like Study Edge 
does a better job,” Mirza said.
Mirza also turns to Knack, a 
free tutoring service partnered 
with UF, when she needs a more 
in-depth explanation for concepts 
in her courses. She values the 
discussion-based strategy it employs and appreciates the wide range of 
courses the tutoring service offers. 
Knack normally costs $12 per hour, 
but UF gives students free access.
Incoming students should watch 
every class lecture and change their 
study habits to suit the intense 
college course load, Mirza said.
“This [college] is ultimately 
what's going to help you in your 
career, so take it seriously,” Mirza 
said. 
Mirza also frequents UF’s 
libraries and often uses study rooms 
to enhance her learning.
It’s beneficial to leave her dorm 
and study in a different environment, 
she said, and the presence of other 
students motivates her to work 
harder.
UF’s main campus contains 
seven libraries, including Marston 
Library, Library West, Library East 
and the Education Library, with 
study rooms and subject librarians 
for extra assistance as well as outside 
tutoring programs.
Multiple UF libraries allow 
different volumes according to floor 
level; the lowest floors are typically 
filled with more collaborative group 
conversation while higher floors are 
meant for silent studying. 
Libraries also provide study rooms 
for students to work in a group with 
monitors and whiteboards without 
disrupting others. 
Mirza tries to book study rooms 
up to a week in advance to ensure she has a space to focus outside of 
her dorm.
She feels that the library 
environment changes around exam 
time. Most libraries reach max 
capacity early in the day as students 
swarm in to catch seats and claim 
tables. 
“I might as well just stay in my 
dorm and just study for my exams 
that way,” Mirza said.
April Hines, the librarian for 
UF College of Journalism and 
Communications, teaches students 
how to find information in the 
school’s library system and helps 
them with one-on-one research 
consultations. 
Libraries lessen the number of 
distractions for students and make 
it easier for them to get work done, 
Hines said. The space puts students 
in an environment where they are 
surrounded by others who are hard 
at work, and their productivity is not 
interrupted, Hines said.
Subject librarians are one of the 
most important resources George A. 
Smathers Libraries provide, Hines 
said. These librarians, she added, 
have expert knowledge in how to 
find information for their discipline.
“The sooner you make friends 
with your subject librarian, the 
better,” Hines said.
She sees students who frequently 
visit her for help with their projects. 
She held hour-long consultations 
with 77 students from May 2021 
to May 2022, not including emails, 
phone calls and Twitter messages.
Libraries act as a third study 
space outside of classrooms and 
students’ apartments, Hines added.
“We've had students tell us they 
spend more time here than their 
apartments,” she said.
@BumpersKyle
kbumpers@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 38 Libraries and tutoring services 
set to help incoming freshmen
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Opinions Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.org
Namari Lock, nlock@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!
Emma Hayakawa / / Alligator Staff
Graphic of popular study spots for students at the University of Florida.
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
Gainesville chapter, giving people 
a platform to talk about the 
overturn of the 1973 landmark 
Supreme Court decision. 
The NWL posed two questions 
to Gainesville protestors: “What 
do you personally need to achieve 
reproductive justice?” and “How 
has this SCOTUS decision affected 
you personally?” 
Protestors left the courthouse 
to march. They passed the 
attorney general’s office on their 
way to the Community Pregnancy 
Clinic, a crisis pregnancy center 
in midtown. 
Crisis pregnancy centers 
are often made to look like 
health clinics, but are not, said 
Kai Christmas, the 25-year-
old regional organizer for the 
southeast and north Florida 
chapter of Planned Parenthood. 
They wrote that unlicensed 
establishments, including some CPCs, don't have to abide by 
HIPAA. 
The decision was a victory for 
anti-abortion activists. 
“I was very thankful, 
obviously,” Mark Harrington, 
president of Created Equal, said. 
The public outreach organization 
played a role in introducing the 
first heartbeat bill in the nation in 
Ohio. 
Americans are still conflicted 
on the topic of abortion, 
Harrington said, and that won’t 
change overnight. 
The overturn of Roe v. Wade 
is one step of many, Harrington 
said. The Constitution should be 
amended, he said, to protect the 
unborn under the Fifth and 14th 
Amendments.
Created Equal is not 
counterprotesting pro-choice 
demonstrations, but it is 
conducting outreach on the 
streets of Washington D.C., 
Harrington said. 
Chanae Jackson, the co-founder of Florida Forward 
Coalition, north central Florida’s 
people-powered progressive 
coalition, revved up the crowd 
with her speech about the 
mortality rate amongst Black 
children. The maternal mortality 
rate for non-Hispanic Black 
women was 2.9 times the rate 
for non-Hispanic white women, 
according to the CDC in 2020. 
“I am tired of us having an 
abortion conversation while 
[Black people] are still dying from 
basic childbirth,” she said. 
Communities must collaborate 
with each other to advocate for 
reproductive rights, Jackson said. 
Protestors fought for 
everyone whom the overturn 
affects, Christmas said, which 
includes most women, trans 
people, non-binary folks, gender 
nonconforming folks and the 
BIPOC community.  “All of 
these issues are intertwined,” 
Christmas said. “We have to 
show up for each and every single one of them.”
Bread and Roses and All 
Women’s Health Centers, offer 
abortion services within three miles of campus. 
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.orgABORTION,  from pg. 1Gainesville protests Supreme Court decision
Courtesy to The Alligator
About 1,000 protestors march through downtown on Saturday, June 25, 2022.Anushka Dakshit / / Alligator Staff
Chanae Jackson (left) co-founder of Florida Forward Coalition, speaks in front of the crowd 
at the protest while Brooke Eliazar-Macke, a 38-year-old attorney a part of the steering 
committee of the NWL (right) holds a megaphone.Anushka Dakshit / / Alligator Staff
About 1,000 protestors stand before the attorney general’s office in 
Gainesville on June 25, 2022 after the official announcement of the 
overturning of Roe v. Wade.
6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
EditorialGreetings, 
Gators. We’re 
The Alligator. It’s 
great to meet you.  MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
Once you start driving around Gainesville, you 
just can’t stop. No, seriously — you can’t stop. 
Because there’s nowhere for you to park. 
You must continue driving, circling around in 
a three-block radius in search of a place to leave 
your car, and if you’re lucky, it will still be there when you 
get back. 
As a rule of thumb, if you parked for free, you’re probably 
in the wrong spot.
Daily rates for downtown parking garages are $1 per hour 
from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. and $5 per night from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m.
Downtown street parking on the east and west sides 
of Southeast First Street, between University Avenue and 
Southeast First Avenue, has been demoted from what was 
once two hours of free parking to just 30 minutes.
If you get overwhelmed by paragraph-long parking signs 
and math equations involving time like me, I recommend 
just using a parking garage. Or risk getting towed. 
The infamous bright red tow trucks have become the 
town’s archnemesis. Superior Towing is known for its 
ruthless, zero tolerance policies and $100 fees.
Despite the horror stories I’ve heard involving these 
trucks, I have yet to encounter them personally. But I’m sure 
writing this will make me their next target.
Parking on campus is not any better.
Though UF likely won’t tow your car, they will definitely 
give you a citation. About 1,300 to 1,400 citations are given 
out per week on campus, UF TAPS Associate Director Ron 
Fuller wrote in an email.
There are 14 garages and about 110 surface lots on 
campus, according to Fuller. Students without decals can 
pay-by-plate park in only two of them: the Reitz Bookstore 
and Welcome Center Parking Garage, which is constantly 
filled with touring families or closed off entirely for events, 
and at Parking Garage Five off Gale Lemerand Drive near 
Hume Hall.Naturally, one might think the 
solution is to buy a parking decal — 
but it’s not that simple. 
For starters, you can’t just buy 
any decal. The one you get depends 
on whether you’re a graduate or 
undergraduate student, how many 
credits you have and whether you 
live on or off campus.
Every type of decal has its flaws — 
the walking distance, the insufficient 
amount of parking spaces, the price.
If you’re a freshman living on 
campus, you will most likely qualify for a Red 3 decal. These 
lots hug residential halls, such as Graham, Hume and the 
Lakeside Complex, and line Fraternity Row. Decals are 
priced at $80 a semester or $160 for an annual decal.
If you’re a freshman living off campus, don’t even bother. 
As an off-campus undergrad student, I have a bone to 
pick with UF TAPS. Debatably, off-campus students are 
going to be driving to campus more often, so why do we get 
the worst parking spots?  
The decals available to off-campus undergraduate 
students are called “Park and Ride” because the lots are so 
far away from the heart of campus that you have to take 
a bus from the parking garage. Why would I pay $80 a 
semester to take the bus?
Park and Ride Decals can park in any lot that is marked 
“Any Decal,” like the lot for Southwest Recreation Center, 
Vet Med West buildings and other lots scattered a mile away 
from the center of campus. 
On the bright side, many parking restrictions are lifted in 
the afternoon. Most garages lift at 4:30 p.m. and then you 
are free to park in whatever garage you want — as long as 
space permits. 
Don’t be fooled. You will still be circling around the Reitz 
parking garage in search of a spot no matter what time of 
day it is.
Though it is nice to have a car you can drive around as 
you please, maybe you’re better off just taking the bus.Florida baseball versus Miami - Carson Cashion 
The UF athletic department poured 
over $60 million into Condron Ballpark, 
formerly known as Florida Ballpark, and 
the baseball stadium that hugs Hull Road is 
worth at least one visit for all students.
The best weekend atmosphere outside of 
conference play is easily the Miami series. The 
Hurricanes and Gators, despite rarely playing in 
football, basketball or other sports, hold an annual 
weekend series that is one of the most intense on 
the calendar.
Florida men’s basketball versus Kentucky - Brandon Hernandez 
SEC men’s basketball is a wholly different experience 
from your average sporting event. The Gators host some of 
the premier teams in the nation at the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center, including Kentucky. 
The Kentucky Wildcats have been Florida’s SEC rival for 
generations. In total, the Gators men’s basketball team has 
played 147 games against UK since 1954. With the Wildcats 
always stopping in Gainesville during the season, this game is 
a must for students. You can join the Rowdy Reptiles alongside 
Billy Donovan Court, cheer on the orange and blue, catch a 
free T-shirt and witness the first season under new head coach 
Todd Golden.
Florida women’s basketball versus LSU - Brenda Bogle 
The resurgence of the Florida women’s basketball program 
under head coach Kelly Rae Finley makes it a great source to 
soak in some elite basketball while at UF. The Gators host a 
number of conference foes, but the energy is different when the 
Louisiana State Tigers come to town. The Tigers have been among the premier teams 
in the SEC since head coach Kim Mulkey took over 
the team in April 2021. LSU and Florida have already 
shared some classic battles both in Gainesville and 
the bayou. The Gators and Tigers split their season 
series this past year, electrifying both the O’Connell 
Center and Pete Maravich Assembly Center. A 
strong rivalry is brewing between these teams 
which figures to be on display for seasons to come.
Florida football versus Florida State - Jackson 
Castellano 
Beyond the greatest spectacles at UF, Florida-
Florida State is one of the nation’s biggest college football 
rivalries. The bitter feud is elevated when the game comes to 
the Swamp every other season. The environment at Ben Hill 
Griffin stadium is rowdy on smaller game days, but for UF-FSU 
it’s complete pandemonium. The Gators lead the series with a 
37-26-2 record and won the last three meetings. 
Although both programs aren’t the powerhouses they 
once were, the rivalry’s tradition runs deep. The passion both 
fanbases share comes out Thanksgiving weekend.
Florida volleyball versus Kentucky - Kaitlyn Wadulack
The O’Connell Center is home to many Florida teams, 
including the UF volleyball squad. With five seniors graduating 
last season, this incoming Gators team is young and hungry for 
more accolades. 
Read the rest online, including Florida football and gymnastics’ 
rivalry with Georgia, at alligator.org/section/opionions.
If you see a red truck: RunThe Alligator’s seven must-see games for all UF students
ColumnColumn
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Not all our papers will be like this one, which is crafted 
by yours truly to make sure you have all the deets 
they don’t tell you in polished preview packages, 
crowded classrooms or dorm floor meetings. 
We’re the ones who won’t B.S. you with overpriced 
bookstore merch (check out our Redbubble though), ramblings 
about our rankings or messages controlled by our capitol’s 
legislators. This school is great, but it has some faults: abuse 
in the athletic department, academic freedom scandals and 
the administration’s uncertain pandemic precautions — all 
uncovered by the journalists who fill our newsroom.
This edition exists to equip you with the basic knowledge 
you need to understand the new digs you just claimed as your 
own. 
Life is going to be chaotic for a while. Embrace it. Whether 
you came up I-75, down 301, via airplane or ship, you’re here 
to learn, and you’ll do just that. But the real lessons don’t 
come from learning that the Civil War ended when Confederate 
General Robert E. Lee surrendered, that Oxford commas are 
indeed sinful or that y=mx+b. They come from good old-
fashioned trial and error. 
These next few years are going to be a little messy, and 
that’s okay. There will be times when you think you’re doing 
too much and times when you think you’re not doing enough. 
That’s totally normal. 
The world around us is constantly changing, and we — 
as journalists — get to see the effects firsthand. Admittedly, 
sometimes it’s hard to keep up. But our staff is constantly 
breaking news about local and national issues, like the 
overturning of Roe v. Wade Friday. 
At the end of the day, we’re just students like you. Our 
candid advice: don’t go out without leaving a Gatorade on 
your bedside table, don’t fall for the first person who buys 
you a drink and don’t believe everything you hear (unless it’s 
from us). 
We’re here to support you, and you should support us. 
Subscribe to our newsletter, and apply to be on our staff with 
the QR code you’ll find on the back of this paper.
Welcome to Gainesville, Gators. We hope you’ll keep this 
edition and all the other ones you pick up during your time 
here.
The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.Heather Bushman
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORRyan Haley
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORNamari Lock
OPINIONS
EDITORJulia Coin
EDITOR-
IN-CHIEF
Namari Lock
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.orgAlligator 
Sports Staff
sports@alligator.org
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
By Lindsay Schindler 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students who didn’t wish to continue their sport with 
collegiate programs found a way to keep their same 
passion alive throughout college: club sports.
UF RecSports offers more than 40 sport clubs for both 
men and women, from archery to wrestling to hockey. 
They are open to anyone from experienced athletes to 
people just looking to be active.  
Students can choose how active they want to be within the clubs they choose to join. The club tennis team has 
over 400 members, but only about 100 active members. 
“We take all levels on the club team, but only the top 
people travel to tournaments,” club tennis president Alex 
Lyew said. 
Some teams coach themselves, while others have 
volunteer coaches. 
Sport clubs still give students the opportunity to 
represent UF and compete against other schools. Leagues 
are typically confined to the state, but it’s common to 
travel to play other schools for friendly, regional or national tournaments. 
The highly competitive men’s club lacrosse team 
practices four times a week during their main season, 
which takes place in the Spring semester. The team also 
travels to play schools around Florida and fulfill their 
conference requirements. 
The team also takes an annual spring break road trip 
to play schools they wouldn’t play during the regular 
season. This past spring break, the team traveled to 
Georgia and Virginia.
“It’s a big commitment, but it’s so fun out there,”
 - club president Thatcher Kelly
Regional and national tournament travel are at the 
discretion of the league, but some clubs host tournaments 
open to any school. 
The men’s and women’s club beach volleyball teams 
play against other schools, but they also battle the general 
public in open tournaments. 
Their first tournament this year featured local teams 
like Florida Atlantic University and Florida International 
University, as well as out-of-state teams like Miami 
University in Ohio and the University of South Carolina. 
UF club sports build connections through competition 
as well. While both the men’s and women’s water 
polo teams have great track records, men’s water polo 
club president Alex Kaiser said above all, his team has 
provided him with a fun, active friend group. 
“It’s a great experience with a perfect mix of performing 
at a high level and having fun,” Kaiser said. 
The men’s and women’s rugby team’s coach, Gary 
Byrne, stuck with the program for the last ten years. Last 
summer, he used his connections to take a few players 
on the women’s team to New Zealand to play against the 
women’s team. 
Campbell Lackey, the women’s rugby club president, 
said the trip brought her much closer to the team.
“It’s literally brought me across the world,” she said. 
“I would have never gotten to go there if I didn’t play this 
sport, and it was a really awesome experience.”
@lindsschindler 
lschindler@alligator.orgStudents continue their athletic careers through club sports
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
Samuel Marrero remembers using a 
single controller handed back and forth 
between players to play his favorite video 
game, “BattleTanx,” on his father’s N64 
gaming console at 4 years old. 
The 21-year-old UF computer 
science senior, whose gamer tag is now 
“dadjorts,” traded the controller for his 
computer and played over 3,000 hours of 
“Counter-Strike: Global Offensive,” a PC 
first-person shooter game — he reached 
its highest rank, Global Elite, in 2017 at 
16 years old. 
“I’ve been a lifelong gamer,” Marrero 
said. “I’ve always been gaming.”
Marrero leads other students in every 
major competitive collegiate esports scene 
— “CS:GO,” “Valorant,” “Overwatch,” 
“League of Legends,” “Rocket League” 
and “Fortnite” — as the Gator Esports’ 
community coordinator. The competitive video gaming club is made entirely of 
UF students who compete against other 
collegiate teams in tournaments across 
the country — all from their bedrooms. 
Gator Esports won’t receive any funding 
from UF Student Government until Spring. 
The club is on track to becoming a sports 
club, which would entitle it to additional 
funding. 
The Gator Esports discord channel 
has over 450 members and hosted the 
“Touch Grass” food drive June 11. The 
club’s board emphasizes the importance 
of serving the community that supports 
them, Kelli Snellman, Gator Esports’ 
president, said. 
The players, she said, are students first 
and players second; tournaments often 
require player transcripts to confirm they 
are in good standing with their schools. 
Nick “Strawberry” Strawser said he 
treats esports more like a hobby; most 
of his courses are online, so it makes it 
easier to play in between classes. The 21-year-old UF computer engineering 
senior played over 3,600 hours of “Rocket 
League” since 2017 — about 150 days of 
playtime. He now plays the game, which 
allows gamers to play soccer as rocket-
powered cars, at its highest rank for Gator 
Esports. 
Last February, Strawser’s team ranked 
No. 11 in the Collegiate “Rocket League” 
Last Chance qualifier tournament, which 
earned them $1,600 out of a $45,000 prize 
pool. 
Collegiate esports is like any other UF 
sport, he said, and fellow Gator Esports 
player Dang “Fyrat” Hoang agreed.
“During the on-season, we just kind 
of live and breathe this game,”
- Gator Esports player Dang “Fyrat” Hoang 
Hoang’s teammates play six to eight 
hours a day during the Fall and Spring 
semesters. He said there’s a stigma against 
competitive video games, but he disagrees 
that esports is just a game and said that it’s 
about people, not just the competition.
“I saw that we really had a lack of a 
centralized esports club at the University 
of Florida,” Lucas Silva, the inaugural 
president of Gator Esports said. His friends 
back home in Broward County, he said, 
ended up leading the successful esports program at UCF. It inspired him to bring it 
to UF as well.
He started a “CS:GO” team in Spring 
2021 then reached out to decentralized 
existing esports teams already on campus 
to bring them together under one name in 
Spring 2022. 
“If we’re not going to be provided the 
infrastructure that we want to see, we 
should just make it,” Silva said. 
Just like collegiate sports teams, 
some collegiate esports programs offer 
scholarships to incentivize talented players 
to attend their schools. 
The Gator Esports “Overwatch” team 
reached the top 25 in the “Overwatch” 
Collegiate Championship in 2022 and 
placed 10th in 2021. The first place prize 
for the tournament, organized by Blizzard 
Entertainment, is $24,000.
The better the esports program, the 
more interested students will be, said UF 
industrial and systems engineering junior 
and “Overwatch” player Anlanh “Shun” 
Nguyen, said, 
“We’re just a group of guys that get 
together on our own time without any 
assistance from the university,” he said. 
“We managed to pull off some surprising 
results.”
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgPlay to win: UF esports  Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
Twenty-year-old UF junior defender Britney Bunbanlu trails behind 21-year-old UF junior Alexis Bernard as the 
midfielder dashes toward the goal.
Club sports allow students to stay active without the commitment level of Division I athletics
UF’ s video game sports club hosts six teams 
and competes nationally, all from homeMONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.FOOTBALL
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer 
Florida football boasts tradition like no 
other. The streets of Gainesville transform 
into another world as UF students, alumni 
and fans alike gather to cheer on the Gators 
on fall Saturdays. Florida fans get a front 
row seat to the Southeastern Conference, 
arguably the best in college football. 
For many fans, Gators football isn’t the 
most important thing; it’s the only thing. 
First-year students, particularly those 
coming to UF from other states, may be 
unfamiliar with the institution that is UF 
football. The Gators’ history and culture can 
be intimidating and disorienting. However, 
once acclimated, it is an incredibly fun and rewarding fan experience.
The Florida football program 
experienced much turmoil to get where 
it is now. Instead of starting there, it’s 
important to know how it got to this point.
Last season, the Gators went 6-7 under 
former head coach Dan Mullen, their worst 
performance in five seasons. UF ended the 
year unranked and lost to the cross-state 
Central Florida Knights in the Gasparilla 
Bowl, UF’s second-straight bowl game loss. 
Mullen was fired toward the tail end 
of the season. Although Florida showed 
flashes of potential, many fans felt lapses in 
his decision-making throughout the season, 
and his lack of recruiting proficiency led to 
UF’s downfall on multiple occasions. 
No need to dwell on the past; it’s time for the present. Head coach Billy Napier 
will lead the Gators this season. Like new 
students arriving on campus, it’s also 
Napier’s first year in Gainesville. 
Napier spent the last four seasons with 
Louisiana-Lafayette, where he led the 
Ragin’ Cajuns to a 40-12 record and two 
conference titles. The Sun Belt Conference 
named him its coach of the year twice. 
Napier is taking a big step up to the SEC, 
but the buzz around the 42-year-old coach 
is high. 
The head coach is one thing, but any 
fan unfamiliar with the program needs to 
know who to look for on the field, too. 
Look no further than No. 15. There are 
plenty of talented players on either side of 
the field for UF, but redshirt sophomore quarterback Anthony Richardson will 
likely be the star of the show. 
Richardson, a Gainesville native, 
arrived at UF in 2020 after he graduated 
from Eastside High School less than six 
miles from campus. He redshirted and sat 
behind former quarterbacks Kyle Trask 
and Emory Jones for most of that season. 
In 2021, Gators fans got their first full 
look at Richardson; it was love at first 
sight for many. He split snaps with Jones, 
throwing just 64 pass attempts all year, 
but Richardson made use of his minimal 
playing time. He threw six touchdowns 
and 529 yards with a 59.4% completion 
rate. He also rushed for 401 yards and three 
touchdowns in fairly spectacular fashion.
By the end of the season, many viewed 
him as Florida’s best option under center. 
Richardson is already receiving hype 
around the Heisman trophy and NFL Draft. 
The field general looks primed for an 
exciting season at UF. 
On top of a new coach and signal-caller 
for the 2022 season, Florida football will 
have brand new facilities. The James W. 
“Bill” Heavener Football Practice Complex, 
which began construction in June 2020, 
will open its doors this season. 
The state-of-the-art, $85-million 
practice complex spans 140,000 square feet 
of indoor space. It will serve not only the 
development of current Gators players, but 
the recruitment of future prospects. 
Of course, none of this means very 
much without the on-field action, which 
begs the question: What can be expected 
from Florida this season? 
Well, it’s complicated. 
UF kicks off the season in unorthodox 
fashion, with a week one home opener 
against a likely-Top 10 opponent: the Utah 
Utes. Typically the season begins with an 
“easy” opponent, but a quality win to start 
the season could offer huge momentum.
UF will face a challenging slate of 
SEC opponents throughout the season. A 
home rematch versus Kentucky, Louisiana 
State coming to town in October and the 
Florida-Georgia game in Jacksonville stand 
out among the rest. The regular season 
is capped off in Tallahassee versus UF’s 
fiercest historic rival, the Florida State 
Seminoles. 
With a new look at many of the primary 
positions, it’s anyone’s guess how Florida 
fares this season. The realistic answer is 
that the Gators are mediocre on paper, but 
will continue to improve enough in-game 
to give fans confidence for seasons ahead 
and entice future recruits.
Although winning definitely helps 
the fan experience, new students should 
be excited for their first year of Florida 
football.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgThe new student’s guide to Gators football
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Redshirt sophomore quarterback Anthony Richardson prepares for a pass during a spring practice April 5, 2022.
Here’ s what you need to know ahead of the 2022 season10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
Steve Jobs once said, 
“Quality is more important 
than quantity. One home 
run is much better than two 
doubles.” 
Baseball analytics fans might argue 
the latter portion of the quote, but the 
former rings true in all facets of life. 
UF student gyms are no exception.
While the impressive, 
140,000-square-foot Southwest 
Recreation Center boasts rows of 
treadmills, an upstairs track and even its own smoothie bar, 
the true heart of Florida fitness lies nestled inside campus. It 
overlooks the Florida Pool and resides in the shadow of the 
Swamp.
The Student Recreation & Fitness Center is the mecca of 
student fitness in Gainesville.
Sure, Southwest outnumbers it in most machines — Student 
Rec only has three squat racks and three bench presses. However, 
per research, one person can use just one bench press at a time. 
Thus, the only benefit of added machines is line prevention, 
which isn’t much of an issue with the lower volume of students 
at Student Rec. Aside from peak times during the school year, 
lines at the iconic gym are near nonexistent. 
Besides the literal nuts and bolts of the gym, the atmosphere 
at Student Rec far exceeds that of its contemporary. Southwest 
features few windows in the weight rooms, and the ones that do 
exist face plots of land and construction. 
Meanwhile, the weight room at Student Rec boasts a glorious 
view of the Florida Pool. Whether it’s a glimpse of a water 
polo game, swimming practice or the mere sunlight glistening 
off the surface of the water, the view is guaranteed to surpass 
Southwest.
Furthermore, just beyond the pool is Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
I don’t have a list of the most adrenaline-inducing venues in the 
state of Florida, but there is no way The Swamp doesn’t crack 
the top five. Looking upon the coliseum where football players 
battle it out every Fall Saturday is the perfect view for finishing 
one last rep or one last mile on the treadmill. The ambiance, simply put, is superb.
The location, aside from aesthetically pleasing views, 
provides a convenient spot for students to follow their own 
regime or attend a fitness class on campus. The travel from 
classes to Southwest can take 30 minutes or more, but Student 
Rec is a quick walk from nearly every classroom on campus. A two-hour break in between classes can be repurposed for 
a workout: an impossible task without going to Student Rec 
instead of Southwest.
Regardless of which gym new UF students choose, they 
will have the best equipment available; both gyms’ machinery 
is state-of-the-art. However, when it comes to the proximity to 
campus and atmosphere, there is one clear answer.
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.org
Fitness is one of the many top priorities on UF students’ 
daily schedule. From the bodybuilders who walk 
through the weight room door before the crack of 
dawn to the average fitness enthusiast who hits the 
treadmill after work, any type of student can be found 
at the Southwest Recreation Center. 
The Southwest Recreational Center, also known simply 
as Southwest, is a state-of-the-art fitness facility that has 
served more than two million students since the Fall of 
1994. It consists of two floors, each having its own unique equipment and function. 
Unlike the Student Recreation and Fitness Center found 
near Murphree Hall, parking at Southwest is the most 
stress-free parking experience on campus for a workout. 
A sizable parking lot designated for anyone with a UF 
parking decal sits right across the street and a bus stop 
sits only a few steps from the front doors.  
Gym goers are greeted by large glass windows, fitness 
instructors and cardio machines, including treadmills, ellipticals and exercise bikes, with 
personal viewing screens. Students 
can continue workouts on the second 
floor with a 1/9 mile indoor track.
Weightlifters find sanctuary in 
the first floor’s large weight room. 
Southwest has the most workout 
equipment on campus: abdominal 
machines to crunch abs, squat racks 
for those who actually commit to 
leg day, bench presses for anyone 
wishing to pump the pecs’ and more. 
Student Rec’s cardio machines, which outnumber its 
weights, do not make it an ideal place to go. You’ll be 
waiting half an hour to use a 20-pound dumbbell. 
Southwest’s most impressive section — the mirror-
lined wall with dumbbells — allows lifters to see their 
pump anywhere in the weight room. 
Students can also register for different classes focusing 
on yoga, cycling, swimming and other activities. The 
main factor lifting Southwest over Student Rec is the 
multipurpose gymnasium, which can be used for indoor 
soccer, handball, racquetball and basketball; students can 
check out equipment before getting on the courts. 
Speaking of courts, Southwest has a total of six full 
basketball courts for students to run games all day. A 
place for plenty of opportunities for everyone to get a shot 
up or to even work on their game. At the Student Rec, 
only one full court is available that is most often being 
used. On Mondays, I usually go to Student Rec to play 
basketball only to realize that someone is either using it 
for fencing or martial arts. The worst part about it: you 
would never know until you arrive on the hardwood. 
So don’t bother going over to the smaller facility at the 
Student Rec. Grab your Gator 1 card and go to an actual 
gym at Southwest, the best in Gainesville.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgWhy Student Rec reigns supreme  
Southwest Recreation: a fitness paradise  Column
Carson Cashion
@CarsonCashion
ccashion@alligator.org
Brandon Hernandez
@BranH2001 
bhernandez@alligator.orgMingmei Li / / Alligator Staff
The Student Recreation and Fitness Center sits adjacent to the Florida Pool, in the shadow of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium.
Faith Buckley / / Alligator Staff
The Southwest Recreation Center opened in 1994, and has since expanded to 140,000 square feet. It includes 
basketball, racquetball and volleyball courts.
ColumnMONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022   ALLIGATOR   11 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Environmental explorations
For new UF students who wish to retreat to nature, three 
parks within five miles of UF campus offer an earthly escape. 
Read more on pg. 15 Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE RUNDOWN ON MIDTOWN AND 
DOWNTOWN HAS ARRIVED
By Anna Ward
Avenue Staff Writer
Approaching Gainesville nightlife can be 
daunting. New students are embarrassed 
to know nothing, and older students are 
embarrassed to be out of the know.
Feel daunted no longer.
Gainesville nightlife is divided into two 
scenes: Midtown, the more casual college scene 
across from campus, and the slightly classier 
downtown scene.
Midtown
Midtown, a stretch of bars and clubs located 
in the block between Northwest 17th Street and 
Northwest 18th Street, is the easiest option for 
campus residents  —  a crosswalk away from 
the closest classrooms.
It’s the civic duty of incoming freshmen to 
go to Grog House Grill, the only 18+ club in 
Midtown. Grog offers a good time for $5, and 
can become a mess of crazy freshmen. Watch 
out for all-you-can-drink Saturdays — and the 
stairs.Fat Daddy’s, colloquially called “Fats,” is 
soundtracked by dance and house music and is 
the go-to spot for Greeks and UF athletes alike. 
Wall-to-wall crowds mean it’s often hot inside, 
and the persistent craziness despite its 21+ 
entry makes it the grown-up Grog.
The Rowdy Reptile, or “Rowdy’s,” is also 
pretty popular. It has food, basketball and 
mainstream music. It’s a chill place with little 
dancing — great to hang with friends and 
typically flooded with families during parents’ 
weekend.
JJ’s Tavern is a small but busy dive bar. 
While Fats plays house, JJ’s plays sing-along 
pop; it’s more chill but still fun. It’s known 
for its rum buckets, personal pizzas and large 
populace of frat boys. Its newly added back bar 
has LED lights and tables for sitting.
Salty Dog Saloon is more of a longtime dive 
bar. Frequenters stand divided, either calling it 
“Salty” or “Dog.” Expect an older crowd and 
country vibes. It’s intimate and casual: lots of 
sitting, chilling and talking. The Saloon has 
booths, pool and ping pong tables. It also offers 
bar eats and drinking challenges in exchange for 
T-shirts.
Balls is the small, grunge-y, graffiti-littered 
bar of Midtown. Its crowd is made of more 
actual adults than college students, so the scene, especially compared to that of Fats or JJ’s, can 
come off a bit random.
The only rooftop bar around belongs to 
The Social at Midtown, where patrons can 
watch a game, enjoy karaoke and $5 pitchers 
on Wednesdays or partake in all-you-can-drink 
Thursdays. The downstairs boasts a full menu, 
and the rooftop comes complete with cornhole and ring toss.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/the_avenue.
@AnnaWard_
award@alligator.org
THE BEST BOOKSTORES AND RESOURCES IN TOWN
By Amanda Friedman & Averi Kremposky
Alligator Staff Writers
What better way to escape the chaotic start of a new semester 
than by spending hours exploring the crowded shelves of a cozy 
bookstore? 
From independent bookstores to public libraries, these local 
destinations will satisfy any reader’s literary appetite.
Book Gallery West
This charming reader’s getaway opened its doors almost 40 
years ago and harbors an endless supply of books. Located in 
the Millhopper Shopping Center, Book Gallery West has a wide 
variety of book genres, including young adult, nonfiction, sci-fi 
and westerns. 
Most titles are second-hand, but an assortment of new books 
sits toward the front of the store. The shop’s owner, Jan Fronk, 
allows customers to bring in books to trade or receive store 
credit. 
Book Gallery West is also known for its fun and quirky 
gift items available for purchase, which Fronk collects from 
gift shows in cities like New York City and Atlanta. Decorated 
coffee mugs, geode bookends and handmade boxes are among 
some of the intriguing gifts sprinkled throughout the store.
“We’re more like a suburban country store,” Fronk said. “A 
little bit of everything.”
Books and Music, Wormhole
Tucked away on 1801 NE 23rd Ave. is a quaint nook that 
will take you back in time with its vintage aesthetic and book 
selection.
Books and Music, Wormhole opened its doors nearly one year ago and carries an eclectic collection of second-hand titles. 
Curated by store owner P Harris ”Worm,” the shop’s shelves 
are stocked with classic and contemporary literature and books 
on history, poetry and philosophy. Harris built his inventory 
mainly through trading books, but he is always searching for 
new titles when shopping or traveling, he said.
Customers can also browse through a diverse array of vinyl 
records and cassette tapes, many of which are by local artists.
Harris opened a bookstore because he loves surrounding 
himself with literature and socializing with readers, he said.
“All kinds of people come in, from ex-librarians to the guy 
who’s working on his time machine,” Harris said. “I just get to 
hang out with all of them.”
Harris expanded his business into a community space for 
artistic expression to engage further with the local creatives. He 
frequently hosts poetry and book readings to highlight the work 
of local authors.
All Star Sportscards & Comics
All Star Sportscards & Comics, located at 7241 NW 4th Blvd., 
has served local comic book fans with a variety of vintage and 
new comics since 2005. 
Spiderman and Batman comics are the most popular sold, 
but customers have thousands of horror, romance, adventure 
and fantasy comics to browse. Shoppers can also purchase from 
the store online. 
The store also specializes in other vintage and second-hand 
items like sportscards, toys, vinyl records and other collectibles. 
People come into the shop daily looking to sell their vintage 
items to the store’s owner Chet Szydlowski. 
With roughly 30 years of experience in the comic book 
industry, sports cards and comics are Szydlowski’s life-long 
passion. He traveled and sold comics at conventions before 
opening All Star Sportscards & Comics.Alachua County Public Library
For literature devotees looking for more than just a book, 
the Alachua County Public Library boasts various resources for 
getting involved in a book club. Whether it’s hosting or just 
participating, the public library has the means to create strong 
book communities.
Spanning multiple locations and genres, the public library 
has numerous clubs where readers can find company. It offers 
groups for fiction, non-fiction and true crime. All book club 
options are listed with recurring times and locations on the 
library’s website.  
Alleviating the stress of gathering materials, the public library 
has an entire catalog of book club kits available for checkout. 
The library offers lesser-known works of local authors in 
addition to popular titles. 
Each kit contains 10 copies of the selected book, a large 
print copy, a CD audiobook and a resource folder consisting 
of discussion questions, tips for reading groups and evaluation 
forms. 
Joyce West, the library’s public services director, 
recommends being creative and open when starting a book club 
from scratch. She said some groups opt for a specific genre, and 
then allow each member to choose a book for the club that falls 
within the category.
Whether at home or in the library, being part of a book club 
in Gainesville is an easy way to integrate into the community 
and share the passion of books with like-minded locals. 
Joining a book club doesn’t have to be a grueling time 
commitment. West said book clubs gather once a month. 
“You get to meet new people, you get to talk to people who 
probably enjoy either the same genre as you or the same author 
as you and you’ll definitely walk away with some reader’s 
advisory,” West said.
@afriedmanuf
@averijkremposky
afriedman@alligator.org
akremposky@alligator.orgGainesville Nightlife Guide
A readers’ guide to Gainesville bookstores
NIGHTLIFENIGHTLIFE
EDUCATIONEDUCATIONNamari Lock / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
6-27-16-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
Got a place for rent?
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    HHaarrvveesstteedd  
11..    PPrroobblleemm,,  ddiilleemmmmaa  55..    MMaannaaggeedd,,  ccoonntteennddeedd  
22..    OOvveerrttuurrnn66..    PPeerrffeecctt
33..    EEtteerrnnaall  77..    LLiigghhtt  ________
44..    SSeeaaffaarreerr  CCKKPPDDIIEE
EELLIIKKPPCCDDPPEECCOO
AADDIILLEE
ZZAAEEPPSSIICC
SSNNEEEESSLLDDSSOOSSEERRNN
LLAASSRRIIOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--PPiicckkeedd    55AA--CCooppeedd    66AA--IIddeeaall    77AA--SSeennssoorr
11DD--PPiicckkllee    22DD--CCaappssiizzee    33DD--EEnnddlleessss    44DD--SSaaiilloorr    BB--KKlloonnddiikkee66--2277--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ________  GGoolldd  RRuusshh  bbeeggaann  iinn  11889966..  
BONUS
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.10 For Sale
By Will Pfadenhauer
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/27/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/27/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, June 27, 2022
ACROSS
1 Sandwich made 
with Peter Pan 
and Welch’s, for 
short
4 Like an unruly kid
10 Open-handed hit
14 Flamenco shout
15 Nanny who may 
live in an in-law 
suite
16 “Field of Dreams” 
state
17 Macadamia __
18 Age-old method 
of long-distance 
communication
20 Bus terminal
22 Each
23 “Been __, done 
that”
24 Computer that 
generates 
Bitcoin, e.g.
26 Younger of the 
NBA’s Curry 
brothers
28 45-Down, e.g.
29 Triple-A baseball 
team based in 
Ohio
32 __ goo gai pan
33 Mont Blanc, e.g.
34 Director Roth
35 Some summer 
workers
38 Find My iPhone 
logon need
42 Kanga’s joey
43 Dean’s list no.
44 DVR forerunner
45 Atmospheric 
patterns that 
resemble fish 
scales
49 Female sheep
51 Lotto variant
52 Sends with a 
stamp
53 Midafternoon
55 “Dear old”  
parent
57 Pulls hard
59 Christian doctrine 
of divinity, and 
the starts of 
the answers to 
18-, 29-, and 
45-Across?
62 Grab a bite
63 __ vera
64 Route
65 Pigpen
66 Lacrosse targets
67 Pie servings
68 Netflix’s  
“__ Education”DOWN
1 “On Golden __”: 
Hepburn film
2 Brewer known for 
its Belgian White 
ale
3 Many a “Top 
Gun” aviator
4 Kept moist, as a 
roast turkey
5 __ and Coke
6 Each, informally
7 Starts, as a new 
hobby
8 Like tall wedding 
cakes
9 12-mo. periods
10 Weary sound
11 Folks who keep 
to themselves
12 Cognizant (of)
13 Lost some color
19 Service provided 
by the Geek 
Squad
21 Unspecified 
person
25 Southwest 
Virginia city
27 Steakhouse chain 
with a skinny tree 
in its logo
29 Texter’s “Sorry, 
did I overshare?”
30 L.A. Galaxy’s org.
31 Nada36 Timeline stretch
37 Simple firework
38 __ Escape: 
PlayStation 
game featuring 
monkeys
39 Depravity
40 Item of equipment 
for the NCAA’s 
Frozen Four
41 ER staffers
43 Reacted to a joke 
told by 55-Across, 
probably45 Dry wine choice
46 Curly salad  
green
47 Verbally approve
48 Korean 
automaker
49 Actor Hawke
50 Complete
54 Looks over
56 Minor dent
58 River of Hades
60 Like sashimi
61 Election time: 
Abbr.
By Barbara Lin
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/14/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/14/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, June 14, 2022
ACROSS
1 Peruvian people 
who cultivated 
potato varietals
5 Channel that 
covers Capitol 
Hill
10 Puzzle that may 
have dead ends
14 More than a 
snack
15 Words to live by
16 Emotional 
request
17 Spring flower 
painted by van 
Gogh
19 Feminine 
pronoun
20 Like one’s back 
during cat pose
21 Throw shade at
23 Finger food at 
luaus
24 “Mossy, bossy” 
Seuss character
25 A-plus student
28 Amtrak sta. times
29 Slot in a cash 
drawer
30 Twisted humor
31 Female sib
32 “East of Eden” 
director Kazan
33 Docent’s deg.
34 Hard-to-open cap
39 Air gun shot
40 Jazz singer Anita
41 Op. __: footnote 
abbr.
43 Diet based on the 
eating habits of 
early humans
46 Business attire
47 Mexican coin
48 Coffee order 
similar to a latte
50 Not quite foggy
51 Post-op area
52 __ card: 
smartphone need
53 Lively dances
54 Novelist __ Neale 
Hurston
56 Scold harshly
59 Like 8 or 88
60 Gabrielle of 
“Being Mary 
Jane”
61 Filmmaker 
Preminger
62 Depend (on)
63 Trivial, as a 
complaint
64 CryDOWN
1 Sticks a stake in, 
as a vampire
2 Overly anxious
3 Dramatic end 
of a cinematic 
chase scene
4 Socially dominant 
figures
5 Kept in the email 
loop
6 __ Lanka
7 A pop
8 Athletic brand with 
a three-stripe logo
9 Deferential denial
10 Dashboard abbr.
11 Pepper named 
for a Syrian city
12 Focus (on)
13 With very little 
effort
18 Luthor of the 
comics
22 Looking swell
25 Short cut?
26 Save, as a 
newspaper article
27 Eurasia’s __ 
Mountains
29 Alero automaker, 
informally
32 Macaroni often 
used in cold 
salads33 Zoo trench
35 “Yeah, sure”
36 Dog that licks 
Garfield
37 Enjoy the lake in 
winter, perhaps
38 Aversion
42 Place to buy gifts 
for kids
43 Vaccine 
manufacturer
44 Tucked-away 
recess
45 Bay leaf source46 Gymnast Biles 
who won four 
gold medals in 
Rio
47 Cushion
49 Ask for a 
donation
50 “Calvin and 
Hobbes” bully
53 Measly
55 “__ takers?”
57 Trivial  
complaint
58 Received
06/13/2022
solution  on page 14answer on page 14
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.13 Wanted16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6-27-22-6-14
GEN. HANDYPERSON HELP WANTED
Hang mesh around chicken flight pen, brush 
small trees cut, Shed clean out, More avail -
able. Straight pay or airbnb trade
https://abnb.me/7FeccZWCNqb
Call or text: 727-276-0993          7-5-22-2-14
Dietary Service Positions - FT, PT and PRN
UF Health Shands Hospital, one of the top 
employers in FL, is hiring FT, PT and PRN 
Cooks, Dining Associates and Nutrition 
Assistants. Multiple shifts available. We of-
fer generous pay and great benefits for FT 
employees.
Apply at https://shands.careers.ufhealth.org/
jobs/266332/
EOE and drug-free workplace.    7-5-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com           6-27-22-15-15
INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP 
ACCOUNTING TUTORING by former in-
structor. Reasonable rates. Flexible time.  
ACG2001, ACG2071, ACG2011, TAX2000. 
Call/Text: 352-226-5926 Leave message   
9-6-22-10-15
15 Services
PROTECT YOUR HOME from pests safely 
and affordably. Pest, rodent, termite and 
mosquito control. Call for a quote or inspec -
tion today 888-498-0446                6-27-1-15
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home esti-
mate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      6-27-4-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
6-27-21-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            6-27-4-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264               6-27-15-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
6-27-20-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed cover-
age. Call for a no obligation free quote now! 
833-260-2632 (TTY: 711)                    6-27-4-15
Foreclosure and Eviction Assistance 
A+Rated, HUD-Approved (Lic.83706) 
NonProfit offering Assistance for Eviction 
and Foreclosure Avoidance. Free & 
Confidential Call: 561-472-8000 Debthelper.
com    6-27-1-15Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816               6-27-3-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       6-27-21-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
Counseling that is Professional
Afforable, Adults and Couples
Telehealth or in person
LMHC harrisdk1012@gmail.com
352 642-5176                             7-25-22-5-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Planning an event?
Let people know today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
Crypto- Currency!
Learn the Pros and Cons.
Start building your wealth today.
Fully Explained! www.bit.ly/38ybQ1w    
6-27-22-4-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/Trivia Test  answersCrytpoQuip  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
WHY ARE MOST FOLKS WHO ANNOTATE BOOKS INSIGNIFICANT?
BECAUSE THEIR WORK IS USUALLY MARGINAL.
solution  below25 Events/Notices
  NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID
             PUBLIC MEETINGThe 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid - on-site and virtual 
public meeting via communications media 
technology to which all interested persons 
are invited.
DATE AND TIME: July 11, 2022 at 5:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12 
and the Alachua County Video on Demand 
Website [link below]
          www.alachuacounty.us/video
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained 
by visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org 
(click Metropolitan Transportation Planning) 
or may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th 
Place, Gainesville, Florida one week prior 
to the meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications me-
dia technology. As part of the general pub-
lic access, the meeting is televised live on 
Cox Cable Channel 12. However, live public 
comment is taken on-site only. On-site public 
participants are encouraged to wear a face-
covering mask at all times. For on-site pub-
lic comment, participants will be prompted 
and should follow the direction of the Chair 
to participate. In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area accepts written 
comments received no later than one busi-
ness day prior to the meeting through email
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or postal mail (2009 
NW 67th Place, Gainesville, Florida 32653). 
On-site participants should state their names 
and limit comments to three minutes. The 
public is encouraged to submit any written or 
photographic documents prior to the meet-
ing to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.  
6-27-1-201. Stockholm.  2. Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  3. 1870.  4. 
Pomegranate.  5. New York.  6. Bats.  7. Thomas Jefferson and John 
Adams.  8. Theodore.  9. "The Shining".  10. "Bonnie and Clyde"14   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
answers below1. GEOGRAPHY: What is the capital of Sweden?
2. HISTORY: What was the whole name of the 
nation once called U.S.S.R.?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: When did July 4 be -
come a federal holiday?
4. FOOD & DRINK: Which fruit is used to make 
the cocktail mixer grenadine?
5. U.S. STATES: In which state is Niagara Falls located?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which is the only mammal 
that can fly?
7. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which two presidents died 
within hours of each other on July 4 -- the 50th 
anniversary of the Declaration of Independence?
8. TELEVISION: What was Beaver's real first name 
on the "Leave It to Beaver" sitcom?
9. LITERATURE: Which 1977 horror novel features 
a hotel called The Overlook?
10. MOVIES: Which 1967 movie tagline is, 
"They're young ... they're in love ... and they 
kill people"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022   ALLIGATOR   15 
 By Anushka Dakshit
Alligator Staff writer
After long days stuck studying for 
Summer classes, some students opt to visit 
nature parks to hike, picnic, take pictures 
and learn more about Gainesville’s diverse 
plants and wildlife. These three parks are 
staples for students looking for an escape. 
 
Kanapaha Botanical Gardens
A lake decorated with water pads and 
24 gardens with dozens of exotic animals 
and plants sit tucked away about four 
miles from campus. 
Located at 4700 SW 58th Drive, a 
little more than two miles south of Butler 
Plaza, Kanapaha Botanical Garden boasts 
a one-and-a-half mile walkway lined with 
expansive visual scenery. 
It runs through the specialty gardens, 
which are broken into taxological and 
ecological themes. The hummingbird 
garden holds beds of red tubular flowers 
meant to attract the titular bird.
“A botanical garden is like a zoo for plants,”
- Alexis Caffrey, Kanapaha Botanical Garden Director
 
Kanapaha has a very healthy bird 
population, she said, and many binocular-
baring bird watchers gravitate toward the 
silk oak tree, which attracts colorful birds. 
Kanapaha’s team gathers plants from 
around the world, some of which are 
endangered, and the gardens demand 
much more maintenance than other parks with natural settings, Caffrey said. 
The gardens, with a name originating 
from the Timucua words for “palmetto 
leaves” and “house,” are run by The North 
Florida Botanical Society, a private non-
profit organization. 
A picnic area allows visitors to bask on 
a blanket with their own food and drinks 
during park hours.
Sweetwater Wetlands Park
Sweetwater Wetlands Park’s man-made, 
alligator-head-shaped habitat is uniquely 
designed for pedestrians to stroll, run or 
photograph its wildlife.
The park filters out pollution and 
nutrients with its design to improve water 
quality and includes a three-and-a-half 
mile-long nature trail and viewing decks 
that allow people to spot about 250 unique 
species, including bison, horses and 
alligators.
Visitors can follow a ranger around the 
wetlands — located at 325 SW Williston 
Road, about three miles southeast of 
campus — for night hikes, plant walks and 
bird walks on a monthly basis September 
to May. The events work in conjunction 
with the Alachua Audubon Society, a 
non-profit organization that promotes the 
appreciation of birds and other wildlife.  
“[People enjoy] photography and access 
to viewing wildlife because the park is so 
open, it’s really easy to see the wildlife,” 
said Darby Guyn, a 26-year-old park ranger 
at Sweetwater Wetlands.
Devil’s Millhopper Geological State ParkA sinkhole sits at the bottom of Devil’s 
Millhopper Geological State Park’s half-
mile nature trail. The rainforest opens to 
the 120-foot-deep basin with 132 steps that 
lead directly into the water. 
The park — located at 4732 Millhopper 
Road, about six miles north of campus — 
is a “remarkable geological wonderland,” 
wrote Erin McDade, deputy press secretary at the Florida Department of Environmental 
Protection.
“One of the most amazing things you’ll 
experience is the stark temperature change 
as you approach the sinkhole,” McDade 
wrote. 
The canopy of trees provides shade that 
cools the area, while the park has a variety 
of wildlife viewing. 
Visitors can see reptiles, amphibians 
and birds during guided walks with rangers 
Saturdays at 10 a.m.
@Anushkadak
adakshit@alligator.org
By Jackson Reyes   
Alligator Staff Writer
Gianni Pena kayaked up the 
street with his belongings in rain-
proof bags after Hurricane Irma 
swept north central Florida in 
September 2017. The 23-year-
old Gainesville resident still feels 
nervous every June. If his house 
floods again, he’ll have to move.
His bedroom was six feet 
underwater, and his house had about a foot of water in it, he 
said. He remembered watermarks 
halfway up his garage and water 
in his driveway going above his 
Jeep’s tires. 
The National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration 
forecast about 14 to 21 named 
storms this season — which lasts 
well beyond summer months, 
extending all the way until Nov. 30 
— with the possibility of six to 10 
becoming hurricanes. The city installed control pumps 
in Pena’s neighborhood — Hills of 
Santa Fe, two miles southwest of 
Santa Fe College — to help prevent 
flooding this year. The pumps will 
be used to drain large amounts of 
rainwater. 
Kenneth Allen, UF’s emergency 
management director, said the 
university provides shelters when 
needed, but most on-campus 
students will stay in their facility in 
the event of a hurricane. Hurricane 
survival kits with at least three 
days’ worth of food, water and 
other essential supplies are vital, 
he said.
“We all live in Florida, which 
means we all have a hurricane 
problem,” Allen said. 
Hannah Lofgren, a 21-year-old 
UF environmental engineering 
senior, remembered sitting 
in Mallory Hall’s study room 
preparing for an impending exam 
while Hurricane Dorian approached 
Gainesville in 2019. 
While UF announced students 
could stay in their dorms during 
the storm, most of her floormates 
left. 
“It was definitely scary in the 
moment,” Lofgren said. “It felt like 
the dorm was being abandoned.”Although the storm turned 
away from Gainesville, she found 
comfort in relying on a local friend 
for shelter. She recommended 
incoming freshmen reach out to 
floormates to understand their 
hurricane season gameplans. 
“Have no shame in asking if you 
can just go with them,” she said. 
“It’s just a scary time for everyone.”
UF Alert and UF Public Safety 
send and post hurricane season 
updates to students and faculty 
through text, email or social media. 
People should also own a battery-
powered radio to stay updated in 
case a storm knocks out electricity 
and cellular service, Allen said.
Jen Grice, Alachua County’s 
emergency management director, 
said the county offers several 
resources to help handle tropical 
storms and hurricanes. 
Alachua County has 21 
identified shelters for residents, she 
said. 
Residents can call 3-1-1, a critical 
information line activated during 
emergencies, for updates about 
the storm and what the county 
is doing and text “ALACHUA” to 
888777 for messages about new 
shelters, disaster recovery centers 
and sandbag locations.
Although the NOAA can predict 
how many storms will hit Florida, Grice said it is hard to anticipate 
how many will hit Alachua County. 
Residents should plan for at least 
one storm as a precaution, she said.
“It only takes one bad storm 
to truly impact our community 
in a significant way,”
- Jen Grice, Alachua County Emergency 
Management Director
 
A common-sense approach is 
the best way to prepare for a storm; 
people should get empty jugs or 
containers and fill them up with 
tap water before the storm hits, 
she said. Water could be sold out 
at grocery stores as hurricanes near 
the area.
Connor Haley, a 20-year-old 
UF computer engineering junior, 
said he is not concerned about the 
season and what it brings. 
“I’ve lived in north Florida 
all my life,” Haley said. “We’ve 
always survived it.” 
Haley, who lives in Infinity Hall, 
said he feels comfortable living on 
and around campus and has not 
seen any real effects from tropical 
storms during the two years he’s 
lived in Gainesville. 
More information on how to be 
ready for hurricane season can be 
found at UF’s emergency page and 
Alachua County Ready.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgHiking hotspots: Gainesville’s nature parks
Students, residents prepare for hurricane seasonEileen Calub / / Alligator Staff
People stroll through attractions at the Kanapaha Botanical Gardens to enjoy 
the outdoors.
Courtesy to The Alligator
Aerial view of a hurricane approaching Florida.
Alachua County and UF offer several resources to combat the seasonThese parks offer a look into Gainesville’ s wildlife and ecosystem16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 27, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRE
WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY
LADIES nightLADIES night
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE DRINKSFREE DRINKS   
For the ladies!For the ladies!
FRIDAYFRIDAY
Beat the clock!Beat the clock!
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
(WELLS & DRAFTS(WELLS & DRAFTS
START @ 25¢START @ 25¢  and go up and go up ))
SATURDAYSATURDAY
LIVE LIVE DJDJ
FREE FREE WELLS & DRAFTSWELLS & DRAFTS   
For EVERYONE!For EVERYONE!
@Grog.House@Grog.House @groghouse@groghouse www.groghouse.comwww.groghouse.com 1718 West University Ave1718 West University Ave
