We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Alachua County Public Schools hit by COVID spike
Alachua County Public Schools' COVID-19 cases increase following 
winter break,  pg. 2
Celebrate the life of UF graduate
In honor of Sabrina Marie Obando,  pg. 3Gator Baseball Preview: Pitchers
Gator baseball enters season with fresh 
faces. Read more on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 18
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer
 
UF President Kent Fuchs an -
nounced Wednesday morning that 
he will be resigning from his posi -
tion to transition into a professor 
role. 
UF released the announcement 
for Fuchs’ resignation in a campus-
wide email and video message. 
Fuchs, 67, intends to continue his 
presidential duties for the rest of the 
year and step down in 2023 once a 
new president is sworn in. He plans 
to return to his home department of 
electrical and computer engineer -
ing. 
“The overall reaction [to the an -
nouncement] is sadness because he 
has been such a great president,” 
Juan Nino, a member of UF Faculty 
Senate, said. “The tone that he has 
set is, to me, is just fantastic across 
the board, and it will be very tricky 
to replace him.” 
Throughout his eight-year presi -
dency, Fuchs helped the university 
reach multiple goals furthering the 
school’s prestige. 
In 2017, UF entered the nation’s 
top 10 public universities. UF sur -
passed this old long-term goal Sept. 
12, 2021 when the U.S. News and 
World Report announced UF as the 
No. 5 public school.
Furthermore, research spending, 
donor contributions and student 
applications have steadily climbed 
during Fuchs’ term, according to the 
announcement. 
Research spending increased 
by over $200 million from 2014 to 
2020. Donor contributions are ex -
pected to be $1.2 billion over UF’s original goal for UF’s Go Greater 
philanthropic campaign. Student 
applications for Fall 2022 reached 
60,000 — more than double the 
29,000 that applied in Fall 2014, ac -
cording to the statement.  
Gov. Ron DeSantis posted a tweet 
Wednesday afternoon congratulat -
ing Fuchs on a well-deserved retire -
ment. DeSantis also thanked Fuchs 
for the accomplishment of the uni -
versity rising to its top 5 ranking 
while keeping tuition costs low. 
The reputation of the university 
was certainly a main concern, but it 
was apparent that Fuchs prioritized 
fostering relationships with the stu -
dent body and his colleagues as 
well, Nino said. 
“He is a much more welcoming 
president. I think he enjoys it a lot,” 
Nino said. 
Nino hopes the new president 
will maintain a good rapport with 
the students, faculty and state simi -
lar to Fuchs’ efforts. 
Fuchs is a very personable, 
transparent, honest person which is 
why he earnestly engages with the 
student body, David Bloom said, 
the UF Faculty Senate chair. He 
said these qualities make for a great 
president, in which Fuchs also seeks 
faculty input and really listens. 
Fuchs' leadership is what en -
abled the administration to navi -
gate the academic freedom issues 
so well, because he always listened 
and was very transparent about 
what he was doing, Bloom said. 
The search for Fuchs’ replace -
ment is a process dictated by regula -
tions the Board of Governors has set SOME RESIDENTS FEEL UF 
IS NOT DOING ENOUGH TO 
KEEP THE COMMUNITY SAFE
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
As the COVID-19 omicron 
variant surges, so do Gainesville 
residents’ concerns about UF 
students returning for the Spring 
semester.
Omicron cases in Florida 
began to rise mid-December, 
and infections have rapidly increased since then. From Dec. 
10 to Dec. 16, 29,514 new cases 
were reported in the Florida 
Department of Health COVID-19 
Weekly Situation Report. From 
Dec. 31 to Jan. 6, 397,114 new 
cases were documented. 
In Alachua County alone, 3,789 
new cases were reported the week 
of Jan. 7, adding up to 47,057 
cumulative total cases in the 
county, according to the Alachua 
County COVID-19 Dashboard. 
UF expected Alachua County 
cases to rise throughout January as students travel to Gainesville 
and expanded testing capacity, 
according to its Dec. 31 campus 
brief. 
“This spike is expected to be 
relatively short in duration — 
perhaps no more than two to four 
weeks,” it stated in the brief.
Alachua County is taking 
precautionary measures to control 
the spread of the virus as students 
return. 
Although there is no mask Gator Nation will bid a farewell to its leader Kent Fuchs
Locals and business owners brace for UF 
students’ return amid Omicron surgeMakiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
SEE FUCHS,  PAGE 4SEE RESIDENTS,  PAGE 4UF president plans to step 
down from his position in 2023T oday’s Weather
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
As of Friday, more than 100 
inmates at the Alachua County Jail 
are positive for COVID-19, according 
to Alachua County Sheriff’s Office 
spokesperson Captain Kaley Behl. 
Of the current positive inmates, 
88 are male and 20 are female. 
Additionally, 27 employees tested positive for the virus, Behl added. 
In-person visitations and inmate 
programs will remain on pause. 
“The ones that are within the jail 
that require them to move around 
and gather as a group, like the GED 
programs,” Behl said. “All that’s on 
hold.” 
The jail offers inmates Johnson 
& Johnson vaccines, requires 
masks and social distancing and 
decontaminates the jail with foggers 
on a regular basis. 
No inmates have been 
hospitalized for COVID-19, and most 
are experiencing symptoms of a mild 
cold, Behl said. 
The jail will mandate regular 
temperature checks, N-95 masks, 
social distancing and no staff dining 
to reduce the spread of the virus 
among employees. Although there 
are no exact numbers on how 
frequent testing is administered, he 
said it is more than they have in the 
past. 
“Testing is being highly 
encouraged,” Behl said. “It’s 
definitely increasing.”
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $100The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St.  Classified advertising can be placed 
at that location from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday 
through Friday, except for holidays. © Copy -
right 2020. All rights reserved. No portion of 
The Alligator  may be reproduced in any means 
without the written consent of an officer of 
Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications Inc., 
P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 32604-
2257. The Alligator  is published Monday 
mornings, except during holidays and exam 
periods. During UF summer academic terms 
The Alligator  is published Monday mornings.
The Alligator  is a member of the Newspaper 
Association of America, National Newspaper 
Association, Florida Press Association and 
Southern University Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 18
 Alachua County has seen an increase in 
positive COVID-19 cases among jail inmates
352-376-4458 • Fax: 352-376-4467 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 • Fax: 352-376-4556 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Michael Carolan, Ryan GormanSophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Ariana Rao,
239-980-6995 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
Creative DirectorManaging Director
Account ExecutivesJennifer HernandezBrian Gurges , brian.gurges@gmail.com
Nazil Ahmed, Adriana Colon, Lydia Connor,
Skyler Davis, Dylan Tello
352-373-FIND • Fax: 352-376-3015 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 • Fax: 352-376-4556 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
University Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Editorial Board
Opinions Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, Anna 
Wilder, Sara LindsayAllessandra Inzina, ainzina@alligator.orgJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
A Neighborhood Workshop will be held to discuss application #PB-21-00154 to Vacate a 
Public Right of Way being a 20-foot alley shown on the Plat of Replat of the West Half of 
Lot 19 of BRUSH’S ADDITION TO GAINESVILLE, recorded in Plat Book “ A ” , Page 16 of 
the Public Records of Alachua County, FL. 
The alley is located between NW 1st Ave and 2nd Ave and NW 3rd Street, Gainesville, Fl.  
The Workshop will be held at 6 pm on Wednesday, January 26, 2022 at the site entrance on 
NW 3rd Street between NW 1st Avenue and NW 2nd Avenue, Gainesville, Fl.
This is not a public hearing. The purpose of the neighborhood workshop is to inform the 
public about the nature of the application and seek comments. Contact Linda McGurn 
(352) 372-6172 x5.PUBLIC NOTICEThe total has increased by 11 cases since Thursday
NEW CASES AMONG STAFF ARE AT AN 
ALL-TIME HIGH SINCE SCHOOLS FIRST 
REOPENED IN AUGUST OF 2020
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer
New COVID-19 cases among staff and students more 
than tripled after the first four days back in classrooms 
from winter break — and this data could be an underes -
timation, ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson said.
“We’ve had the highest number of active cases 
we’ve ever had,” Johnson said. “And we’ve got the 
highest total weekly number we’ve had since schools 
reopened.” 
After the first week back, there were 334 new stu -
dent cases and 55 new staff cases — contributing to a 
total of 476 reported cases among both groups.
During the week prior, in which staff and students 
were on break, there were still 78 new student cases 
and 16 new staff cases reported. Compared with this 
first week back in classrooms, staff cases increased by 
243% and student cases increased by 328%. Even with 
a reported increase in cases, Johnson said these num -
bers are most likely an undercount. “The problem is the lag time with the tests,” John -
son said. “Employees notify us that they’ve got symp -
toms, and it takes them two or three days to get a test 
appointment and it takes them another couple of days 
to get the results back.” 
The mask mandate for employees, visitors and vol -
unteers aimed to combat the spread of the virus. De -
spite this effort, ACPS has had the highest weekly total 
of active cases among staff since August 2020. 
ACPS warns families that the increase in staff cases 
could impact daily operations such as bus transporta -
tion. The county also expects more teacher absences 
during this surge. 
Throughout this month, the Alachua County Health 
Department is offering vaccines at all ACPS elementary 
and middle schools. Anyone above the age of 5 can get 
a vaccine. 
In elementary schools there were 112 new student 
cases and 29 new staff cases as of Sunday. 
In middle schools there were 79 new student cases 
and five new staff cases. High schools saw 141 new stu -
dent cases and 12 new staff cases. In staff departments, 
there were seven new staff cases.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgAlachua County Public Schools’ COVID-19 
cases increase following winter breakMakiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
THURSDAY
JANUARY 13
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Art
image: Kehinde Wiley, "Dogon Couple," 2008
Sponsored by UF Student Government and the OOce of the Provost. Sponsored in part by the State of 
Florida, Department of State, Division of Cultural AAairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture. 
FREE ADMISSION
LIVE STREAM
GUEST TALK:
ENDIA BEAL
 
ART INSTALLATION:
S
SANDRA 
MURPHY-PAK,
FOOTWORK
GUEST TABLE:
FIGURE ON 
DIVERSITY
ART TOURS
FR
FREE FOOD 
 
ART
FOR
ALL
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
Work Where  You Matter.
JOIN THE ARTHREX TEAM
Our headquarters is located in beautiful   
Naples, FL, with additional locations in Fort Myers, 
FL; Ave Maria, FL; Sandy Springs, SC; Santa Barbara, 
CA; and City of Industry, CA. Full-time opportunities, 
internships, and co-ops are available.
Apply online at www.arthrex.com/careers
Arthrex, a world leader in orthopedic surgical device design, research, manufacturing, and  
medical education, is committed to one mission: Helping Surgeons Treat Their Patients  
Better™. Arthrex has pioneered the field of arthroscopy, developing more than 1,000  
innovative products and procedures each year.
AD1-000255-en-US_AAll qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment 
without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, national origin, 
disability, veteran status, or any other classification protected by 
federal, state, or local laws and ordinances.
GAINESVILLE CITY 
COMMISSION STOPPED 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE 
BRAVO SUPERMARKET ON 
HAWTHORNE ROAD THURSDAY
By Erina Anwar
Alligator Staff Writer
 
The Gainesville City 
Commission has canceled its 
plans to put a Bravo Supermarket 
on the empty lot on Hawthorne 
Road, leaving many East 
Gainesville residents grounded in 
a food desert.
The city commission general 
meeting Thursday discussed the 
future of the development plans 
for a Bravo franchise, a Hispanic-
centered supermarket chain that 
was first approved in June 2021.
The city approved a $3.3 million 
loan to open a supermarket in the 
empty lot on Hawthorne Road.
East Gainesville residents 
expressed their disapproval with 
Bravo’s planned location because 
there was little community 
involvement in choosing the 
supermarket.
Real estate developer Frederic 
Washington was the first person 
to convince Bravo to come 
onboard. At the city commission 
meeting, Washington said the 
negative reaction from community 
members was part of the reason 
why Bravo was no longer willing 
to come to East Gainesville.
“I was frankly embarrassed,” 
Washington said. “You would 
have thought that we were trying 
to bring weapons grade uranium 
over to East Gainesville the way 
that we were treated.”The city commission looked 
at a checklist for due diligence 
within the development process. 
Developers did not submit many 
of the required documents.
Gainesville interim city 
manager Cynthia Curry said she 
received an email from one of the 
development project partners that 
they wanted to drop out because 
the site was expensive.
The City of Gainesville staff 
recommended the commission 
not to move forward with the 
current development plan.
The city commission decided 
the best course of action 
would be to accept the staff’s 
recommendation and voted to 
stop the development of the 
Bravo.
Commissioner Reina Saco 
expressed her disappointment 
that this project would be coming 
to a halt.
“I understand that we are 
stewards of the public’s money…
we need something more than 
half-baked,” Saco said. “I think 
our option now is to reopen that 
process.”
Saco said that the city will 
reopen the request for proposal 
from businesses about what to do 
with the empty lot on Hawthorne 
Road and re-start the process of 
developing a supermarket.
Commissioner David Arreola 
mentioned in the meeting that 
money will still be set aside for a 
grocery project.
“I think we as a commission 
have to take responsibility for 
how we got here,” he said.
The commission will have a 
more detailed discussion on how 
to move forward with this project at a later date, Arreola said.
Some East Gainesville residents 
like Tina Days, a 43-year-old food 
delivery driver, said they opposed 
the Bravo construction as the city 
commission chose it without their 
input.
“On the one hand I’m glad 
because I just felt like [Bravo] 
wasn’t a good fit. On another 
hand, I am furious,” Days said 
after the project was halted. “On 
the West side, probably on every 
block there’s a supermarket. 
But you can’t attract not one 
supermarket for the East side?”
Days said it was common for 
supermarkets to leave quickly 
after occupying the available lot. 
“We go there one week and 
the next week they’re closed with 
no information,” she said. “No 
reason given.”
Residents of East Gainesville 
must now continue to wait in a 
food desert for the foreseeable 
future — or at least until a new 
supermarket agrees to develop 
there.
@ErinaAnwar_
eanwar@alligator.orgA MOTION WAS PASSED 
TO ENCOURAGE 
VACCINATION AND TESTING
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
The Gainesville City Com -
mission unanimously passed 
a three-part plan proposed by 
Commissioner Harvey Ward 
to fight the COVID-19 omicron 
variant. The commissioner’s 
plan uses $300,000 of previously 
allocated American Rescue Plan 
Act funds to pay for at-home 
testing kits.
At their first meeting of 2022 
on Thursday, city commission -
ers, with City Commissioner 
Desmon Duncan-Walker absent, 
voted to keep Gainesville work -
ers safe from rising COVID-19 
cases in the county.
Mayor Lauren Poe said the 
omicron variant is very present 
within Gainesville workers, cit -
ing a huge spike in cases among 
city staff members.
There were 2,072 new posi -
tive cases in Alachua County the 
week of Dec. 31, according to 
the Alachua County COVID-19 
Dashboard.
Ward proposed the plan 
to provide a solution for the 
lack of available at-home CO -
VID-19 tests and to encourage 
Gainesville workers to get tested 
for COVID-19.
The plan provided every vac -
cinated city worker $250 and 
two COVID-19 at-home test kits. 
It also included a request to UF 
President Kent Fuchs from the mayor to reinstate UF’s Screen, 
Test and Protect program.
“What I’m trying to achieve 
is to incentivize city workers to 
be vaccinated, simple as that,” 
Ward said. “I want our city 
workers healthy.”
Ward originally wanted to 
mail the test kits to city work -
ers. City Commissioner Adrian 
Hayes-Santos and City Commis -
sioner Reina Saco argued mail -
ing kits would be costly and in -
effective.
“I think we can leave that up 
to staff to figure out what’s the 
best way to get that [test kits] to 
employees,” Hayes-Santos said.
Ward advocated for mail-in 
testing kits to avoid judgment 
in the workplace, fearing that 
employees would feel judged for 
requesting a kit or wouldn’t take 
one due to this same fear.
After some debate, the mea -
sure was changed to two kits for 
each city worker instead of mail -
ing them.
The commissioners also add -
ed the phrase “one-time $250 
payment” to the first part of the 
measure after some public com -
mentary on terminology confu -
sion. 
However, Poe said he wanted 
to leave the term “fully vacci -
nated” open-ended so city staff 
could determine if that means 
two shots or three shots.
Despite their disagreement, 
the city commission compro -
mised to take quick action with 
the omicron variant.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgPlans for supermarket in East Gainesville 
canceled by city commissionCity Commission votes to provide city 
workers with COVID-19 at-home test kits
Manna Robertson / / Alligator Staff
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022mandate for residents, county 
employees working indoors 
and individuals attending board 
meetings are required to wear 
masks, said Mark Sexton, the 
county Communications and 
Legislative Affairs Director. 
The county is also creating 
motives for employees and 
residents who have been hesitant 
to get vaccinated.
“We’re offering a $250 incentive 
for employees to get their booster 
shots, and we’re going back to a 
$100 incentive for anyone who is 
getting their first or second shot,” 
said Sexton. “We’re getting ready 
to reinstate a vaccine incentive 
for citizens, as well, to encourage 
them to bring our vaccine rate up.”
UF students, who are 
considered Gainesville residents, 
will be eligible for this incentive, 
he said.
However, these measures 
provide little solace to Gainesville 
locals.
Tina Days, a 43-year-old East 
Gainesville resident and food 
delivery driver, is skeptical of UF’s 
projections after watching videos 
of maskless students at indoor 
gatherings. 
“You have all these people 
coming to these basketball 
games,” Days said. “I’m seeing 
very few with masks, and you’re 
coming in and you’re bringing it to the community that is already high 
with omicron.”
The contagiousness of the 
omicron variant is Days’ biggest 
concern, which has already hit her 
home. Her 13-year-old daughter 
came in contact with another 
student at Abraham Lincoln 
Middle School who tested positive 
on Tuesday. 
The omicron variant is more 
transmissible than the first variant, 
SARS-CoV-2 virus, according to 
the CDC. Masks and vaccines are 
the best ways to prevent the virus’ 
spread and ensure public health.
Days wishes the state and the 
county would prioritize public 
health and safety over politics. 
She credits UF’s lack of mask and 
vaccine mandates, in addition to 
its lack of online alternative class 
options, to Gov. Ron DeSantis.
“People are dying,” she said. 
“UF needs to go online at least for 
the Spring semester, but it won’t. 
Governor DeSantis doesn’t want it 
to. It became too political.” 
The East Gainesville resident 
does not see a near end in sight 
for the pandemic. She said the 
only way to control COVID-19 is if 
people are vaccinated and wear a 
mask, but these conditions are not 
mandated in Alachua County.
“This is going to be a virus 
that's going to stay with us. How 
we deal with it is on us,” she said.
The Florida Department of Health released new COVID-19 
testing guidelines Thursday that 
say testing is unlikely to clinically 
benefit asymptomatic individuals.
Constance Harbin, a 50-year-
old Newberry resident and a 
proposal manager for Wood 
Environment & Infrastructure 
Solutions, Inc., thinks this 
guidance will discourage people, 
like UF students, from being 
tested.
Like Days, Harbin experienced 
a COVID-19 issue with her 
32-year-old daughter. She tried 
to schedule an online doctor’s 
appointment when her daughter 
showed symptoms resembling the 
virus, but she could not find one.
“The community resources are 
stretched thin already,” she wrote 
in a direct message on Facebook. 
The arrival of UF students only 
exacerbates the shortage, she 
added.
“UF really is putting the entire 
Gainesville community at risk by 
not supporting virtual classes,”  
Harbin added. 
Business owners also face 
challenges with students returning 
amid the surging pandemic. Local 
businesses are dependent on 
students to stay afloat, but more 
customers is synonymous with 
more chances for infections.
Restaurant owners, like 
63-year-old SweetBerries Eatery 
and Frozen Custard owner Jane Osmond, are grateful that business 
is booming but are wary about the 
virus spreading. 
“I’m probably more concerned 
about the delta variant spreading 
around since it seems to cause 
greater illness,” Osmond said. 
She has about 30 employees 
and about 25 of them have been 
infected with COVID-19 since the 
start of the pandemic, she said. 
Currently, three SweetBerries 
staff members are in quarantine. 
This staff shortage puts strain on 
Osmond and the other employees 
that are able to work.
“Some people are willing 
to work overtime, but we will 
probably end up having to make 
some kind of changes to either our 
hours or what we offer,” Osmond added. 
SweetBerries is maintaining 
its standard sanitization and 
social distancing measures that 
were implemented at the start of 
the pandemic. It still requires all 
employees — in the front and back 
of the restaurant — to wear masks. 
It also asks that customers wear 
masks, though Osmond admitted 
that some frequenters do not. 
“We're kind of following what 
we've been following from the 
beginning,” she said.
Almost two years have 
passed since the beginning of 
the pandemic, but normalcy still 
seems out of grasp.
@Carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgRESIDENTS,  from pg. 1Residents fear limited masking in students
in place, Bloom said. They set guidelines for 
how the search committees are formed, and 
then these individuals begin the selection pro -
cess, he said.
The committee finds a slate of candidates 
to be interviewed and the Board of Trustees 
will vote on the final candidate, Bloom said. 
Their decision is subject to the approval of the 
Board of Governors.
Bloom sensed Fuchs’ decision to step 
down for a while based on subtle comments 
he made over the last year. Even though it 
was not a huge surprise, it is always a jolt 
when you hear the news, he said.
UF is really a large enterprise, Bloom said, 
so it is important that whoever becomes the 
next president has strong leadership skills and 
experience with running a complex unit like 
UF. 
“The president, they wear a lot of hats, and 
that’s why it’s really impressive you spend 
eight years in this job that just takes hours 
each day being tugged in a lot of different di -
rections,” Bloom said. 
Fuchs prioritized meeting with UF Student 
Body President Cooper Brown to share ideas 
and collaborate on issues that impacted the 
student body.
“I realized how special Dr. Fuchs was 
when meeting other Student Body Presidents 
in Florida and in the SEC, learning that they 
often struggle to schedule just one meet -
ing with their President/Chancellor,” Brown 
wrote in an email.
Fuchs’ presidency saw many achievements but also found itself amid ongoing discord.
Three political science professors, fol -
lowed by five additional professors spoke out 
against the school. They claimed UF limited 
their academic freedom and violated their 
First Amendment rights by denying them the 
ability to testify as expert witnesses in a case 
against the state. 
UF received backlash from members of 
Congress, faculty, students and the general 
public. The national attention caused UF’s 
accrediting body to open an investigation 
and the affected professors opened a lawsuit 
against the school. 
Fuchs and Provost Joe Glover appointed a 
task force Nov. 1, 2021 to review the univer -
sity’s conflicts of interest policy as a way to 
mediate the intensifying circumstances. 
Four days later, Fuchs announced that he 
asked the university to reverse its decision to 
bar professors from testifying. The university 
agreed, and the professors were granted per -
mission to participate in the lawsuits. 
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz released 
a statement Wednesday addressing UF’s up -
coming leadership change. 
“UF has benefited greatly under his leader -
ship,” Wasserman Schultz wrote. “My hope is 
that in his final year, this president reasserts 
the academic freedom and integrity that will 
continue to fuel my alma mater’s scholarly 
excellence and achievements.”
Now the Gator Nation must wait to see 
who will be chosen to fill Fuchs’ big shoes.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgFUCHS,  from pg. 1Fuchs served as president for eight yearsMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Alligator File Photo
UF President Kent Fuchs receives his first dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine 
at UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital Tuesday, Jan. 5, 2021.
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Staff Writer
To be Sabrina Marie Obando’s 
friend was to be showered in love, 
laughter and light. 
Madison Bushloper, her close 
friend, recounted their relationship 
as stronger than a family member. 
“She never failed to bring out 
the best in everyone,” Bushloper 
wrote in a text message. “I always 
felt my most vibrant and joyous 
when in her presence.”
Obando, a 22-year-old Miami 
native, graduated cum laude in Fall 
2021 with a degree in art history. On 
Jan. 4, Obando was hit by a pickup 
truck while she was crossing the 
sidewalk around 12:30 p.m. on the 
intersection of Northwest 8th Ave. 
and Northwest 10th St. Following 
the crash, she was transported to 
UF Health Shands Hospital where 
she died from her injuries.
“Sabrina wanted more than any -
thing else for her friends to truly 
feel how much she loved them,” 
Bushloper wrote.
Others like her roommate Sara 
Ernst, felt instant connections with 
her. 
Even though Obando was re -
served, Ernst said that was OK, 
because she was the same way. It 
would take time to crack open her 
shell. 
“Our energies were pulling us 
together. And from that point on, 
we just really became best friends,” 
Ernst said.
After meeting in a group chat, 
Obando and Ernst spent their fresh -man year getting closer. The two 
moved in together in 2019. 
Ernst is framing Obando’s art -
work for a celebration of her life for 
her friends Jan. 15. 
Obando’s inclination toward art 
shined through in their house deco -
rations. She painted abstract works 
of swirling colors, still life and even 
a portrait of Tony Soprano. She 
turned her bedroom into a work of 
art itself with posters, photos and 
knick-knacks.
“Our house is full of furniture 
and artwork and things that we did 
and I think it’s because it has more 
meaning,” Ernst said. “It gives me a 
lot of like solace to be there just be -
cause everything means something 
to us.”
Obando’s friendship was the 
greatest of Ernst’s life.
Obando’s death comes among 
several other fatal pedestrian 
crashes in the last few years. Mark 
Merwitzer, president of Florida Not 
One More, noted that the intersec -
tion she crossed had been cited as 
a hazard. 
“I think we need to have a seri -
ous community conversation about 
how we should make our streets 
safer going forward,” he said. “So 
that this does not happen again 
and not one more family has to go 
through what Miss Obando’s fam -
ily has gone through.”
The loss of Obando meant the 
loss of her distinctive sense of hu -
mor. 
Basel Hussein, a 22-year-old UF 
architecture senior and close friend of Obando, dressed-up  Obando’s 
Barbie-esque Michael Jackson doll 
in crochet outfits. The two laughed 
often and hard. They felt like chil -
dren together, they said.
Obando’s taste in just about 
everything, from music to clothes, 
was eclectic and uniquely her. She 
listened to ’80s music, hyperpop 
and house. She especially adored 
Michael Jackson. 
“Joy is the best way I could put 
it,” Hussein said. “There really 
were no walls or barriers [in] what 
we would do or laugh about.”
Obando also adored SOPHIE 
and Lady Gaga, going so far as 
to stock up on the limited edition 
Chromatica Oreo’s when they came 
out in early 2021. She thrifted many 
of her clothes and did makeup ex -
pertly. 
Erica Allen knew her love for 
makeup from shared experiences 
as the front-of-house manager 
at Crane Ramen, where Obando 
worked since August 2021.
When a punk music festival 
came to Gainesville Halloween 
weekend, Crane Ramen was ready 
to be slammed with customers. 
However, rain and gloom prevent -
ed the crowds and left the staff with 
little to do. Obando found an outlet.
Obando, who had dressed up as 
a bunny complete with face-paint 
and ears, painted another staff 
member’s face with excitement. 
“She looked so happy,” Allen 
said. “She was so giddy and excited 
that someone was letting her do 
their makeup.”Obando’s professors took notice 
of her intelligence. 
When she spoke up in her 
“What is Desire?” class, assistant 
professor Pietro Bianchi listened 
closely. 
She gave thoughtful, precise and 
intelligent commentary on all the 
topics they explored in the class, 
where students analyzed the con -
cept of desire and sexuality through 
film and literature. When she took 
the class in her last semester, Fall 
2021, Bianchi knew she was spe -
cial. 
“She was one of the most bril -
liant and smart [students], not only 
that I had in this class, but I think 
that I’ve ever met in general among 
all the undergraduate students that 
I have met since I started to work at 
UF,” he said.
Her final paper explored the 
film Lost Highway (1997) by Da -
vid Lynch, a director notorious 
for macbre and mind-bending cin -
ematic experiences. Bianchi, who 
analyzed the film himself, was 
blown away by her investigation of 
its themes. 
“She gave interpretations of this 
film that were so interesting and 
surprising and original that it’s one 
of those cases where even as a pro -
fessor, you learn something from 
your students,” he said.
Bianchi wasn’t the only one in 
awe at her intelligence. Obando 
spoke three languages: English, 
French and Spanish. She and her 
friend Charles Karcher would text 
in French to keep up their skills.
The two met when Karcher 
and a friend formed the UF Young 
Democratic Socialists of America in 
2019. Obando joined the club when 
it first started, and a friendship 
formed from their shared passion 
for remedying societal issues. 
“She cared about things like social justice and socialism and 
stuff,” Karcher said. “It was defi -
nitely a part of her personality that 
brought us together.”
The two protested when Char -
lie Kirk, a conservative radio talk 
show host, came to speak at UF in 
2019. They also advocated for a liv -
able wage by protesting Aramark 
— a food supplier to UF that uses 
prison labor. 
When the club fell apart, Oban -
do and Karcher didn’t give up and 
got back to activism work when 
the pandemic started. They found 
themselves consistently disappoint -
ed in UF’s response to COVID-19, 
including its lack of a mask man -
date and vaccine mandate.
Obando connected with oth -
ers over their shared morals. Liel 
Zoran, a 20-year-old UF psychology 
graduate met her in a philosophy 
class and frequented the same po -
litical circles. 
“She’s this kind of person that 
when you’re around, you just feel 
at ease. You just feel peaceful be -
cause you know that you don’t 
need to worry about trying to be 
someone that you’re not,” Zoran 
said. “She was the type of person 
that just made me feel so accept -
ed.”
Obando’s friends and family set 
up two GoFundMes to raise mon -
ey for funeral expenses and flying 
Obando’s body back to Miami. As 
of Sunday, they raised $14,889 of 
their $10,000 goal. Another fund -
raiser began Jan. 7 and has raised 
$5,000 of their $25,000 goal by Jan. 
10.
“She was a bright spark in the 
world taken far too soon, and she 
will be deeply missed by all who 
had the privilege of knowing and 
loving her,” the GoFundMe read.
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.org“To be her friend was to feel true joy”: In Honor of Sabrina Marie Obando
Courtesy to The Alligator
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff
Deceased UF graduate awed her friends and 
professor with wit, kindness and intelligence6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
When national news told UF professor 
Mark Hostetler that COVID-19 cases were 
going up, he watched the UF Health Screen, 
Test and Protect dashboard regularly that 
monitored the virus on campus. 
“I think as a teacher, as a student and 
as a staff member, it’s important to know 
locally what’s going on,” the wildlife 
ecology and conservation professor said.
But the university’s STP dashboard was 
halted as COVID-19 cases increased in 
Alachua County. 
A campus brief on Dec. 13 announced 
that UF was transferring services provided 
under UF Health Screen, Test & Protect to 
the Florida Department of Health. 
Hostetler fears that not being able to see 
the number of COVID-19 cases locally will 
detach people from the virus.
“If you report the numbers and see the 
number of staff, faculty and students that 
are quarantined themselves, it kind of 
reinforces that behavior,” he said. “If you 
don’t have it locally, it’s just like something 
out there.”
Hostetler acknowledged the numbers 
reported on the dashboard are not 100% 
accurate as some people do to not report 
their test results. “I sympathize with them,” Hostetler 
said. “Why would they report? What’s the 
ramifications if they’re positive?”
The UF Health STP program was part 
of the initial emergency response to 
COVID-19, UF Health spokesperson Ken Garcia wrote in an email. The transition of 
services to existing local and state health 
infrastructure is the next phase in UF’s 
response.
Student and employee testing for 
COVID-19 still exists, but it was transferred to the Student Health Care Center. Students 
who went to set up an appointment at the 
end of December before the start of the 
Spring semester saw no available time 
slots. 
UF responded and returned testing to 
the Ben Hill Griffin Stadium during the first 
week of classes, Garcia wrote. 
Students, faculty and staff are also able 
to receive vaccines and boosters through 
the Student Health Care Center and UF 
Health pharmacies at no cost. The same 
screening exists and can be found through 
ONE.UF.
However, UF Health ended its STP 
dashboard. The dashboard made it easy to 
track COVID-19 cases among UF affiliates. 
Charts and graphs showed the number of 
daily tests, contact tracing, isolation and 
quarantine.
Upon visiting the website, a notice 
currently appears with the effective 
discontinuation date of Dec. 31. This 
service has also been transferred to the 
FDOH. The issue raised questions about 
the ease of accessing this data. 
Garcia wrote that the FDOH releases this 
data on Fridays and that Alachua County 
provides it on its dashboard.
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.org
AMID A YEAR OF 
TRANSITIONS, STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT PREPARES 
FOR UPCOMING EVENTS 
AND ELECTIONS THIS SPRING
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
Student Government released a 
timeline for the upcoming Spring 
election and planned semester 
events during its first week of the 
semester.
After a Fall semester that saw 
graduate seat vacancies and an 
unusually low number of bills on 
the Senate floor, SG officers are 
preparing for the Spring semester.
Elections, which will take 
place in late February, kick off 
with party registration beginning 
9 a.m. Jan. 21. Students can visit 
the SG office located in the Reitz 
Union to register parties, which 
must be completed by noon Jan. 
27. 
An informational meeting will 
mark the beginning of the election 
Jan. 25. 
After registration, qualifying 
and slating will take place to 
determine party candidates until 
Feb. 2. 
Students can cast their votes for 
the Executive Branch, including 
the Student Body President, Vice 
President and Treasurer, and 50 
Senators (by college) Feb. 22 to 
23. Results will be announced 
Mar. 1. It is unclear what specific 
parties plan on registering.
Gator Party holds a Senate 
majority with over 60 seats. Change Party has nine senators.
Students can contact the 
supervisor of elections, Alexandra 
Stedman, with questions about 
the election. 
Senate Pro-Tempore Noah 
Fineberg (Gator, District A) wrote 
in an email that throughout 
the semester students can look 
forward to SG’s high level of 
programs and services. 
“My goals remain the same 
as they were when I first ran for 
this job,” Fineberg wrote in an 
email. “Making government work 
better, continuing to use Senate’s 
platforms to encourage more 
students to apply for open seats 
and holding one-on-ones with 
every Senator.”
The Big Event, a day of 
community service hosted by SG, 
is planned for Mar. 19. The day 
features three- to four-hour service 
events with the mission of giving 
back to Gainesville’s community. 
Jake Siegel, Chair of Student 
Government Productions, said 
in a Senate meeting Nov. 9 that 
SGP had two concerts planned for 
February and March. The details 
of those events have not yet been 
announced. 
“Our focus as we move into the 
next semester is to provide large-
scale big events,” Siegel said.
SG hasn’t scheduled any more 
events for the student body this 
semester. 
Students can expect new 
legislation to make its way to 
the Senate floor. The Resolution 
Recognizing and Upholding the 
Zero Waste Mission Commitment 
authored by Minority Party Leader Gabrielle Adekunle is to be passed 
in the coming semester. 
The resolution, which seeks 
to commit UF to reducing waste 
by 2030, was postponed by the 
Judiciary Committee Dec. 5 on the 
grounds that the wording did not 
meet the requirements expected 
of a resolution. If amended, the 
resolution will be reviewed again 
by the Judiciary Committee.Adekunle did not respond for 
comment. 
Despite the two-party system, 
the Communist Party, led by 
President Alfredo Ortiz, 21, 
hopes to see more party diversity 
within SG and an emphasis on 
democratic values.
“Our goal this election is to call 
attention to the violation of rights 
that not just happen in Student Government, but also the Florida 
state government,” Ortiz said. 
“Things like representation in the 
Senate.”
Other parties did not respond 
to The Alligator in time for 
publication.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgUF Health discontinued Screen, Test & Protect in light of Spring semester’s start
UF Student Government prepares for the Spring SemesterAshleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Kate McNamara / / Alligator Staff
UF Health STP was created in May 2020 as an emergency response to the COVID-19 pandemicKeep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Gator basketball weathers a stormy season
A closer look at Florida men’s basketball’s turbulent season, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
THE WEEKND’S 16-TRACK ALBUM 
DROPPED ON FRIDAY  
By Thandie Brown
Alligator Staff Writer
A suffocating relationship fueled by 
gasoline and the blind will to keep moving 
forward make a great story. Include ’80s 
synthesizers and love-toned harmonies and 
the recipe for the next The Weeknd album 
is in your hands. I wasn’t expecting to travel 
through the last 40 years of music listening to 
this project but I did, twice. 
Eleven years after the release of his mixtape 
trilogy “House of Balloons,” “Thursday” and 
“Echoes of Silence,” The Weeknd is a multi-
platinum, Grammy award-winning artist. His 
newest album released on Jan. 7, “Dawn FM,” 
marks one of the first music projects to be 
dropped in 2022.
Abel Tesfaye, better known as The 
Weeknd, boasts a broad and bold discography 
using elements of ’80s funk, pop and R&B. 
On Spotify, the 31-year-old artist has over 80 
million monthly listeners, and Friday’s drop 
shared a new 52-minute, 16-track album. 
Through the album, The Weeknd invited 
his listeners to once again feel the nostalgia he 
conveys in his music.
The Weeknd’s work parodies popular 
Christian radio station 103.5 WMUZ-FM. 
Instead of using his music to spread ‘the Good 
News,’ these songs, although upbeat, carry 
a sultry underlying tone that discuss unholy 
experiences. 
He frames these experiences through 
nostalgic radio mixes, classic ’80s remixes and 
textured sound effects. 
Staying true to the era, instrumental breaks 
build the anticipation for The Weeknd’s 
harmonies.
Transitions between songs “Dawn FM,” 
“Gasoline,” “How Do I Make You Love 
Me” and “Take My Breath” are smooth and 
seamless. The basic drum samples are upbeat 
and pass from one song effortlessly to the 
next. 
The Weeknd does not waver from his 
signature style either. 
Many of these tracks have a ‘gotcha’ factor 
— the tunes imply relaxation but the lyrics 
make you concentrate. After listening to the 
album, you want to watch his music video 
and listen again. The subtle metaphors of his 
lyrics are illustrated in the music videos for 
“Sacrifice” and “Take My Breath.” 
Rappers Lil Wayne and Tyler, the Creator 
are the two musical artists he featured on 
this project. Tyler appears on “Here We 
Go… Again” and Wayne on “I Heard You’re 
Married.”
Michael Jackson’s historic influence is 
strongly heard in “Here We Go… Again.” 
Lies, love and dreams are richly sung. The synthesizer that carries the track complements 
The Weeknd’s vocals, while Tyler’s verse 
stresses caution in these kinds of relationships. 
Wayne’s verse in “I Heard You’re Married” 
delivers a sour humor that bitterly fits the 
song. 
Although The Weeknd uses his creativity 
to tell a story about people’s pleasures and 
desires, he also sings about the painful realities 
that these pleasures cost. “Starry Eyes” is a 
track that sums the personal costs of staying in 
unhealthy relationships. The haunting melody 
and the shortness of the song play into that 
danger of wanting more of a bad thing. 
My favorite song on “Dawn FM” is “Out 
of Time.” 
As an avid Japanese ’80s pop mixtape 
lover, hearing the intro for “Midnight 
Pretenders,” written by Tomoko Aran and 
Tetsuro Hamada, made me jump up and listen 
with more excitement. “Out of Time” is a 
reflective song and delivers a message similar to Bruno Mars’ “When I Was Your Man.” It 
reframed the original desire in Aran’s song in 
the despairing loss of no longer having who 
you want.
As The Weeknd’s perspective on who he 
desires changes, the messages that alluded to 
salvation earlier in the album are now more 
aggressive and carry harder tones. 
Interlude, “A Tale By Quincy” and songs 
“Sacrifice” and “Starry Eyes” define those 
changes in the album. The tempo is more 
progressive — similar to ’90s tracks. 
As the styles of the songs become more 
modern, the relationship he describes in the 
beginning of the album loses its luster. 
A softer drumming of the guitar frames 
“Less Than Zero” as he sings about moving 
on. He uses this instrument to share how the 
intensity of the relationships have softened. 
They’ve lost their vibrancy and he is ready to 
let go. 
The Weeknd’s aged appearance on the cover isn’t a coincidence. Experiencing 
relationships like the ones in this album are 
taxing. The head-bopping ’80s tracks make 
the story’s heaviness easier to digest. 
This is a great new selection for Karaoke 
Night with friends or family. 
As of Jan. 8, Billboard’s Hot 100 listed The 
Weeknd in two spaces. Separate collaborations 
with artists Doja Cat and Post Malone, earned 
him spots 39 and 42 on the list. 
Producing an album like this after 
experiencing a Grammy snub last year shows 
how The Weeknd’s artistry spotlights the 
things that bring him pain. He collaborated 
with no less than 15 producers to create 
“Dawn FM.” 
This final product shows their collaboration 
and deserves a rating of 9/10.
@decidedlioness
tbrown@alligator.orgRate and Review: The Weeknd balances nostalgia and new age in “Dawn FM”
MUSICMUSIC
Makiya Seminera / / Alligator Staff .
LUNES, 10 DE ENERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Gators erase 19-point deficit for first SEC win
Gators survive double-overtime thriller for first SEC win of the Finley Era,  pg. 11El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
NUEVOS CASOS ENTRE EL 
PERSONAL ALCANZAN SU 
PUNTO MÁS ALTO DESDE QUE 
LAS ESCUELAS REABRIERON 
EN AGOSTO DE 2020
Por Emma Behrmann
Escritora de El Caimán
Traducido por Jose T ovar
Escritor de El Caimán
Los nuevos casos de COVID-19 
entre personal y estudiantes se 
han más que triplicado después 
de los primeros cuatro días de 
vuelta a las aulas luego del 
descanso de invierno — y esta 
información podría ser una 
subestimación, dijo la portavoz 
de ACPS, Jackie Johnson. 
“Hemos tenido la mayor 
cantidad de casos activos que 
jamás hayamos tenido,'' dijo 
Johnson. “Y hemos tenido el 
número semanal más alto desde 
que las escuelas reabrieron.” 
Luego de la primera semana 
de vuelta, hubo 334 nuevos casos 
de estudiantes y 55 nuevos casos 
en el personal — contribuyendo a 
un total de 476 casos reportados entre ambos grupos.  
Durante la semana previa, 
en la cual el personal y los 
estudiantes estaban de descanso, 
aún hubo 78 nuevos casos 
de estudiantes y 16 nuevos 
casos de personal reportados. 
Comparados con esta primera 
semana de vuelta a las aulas, los 
casos de personal aumentaron 
por un 243% y los casos de 
estudiantes aumentaron por un 
328%. Incluso con un incremento 
reportado, Johnson dijo que esos 
números probablemente sean 
una subestimación. 
“El problema es el tiempo de 
retraso con las pruebas,” dijo 
Johnson. “Los empleados nos 
notifican que tienen síntomas, 
y les toma dos o tres días para 
obtener una cita para examinarse 
y les toma otro par de días para 
recibir los resultados.”
El mandato de mascarilla 
para empleados, visitantes y 
voluntarios tenía como objetivo 
combatir la propagación del 
virus. A pesar de este esfuerzo, el 
ACPS ha tenido el total semanal 
más alto de casos activos entre el 
personal desde Agosto de 2020. El ACPS advierte a las familias 
que el incremento de casos 
en el personal podría afectar 
operaciones diarias tales como 
el transporte de autobús. El 
condado también espera más 
ausencias de maestros durante 
este aumento. 
 A lo largo de este mes, 
el Departamento de Salud 
del Condado de Alachua está 
ofreciendo vacunas en todas las 
escuelas primarias y medias del 
ACPS. Cualquier persona mayor 
de 5 años puede recibir una 
vacuna. 
En las escuelas primarias hubo 
112 nuevos casos de estudiantes 
y 29 nuevos casos de personal 
hasta el Domingo. En las 
escuelas medias hubo 79 nuevos 
casos de estudiantes y cinco 
nuevos casos de personal. Las 
escuelas secundarias vieron 141 
nuevos casos de estudiantes y 
12 nuevos casos de personal. En 
departamentos de personal, hubo 
siete nuevos casos de personal.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.org
LA COMISIÓN DE LA CIUDAD DE 
GAINESVILLE PARÓ EL DESARROLLO 
DE UN SUPERMERCADO BRAVO 
EN LA CALLE HAWTHORNE ESTE 
PASADO JUEVES
Por Erina Anwar
Escritora de El Caimán
Traducido por Marian Hernandez
Escritora de El Caimán 
La comisión de la ciudad de Gainesville ha 
cancelado su plan de abrir un supermercado 
Bravo en el lote vacío en la calle Hawthorne, 
dejando a muchos residentes del este de 
Gainesville en un desierto alimenticio. 
La comisión de la ciudad tuvo una reunión 
general el jueves, donde se discutió el futuro 
de los planes de desarrollo de la franquicia del 
Bravo, una cadena de supermercados centrada 
en comida hispana que fue aprobada en junio 
del 2021. 
La ciudad aprobó un préstamo de $3.3 mil -
lones para abrir un supermercado en el lote 
vacío en la calle Hawthorne. 
Los residentes del este de Gainesville ex -presaron su descontento con la ubicación pl -
anificada para el mercado ya que hubo poco 
involucramiento comunitario al escoger el su -
permercado. 
El desarrollador de bienes raíces, Frederic 
Washington fue la primera persona en convenc -
er a Bravo a sumarse al plan. Durante la reunión 
de la comisión de la ciudad, Washington dijo 
que la reacción negativa de los miembros de 
la comunidad fue parte de la razón por la cual 
Bravo ya no quiere venir al este de Gainesville. 
“Francamente me dio mucha pena”, Wash -
ington dijo. “Pareciera que estábamos tratando 
de traer uranio de grado armamentístico al este 
de Gainesville dad la manera en la que nos 
trataron.” 
La comisión de la ciudad examinó la lista de 
verificación buscando debida diligencia durante 
el proceso de desarrollo. 
Los desarrolladores no entregaron los docu -
mentos requeridos. 
La administradora interina de la ciudad, 
Cynthia Curry dijo que ella recibió un correo 
electrónico de uno de los socios del proyecto de 
desarrollo comunicando que querían salirse del 
plan porque el lugar era muy caro. 
El personal de la ciudad de Gainesville sug -irió que no se siguiera adelante con el plan ac -
tual de desarrollo. 
La comisión de la ciudad decidió que la me -
jor medida a tomar era aceptar las sugerencias 
del personal y votar por parar el desarrollo de 
Bravo. 
La notaria Reina Saco expresó su disgusto 
con el hecho que el proyecto haya sido deteni -
do. 
“Yo entiendo que nosotros somos mayordo -
mos del dinero de la población…necesitamos 
algo que no se quede a medias”, dijo Saco. 
“Creo que nuestra opción ahora es reabrir ese 
proceso”. 
Saco dijo que la ciudad va a reabrir la so -
licitud de propuestas a los negocios para decidir 
qué hacer con el lote vacío en la calle Haw -
thorne y volver a comenzar el proceso de desar -
rollar un supermercado. 
El notario David Arreola mencionó durante 
la reunión que el presupuesto se mantendría 
reservado para un proyecto de comestibles. 
“Creo que como comisión debemos tomar la 
responsabilidad por cómo llegamos aquí”, dijo. 
La comisión tendrá una discusión más de -
tallada sobre cómo seguir adelante con este 
proyecto en una fecha posterior, dijo Arreola. Algunos residentes del este de Gainesville, 
como por ejemplo Tina Days, una conductora 
de entrega de comida de 43 años, dijo que ellos 
se opusieron a la construcción del Bravo porque 
la comisión de la ciudad tomó la decisión sin 
tomarlos en cuenta. 
“Por una parte estoy contenta porque sentí 
que un Bravo no iba a encajar. Pero por otra 
parte, estoy furiosa”. Dijo Days luego de que el 
proyecto se detuviera. “En el lado oeste, hay un 
supermercado casi en cada esquina. Pero para 
el lado este no pueden atraer ni un supermer -
cado”
Days dijo que es común que los supermer -
cados se vayan luego de ocupar este lote vacío 
en Hawthorne. 
“Vamos durante una semana y ya la próx -
ima semana están cerrados, sin informarnos”, 
dijo ella. “No dan ninguna razón”
Los residentes del este de Gainesville ahora 
siguen esperando en un desierto alimenticio 
para el futuro inmediato- o por lo menos hasta 
que otro supermercado esté de acuerdo con de -
sarrollarse allí”
@ErinaAnwar_
eanwar@alligator.orgEL TOTAL HA AUMENTADO 
11 CASOS DESDE EL JUEVES  
Por Troy Myers
Escritor de El Caimán
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora de El Caimán
A partir de este pasado 
viernes, más de cien prisioneros 
en la prisión del condado de 
Alachua dieron positivos al 
Covid-19, dijo la portavoz de la 
oficina del alguacil del condado, 
la capitana Kaley Behl. 
Entre los casos positivos, 
ochenta y ocho son masculinos 
y veinte son femeninos. 
Adicionalmente, veintisiete 
empleados dieron positivo al 
virus, Behl dijo. 
Las visitas en persona y 
los programas de los presos 
permanecerán en pausa. 
“Los que se llevan a cabo 
dentro de la prisión que 
requieren que ellos se muevan o 
que se reúnan en grupos, como 
los programas de educación 
secundaria para adultos”, dijo 
Behl. “Todos esos están en pausa”. 
La prisión les ofrece 
las vacunas de Johnson & 
Johnson, requiere mascarillas, 
distanciamiento social, y 
hace descontaminaciones con 
fumigadores regularmente. 
Ningún preso ha sido 
hospitalizado por motivos de 
Covid-19 hasta el momento y la 
mayoría está sintiendo síntomas 
de un reflujo leve, Behl dijo. 
La cárcel va a requerir tomos 
de temperaturas con regularidad, 
el uso de las mascarillas N-95, 
el distanciamiento social, y 
no permitirá que el personal 
cene junto para reducir la 
propagación del virus entre los 
empleados. Aunque no hay un 
número exacto con respecto 
a la frecuencia con la que se 
administran las pruebas, Behl 
dijo que son más que las que 
había antes. 
“Las pruebas están 
siendo recomendadas 
encarecidamente'', dijo Behl. 
“Definitivamente está subiendo 
el número de estas”.
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgCasos de COVID-19 en escuelas públicas del Condado de 
Alachua incrementan luego del descanso de invierno
Planes de un supermercado en el este de Gainesville fueron cancelados por la comisión de la ciudadEl condado de Alachua enfrenta incrementos en 
casos positivos de Covid-19 entre prisioneros  BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
MATTRESS AND FURNITURE SALE
MATTRESS SET SUPER SALE: TWIN 
SETS $89 FULL SETS $129 QUEEN SETS 
$149 KING SETS $199: NEW 6-DRAWER 
DRESSERS $220: NEW 5-DRAWER CHEST 
$199: WE HAVE OVER 300 MATTRESSES 
IN STOCK: SAME DAY DELIVERY: WE 
DELIVER: COME TO OUR LOCATED AT 4390 
SW 20TH AVE GAINESVILLE: 352-376-0953       
1-31-22-5-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    12-6-12-10
Online Public Auction
Bidding closes: 
Monday, January 17th, 2022 at 10:00 A.M.
Assets located in Pompano Beach, FL
Sale will consist of: office equipment and 
office furniture including but not limited to: 
desktop computers, laptops, printers, TV’s, 
Ergo human elite chairs, Ergotron monitor 
systems, networking equipment, IP office 
VoIP phones, computer peripherals, office 
supplies, artwork, copier, various authentic 
Vegas slot machines, glass slot machine 
inserts, industrial power supplies, A/V equip -
ment, arcade games and more. Registration, 
catalog, photos and terms available at
www.moeckerauctions.com.
Preview: 01/14 by appointment. 
Call for details 
(954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Assets from Liberty Power Corp, LLC. 
Case No. CACE-21-010056 | National 
Senior Insurance, Inc. d/b/a Seeman Holtz 
Case No. 50-2021-CA-008718-XXXX-MB 
and other companies.                     1-10-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
12-6-16-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     12-6-21-16-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
Available for August 2022 Houses walking 
and biking distance to campus. See gaines-
villequalityrentalhouses.com Feel free to text 
or call 352-339-2342. For more information or 
appointments to view houses           1-18-22-5-2
5 Real Estate
Grantwood Condo is a 2 bedroom, 2 bath-
room, recently updated, with washer and 
dryer, furniture included. View on Zillow at 
2508 SW 35th Place, Unit 52, Gainesville 
32608 $159k/OBO call 727-214-8680        
1-10-22-4-5
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
12-6-21-16-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
11..    LLeeaasstt
11..    WWiinnddooww  ddrreessssiinngg  55..    LLeegg  ________
22..    FFiigghhtt,,  aarrgguuee  66..    SSiiggnn  ooff  aann  aannggrryy  ddoogg
33..    BBaacckk  77..    FFiixxeedd,,  aabbssoolluuttee  
44..    CCuurrlleedd  uuppFFSSEEEETTWW
CCEEFFAADDAAMMAAPPCCRR
LLWWRROOGG
LLEEAANNWWGGRR
RRUUSSPPTTPPOOEEDDEEVVTTSS
DDOOCCEEIILLAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--FFeewweesstt    55AA--CCrraammpp    66AA--GGrroowwll    77AA--VVeesstteedd
11DD--FFaaccaaddee    22DD--WWrraannggllee    33DD--SSuuppppoorrtt    44DD--CCooiilleedd    BB--CCaappee  TToowwnn11--1100--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: IInn  22001144,,  ________  ________  wwaass  nnaammeedd  tthhee  bbeesstt  ppllaaccee  
iinn  tthhee  wwoorrlldd  ttoo  vviissiitt  bbyy  TThhee  DDaaiillyy  TTeelleeggrraapphh..
BONUS●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
12-6-21-12-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
11Motorcycles/Mopeds
2019 INDIAN FTR 1200
Call Steve 352-213-2462 
12-6-21-3-11
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
12-6-16-12
13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
12-6-21-16-13
Dachshund Wanted
Purple Heart veteran looking for older dachs-
hund for companionship. My 19 year old 
dachshund died recently. I am 82 years young. 
Please call 904.536.6881 if you can help.     
1-18-22-3-13
Say: "I FOUND IT IN   
thealligator"10 For Sale 6 Furnishings
By Daniel Bodily
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/10/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/10/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, January 10, 2022
ACROSS
1 It may be acute, 
obtuse or right
6 Lee with desserts
10 Way cool, in the 
’90s
14 High school 
experiment site
16 Mishmash dish
17 *Sensei’s studio
18 Poker pot starter
19 Khan of Khan 
Academy
20 Greek T
21 Rage
22 *Loud, wet 
weather event
26 Big jets
29 Fictional lawyer 
Perry
30 Leave red-faced
31 Central points
33 Hat-tipper’s word
36 Beer barrel
37 *Source of crude
40 Edible hero
41 Stonestreet of 
“Modern Family”
43 Climbing plant
44 “In __, there is 
always too much 
singing”: Debussy
46 Game with 
settlers
48 Noisy quarrel
49 *Site of spares 
and splits
53 Fed. security
54 What the ewe 
said
55 Cashew or 
almond
58 Emerald Isle
59 Home plate ump’s 
concern ... or 
what the answer 
to each starred 
clue can be?
63 “High Voltage” 
band
64 Places for 
astronomy buffs
65 Screen door stuff
66 Wile E. Coyote’s 
supplier
67 Funny sketches
DOWN
1 More than 
wonders
2 Final Four org.
3 One of a group 
who “just wanna 
have fu-un”: 
Cyndi Lauper4 Meadow
5 Sinus doc
6 Four-door, 
usually
7 Not whispered
8 Koothrappali on 
“The Big Bang 
Theory”
9 Blood type letters
10 “The __ of the 
44-Across”
11 “Wait, I’ll be right 
there!”
12 Daisylike flower
13 Unit of heat 
energy
15 Whale 
constellation 
(anagram of 
CUTES)
21 Stubborn animal
22 “American Dad!” 
channel
23 Santa’s jolly 
syllables
24 Awards show 
host
25 Skateboard park 
feature
26 Actor Gyllenhaal
27 __ Eats: delivery 
service
28 Abracadabra 
et al.
31 Casual love affair32 Accept blame for
34 Celestial glow
35 CFOs’ degrees
38 Lendl of tennis
39 Campfire stories, 
say
42 Pasadena 
engineering sch.
45 Fork over
47 Reason for extra 
innings
48 Snow speck
49 Second-string 
squad50 Chilling
51 The “A” in James 
A. Garfield
52 Singer Frankie
55 Sushi roll wrap
56 Inch or yard
57 Tazo products
59 Pampering place
60 Pampering, 
initially
61 UFO crew
62 Drummer 
Starkey, son of 
Ringo
By Jeffrey Wechsler
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC01/06/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
01/06/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Thursday, January 6, 2022
ACROSS
1 Star-crossed
8 Enhanced the 
recipe with
15 “Invisible Man” 
author
16 Always raring to 
fight
17 Buzz
19 Increase, with 
“up”
20 Org. monitoring 
insecticides
21 Vex
22 Sideline advisers
25 Buzz
33 Tickle
34 Rock box
35 Marathon 
Petroleum brand
36 “The spring is 
__ when green 
geese are 
a-breeding”: 
Shak.
37 Intuitively grasp, 
in slang
38 Calculated intake
39 “Medical” sports 
nickname
42 Cuisine including 
jambalaya
44 Buzz
47 Calculated intake
48 West African 
capital
52 Bed for an 
unexpected 
guest, maybe
53 Puts out, in a way
57 Buzz
61 Developing
62 Place to put your 
feet up
63 Lowered
64 Bygone 
employees of 
cautious royalty
DOWN
1 Toothless farm 
denizens
2 Plenty
3 Ballet motion
4 Struggle with 
scissors?
5 Santa Fe-to-
Dallas dir.
6 2013 Alice 
McDermott 
novel that was 
a National Book 
Award finalist7 Get testy with
8 Evoke an “ooh” 
from, maybe
9 Small application
10 Like a country at 
the bottom of a 
rainfall chart
11 2013 Mandela 
portrayer
12 Food regimen
13 Swedish 
superstore
14 Hornet home
18 Russian retreat
22 Trig. function
23 Verbal pause
24 Dubious ability
25 Sykes of  
“black-ish”
26 Treats with 
embossed 
surfaces
27 __ beast: holiday 
dinner in a Seuss 
classic
28 Engraver 
Albrecht
29 Persisted noisily, 
as a storm
30 Diamond flaw?
31 USDA concern
32 Memento
39 CSI stuff
40 Snitch41 Like gossip worth 
spreading
42 Bach wrote one 
about coffee
43 “Kidnapped” 
monogram
45 Speaks formally
46 Likely to scald
48 Within
49 With 50-Down, 
group for movie 
enthusiasts
50 See 49-Down
51 Comic Rudner53 Bring (out)
54 Top
55 __ gum:  
common 
thickening agent
56 RR sched. 
components
58 “__ we on for 
tonight?”
59 Dowel
60 Repeated 
contraction in 
the ’50s TV 
“Superman” intro
01/05/2022solution on page 10
solution  on page 10
15 Services 13 Wanted
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
Little Guys Movers
Now Hiring $14/hr. Plus TIPS
352-329-4040
1-31-22-5-15
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Math Tutor & HW Coach for 5th Grader
Math tutor and Homework Coach for 5th 
grader with ADD, speech sound disorder, and 
reading comprehension disorder. Assistance 
in 5th grade common core math concepts, 
establishing executive function skills, and 
motivation and managing ADD symptoms 
preferred. Excellent opportunity for anyone 
interested in working with children with learn-
ing disabilities. $25/hr, hours flexible. Email 
qualifications to: mhefron@hotmail.com                        
1-31-22-4-14
15 Services
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)      1-10-1-15CryptoQuote  solution
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
THE KEY IS TO KEEP COMPANY ONLY WITH PEOPLE WHO UPLIFT YOU, 
WHOSE PRESENCE CALLS FORTH YOUR BEST.
—EPICTETUS
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
solution  below1. "Carrie"
2. Burger King
3. Abraham Lincoln
4. Keaton
5. The wolf in the story
6. Bombay
7. "True Grit"
8. "Nineteen Eighty-Four," by George 
Orwell
9. -40 degrees C and and -40 degrees F 
10. AtlantaTrivia Test answersPlanning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532      
1-10-1-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!          1-10-1-15
NEED HELP WITH MATH?
ONLINE tutoring for Math, any level and 
subject. Academic Support in all subjects 
offered, too. Call Lilly @ (305) 302-7170. 
Gator helping Gators!             1-10-22-2-15
DISCOUNT AIR TRAVEL. Call Flight 
Services for best pricing on domestic & 
international flights inside and from the 
US. Serving United, Delta, American & 
Southwest and many more airlines. Call for 
free quote now! Have travel dates ready! 
888-858-0128                                 1-10-1-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 1-10-1-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen     1-10-1-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov-
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                         1-10-1-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-1920 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
12-6-16-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
High Fliers
HIGH FLIERS by Jim Esposito.  High in the 
sky over Florida. Very high. Very funny novel 
about G-ville's bad old days by Alligator 
Alumni. Available on Amazon.com.
1-10-21-7-21
24 Pets
Beautiful Rhodesian Ridgeback puppies, 
born Dec. 16th, will be weaned and ready 
for a forever home on Feb. 12th! Health 
Certification and vaccinations included! Call 
352-665-7062.                                2-7-22-5-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND or 
email classified@alligator.org today!answers below1. LITERATURE: What was the title of Ste -
phen King's first published novel?
2. ADVERTISING SLOGANS: Which restaurant 
chain has the advertising slogan, "Have it 
your way"?
3. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the first 
president whose likeness appeared on a 
U.S. coin?
4. TELEVISION: What is the family's last 
name in the "Family Ties" sitcom?
5. LANGUAGE: What does the Latin phrase 
"lupus in fabula" mean?
6. GEOGRAPHY: What did the city of Mum -
bai, India, used to be called?
7. MOVIES: Which movie features a charac -
ter called Rooster Cogburn?
8. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel fea -
tures a type of language called "newspeak"?
9. SCIENCE: What temperature is the same 
on the Celsius and Fahrenheit scales?
10. FOOD & DRINK: Where was Coca-Cola 
first sold?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLTHE GATORS HAVE 
STRUGGLED AS OF LATE 
AFTER A STRONG START 
TO THE 2021-22 SEASON  
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer 
The Gators opened the season 
in early November at seventh in the 
SEC media poll and were unranked 
amongst the nation according to the 
Associated Press. 
Three weeks later, they were 
an undefeated, top-25 team with a 
ranked victory over bitter rivals Flor -
ida State. The statement win against 
the Seminoles was the first under 
Florida head coach Mike White, 
snapping a seven-game losing streak 
to the across-state foes. UF forced 17 
turnovers in the game with the help 
of a monstrous six-block performance 
from senior Colin Castleton. 
Fast forward three more weeks, 
and they’re out of the AP poll — win -
less in conference play and 3-5 over 
their last eight games. Those five 
losses include the likes of Maryland, 
Texas Southern and Oklahoma. 
This situation has left many of the 
UF faithful wondering: How did this 
happen?
This inconsistency isn't as unex -
pected as it looks. It goes back to the Nov. 24 matchup against Ohio State, 
in the midst of Florida’s six-game 
winning streak to begin the season. 
The championship game of the Fort 
Myers Tip-Off was destined for over -
time as the scoreboard became knot -
ted at 68. Senior Tyree Appleby took 
one dribble past the mid-court before 
heaving a prayer towards the rim. His 
shot miraculously dropped through 
the net — deciding the game by the 
slimmest margin available in basket -
ball. 
The Gators emerged victorious, 
but that doesn’t mean they put them -
selves into a winning position. Florida 
shot a meager 1-9 from behind the 
arc in the first half and found itself 
trailing by four after 20 minutes, but 
pulled back after shooting 60% from 
range in the second. 
Alongside a sloppy 4:3 assist-turn -
over ratio for the season, these don’t 
signal any sort of sustainable success, 
and these small irregularities in wins 
quickly became reasons for losses. 
These inconsistencies finally be -
came decisive in Florida’s first true 
road test of the season against Okla -
homa, as UF shot 16.7% from three 
in the game. Unlike the matchup 
versus the Buckeyes, Florida couldn't 
turn things around in time for a last-
second victory. The Gators were de -
feated 74-67 in Norman, Oklahoma, 
after going scoreless in the last 1:58. Florida accumulated 16 turnovers, 
which the Sooners’ capitalized on to 
create 19 free points for their squad. 
When the Gators returned home to 
face at-the-time winless Texas South -
ern, their season reached its lowest 
point yet. Florida, again shooting 
under 25% from deep, while allow -
ing 32 bench points, and 42 points in 
the paint. The Gators fell by 14 to the 
Tigers in what many considered to be 
a bye game for UF. Perhaps this can 
be chalked up to fatigue, as it was the 
Gators’ fourth game in 12 days. Re -
gardless, that sort of performance is a 
tough pill to swallow for a team that 
was undefeated less than two weeks 
prior.
Florida was improving marginally, 
but is still working through crushing 
defeats. Despite shooting 38% from 
the field and reducing the turnover 
count to 12, it wasn’t enough, as the 
red-hot ‘Terps shot 60% from three 
in the contest and came out on top 
with a last second bucket from junior 
forward Donta Scott. 
Florida would rack up two more 
wins after being sent packing from 
the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New 
York and entered the holiday break 
mostly uncertain about its chances in 
conference play. It didn’t help that the 
first scheduled game of the new year 
against Ole Miss, which would have 
been an appreciated ramp-up for a competitive SEC, was postponed due 
to health and safety protocols.
Florida’s matinee SEC competi -
tion was now against the reigning 
conference champions, the Alabama 
Crimson Tide. As one might expect, 
the Gators’ lingering issues from De -
cember were apparent in the face of 
elevated competition. A season-high 
20 turnovers, accompanied by 19 
points each from ‘Bama’s Jahvon 
Quinerly and Juwan Gary, resulted in 
a 13 point loss at home for UF. 
This leads Florida to its most re -
cent defeat at the hands of Auburn on 
Saturday. The Gators were unable to 
take control of the game at any point, 
their largest lead of three coming just 
two minutes into the game. 
UF turned the ball over 12 times, 
an improvement after an abysmal 
performance the previous game, 
but not enough to surpass the bare 
minimum needed to topple the No. 9 
ranked Tigers. Auburn was firing on 
all cylinders, with a total shot percent -
age of 57% and 14 fast-break points. 
Florida’s helplessness in the game 
is best surmised by Auburn guard 
Wendell Green Jr. stepping back and 
cashing in from 30+ feet over a 6’11” 
Castleton to put the Tigers up 11 as 
halftime neared. 
With another dangerous SEC 
matchup against top-25 ranked Loui -
siana State on the horizon Wednes -day, Florida is in a very troubling po -
sition. On the bright side, the formula 
for turning the season around is laid 
out plainly for the Gators:
“Turnovers are something that’s 
kind of been our kryptonite,” senior 
Anthony Duruji said after the loss to 
AU. “We have to keep on making 
simple plays and reads, keep them 
from scoring in transition, and just be 
solid.” 
Not everything is in need of im -
provement, however. The Gators 
have been excellent at creating points 
off turnovers, with 22 compared to 
Auburn’s 13. That, and totaling 73 
points versus one the more stout de -
fensive units in the conference, is no 
scratch. Auburn ranks eighth in the 
nation for adjusted defensive efficien -
cy according to the Pomeroy Basket -
ball Rankings, a well-respected and 
comprehensive database for college 
basketball. 
The Gators conference schedule 
is daunting, but with 16 games to go 
in the regular season, there is still a 
substantial amount of time left before 
any assessments on their season be -
come concrete.
The Gators face off against Louisi -
ana State in the Stephen C. O’Connell 
Center January 12 at 7 p.m.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.org
KIARA SMITH AND ZIPPY 
BROUGHTON LED FLORIDA TO A 
TOUGH ROAD VICTORY WON AT 
THE FREE- THROW LINE
By Caleb Wiegandt
Sports Writer
Graduate senior Kiara Smith demanded the 
ball as Florida’s offense surged up the court, 
facing a Texas A&M defense that stood com -
pletely baffled by the diminutive guard. 
The redshirt senior takes two aggressive 
dribbles, hesitates, then takes another. She falls 
to the floor, absorbing the contact and flipping 
the ball towards the rim on the way down. It 
falls in; count the basket and the foul. 
Smith has executed this move so many 
times in a Gators tenure filled with agonizing 
defeats and embarrassing seasons. But this 
time, it contributed to a signature, top-25 win 
for Florida’s women’s basketball team.
After surviving an Aggie onslaught in the 
second quarter, it was Florida's veteran leader -
ship that got them to the free throw line and 
ultimately gave them an exhilarating first SEC 
victory under interim head coach Kelly Rae 
Finley. 
Florida (11-5, 1-2 SEC) upset No. 25 Texas 
A&M (10-5, 0-3 SEC) 97-89 on the road Sunday 
afternoon in double overtime in the team’s first 
game after losing leading scorer and rebound -
er Lavender Briggs to a stress reaction in her 
lower leg. Briggs dealt with the injury for some time 
before it was announced by Finley Friday 
morning that she would miss the remainder 
of the season. The Gators would come roaring 
back to outscore the Aggies 70-55 over the fi -
nal two quarters and subsequent overtimes to 
secure their first ever win in College Station, 
Texas after being down as many as 19 points 
early in the fourth quarter.
Senior guards Smith and Zippy Broughton 
were brilliant for Florida, leading the team with 
28 and 27 points respectively. Broughton de -
livered her baskets more evenly, scoring 14 of 
the Gators’ 27 first half points. Smith, however, 
poured in 25 points in the second half and sub -
sequent overtimes after only scoring two in the 
first half.
Both guards carved up an Aggies defense 
that allowed 26 points in the paint after half -
time. Fouled or not, both guards were difficult 
to stop when attacking the rim. 
“Kiki [Kiara Smith] and Zippy [Broughton] 
performed like the elite guards that they are,”  
Finley said. “They play both ends of the floor, 
they’re creative scorers and playmakers and 
they were fun to watch compete today.”
Forward Jordyn Merritt continued her ex -
cellent sophomore year, adding 17 points with 
5-8 shooting from beyond the arc. 
Both teams played a relatively sloppy first 
quarter, Texas A&M especially. The Aggies 
missed every field goal attempt until the 4:06 
mark of the period. Both teams shot abysmal 
percentages from the floor in that span, Florida 
31% and Texas A&M 17%. Aggies head coach Gary Blair called time -
out after a quick four points from Florida to 
open the second quarter. Quadashah Hoppie 
attacked the perimeter out of the stoppage, as 
Texas A&M’s lead guard slipped away from the 
Gator defense and found space for a number of 
3-pointers and mid-range baskets. The gradu -
ate student was a huge factor in the Aggies’ 
comeback late in the second quarter, finishing 
the first half with 12 points on 5-10 shooting. 
The Aggies owned the offensive glass in 
the first half, out rebounding the Gators 10-2 
while translating the advantage into 11 second-
chance points. Florida contributed to their half -
time deficit just as much, though, settling for 
and missing long- range baskets.
By the 4:30 mark of the third quarter, Texas 
A&M stretched its lead to 16. Immediately after 
that, the Gators went on a 9-0 run catalyzed by 
Smith and senior Kristina Moore, who provid -
ed a spark off the bench. Florida cut the Aggies’ 
lead to nine at the conclusion of the quarter. 
A flurry of Gator 3-pointers continued Flor -
ida’s run early in the fourth. Merritt connected 
for two baskets behind the arc, and Moore’s 
three gave the Gators their first lead since the 
second quarter.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@calebwiegandt
cwiegandt@alligator.orgA closer look at Florida men’s basketball’s turbulent season
Gators survive double-overtime thriller for first SEC win of the Finley era
Declan Walsh / / Alligator Staff
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREBASEBALL
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
Sophomore Hunter Barco will encounter 
an abundance of new faces when he scans 
the Florida pitching staff this season.
Twelve pitchers that entered the 2021 
season with the Gators are not returning 
this spring, and nine freshmen will enter 
their first season wearing orange and blue.
With the exception of Barco, Florida’s 
extreme roster turnover this offseason has 
shrouded the pitching staff in uncertainty.
Florida’s crop of highly touted freshmen 
could still vault Florida back into the na -
tional championship conversation despite 
the team’s lack of proven starpower. How 
that talent develops will likely determine 
how Florida fares in postseason play.
In Florida’s brief 2021 postseason ap -
pearance, manager Kevin O’Sullivan sent 
nine players to the mound through four 
games in the SEC Tournament and two at 
the NCAA Regional in Gainesville. Only 
two of those pitchers return this season: 
a preseason All-American selection by Per -
fect Game in Barco and fellow sophomore 
Brandon Sproat. 
Program staples like Tommy Mace, Jack 
Leftwich, Christian Scott and Franco Ale -
man have departed the team and gone pro. 
Although last season’s pitching staff was 
not always elite, posting a lowly 4.38 ERA, 
the leadership that those veterans provided 
will be sorely missed this season. The 2022 group will include only two 
upperclassmen: graduate student Garrett 
Milchin and redshirt junior Hunter Mc -
Mullen. The rest of the pitching staff con -
sists of sophomores or younger, although 
some players will enter their third year at 
UF, including Barco and Sproat — as 2020 
did not count towards their eligibility. As 
O’Sullivan tries to determine his starters 
and makeup of the bullpen, he will be rely -
ing on the performances he’s seen in fall 
training, as many players will be making 
their collegiate debuts this season. The one 
player that the skipper will be able to rely 
on most is Barco. As the Jacksonville na -
tive enters his third season in Gainesville, 
he will be looking to build on a stellar 
breakout season.
After entering the program as the No. 
14 prospect in the country according to 
Perfect Game, Barco made a name for 
himself in his first full season as a Gator. 
The southpaw delivered over 10 strikeouts 
per nine innings while leading the team in 
wins with ten and posting a .239 BAA.
His final start of the season was forget -
table, giving up two runs on five batters 
to open the South Alabama finale before 
getting pulled, but his last full start was 
a season highlight. Going up against the 
eventual national champion Mississippi 
State Bulldogs in the SEC Tournament, the 
lefty pitched all seven innings.
Giving up only one run and four hits, 
Barco muffled the ‘Dogs while the bats ran up the score to an eventual 13-1 victory.
That performance against the elite of -
fense of the 2021 Mississippi State squad, 
which averaged seven runs per game last 
season, is a hopeful sign for the season 
ahead. Regardless of where the rest of the 
K’s come from this season, O’Sullivan has 
his ace.
Sproat, the other pitcher returning from 
last year’s postseason, will likely serve as 
another starter for the Gators. The Pace, 
Florida, native made two starts in his 
freshman season. 
The first came in his debut start for 
Florida, falling 6-1 to the Stetson Hatters. 
Despite the scoreline, Sproat delivered four 
shutout innings and only allowed one hit. 
He fared poorly during his second start, 
however, allowing three runs and five hits 
in 3.2 innings against Tennessee in the SEC 
Tournament. 
Sproat may not have the experience 
against top-end talent that Barco boasts, 
but his experience as one of the older 
pitchers on the team will likely earn him 
more starts this season. 
The rest of the lineup is largely unclear.. 
O’Sullivan could opt for leaning on more 
experience with sophomore Timmy Man -
ning, who earned four starts last season or 
delve into the loaded recruiting class that 
the Gators will welcome.
Florida adds three top-75 pitching 
prospects this spring according to Perfect 
Game’s rankings: freshmen Jac Caglianone 
(No. 31), Pierce Coppola (No. 50) and Phil -
ip Abner (No. 67). Caglianone, a Tampa 
native from Plant High School, earned a 
nomination as the Gatorade Player of the 
Year in high school. Coppola, a Verona, 
New Jersey, native, threw 88 strikeouts 
across 42.1 innings on his way to an in -
vitation to the Perfect Game All-American Classic. 
Abner, from Charlotte, North Carolina, 
was a state champion his senior year while 
earning a 0.70 ERA. While the trio of fresh -
men all showed flashes of elite talent at 
their respective high schools, to what de -
gree that talent can directly translate to the 
college game will only be revealed in time. 
For now, the freshmen will be in the 
mix with the rest of the lineup competing 
for the open spots in the group of starters. 
The talent on the pitching staff is visible 
— six former top-100 prospects are still on 
the roster. The production of that accumu -
lation of talent, much of it still youthful, 
at the highest level of collegiate baseball 
will likely determine how far these Gators 
can go. O’Sullivan has some big decisions 
to make.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgGator Baseball Preview: Pitchers
Grethel Aguila / / Alligator Staff
Sophomore Hunter Barco will headline a 
pitching staff that will include nine freshmen