We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Pivotal architecture showcase returns to campus
After two years of digital PIN UPs, archi tecture students 
physically present their work , pg. 2
Conference room named after historic UF professor
Students orchestrated the naming ceremony of Enoch Marvin 
Banks conference room,  pg. 6New-look Gators to showcase 
development at Orange and Blue game
Florida’s annual spring game is set for Thursday 
night in the Swamp. Read more on pg. 12
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 30
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
UF and Santa Fe students bow their heads at a candlelight vigil held in solidarity with those who have lost 
their lives in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine at Lake Alice on Thursday, April 7. Over 4.5 millions Ukrainians have 
fled and the death toll is estimated to be 7,600.
BLACK STUDENTS 
CONTINUE TO 
UNDERPERFORM 
IN ACPS
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer 
Alachua County Public 
Schools  has the state’s 
widest achievement gap 
between white and Black 
students in both English 
language arts and math -
ematics. Segregation met 
its end in 1970 for Alach -
ua County Public Schools, 
but disparities between 
Black student and white 
student performance af -
flict the district today. 
The district serves 
more than 30,000 students 
— 33% of which are Black 
and 41% of which are 
white. ACPS officials ac -
knowledged this gap and 
crafted an equity plan in 
2018, promising to elimi -
nate the disparity by 2028, 
but the plan failed to nar -
row the difference in stu -
dent performance. 
It outlined goals like raising the performance of 
Black students in reading 
and math by three per -
centage points each year, 
but the gap widened as 
the district failed to imple -
ment any policy changes 
to meet its goal, said Tina 
Certain, school board 
member. 
The district can’t task 
its teachers with overcom -
ing the achievement gap. 
Every district in the state 
has a gap, and factors out -
side the classroom are at 
play. 
The Alachua County 
Education Association’s 
service unit director Crys -
tal Tessmann said years of 
systemic poverty and rac -
ism entrenched in society 
have aided the gap’s for -
mation. 
The achievement gap 
is the difference between 
the percentage of white 
students who received a 
passing score — a level 
three — on the Florida 
Standards Assessment 
and the percentage of Alachua County Public School’s 
racial achievement gap persists
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
Seven seconds.
The amount of time it takes to tie a shoe, 
swipe on mascara, solve a riddle or make a 
good first impression. 
The length of a pause from Judge  Ket -
anji Brown Jackson, the first Black woman 
confirmed as  U.S. Supreme Court Justice — 
when Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, asked if she 
believed babies could be racist.
“Senator,” she paused. “I do not believe 
that any child should be made to feel as 
though they are racist, or though they are not 
valued, or though they are less than, that they 
are victims, that they are oppressors.”
This was just one of many antagonizing 
moments in the barrage of questions Jackson 
faced throughout her four-day confirmation 
hearing in late March.
The Senate confirmed Jackson Thursday in 
a historic 53-47 vote. Three GOP senators — Susan Collins, R-Maine, Lisa Murkowski, R-
Alaska, and Mitt Romney, R-Utah — crossed 
party lines to secure the simple majority vote 
required. 
Cheers cried out from the Senate chamber 
and across America. But for many Black law 
students and attorneys, the interrogations she 
faced leading up to this moment reflected 
their everyday struggles in and out of the le -
gal arena.
Some Black women like Janelle Rolle, a 
first-year student at UF Levin College of Law, 
believed the questioning highlighted the scru -
tiny that Black women endure despite their 
outstanding merit and qualifications.
“For Black women to be these people 
who are so highly educated, and who are so 
worthy and capable, we're constantly being 
questioned and deemed as ‘less than,’ even 
though there's nothing that indicates that per -
spective should be held,” she said.
Since the Supreme Court was established 
in 1789, 115 justices have served. Of those on the bench, 108 have been white men. Jackson 
is the third Black justice to serve on the court.
The American Bar Association’s 2021 Pro -
file of the Legal Profession says that nearly all 
people of color are underrepresented in the 
legal profession compared with their make -
up in the U.S. population. In 2021, 4.7% of 
all lawyers were Black compared to the U.S. 
population, which is 13.4% Black.
UF Levin College of Law touts its “com -
mitment to excellence and diversity,” but 
only 7.4% of its students are Black or African 
American as of 2022.
Rolle perceived the hearing as a reflection 
of select GOP senators’ implicit bias. Their 
questions concerning critical race theory and 
her stance on pedophilia were targeted and 
inappropriate, she said.
“It's very apparent that their issue is the 
fact that it's a Black woman because she's 
coming from the second highest court in the 
nation: the D.C. Court,” she said. “There 
should be no reason for the questions that are being asked.”
Before being confirmed for the U.S. Court 
of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and the U.S. 
District Court for the District of Columbia, 
she was a public defender, representing de -
fendants who could not pay for a lawyer.
She’s the first former federal public de -
fender to serve on the highest court.
The diversity that Jackson will bring to the 
court is extremely important to Rolle, who 
has lived for 23 years without a justice who 
looks like her serving on the bench.
“To have all these laws that have been 
passed, and the Constitution read by all these 
eyes for all these years, and never, not once, 
has someone who has lived my experience 
even remotely … made any statements on 
what they feel the Constitution says or stands 
for is pretty astonishing,” she said.
The Supreme Court is the court of last 
resort for legal issues that affect Americans' Law students, attorneys reflect on Ketanji Brown Jackson’s confirmationSEE ACPS,  PAGE 4
SEE JACKSON,  PAGE 4Jackson was confirmed as the first Black woman on the Supreme Court ThursdayT oday’s WeatherBy Fernando Figueroa 
Alligator Staff Writer
Hidden under the School of 
Architecture's atrium, John Eric 
Phipps sat with his model of one 
building in a global system of 
vaults that would store all human 
knowledge in the case of an 
apocalypse. 
The secret scene of organized 
chaos, accented with lonely 
Exacto knives and abandoned 
t-squares scattered across the 
atrium’s cement floor, may be 
unfamiliar to many UF students. 
But every Spring, second-year 
architecture majors face PIN UP, 
a daunting task that determines if 
they continue in UF’s architecture 
program. 
Phipps, a 20-year-old 
architecture sophomore, was 
joined by 106 students with 
boards showcasing their photos, 
sketches and models all laid out 
in unison underneath the atrium. 
From above, the atrium looked 
like a mosaic of white rectangular 
tiles. 
This year, 15 faculty members 
will pick between 90 to 96 students 
to progress in the program next 
year. 
With cut fingers bandaged 
with tape and a napkin, Phipps 
pinned up his best work on a 
white 48-by-90 inch board. 
Architecture’s creative nature 
grants him opportunities to create 
vivid narratives through the 
buildings he designs. 
“I can see myself doing so 
many things with this degree,” 
Phipps said. “There's a whole 
sector of architecture that's not physical architecture, like in 
video games or in movies.”
Once students were satisfied 
with their boards, they 
placed them in the School of 
Architecture’s gallery and along 
the hallways that meander 
through the building. The gallery 
was open on April 6 and 7.
Noah Kartagener, a 20-year-old 
UF architecture sophomore, spent 
a week composing his board. He 
set aside a day to sift through the 
box of old works he’d archived 
under his bed. 
His board spotlights his favorite 
model: a World War I memorial 
built at a battle site in the French 
countryside. Kartagener plans 
to pursue a master’s degree in 
architecture. 
Kartagener often spends about 
40 hours a week on his craft, 
which can lead to the occasional 
burnout. 
“It’s a full-time job,” he said.
Adjusting to in-person classes 
and events after isolation during 
the pandemic has challenged 
architecture sophomores who 
were not able to see older 
students’ boards, UF’s School 
of Architecture undergraduate 
coordinator Mark McGlothlin 
said. 
“This group didn't have that 
kind of institutional legacy to 
build on, which I'm sure they 
would say has some penalties,” 
McGlothlin said.
The pandemic-induced 
intermission has had some 
benefits, though.
Not being able to reference 
boards from previous years 
meant students presented more candid representations of their 
work without outside influence, 
he said.
The basic PIN UP process 
hasn’t changed in several years, 
architecture professor Lisa 
Ryzhikova said. She graduated 
from the UF School of Architecture 
in 2016 and has taught at the 
university for one year.
When she was a student, there 
was not as much digital work, 
she said. The boards back then 
were composed mostly of pencil 
sketches. The program’s shift 
online in 2020 changed that.
Since the return from the 
pandemic, Ryzhikova said she 
noticed more mental health 
awareness on campus. Although 
students are still adjusting to in-
person classes and the anxiety 
that might come along with 
it, she said they are also more 
comfortable with their professors. 
Ryzhikova was only able to 
build these student-professor 
relationships in graduate school. 
For professor McGlothlin, 
being able to see students face-
to-face has been gratifying. 
Seeing students help one another 
despite the competitive nature 
of the event has been the most 
rewarding part of PIN UP, he said.
@fernfigue 
ffigueroa@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 30 Pinned plans: Pivotal architecture 
showcase returns to campus
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.After two years of digital PIN UPs, architecture 
students physically present their work
Mark McGlothlin / / Courtesy to The Alligator
UF architecture sophomores prepared for the PIN UP gallery, an annual event that determines whether 
they will continue in the program in the School of Architecture’s atrium on Monday, April 4.
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
THURSDAY
APRIL 14
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Art
image: Unknown Chinese artists, Embroidered Theatrical Hanging 刺繡戲劇人物掛毯, Q ing dynasty 
(1644–1911), c. 1890–1911
Sponsored by UF Student Government and the OOce of the Provost. Sponsored in part by the State of 
Florida, Department of State, Division of Cultural AAairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture. 
Presented with the support of the UF International Center and in partnership with the UF Sustainable 
Online Network for Global-Cultural Studies (SONGS).
FREE ADMISSION
YEAR
OF THE
TIGRESS
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
FILM SCREENING:
MONEY AND 
HONEY
UF CHINESE 
TRADITIONAL 
INSTRUMENTAL 
E
ENSEMBLE
FLORIDA
GAINESVILLE 
TAIWANESE 
ASSOCIATION
DANCE
PERFORMANCES
A
ART TOURS
ART MAKING
FREE FOOD 
 
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Under Construction
Dimetri Lonardo and Ray Winko, UF architecture majors, work on a construction project inside 
the College of Design, Construction and Planning on Thursday, April 7.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Eye of the Artist
Winnie Yun, UF art major, draws a lanscape scene for a class 
assignment outside of the College of Arts on Thursday, April 7.
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Man’s Best Friend
UF students play with Hannah, a local therapy dog, at Lakeside 
Residential Complex on Sunday, April 10.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Hannah, a local therapy dog, visits UF students at Lakeside Residential Complex on Sunday, April 10.
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following positions for the SUMMER semester:
Current openings:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the 
Editorial Division and as an unpaid 
member of the Board of Directors
 
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
AND
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid 
members of the Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerFor an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Monday, April 11th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Monday, April 11th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by 
the Board of Directors will be held on Friday, April 
15th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be degree-seeking college 
or university students. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator.A University of Florida Graduate Student
with Journalism Experience
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
For an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Monday, April 11th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator 
by Monday, April 11th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE 
DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board of 
Directors will be held on Friday, April 15th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be a graduate student at the 
University of Florida. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator. The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity Employereveryday lives, but it has never in -
cluded a Black female justice in its 
232 years of decision-making.
A cornerstone of U.S. democra -
cy, the highest court is now more 
representative of America, which 
lends it more legitimacy in the eyes 
of Kristen Hardy, a legal skills pro -
fessor at UF Levin College of Law.
“[The] confirmation of Judge 
Ketanji Brown Jackson wasn't just a 
great day for Black women, or Black 
women lawyers, but it was a great 
day for the democratic institutions 
in this country and in the percep -
tion of fairness and equality in the 
judicial system,” she wrote in an 
email.
Hardy watched the confirmation 
hearing in between meetings and 
teaching classes. She expected a 
certain degree of vitriol but was not 
prepared for the divisiveness, disre -
spect and lack of civility, she wrote.
Racism in the legal field is still a 
reality she endures, and she under -
stands the pain on the receiving end 
of the GOP’s questions.
“I was watching it with my mom, 
who, like Judge Jackson's mom, 
is a school principal,” she added. 
“We were overcome with emotion 
as we sat there and watched Judge 
Jackson endure such behavior with 
grace and dignity.”
Judge Jackson maintained her 
composure during attacks on her 
background as a federal public de -
fender and her stance on crime.
She worked on the front lines of 
the criminal justice system, exposed 
to the everyday struggles of Ameri -
cans. In a government of the peo -
ple, by the people, for the people, 
citizens like Kennedy Simon believe it’s crucial to have a justice in the 
Supreme Court who thinks about 
criminal law with a unique perspec -
tive.
Simon, a 20-year-old UF psy -
chology major and African Ameri -
can studies minor, is planning to 
apply to law school in the Fall. She 
hopes to become a criminal defense 
or civil rights attorney.
There’s unimaginable pressure 
being the only Black person in the 
room sometimes, she said. But 
Judge Jackson is a reminder to per -
severe.
“I had to have a hard conversa -
tion with myself that, ‘You know 
what, a lot of people aren't going 
to see the value in my life, but that 
doesn't mean that I shouldn't keep 
going,’” she said. “That’s a hard re -
ality to have.”
Raised by parents that came of 
age during the civil rights move -
ment, Nouvelle Gonzalo, a 39-year-
old U.S. and international corporate 
lawyer based in Gainesville, was 
reminded of a similar maxim.
“That’s something we were al -
ways told growing up,” she said. “That ‘You have to remember you 
are going to need to work twice as 
hard, you're going to need to put in 
twice as much work just to get the 
same opportunities, many times.’”
The U.S. has come a long way 
since the 1960s and ’70s, though, 
and Gonzalo said she has worked 
with plenty of professionals who 
look at the quality of work rather 
than skin color or socioeconomic 
background.
She has learned to walk in her 
passion for law and pursue it with 
intensity, refusing to be discour -
aged, just as Judge Jackson has.
Jackson addressed the country 
Friday for the first time since her 
confirmation. President Joe Biden 
and Vice President Kamala Harris 
stood alongside her on the sunny 
White House South Lawn.
“In my family, it took just one 
generation to go from segregation 
to the Supreme Court of the Unit -
ed States,” she said in her speech. 
“We’ve made it. All of us.”
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgJACKSON,  from pg. 1‘She’ s an inspiration to all of us’
Black students who received a 
passing score. 
The reality of separate, but 
not equal during segregation 
translated into this achievement 
gap, Tessmann said.
“It just got a different name 
and kept disenfranchising and 
hurting the kids who needed the 
most,” she said.
She taught at Metcalfe El -
ementary for nine years, which 
is home to an 84% Black student 
population, according to school-
level demographics. Last year, 
18% of its fourth graders passed 
the English Language Arts FSA, 
below the district’s 51%.
She loved her time teaching 
there and made score gains with 
her students. When the state 
came in after the school received 
an F for its grade as a result of 
low FSA scores, state coaches 
made teachers feel as if they 
could never do enough. 
“Sometimes it comes off that 
it’s the teacher’s fault that the 
achievement gap is happening,” 
Tessman said. “Instead, it needs 
to be how can we empower 
teachers to fight the achieve -
ment gap?” 
Of Florida’s 75 districts, Ala -
chua’s gap remains the largest with a 47 percentage point dif -
ference in ELA and a 46 percent -
age point difference in math. 
Miami-Dade follows with a 39 
percentage point gap in ELA 
and a 40 percentage point gap 
in math. 
The district is trying to tackle 
this divide. 
Although the district has not 
created another equity plan, new 
programs began this August that 
aim to improve student achieve -
ment, Certain said. These con -
trast the lack of policies initiated 
with the 2018 equity plan.
One of these new programs 
resulted from a partnership 
with University of Florida’s Col -
lege of Education: the Univer -
sity of Florida Literacy Institute, 
or UFLI. This program trained 
teachers last summer and was 
implemented in every kinder -
garten through second grade 
classroom districtwide. It’s a 
research-based phonics cur -
riculum that teaches students to 
read with multi-sensory activi -
ties such as hand motions and 
chanting. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgACPS,  from pg. 1County failed to meet its equity plan goals
Carson Cashion / / Alligator StaffMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
LUNES, 11 DE ABRIL DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Survivor UF holds first two seasons on ‘Gator Island’
The club brings the challenges of “Survivor” to campus,  pg. 8El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
BOOK SALE
APRIL 23 –– 27, 2022
430 N. MAIN ST. GAINESVILLE, FL
SAT.
9AM - 6PM
SUN. - WED.
NOON - 6PM
TUES.
ALL ITEMS 
1/2 PRICE
WED.
ALL ITEMS 
10 CENTS500,000 ITEMS, BOOKS, 
COMICS, ART, CDS, 
DVDS, VINYL RECORDS 
COLLECTOR’S CORNER  
& MORE!CASH, CHECKS & CREDIT CARD
BRING BAGS OR BOXES
           
          FIND US              FRIEND US            FOLLOW US 
@FOLACLD  •  WWW.FOLACLD.ORG  •  352-375-1676
*We recommend masks and social distancing for the protection of vulnerable shoppers.
IS NOW HIRING!
Full Time/Part Time Positions Available
EOE/DFWPAvailable positions: Housekeepers, Cooks, 
Servers, RN, LPN, CNA
 Apply on our website:
www.oakhammock.org/careers
NUEVAS INICIATIVAS 
APUNTAN A REDUCIR 
LA MAYOR BRECHA DE 
RENDIMIENTO EN EL ESTADO
Por Emma Behrmann
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido Por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
 
ACPS tiene la brecha de ren -
dimiento más amplia del estado 
entre estudiantes blancos y negros 
tanto en artes de lenguaje como en 
matemáticas. La segregación llegó a 
su fin en el 1970 para las Escuelas 
Públicas del Condado de Alachua, 
pero las disparidades entre el des -
empeño de los estudiantes negros 
y blancos afligen al distrito en la 
actualidad.
Este distrito atiende a más de 
30.000 estudiantes, el 33 % de los 
cuales son afroamericanos y el 41 
% son blancos. Los funcionarios 
de ACPS reconocieron esta brecha 
y elaboraron un plan de equidad 
en el 2018, prometiendo eliminar 
la disparidad para el 2028, pero el 
plan no logró reducir la diferencia 
en el desempeño de los estudiantes.
Describió objetivos como au -
mentar el rendimiento de los estu -
diantes afroamericanos en lectura y 
matemáticas en tres puntos porcen -
tuales cada año, pero la brecha se 
amplió porque el distrito no imple -
mentó ningún cambio de política 
para alcanzar su objetivo, dijo Tina 
Certain, miembro de la junta esco -
lar de ACPS.La brecha continúa dividiendo a 
los estudiantes blancos y afroameri -
canos en la búsqueda del éxito edu -
cativo.
El distrito no puede encargarles 
a los maestros el cierre de la brecha 
de rendimiento. Todos los distritos 
del estado tienen una brecha y fac -
tores fuera del aula están en juego.
La directora de la unidad de ser -
vicio de la Asociación de Educación 
del Condado de Alachua, Crystal 
Tessmann, dijo que años de po -
breza sistémica y racismo arraiga -
dos en la sociedad han ayudado a 
la formación de la brecha.
La brecha de rendimiento es la 
diferencia entre el porcentaje de 
estudiantes blancos que recibieron 
un puntaje de aprobación, un nivel 
tres, en la Evaluación de estándares 
de Florida y el porcentaje de estu -
diantes afroamericanos que recibi -
eron un puntaje de aprobación.
La realidad de separados, pero 
no iguales durante la segregación se 
ha manifestado en esta brecha de 
rendimiento, dijo Tessmann.
“Simplemente recibió un nom -
bre diferente y siguió privando de 
sus derechos y lastimando a los ni -
ños que más lo necesitaban”, dijo.
Ella enseñó en la escuela pri -
maria Metcalfe durante nueve años.
Metcalfe es el hogar de un 84% 
de la población estudiantil af -
roamericana, según la demografía a 
nivel escolar. El año pasado, el 18 
% de los alumnos de cuarto grado 
aprobaron la FSA de artes de len -
guaje, por debajo del 51 % del dis -
trito.
Le encantaba su tiempo ense -
ñando allí y mejoró las calificacio -nes con sus alumnos, pero cuando 
el estado intervino después de que 
la escuela recibiera una F como re -
sultado de las bajas calificaciones 
en la FSA, los entrenadores estat -
ales hicieron que los maestros sin -
tieran que nunca podrían hacer lo 
suficiente.
“A veces resulta que es culpa 
del maestro que la brecha de ren -
dimiento esté ocurriendo y, en 
cambio la pregunta debe ser ¿cómo 
podemos empoderar a los maestros 
para luchar contra la brecha de ren -
dimiento?” dijo Tessman.
De los 75 distritos de Florida, la 
brecha de Alachua sigue siendo la 
más grande con una diferencia de 
47 puntos porcentuales en ELA y 
una diferencia de 46 puntos por -
centuales en matemáticas. Miami-
Dade le sigue con una brecha de 39 
puntos porcentuales en ELA y una 
brecha de 40 puntos porcentuales 
en matemáticas.
El distrito está tratando de abor -
dar esta división.
Aunque el distrito no ha creado 
otro plan de equidad, en agosto co -
menzaron nuevos programas que 
tienen como objetivo mejorar el 
rendimiento de los estudiantes, dijo 
Certain. Estos contrastan con la fal -
ta de políticas iniciadas con el plan 
de equidad de 2018.
Uno de estos nuevos programas 
fue el resultado de una asociación 
con la Facultad de Educación de 
la Universidad de Florida: el Insti -
tuto de Alfabetización de la Univer -
sidad de Florida, conocido como 
UFLI. Este programa capacitó a 
los maestros el verano pasado y se 
implementó en todos los salones de clases de jardín de infantes a segun -
do grado en todo el distrito. Es un 
plan de estudios de fonética basado 
en la investigación que enseña a los 
estudiantes a leer con actividades 
multi-sensoriales, como movimien -
tos de las manos y cantos.
En lugar de mediar a los estu -
diantes una vez que alcanzan las 
calificaciones de las pruebas como 
estudiantes de tercer grado, Certain 
dijo que el distrito puede desarrol -
lar las habilidades de alfabetización 
de los estudiantes para evitar la 
necesidad de remediación.
Sin embargo, ella espera que la 
brecha de logros permanezca igual 
o incluso se amplíe debido a las 
pérdidas de aprendizaje relaciona -
das con la pandemia, que afectan 
particularmente a los estudiantes 
de color. Los estudiantes de color 
no estaban en las aulas cuando 
COVID estaba en su apogeo, dijo 
Certain. Muchos eligieron aprender 
de forma remota o fueron puestos 
en cuarentena a menudo debido a 
la exposición, por lo que se espera 
una pérdida de aprendizaje.
Incluso si la brecha sigue siendo 
la misma o se amplía después de las 
pruebas de este año, el programa 
UFLI sigue siendo prometedor. A 
través del monitoreo del progre -
so del distrito, los estudiantes de 
jardín de infantes a segundo grado 
muestran mejoras, dijo la portavoz 
de ACPS, Jackie Johnson. Al prin -
cipio, estos estudiantes estaban de -
trás de sus grupos de compañeros 
de años anteriores, pero han pro -
gresado más allá de donde estaban 
sus grupos de compañeros en este 
momento el año pasado.“Atribuimos mucho de eso al 
éxito del programa UFLI”, dijo 
Johnson. “Y, por supuesto, ense -
ñar a los niños a leer y asegurarse 
de que para el tercer grado hayan 
aprendido a leer y puedan comen -
zar a leer para aprender, eso es 
enorme”.
Las habilidades de lectura re -
ciben un énfasis porque el éxito 
tanto en lectura como en matemáti -
cas en las evaluaciones estatales 
depende de la capacidad del estu -
diante para leer y comprender la 
pregunta presentada.
El distrito implementa otros pro -
gramas de tutoría llamados Beyond 
the Bell y High Dose. Beyond the 
Bell es un programa extracurricular 
disponible para todos los estudi -
antes e impartido por los maestros 
del distrito, que ofrece ayuda con 
la tarea en todas las materias. La 
tutoría High Dose atrae a los estudi -
antes que tienen dificultades princi -
palmente con la lectura en todos los 
niveles de grado para recibir tutoría 
individual o en grupos pequeños 
con un para-profesional.
Los estudiantes que refuercen 
tales habilidades a una edad más 
temprana podrían ayudar a cerrar 
la brecha de rendimiento, que af -
ecta de manera desproporcionada 
a las escuelas predominantemente 
afroamericanas en el lado este de 
Gainesville.
Lee el resto en línea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.orgLa brecha de rendimiento de las Escuelas Públicas del Condado de Alachua (ACPS) separa el desempeño estudiantil6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
REGISTRATION FOR THE 
APRIL 22 RIVER CLEAN-UP 
CLOSES FRIDAY
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
Students will be hopping in ca -
noes and paddling along the Santa 
Fe River, cleaning up trash to cel -
ebrate Earth Day. 
For more than 20 years, en -
vironmental organizations have 
called attention to the threats pol -
lution and over pumping pose to 
the Santa Fe River. The river is 
home to more than 30 springs and 
provides habitat for a wide range 
of diverse flora and fauna. 
The Spring Fling event, hosted 
by several environmental conser -
vation organizations, including 
Stand Up 4 Springs and the Public 
Interest Communications Student 
Association’s Florida Springs proj -
ect, hopes to combat some of the 
damages. It will take place April 
22 starting at 8:30 a.m. at Canoe Launch in Canoe Outpost High 
Springs. 
Santa Fe and UF students can 
register and secure their canoe via 
a link on the Stand Up 4 Springs 
Instagram until Friday. The first 
100 to sign up are guaranteed ca -
noes.
Along with cleaning, volun -
teers will learn about the river’s 
features from guides. In the af -
ternoon, a celebration in High 
Springs’ O’Leno State Park, will 
feature food trucks, music and 
more. 
The organizations, including 
Florida Springs Council and Cur -
rent Problems Florida, chose to 
host this inaugural event on Earth 
Day to celebrate and promote 
protection of the Florida Springs, 
Cassie Huffman, president of the 
PICSA, said.
“Our intent with the Spring 
Fling is to have a day where UF 
students and the community can 
really come together and get their 
hands dirty and pick up trash,” Huffman said. 
Huffman began her work 
supporting the “Boycott Ginnie 
Springs” movement, created to in -
form people about the water bot -
tling operations that extract water 
from the local springs. The over-
extraction of water leads to water 
depletion and salt intrusion, Huff -
man said. 
Nearly a million gallons are be -
ing pumped by Seven Springs Wa -
ter Company a day, and the Santa 
Fe River is flowing about 30% be -
low what it should be, according 
to Our Santa Fe River.
“It’s really important that peo -
ple in Florida are responsible for 
their environmental impact,” she 
said. 
Brenda Wells, communications 
director for the Florida Springs 
Council, which focuses on push -
ing policy change or legal fixes 
to combat threats to the spring, 
remembers when the river was 
more clear than it is today.
Along with the over pump -ing of water, springs in Alachua 
County face nitrate pollution from 
fertilizer runoff, Wells said. 
“Those springs just don’t have 
the flow that they used to,” she 
said. “There’s just too many de -
mands on the water, and current -
ly our water management districts 
are not doing a very good job of 
saying no to some of those de -
mands.”
She hopes people will feel 
pushed to remain up to date on is -
sues concerning the springs after 
the event.
“When someone gets out there 
and sees these springs they more 
often than not fall in love with 
them,” she said.
Kim Hurd, a 21-year-old UF 
public relations senior, first heard 
about the Spring Fling through 
her friends and social media. 
“I thought the cause was very, 
very interesting,” Hurd said. “So 
I just thought it was really impor -
tant to learn about that and then 
to attend this event.”When Hurd first heard about 
the threats to the springs, she was 
surprised, she said. Although she 
had never been, she knew they 
were popular sites for students. 
She is now participating in the 
boycott of Ginnie Springs. 
Hurd believes this event is im -
portant to spread awareness about 
issues concerning the springs, es -
pecially to students. 
“As college students, we just 
think everything is fun and don’t 
think about the deeper meaning 
behind things,” Hurd said. “We’re 
giving our money to these places 
that are taking advantage of re -
sources.”
She’s excited to attend the 
cleanup and experience the 
springs for the first time “in the 
right way.”
“Come out,” Hurd said. “It’s 
a great way to celebrate Earth 
Day because you’re giving back 
and then you’re also getting to … 
admire these beautiful resources 
and state parks that we have the 
opportunity to go to.”
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgStudents can clean up the Santa Fe River in Earth Day celebrationBy Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The Plaza of the Americas is surrounded by some of 
UF campus’ oldest buildings, making the area rich with 
history. Keene-Flint Hall, nestled in the outskirts of the 
square, was built in 1910, but history is still in the making 
for this old brick building.
A conference room on the ground floor of the hall was 
named Thursday afternoon after one of UF’s first history 
and economics professors Enoch Marvin Banks. 
In 1911, Banks published an article in The Independent 
calling on the South to admit its wrongdoings for trying to 
secede from the Union during the Civil War.  It angered many Confederate societies, and they pushed to have 
Banks fired. 
Ultimately, Banks complied and gave in his letter of 
resignation. His name, however, was not forgotten in the 
history department. 
With a nameless conference room and a burning sense 
of justice, a three-person committee of the UF history 
honor society Phi Alpha Theta members initiated the 
naming of the room with guidance from Steven Noll, a 
history professor and the society’s faculty advisor.
In his Florida history class, Noll assigns “Free Speech at 
the University of Florida: The Enoch Marvin Banks Case,” 
a reading on Banks. After reading the article, one of Noll’s 
students, Kayla Cook, a UF alumna, wanted to honor the former professor. 
Cook, joined by Morgan Peltier and Briana Wiggins, 
advocated to make amends for the former professor in this 
century. 
Within the last academic year, UF has been under fire 
for issues such as denying professors the right to testify in 
court cases and not allowing courses to include the words 
“critical race theory” in the title. 
Recent academic freedom struggles at UF have 
coincidentally emulated the censorship Banks experienced 
since students chose him to be the room’s namesake, Noll 
said. 
“I think his story has unbelievable relevance today, 
even more than it had when these guys started the story,” 
he said. “This is one reason why I think it’s important to 
have his name out there and have people talk about him.”
Banks was forced out because he shared his viewpoint, 
and this form of censorship did not end with him, Wiggins, 
a 22-year-old history and international studies senior, said. 
He was the first in a pattern of people to be forced out of 
the community for using his right of free speech. 
Father John Francis Conoley was another who was 
condemned by the Gainesville community for his beliefs, 
Wiggins said. 
Conoley was the founder of the Catholic campus 
ministry at UF who was antagonized by a local chapter of 
the Ku Klux Klan for his religious teachings, she said. Klan 
members successfully advocated to ban him from campus 
and even physically attacked him. 
Academia is about the freedom of ideas, discussion and 
academic thought, she said. 
“I think [Banks’] story is really a warning of what 
happens when you let too much local politics take over 
academia,” she said.  
Getting the history department to approve the naming 
of the room has taken two years, Noll said. COVID-19 
slowed the three students’ traction, but their efforts finally 
came to fruition Thursday. 
An intimate gathering of seven people met outside 
the conference room to watch Noll hang the plaques 
identifying the room.
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.orgConference room named after historic UF professor
Students in Phi Alpha Theta orchestrated the naming ceremony of Enoch Marvin Banks conference room
Esha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Briana Wiggins and professor Steven Noll pose for a portrait outside of the newly named Enoch Marvin Banks 
conference room on Thursday, April 7.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Pro Gators: Ranking each active NBA player from UF
Seven NBA players donned the Orange & Blue in their 
collegiate years, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patientsDownload the FREE 
TapRide App  
to Get a Ride!
University of Florida
SNAP
Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol
or call 352-392-SNAP (7627)
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
The UF Pazeni Sauti Africa Choir drummer plays at Afro Roots Fest at Bo Diddley Plaza on 
Friday, April 8.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
The UF Pazeni Sauti Africa Choir performs at Afro Roots 
Fest at Bo Diddley Plaza on Friday, April 8.Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
  A performer speaks to a crowd of Afro Roots Fest attendees 
on Friday, April 8.
Afro Roots Fest celebrates culture
CULTURECULTURE8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
THE CLUB BRINGS “SURVIVOR” 
CHALLENGES TO CAMPUS
By Caleb Wiegandt
Avenue Staff Writer
Zack Casella wanted to face off island 
competitors in challenges like the CBS 
American reality television show “Survi -
vor.” Instead, the applied physiology and 
kinesiology senior brought it to Gainesville. 
“Survivor” has been a staple of Ameri -
can TV on CBS for more than 20 years now, 
but this Spring UF saw the first iteration of 
a Gator copycat of the Emmy-winning pro -
gram. 
Sitting at home last summer, Casella 
never thought he wanted to be the one to 
start a club at UF. Then again, he didn’t 
want to spend all his time studying for the 
MCAT either.
A longtime fan of the survival-of-the-
fittest-type reality show, Casella took Twit -
ter cues from other universities across the 
country, such as the University of Michigan 
and the University of Maryland, and de -
cided that UF deserved its own “Survivor” 
chapter. 
He posted an application for “season 
one” of Survivor UF and advertised it on 
Facebook, Instagram and Reddit. He also 
printed out physical flyers to post around 
campus. 
On the application, Casella asked poten -
tial contestants to relate their personalities 
to past “Survivor” contestants. The applica -
tion also featured a mock puzzle question 
for applicants to prove themselves in the 
face of the tough challenges ahead. 
From there, those who survived the ap -
plication round moved on to the interview 
stage, with Casella and his team conduct -
ing them to further explore their personali -
ties and determine their fit for a place in 
the cast. 
Jump ahead to January, and the birth of 
Survivor UF Season 1: Gators at War came 
to fruition, in Broward Hall’s basement. Nonetheless, 15 contestants participated 
in a one-day, eight-hour event hosted by 
Casella, competing in various challenges, 
making teams and voting each other out.
“We wanted to see how everything was 
ran and solve any kinks beforehand, having 
a bigger season,” Casella said. 
Luckily for students, the wait between 
seasons was much shorter than the CBS 
version’s May-and-December cycle. Season 
two, Survivor UF: Gator Island, was filmed 
April 1 and 2 in a similar format — both 
seasons are in post-production, according to 
the club’s Instagram. 
This time, applications soared to about 
40 submissions for season two, nearly dou -
ble the 22 applications received for season 
one. The chosen applicants, another group 
of 15 contestants, returned to Broward, but 
this time expanded the season into a two-
day affair. 
“It’s just really awesome to see so many 
people interested and wanting to participate 
in our club,” Casella said. “We had some 
people who had never even watched a sin -
gle episode of ‘Survivor,’ but they still want 
to participate for the challenges and social -
ization aspect of it.”
A mental math relay challenge, a joust -
ing challenge, a marble-balancing challenge 
and the classic who-can-build-the-tallest-
freestanding-spaghetti-tower challenge 
were just a few of the intense trials contes -
tants tested their skill with. 
“Season two ran a lot smoother because 
now we knew what we’re doing,” Casella 
said. “Any issues that arise with season 
one, now we knew what to fix.”
Alexandra Hickson, UF biology and clas -
sical studies junior and Survivor UF’s mer -
chandise chair, said she placed third in the 
inaugural season. She praised the club’s 
ability to replicate the reality show, even 
with small beginnings. 
“The challenges were real: It was com -
plicated and hard,” Hickson said. “Every -
thing that we did on the one day was very 
authentic to the beginning of ‘Survivor.’”
More importantly, Casella is excited about the connections contestants can form 
from their experiences “on the island.” 
Many contestants are still friends with each 
other, and the club’s first couple groups 
have formed a tight-knit bond lasting well 
after the last person was voted off.
Every Wednesday night, the club files 
into Casella’s apartment and turns on CBS 
for a “Survivor” watch party. Watching the 
pros weave their way through the physi -
cal and mental challenges helps the group 
reflect on their performances together and 
turn teammates and rivals into friends. 
“They were socializing with each other, 
and even though they just voted the per -
son out, you could see that they were still 
smiling, laughing,” Casella said. “It’s really 
great to see the connections that are formed 
from one season alone.”
Kristin Deaver, a UF zoology sophomore, 
was season one’s runner up and serves on 
Survivor UF’s recruitment and social media team. A one-time applicant for big-league 
“Survivor,” she hopes to start working on 
fulfilling a dream she has had since she was 
11 in Gainesville. 
“I think most of us here love the show,” 
Deaver said. “I know my dream and one 
of Zach’s dreams is to actually be on the 
show.”
In season two, Deaver served as an 
“idol,” a game-maker of sorts in conjunc -
tion with Casella who mediated challenges 
and evaluated contestants. After a domi -
nant performance last season, she was 
ready for a new challenge in administering 
the “Survivor” experience for others. 
“I was like ‘I did my job. I made it to 
the end.’” Deaver said. “But it was so much 
fun just getting to see people that have the 
same passion for ‘Survivor’ that I do.”
@CalebWiegandt
cwiegandt@alligator.orgOutwit, Outplay, Outlast: Survivor UF holds first two seasons on ‘Gator Island’
ENTERTAINMENTENTERTAINMENT
By Alexis Carson 
 Avenue Staff Writer 
Grade A Productions made 
international stars out of rap art -
ists like Juice WRLD and The Kid 
LAROI. The U.S. production com -
pany’s next big name could be one 
of UF’s own. 
Sam Zelaya, an 18-year-old 
UF business administration fresh -
man — better known by his artist 
name Zzz — was signed last week 
to Grade A Productions. Zelaya’s 
style of music is a fusion of rap, 
pop and R&B, with his work being 
streamed exclusively on Sound -
Cloud.
After only a week of meeting, 
27-year-old co-founder of Grade A 
Productions, Brandon Dickinson, 
also known as “Lil Bibby” Dickin -
son signed Zelaya to Grade A Pro -
ductions. Already on the come-up, 
Dickinson recently shared that an unreleased song of Zelaya’s made 
the Top 25 on the SoundCloud 
charts.
“He’s about to be one of the 
biggest artists in the world,” Dick -
inson said. 
Zelaya said it’s crazy to be a 
part of a team that he was always 
interested in working with. Work -
ing under Grade A Productions 
has been a long time goal. 
“Two years ago, my sister 
asked me: ‘Where do you see 
yourself in two years?’ And I said, 
‘I just want to sign with Grade 
A,’” Zelaya said. 
Dickinson came across the 
young singer’s work in March 
when someone on his Instagram 
Live stream was listening to Zela -
ya. Impressed by Zelaya’s musical 
talent, Dickinson was determined 
to look into the Miami native’s 
work to begin working with him. 
After getting into contact with Zelaya and listening to his songs 
like his unreleased track “5 min -
utes” and newer release “demo,” 
Dickinson was instantly reaf -
firmed in his mission to work with 
Zelaya. Dickinson flew Zelaya out 
to Los Angeles to begin recording 
songs. 
Dickinson said Zelaya’s mu -
sic is unlike anything he’s heard 
before, and his R&B sound in his 
music is what really made him 
stand out. 
Zelaya had offers from other 
management companies, but he 
never signed with them because it 
didn’t feel like the right time until 
now. 
“I was waiting for that time to 
get something I was really con -
fident in,” he said. “This is that 
time for sure.” 
Since going to Los Angeles, 
Zelaya said he’s been going to 
the studio everyday. He said he recorded about 15 songs in three 
days. Dickinson plans to bring 
Zelaya to New York City soon to 
meet more people in the music 
business. 
Although Zelaya’s time is fill -
ing up with recordings and meet -
ings, he is still making school a 
priority. 
“I’m still going to get my de -
gree,” he said. “I’m going to finish 
college.”
Xavier Smith, a 17-year-old Ca -
nadian in eleventh grade and fan 
of Zelaya’s, discovered him on 
social media through the Rap by 
RapTV Instagram account. 
Smith said he instantly became 
a fan, listening to all of his songs 
after he heard that Zelaya had 
been signed to Grade A Produc -
tions. 
Smith describes Zelaya’s music 
as being “unique” and noted that 
his voice flows well in every song. “It’s like Juice level,” he said. 
“It just touches your soul.” 
Zelaya’s brother, Benjamin Ze -
laya, believes the recent signing 
with Grade A Productions is his 
younger brother’s success com -
ing full circle. For the first year of 
the pandemic, the brothers didn’t 
leave the house. They used their 
time making music. Now, that 
time spent working on music is 
paying off. 
“That’s pretty much like when 
he really tapped into his craft and 
he’s always been a very humble, 
hard worker,” he said. 
Over the past few years, Ben -
jamin’s role in Sam’s music has 
shifted from assisting him to pro -
duce beats to serving as a figure 
in his life to give advice. Benjamin 
went on to say how proud he was 
of his younger brother. 
 “It shows that hard work re -
ally does pay off,” he said. “I’m 
very excited because I know that 
he’s going to take this super far.”
@Alexis_Carson99
acarson@alligator.orgLocal artist “Zzz” signed to Grade A Production
MUSICMUSIC
The record label that signed “Juice WRLD” and “the Kid LAROI” took on a UF studentMinca Davis / / Alligator Staff
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets. Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                          4-11-3-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                        4-18-22-8-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
4-11-8-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                         4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    FFlloottiillllaa  
11..    TToottaall,,  ssuumm55..    BBllaacckk  ________
22..    BBaassttee66..    PPaaccee
33..    VViissiioonnaarryy  77..    CCaappttuurreedd
44..    ________  ppllaaccee  MMAAAARRAADD
UUMMTTNNAAOOLLVVOOIIEE
PPTTEEOOMM
NNIIOOMMSSEETT
RREEMMDDEEAARRDDRRAANNEESS
EECCSSNNDDOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--AArrmmaaddaa    55AA--OOlliivvee    66AA--TTeemmppoo    77AA--SSnnaarreedd
11DD--AAmmoouunntt    22DD--MMooiisstteenn    33DD--DDrreeaammeerr    44DD--SSeeccoonndd    BB--DDeemmii  MMoooorree44--1111--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  ppllaayyeedd  JJaacckkiiee  TTeemmpplleettoonn  oonn  
““GGeenneerraall  HHoossppiittaall””  ffrroomm  11998822  ttoo  11998844..
BONUSThe American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
4-11-8-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Kathy Lowden
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/11/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/11/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, April 11, 2022
ACROSS
1 Bar passer: Abbr.
4 Donkeys
9 Silly
14 Heckler’s word
15 Kind of milk one 
shouldn’t cry  
over
16 Luxury watch
17 CPR expert
18 Petite Mattel doll 
with her own 
Netflix TV series
20 Put on a peg, as 
a golf ball
22 Carp in a pond
23 WWII subs
24 Rich as Croesus, 
e.g.
26 Lire replacers
28 Person, place or 
thing, in grammar
30 Irish or English 
dogs
34 Guy featured 
in “Practical 
Principles of 
Plain and Perfect 
Pronunciation”
38 MSN competitor
39 Ooze with
40 Silent assent
41 Main blood 
vessel
43 World Wide __
44 Porky’s girlfriend
46 Wand 
symbolizing royal 
authority
49 Snow pea 
holders
50 __ & Young: 
accounting firm
52 Places for belts
56 Séance contact
59 Firepit residue
61 Avoid completely
62 Animated feline 
in Inspector 
Clouseau films
65 “... butterfly ... 
bee” boxer
66 Broadway  
backer
67 Road one-eighty
68 Dangerous tide
69 Aptly named 
novelist
70 Digital units
71 Second 
addendum to a 
letter ... and a hint 
to 18-, 34-, 44- 
and 62-acrossDOWN
1 Aids in illegal 
activity
2 Actress Marisa
3 Tribal symbol
4 Cleopatra’s 
snake
5 Did not remain 
silent
6 Cylindrical barn 
neighbor
7 Kimmy Schmidt 
player __ 
Kemper
8 Hog’s home
9 Will Smith film 
suggested by an 
Asimov classic
10 Free, after “at”
11 __-Seltzer
12 Nair rival, once
13 Phone no. 
go-withs
19 More pristine
21 Had an evening 
meal
25 Stuff of legends
27 Depleted
29 NorCal NFL  
team
31 Wyatt of Dodge 
City
32 Naan relative
33 Refinery 
by-product34 Church benches
35 Corp. bigwig
36 Boob __: TV
37 “... like the __ 
calling the kettle 
black”
41 Verdi opera set in 
Egypt
42 Watering place
44 Prefix for “five”
45 Remote area 
known for its 
middle?
47 Livened (up)48 Almost a homer
51 Badly worn
53 Musical symbol
54 Dutch flower
55 Little scissors 
cuts
56 Box for practice
57 Tree with needles
58 “Young 
Frankenstein” 
Fräulein
60 Close, as a door
63 Well-worn pencil
64 OR attendants
By Jerry Edelstein
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/05/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/05/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, April 5, 2022
ACROSS
1 Danish director 
von Trier
5 One of a 
yardstick’s 36
9 “High waving 
heather __ 
stormy blasts 
bending”:  
E. Brontë
14 Actor Baldwin
15 Home of the 
NFL’s Saints, 
informally
16 Bert’s Muppet 
buddy
17 Old Italian money
18 Do a guard’s job
20 Addis __
22 Zagreb natives
23 Prevail in the race 
(just barely)
25 Pitching stats
29 “Furthermore ... ”
30 Musical effect 
involving two 
quickly played 
repeated notes
31 Lasting emotional 
injury
34 Llama relative
39 Jack Ryan org.
40 “Brace yourself”
43 QB’s concern
44 Food on the farm
45 Gas sign in green 
letters
46 Laugh at a joke, 
say
48 Big Aussie bird
50 Banks of 
“America’s Next 
Top Model”
51 Peel out
58 Seaman’s “Help!”
60 Surname of 
vintners Ernest 
and Julio
61 Musical 
conductor ... and 
what the end of 
18-, 23-, 40- or 
51-Across can 
be?
65 Hoarse voice
66 Disney’s Little 
Mermaid
67 Miller __: beer
68 Soft French 
cheese
69 First AFL-CIO 
leader George __
70 Unable to find the 
way
71 Tourney rankingDOWN
1 Calif. legal  
drama
2 Suspect’s out
3 Showed over
4 Sword sheath
5 __ and outs: 
workings
6 Mountain gap
7 Santa __, Calif.
8 Vietnam’s capital
9 Small 
salamander
10 Solution for a 
pencil error
11 Tiny six-legged 
crawler
12 It can precede or 
follow tac
13 Clever chuckle
19 __ es Salaam
21 Author Rand
24 Hersey’s “A Bell 
for __”
26 Rolling in francs
27 “a.k.a.” name
28 Blind strips
30 Cross-shaped 
letter
31 Metaphor in a big 
gambling loss
32 __ Island, home 
of the original 
Nathan’s
33 “I do” site35 Part of LLC: 
Abbr.
36 Group of whales
37 Vote of approval
38 Apple pie 
maker’s device
41 Poet’s “many 
times”
42 Tart-tasting 
preserve veggies
47 Oriole Park at __ 
Yards
49 Coffee cup
51 “So long”52 Arizona politics 
family name
53 Car music source
54 Nos in Novgorod
55 Play loudly, as a 
53-Down
56 Commercial cow
57 Lured (in)
59 Friend
61 “Pow!” relative
62 “What __ the 
odds?”
63 Vardalos or Long
64 IRA part: Abbr.
04/04/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
14 Help Wanted
Yard Help:
Part time, flex hrs, experience necessary, 
$11-$13 hr. SW side of town. 
Mr Z: 352-278-8071                      5-23-22-7-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $12/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com              4-11-22-4-14
HIRING DELIVERY DRIVER w/own truck or 
van. Marketplace business selling & delivering 
quality mattress sets. Reliable, honest person 
of good character. Daily deliveries, flex hrs, 
$20-30/delivery + gas. Mary 850-284-4655       
4-18-22-2-14
House Keeper/Personal Assistant:
Part time, flex hours, will ask for references, 
non covid jab preferred. $12-$15 hr. SW side 
of town. Mr. Z 352-278-8071     5-23-22-7-14
VETERINARY ASSISTANT & RECEPTIONIST
Mon - Thurs. Salary depends on experience 
in vet hospital $20 - $30 / hr. 
River Region Animal Hospital in Crystal River
Email: rrahrecords@yahoo.com   
 4-18-22-3-14
IS NOW
HIRING
Full Time / Part Time
Positions Available
Housekeepers, Cooks, 
Servers, RN LPN, CNA
Apply online at our website
www.oakhammock.org/careers
EOE/DFWP
15 Services
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
4-11-13-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                   4-11-8-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
4-11-12-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          4-11-13-15CrytpoQuote  answer
 Trivia Test  answersSudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
THE IDEA OF A LIBRARY FULL OF BOOKS, THE BOOKS FULL OF KNOWLEDGE, FILLS ME WITH 
FEAR AND LOVE AND COURAGE AND ENDLESS WONDER. — ELIZABETH M cCRACKEN1. 60,000 miles       2. 180 degrees longitude      3. Daffy Duck      4. Mr. Whipple      5. Maine      6. J      7. 12      8. Harry Truman      9. "The Color Purple"      10. "Glee"
solution  belowATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       4-11-13-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-18-22-15-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
$250 DAILY Possible Online!
No Tech Skill Or Experience Required.
Start Now! Go To: www.250dailyincome.com     
5-9-22-4-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
Dogs, Pets or Livestock
For yeast infections. Rinse the ear canal 
with Mitex®to kill mites. Apply Ear Canker 
to treat the yeast infection. At Better Farm, 
Feed and Garden Stores. Distributed 
by Florida Hardware. 800-793-0926  
(www.fleabeacon.com)                 4-11-1-24
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free FOUND ad 
in the Classifieds!
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.20 Events/Notices10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area announces a hybrid - on-site and virtual 
public meeting via communications media 
technology to which all interested persons 
are invited.
DATE AND TIME: April 25, 2022 at 3:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12 
and the Alachua County Video on Demand 
Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting.
Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-site 
and virtual meeting via communications me-
dia technology. Public participation on-site 
for this meeting is accommodated, but is lim-
ited due to social distancing requirements. 
On-site public participants are encouraged to 
wear a face-covering mask at all times. Live 
public comment is taken on-site only. For 
on-site public comment, participants will be 
prompted and should follow the direction of
the Chair to participate. In addition, the 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area accepts written comments received 
no later than one business day prior to the 
meeting through email (escalante@ncfrpc.
org) or postal mail (2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida 32653). On-site par-
ticipants should state their names and limit 
comments to three minutes. The public is 
encouraged to submit any written or pho-
tographic documents prior to the meeting 
to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any questions 
regarding participation should be directed 
to the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area Office at 352.955.2200, extension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda -
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
4-11-1-20answers below1. HUMAN ANATOMY: How many miles of blood 
vessels does the average human have?
2. GEOGRAPHY: What degree is assigned to the 
International Date Line?
3. MOVIES: Which Looney Tunes character's 
catchphrase is "You're despicable"?
4. ADVERTISING: What was the name of the gro -
cery owner in the Charmin bath tissue ads of 
the 1960s-80s?
5. U.S. STATES: What is the only state to have 
one syllable in its name?
6. CHEMISTRY: What is the only letter that 
doesn't appear in the periodic table?
7. MYTHOLOGY: How many gods and goddesses 
were said to live on Mount Olympus?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president was the last 
to serve without a college degree?
9. LITERATURE: Celie is a character in which 1982 
novel?
10. TELEVISION: Which musical TV drama takes 
place at William McKinley High School?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
SEVEN INDIVIDUALS CURRENTLY IN 
THE NBA DONNED THE ORANGE AND 
BLUE IN THEIR COLLEGIATE YEARS
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
Florida basketball is a storied program with 
a rich history of iconic moments, players and 
success. 
Although a program’s prestige is usually a 
combination of on-court performance and the 
number of banners hanging from its arena’s 
rafters, another key factor is its NBA pipeline.
UF is no stranger to this type of success. 
Gainesville has been the platform for 33 
NBA players to make their next step into 
the big leagues. Names like Jason Williams, 
Chandler Parsons and Joakim Noah come to 
mind as former Gators who dug out a role in the 
Association. Currently, seven Florida players 
hold an NBA roster spot, tied for eighth-most 
amongst all NCAA programs. 
That begs the question: Who is the best? 
This power ranking serves as a guide to the 
current Gator pros and where they rank among 
each other. 
Of course, not all of these players were 
drafted at the same time. This list will 
account for the age gap between each athlete 
by accounting for career achievements, the 
current 2021-22 NBA season and potential for 
future growth.
1. Bradley Beal, 
Washington Wizards
The easiest choice on this list is the No. 1 
spot. Bradley Beal’s NBA resume easily stands 
above the rest of his former Gator counterparts. 
Beal has been productive in each of his 10 NBA seasons. Since being drafted third overall 
in 2012, Beal has 22.1 points on 45% shooting. 
He’s been named to an All-Rookie team, an 
All-NBA team and is a three-time NBA All-Star. 
No Gator on an NBA roster today boasts the 
same kind of numbers and achievements. 
Although Beal missed half of this season 
with injury, many are intrigued about where 
he may head in the offseason as a free agent. 
Beal could finally turn the numbers into 
playoff success in a new situation away from 
Washington. One thing is for certain amongst 
all the rumors: Beal tops the list of pro Gators.
 2. Al Horford, Boston Celtics
This is where it gets difficult. There are 
multiple Gators deserving of this spot on the 
list. 
All things considered, Al Horford is the 
rightful owner of the No. 2  ranking among 
active Gators. Horford was drafted third overall 
in 2007 by the Atlanta Hawks after winning 
back-to-back national championships with 
Florida. 
The 6-foot-9-inch center was named to the 
All-Rookie team the same year. He has also 
been named to an All-NBA and All-Defensive 
team during his career, as well as appearing in 
five All-Star games. Beyond career accolades, 
Horford’s current play is a main factor in his 
ranking. 
He’s averaging a solid 10 points and eight 
rebounds for the Boston Celtics this year, a 
strong contribution to the current No. 3-seed in 
the Eastern Conference.
3. Udonis Haslem, Miami Heat
There are plenty of Gators fans who are 
Heat fans, which means plenty of Gators fans 
love Udonis Haslem. He spent a year playing pro ball in France before signing with Miami. 
UD earned a spot on the All-Rookie second 
team in his first season and spent the next 18 
in South Florida. Those 19 seasons with one 
franchise is tied with Tim Duncan and John 
Stockton for third all-time, sitting behind Kobe 
Bryant at 20 and Dirk Nowitzki at 21. It’s the 
longest active streak in the NBA. 
Haslem has been on three championship 
rosters and, despite receiving minimal playing 
time throughout his career, has cemented 
himself as a locker room favorite and Miami 
Heat legend.
4. Tre Mann, 
Oklahoma City Thunder
Tre Mann’s case for fourth on this list 
comes from a much smaller sample size than 
those ranked above him. 
The rookie and former Florida standout 
has just 60 professional appearances under 
his belt after being drafted 18th overall in the 
2021 draft. Despite his inexperience, Mann has 
shown plenty of potential. 
The 21-year-old guard is averaging 10 
points and 40% shooting on just 22 minutes 
per game. It’s a long road ahead in the NBA for 
Mann, but he has shown early on that he may 
be a solid backcourt option for years to come.
5. Dorian Finney-Smith, 
Dallas Mavericks
After transferring from Virginia Tech and 
playing his final three years of college ball at 
Florida, Dorian Finney-Smith entered his name 
into the 2016 NBA Draft. His name was never 
called, embarking him on a more treacherous 
road to his role with the Mavericks today. 
Finney-Smith signed with the Mavericks as 
an undrafted free agent that same offseason and secured an opening-night roster spot after 
a good impression during the Summer League. 
The forward struggled with injury and 
finding minutes during his first few seasons 
before showing signs of steady improvement. 
Now, Finney-Smith is having the best year of 
his career thus far, averaging 11 points in 33 
minutes on a playoff team.
6. Chris Chiozza, 
Golden State Warriors
After becoming a campus hero for his 
game-winning shot in the 2017 Sweet 16 
against Wisconsin, Chiozza has had a quieter 
NBA career. The guard went undrafted in 
2018 before joining the Washington Wizards’ 
Summer League roster. 
Since then, Chiozza has bounced around 
many NBA franchises and its G-League 
affiliates. The 26-year-old currently holds a 
two-way contract with Golden State, appearing 
in 34 games and averaging two points.
7. Scottie Lewis, 
Charlotte Hornets
Rounding out the list is the other rookie 
selected out of Florida in the most recent 
draft, Scottie Lewis. Lewis was taken with the 
56th overall pick in the second round by the 
Charlotte Hornets, signing a two-way contract 
to split time with the team and its G-League 
affiliate, the Greensboro Swarm. 
Lewis has only appeared in two games for 
the Hornets this season, but has averaged 12 
points and two assists in 30 minutes per game 
in the G League.
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgPro Gators: Ranking each active NBA player hailing from Florida
BASEBALL
THE GATORS LEFT FIELDER 
IS HAVING A SEASON THAT 
IS MAKING BASEBALL FANS 
ACROSS THE COUNTRY 
TAKE NOTICE
By Ethan Budowsky 
Sports Writer
In a roller coaster start to the 
year for Florida baseball, there has 
been one constant: Wyatt Langford. 
The sophomore from Trenton, 
Florida, is in the midst of a tremen -
dous season, posting a team-leading 
1.103 on-base-plus-slugging per -
centage along with a .417 on-base 
percentage and 10 home runs. He 
has been the Gators’ best and most 
consistent hitter, and somebody 
they can always rely on to spark the 
offense.However, Langford has not had 
a smooth ride in his time at Florida. 
He has traversed through rough ter -
rain since arriving in Gainesville.
Langford struggled to find play -
ing time in his first season on cam -
pus, appearing in just four games. 
Then he had to battle for the start -
ing job in left field this year with 
four extremely talented freshmen, 
eventually winning out due to his 
prowess with the bat.
“It’s been awesome just being 
able to play this year,” Langford 
said. “Kinda got used to not playing 
baseball last year, just watching a 
lot of it so it’s been a lot of fun.”
Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan put 
his trust in Langford and it is paying 
huge dividends. O’Sullivan, who is 
in his 15th season at Florida, said 
the left fielder’s transformation in 
the offseason helped earn him the starting job.
“I don’t know if I’ve seen a play -
er change his body and change the 
athleticism as much as [Langford] 
has,” O’Sullivan said. “He’s spent a 
lot of time in the weight room and 
a lot of time on his nutrition, and 
he’s transformed himself into a re -
ally good player from hard work.”
Langford attributes that trans -
formation in part to moving in with 
teammate Colby Halter. He said 
living with the junior second base -
man helped him stay focused on his 
training and nutrition. 
“No twinkies at all,” Langford 
said with a smile.
Clearly the change in his body — 
gaining 10 pounds of muscle since 
last season — has paid off big time 
in the power department. Lang -
ford’s .684 slugging percentage is 
second on the team to center fielder Jud Fabian, as are his 11 home runs.
Scouting expert Spencer Morris 
of Diamond Dreams Baseball said 
that Langford is somebody that be -
gan catching his eye while focusing 
on other Florida prospects. Now, he 
has quickly emerged as one of UF’s 
best.
“I'm sure I don't need to tell any -
one that he also packs some serious 
raw power,” Morris said. “The fact 
that he's already lifting the ball ef -
fectively against SEC competition 
as a teenager is a great sign for its 
continued growth. 
Langford is not eligible for the 
MLB Draft until next season, but 
Morris said he is someone who is 
rocketing up boards. His pedigree 
as a prospect and the reputation of 
success for guys like Langford has 
him projected as an early round 
pick in 2023.“This is a well-regarded prep 
player who is blossoming at a very 
early age against the upper echelons 
of college baseball talent,” Morris 
said. “Those types of players have a 
very strong track record in the pros, 
and he more than looks the part.”
Part of the reason Langford was 
able to earn himself a starting job 
is because he changed positions. He 
came to Gainesville as an infielder/
catcher and was stuck behind ex -
perienced guys, unable to get any 
playing time.
Once he changed his body, he 
also changed positions, switching to 
a full-time outfielder. This allowed 
Langford to compete for the open 
spot in left field and quickly find 
himself in the starting lineup.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@ethanbudowsky
ebudowsky@alligator.orgWyatt Langford proves his coach right every day12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
$$55
$$44
DOUBLE  DOUBLE  VODKA  VODKA  RED BULLRED BULL
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREFOOTBALL
By T opher Adams
Sports Writer
New Florida football head coach Billy 
Napier will man the sideline for the first 
time Thursday as the program hosts its 
annual Orange & Blue Spring Game under 
the lights of Ben Hill Griffin Stadium. 
The exhibition will be played at 7:30 p.m. 
and is open to the public. It was originally 
scheduled for Saturday, but Napier and the 
Gators staff want to energize the student 
body to create a lively environment for 
recruits. 
“This is going to create an opportunity 
for us to engage the student body for the 
first time,” Napier said. “We’re going 
to have some of the best recruits in the 
entire country here to show them what the 
University of Florida and Gator Nation are 
all about.”
The Orange & Blue game is the 
culmination of a month of practice for the 
former Louisiana head coach and Furman 
quarterback as he starts his first season at 
the helm of a major SEC program. Napier 
was hired in December, and spent the 
first three months building a recruiting 
class that finished 17th in the 247Sports 
Composite rankings. 
Thursday marks the first chance for 
fans to see first hand what Napier is doing 
on the field. Since spring practice started 
on March 15, Napier and the revitalized Gators coaching staff have worked to instill 
new principles and ideas to the players.
“As a coaching staff, our No. 1 goal 
is to put our players in a sound concept, 
eliminate gray areas and make it black-
and-white so they can play fast,” Florida 
defensive coordinator Patrick Toney said. 
All eyes will be on redshirt sophomore 
quarterback Anthony Richardson. 
The Eastside High School product 
dazzled in moments last season for the 
Gators. In the season opener against Florida 
Atlantic, Richardson broke multiple tackles 
before vaulting over another defender to 
cap off a 160 yard rushing performance 
with a 73-yard touchdown run, leaving an 
energized stadium in awe. 
Thursday will also be the first time 
fans see former Ohio State quarterback 
Jack Miller behind center for Florida. The 
Scottsdale, Arizona, native played in seven 
games for the Buckeyes last season before 
transferring, but only has 14 college pass 
attempts.
“I think [they] take a step forward each 
day,” Napier said. “Those guys are doing 
really well, they’re coming in extra … I 
see improvement so I’m pleased with that 
group.”
Florida’s top running backs in 2021, 
Malik Davis and Dameon Pierce, are 
chasing NFL dreams while last season’s 
leading receiver Jacob Copeland has 
transferred to Maryland, giving plenty of opportunities to young skill position 
players to earn opportunities in the Fall. 
Running backs redshirt freshman 
Demarckus Bowman and redshirt senior 
Lorenzo Lingard, both former five-star 
recruits in high school before transferring 
to UF, played sparingly last season, but are 
getting significant looks in spring practice. 
Senior receiver Justin Shorter, one of a few 
veteran offensive players, leads the new 
look receiving corps. 
Toney and the new-look Gator defense 
will look to improve upon the fourth-worst 
scoring defense in the SEC last season, and 
the new scheme is already drawing rave 
reviews from players.
“[It’s] breathtaking,” senior safety Trey 
Dean III said. “In the Fall, it’s going to be 
a show.”
Dean leads a promising secondary, now 
under the helm of renowned defensive 
backs coach Corey Raymond, who joined 
the Gators from LSU Dec. 9. Sophomore 
cornerback Jason Marshall Jr. impressed in 
moments as a true freshman and is poised 
for a breakout second season, while junior 
safety Rashad Torrence II thrived at times 
next to Dean in the defensive backfield. 
“Oh I’m excited about our group,” Toney 
said. “I think we’ve got a couple veterans 
back. I think we’ve got some young players 
that are ready to be tested.”
Dean and the rest of the team will prove 
themselves in the intrasquad scrimmage, which will be broken into four, 15-minute 
quarters with a running clock. The clock 
will stop for the last four minutes of each 
quarter and after penalties, scores and 
changes of possession. 
Thursday night’s exhibition will stream 
live on SEC Network+.
@Topher_Adams
tadams@alligator.orgNew-look Gators to showcase development at Orange and Blue game
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Louisiana transfer and running back 
Montrell Johnson hauls in a pass from 
Ohio State transfer Jack Miller.
Florida’ s annual spring game is set for Thursday night in the Swamp