We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  
pg#Gainesville parlor offers free genderless haircuts Sunday
Goldenrod Parlor held the Sunday event in honor of the sixth 
anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando,  pg. 4
GAU still unhappy with latest UF wage proposal
If the university and Graduate Assistants United don’t reach an 
agreement by June 28,  they  reach an impasse, pg. 5Two former Gators vie for NBA title
Either Al Horford or Chris Chiozza will 
be the latest Florida alum to win an 
NBA. Read more on page 11 .
MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 37
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
By Jackson Reyes
Alligator Staff Writer
The driver charged for the hit-and-run 
that killed UF student Margaret “Maggie” 
Paxton will serve six years in prison, a 
judge ruled Friday.
Joshua Figueroa, a 32-year-old 
Gainesville resident, must also pay a res -
titution of $3,428.95 to the Paxton fam -
ily, serve 15 years of felony probation and 
complete 120 hours of community service 
in a trauma center or hospital, Judge Phillip 
Pena ruled. 
He will lose his driver's license for 10 
years and complete a victim impact panel 
or a driver’s improvement course after his 
sentence. 
No sentence would equal what hap -
pened to Paxton, Pena said. 
Paxton’s death was one of three student 
pedestrian deaths along University Avenue 
in the last three years. 
Sophia Lambert, a UF freshman, was hit 
and killed one month later. Denise Griffiths, 
another UF student, was hit while walking 
in a crosswalk in January 2020. She died in the hospital days later. 
The series of deaths evoked commu -
nity outrage over a need for better safety 
for pedestrians. “Florida Not One More,” a 
student group advocating to make Univer -
sity Avenue and other roads in Gainesville 
safer, was founded January 2021, and The 
Alligator published Crossing Gainesville, 
a project analyzing the impact of crashes, 
programs and enforcement, April 2021.
Figueroa’s sentence would help bring 
some resolution to the family, said Darry 
Lloyd, the chief investigator for the State 
Attorney’s office, but it will be a challeng -
ing time.
“Nothing that happened today is 
going to bring Maggie back,”  
- Darry Lloyd, chief investigator
Figueroa was driving on West University 
Avenue Dec. 9, 2020, when he struck Pax -
ton, who was crossing the intersection of 
West University Avenue and Gale Lemer -
and Drive. He left the scene without giving Driver who killed UF student in hit-
and-run sentenced to 6 years in prison
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
THE FLORIDA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
HEAD COACH  MENDED A POST-
NEWBAUER ENVIRONMENT  
By Brenda Bogle
Sports Writer
Tears rolled down head coach Kelly 
Rae Finley’s face.
She sat in front of a microphone 
minutes after Florida women’s basketball’s 
comeback win over Vanderbilt March 3 in 
the Southeastern Conference Tournament, 
but her team lost graduate student Kiara 
Smith for the rest of the season after a 
knee injury late in the fourth quarter.
“Your heart aches a little bit when 
you care so much about each other,”
- Coach Kelly Rae Finley
Finley’s first time leading the team 
through a tumultuous season was driven 
by the care and joy she infused in her team. 
Using her experiences as a college player 
to relate to and guide her players through 
adversity, Finley orchestrated a historic 
season for the Gators that culminated in 
their first NCAA Tournament appearance 
since 2016.
Finley knew first-hand how devastating 
an injury like Smith’s can be to a college 
player. As a freshman at Northwestern, 
she was relegated to a sideline spectator 
after breaking her right leg during the 
2004-2005 season. She took the challenge 
and adapted.
“I learned how to be a great teammate,” 
she said. ”And I think that's probably 
where I learned that hard doesn't 
necessarily mean bad.”
Finley took over the program in July 
following the toxic environment and abuse 
players said they endured under former 
head coach Cam Newbauer's leadership.
Along with the scrutiny and media 
attention that came with Newbauer’s exit 
and reputation, Florida lost its first two 
games of conference play to Georgia and 
Ole Miss. The Gators also lost an essential 
offensive weapon when junior Lavender 
Briggs, already injured for the rest of the 
season, entered the transfer portal and Taking Charge: Kelly 
Rae Finley brings 
Florida women’s 
hoops back to glory
ABOUT 300 PEOPLE RALLIED 
IN RESPONSE TO THE MASS 
SHOOTING IN UVALDE, TEXAS
By Namari Lock
Alligator Staff Writer
Jackson O’Neill turned 13 a month before 
the Parkland shooting. 
Instead of an assembly to attempt to ad -
dress the tragedy that took place four hours 
south at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School his school conducted an unannounced 
fire drill. 
Everyone was in a panic, he said. None of 
his classmates left the room. 
“All of us were paralyzed by the fear that 
it might be our last day alive,” O’Neill said.
They knew, just 24 hours earlier, how the 
Parkland shooter lured students into the hall -
way with a fire alarm. The threat of a school 
shooting became tangible for him that day.
Four years later, that reality persists. 
About 300 people marched from Bo Diddley 
Plaza to Depot Park Saturday for the March 
for Our Lives protest in response to the May 
24 Robb Elementary School mass shooting 
in Uvalde, Texas. The march, advocating 
against nationwide gun violence, followed 
last weekend’s We Wear Orange campaign 
and a southwest Archer shooting that killed a 
16-year-old girl Tuesday. 
“Protect our kids, not guns” could be 
heard filtering down South Main Street as at -
tendees raised their signs high.
Rachel Wolfrey, a 21-year-old UF political 
science senior, arranged Gainesville’s March 
for Our Lives event with her organization 
Florida Forward. 
Gainesville’s tight-knit community of pro -
gressive organizations made it easy to find 
people who wanted to get involved in the 
rally, Wolfrey said. 
“Hopefully it was informational, but also 
impactful because it's the only way that 
we're going to be able to continue to make 
change,” Wolfrey said.
O’Neill, a Gainesville High School senior, 
attempted to conduct his own march before 
he heard about the March for Our Lives’ 
event. When organizers like Wolfrey heard 
about his permit request, they invited him to 
help plan the march routes and speak at the 
rally.Gainesville 
residents join 
national March for 
Our Lives protest
SEE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 11 SEE PAXTON,  PAGE 6SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 7Joshua Figueroa must pay more than $3000 
restitution to Margaret “Maggie” Paxton’ s family
Redshirt sophomore Joseph 
Fahnbulleh at the   SEC Indoor Track 
and Field Championships Feb. 27, 
2021. He led the Gators men’s track 
and field team to a 2022 NCAA 
Outdoor National Championship 
Friday, taking home the 100-meter 
and 200-meter titles for himself.
Alex de la Osa / / UAA CommunicationsT oday’s Weather
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 37
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Assistant Sports EditorSports Editor
Editorial BoardMultimedia Editorthe Avenue EditorMetro EditorSenior News Director
Senior Social Media Director
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgDazion Prosser, dprosser@alligator.org
Maura Schaeffer, mschaeffer@alligator.orgKarina Wilson, kwilson@alligator.orgCarson Cashion, ccashion@alligator.org
Julia Coin, Ryan Haley, Heather BushmanIsabella Douglas, idouglas@alligator.orgJoseph Henry, jhenry@alligator.org
Victoria Siwek, vsiwek@alligator.org
Faith Buckley, fbuckley@alligator.orgHeather Bushman, hbushman@alligator.orgRyan Haley, rhaley@alligator.orgJulia Coin, jcoin@alligator.org
CORRECTION:
"MOM'S OG STAYS TRUE TO 
ITS ROOTS, " PRINTED LAST 
WEEK IN THE ALLIGATOR, 
MISIDENTIFIED AN OWNER AS 
ROBERT WAGNER. HIS NAME 
IS ROBERT LATNER.MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
By Allyssa Keller & Lindsay Schindler
Alligator Staff Writers 
The Gender Free Haircut Club event was 
the first of its kind in Gainesville
Christine Fuston found comfort in her own 
skin when she saw her reflection in Goldenrod 
Parlor’s mirror. She traded her long hair for the 
style she always dreamed of: a pixie cut.
“Now I know how powerful hair can be,” 
she said. The new hairdo better suited both her 
personality and her sexuality.
The 27-year-old UF psychology intern 
chopped her locks last month and returned to 
the parlor to further personalize it Sunday. 
Goldenrod Parlor, located near Flashbacks 
Recycled Fashions and Hardback Cafe, offered 
free, inclusive haircuts to the LGBTQ commu -
nity Sunday in partnership with the Dresscode 
Project, a Canadian organization that provides 
gender-affirming educational materials for sa -
lons.
The event, called the Gender Free Haircut 
Club, honored the sixth anniversary of the 
Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, salon 
owner Sarah Kleeman said. She said Golden -
rod aims to be a safe space for the LGBTQ com -
munity during this time.
“Maybe some of them are feeling extremely 
emotional today, so they can come here and 
maybe have some peace,” Kleeman said. 
“When I get my hair cut, it’s a moment where 
I can actually feel peaceful, feel happy.”The parlor welcomed queer guests with a 
large Pride flag proudly displayed in the door -
way. The event kicked off with inclusivity 
anthems “Born This Way” by Lady Gaga and 
“Stronger (What Doesn’t Kill You)” by Kelly 
Clarkson.
About 10 people from ages 7 to 36 con -
versed with employees as they showed pic -
tures of the styles they wanted. 
Customers wrote their names, pronouns 
and preferred hairstyles on a sign-up sheet 
posted by the front door. They were immedi -
ately matched with a hairstylist best suited for 
their preferences.
Jamie Devine-Spears, a 30-year-old pet sit -
ter, had to cut their own hair for 10 years be -
cause salons never did it the way they wanted. 
Even when they tried, hairdressers would 
make misgendering remarks.
“I wanted a butch haircut, and they would 
be like, ‘OK, so you want your hair short, but 
like a woman, right?’” they said. 
Once Devine-Spears’ hair became one of 
their favorite things about themselves once it 
looked how they wanted. 
“I have to like how my hair looks, or I don’t 
like myself,” they said. 
Devine-Spears requested a shorter style to 
combat the combination of thick hair and swel -
tering Florida heat.
The event encouraged guests to feel com -
fortable not only in their hair but also in their 
own identity.Employees handed out small goodie bags 
filled with items from the Unspoken Treasure 
Society; a nonprofit organization serving the 
BIPOC-trans community in Gainesville. From 
June 20-25, Goldenrod will hold raffles with 
other local businesses and donate a percentage 
of their sales to this program, Kleeman said. 
Jackie Micieli, a 40-year-old UF museum 
studies professor, brought her 7-year-old son 
and 11-year-old daughter to Goldenrod for the 
first time Sunday.
Hair is a form of her childrens’ self-expres -
sion, Micieli said. Her son prefers his hair long, 
but her daughter dares to go shorter.
“‘Hair has no gender,’ I really like that say -
ing,” Micieli said. “It’s important to have spac -
es like this that are advertising an inclusive 
haircut experience.”
Paisley Micieli-Voutsinas, Micieli’s daugh -
ter, said she wanted a short hairstyle — one 
she can pull back into a ponytail when she 
dances.
“The lady I went to, she really did what I 
really wanted,” Paisley said. “I feel like it kind 
of expresses who I am.”
Veronica Durant, a 22-year-old UF senior, 
said she finds it difficult to fit into the queer 
community, but having control over her hair helps.
“It’s hard because I just don’t really feel like 
myself,” she said. “Having my short hair, I feel 
a lot more free. I feel more natural.”
People feel the need to assimilate for the 
sake of safety, 29-year-old Goldenrod hair styl -
ist Maelee Baxter said, but she wants people to 
know they’re in a safe space.
The highlight of her day was styling two 
kids who identify as queer. Her first guest, Ma -
son, wanted his hair to his ankles.
Kim Gallet, a 36-year-old teacher, took time 
to properly care for not only her hair but her -
self Sunday. She wanted to break her habit of 
neglecting her own happiness, she said.
“I need to love myself,” Gallet said. “I lost 
myself through my career and fostering ani -
mals and just taking care of everybody else.”
Nellie Sunshine accompanied Gallet to her 
haircut. She shed a tear at the mention of her 
friend’s shift in priorities. 
“I’m just so proud of you for doing this for 
yourself,” Sunshine said through tears.
@allygatorkeller
@lindsschindler 
akeller@alligator.org
lschindler@alligator.org‘Hair has no gender’: Goldenrod Parlor 
offers guests free genderless haircuts
UF Pride Events
• June 16:  The UF Association of LGBTQ+ Alumni Family Panel
• June 16, 1-5 p.m:  Geeky GAYtor “Paint Your Pride”
• June 23, 6 p.m.:  UF College of Pharmacy Guest Speaker
• June 24:  The UF Association of LGBTQ+ Alumni Happy Hour
• June 28:  The UF Association of LGBTQ+ Alumni LGBTQ History Panel
• June 29, 1-5 p.m.:  Geeky GAYtor “STOMP Gender Norms”
Allyssa Keller / / Alligator Staff
Jamie Devine Spears gets their haircut at Goldenrod Parlor, an LGBTQ friendly hair salon, June 12, 2022.
The Gender Free Haircut Club event 
was the first of its kind in GainesvilleMONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
UF CAMPUS PARKING 
BY CVS ON 13TH ST!
Go to Parkonthefly.com &
Reserve While Supplies Last!Affordable hourly,
monthly & yearly rates!By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
An adjusted UF Student Govern -
ment Senate budget will move about 
$92,000 from Recreational Sports op -
erations to personnel payroll to avoid 
potential student and employee lay -
offs.
An amendment to UF Student 
Government Senate’s 2022-2023 
budget passed its first reading unani -
mously Tuesday to address the UF 
Board of Trustees denial of a 5% in -
crease last year.
The budget also provides wages 
for more than 1,000 student workers 
on campus and funds other campus 
resources such as the Hitchcock Field 
and Fork Pantry and Southwest Rec -
reation Center.
The Student Government Stu -
dent Activities and Fees budget has increased by about $1 million since 
the 2019-2020 fiscal year. This year’s 
initial budget, passed Aug. 3, 2021, 
was denied a 5% increase from $22.5 
million to $23.7 million in line with 
the upward trend. Student fees and 
tuition fund the budget. 
The amended budget moves 
$225,000 from SG to the Student Ac -
tivities and Involvement fund for the 
signature events program and adjusts 
payroll for inflation. This program 
supports events serving 500 students 
or more and allows event planners to 
lock in three years of funding at once, 
Budget and Appropriations Chair -
woman Catherine Giordano said.
“It’s these events that truly 
impact the student experience,”
- Chairwoman Catherine Giordano
Giordano’s committee will draft the 2023-2024 budget later this se -
mester. 
Budget and Appropriations Com -
mittee members spoke during public 
comment in support of the bill and 
urged Senate to approve it to continue 
funding for various campus resources.
“As a senator, it is important to me 
to make sure constituents, which is 
any student on campus, have access 
to necessities that they may need to 
strive and reach their full potential,” 
Committee member Senator Johnny 
Liu said during the livestreamed 
meeting. 
The amended budget is expected 
to pass its second and final reading at 
the next Senate meeting.
Two resolutions passed Tuesday, 
one celebrating 50 years of women’s 
athletics at UF and another support -
ing additional composting stations 
around campus and residential halls.The Resign to Run Act, which re -
quires SG officers currently in office 
to submit conditional resignations be -
fore running for another position, also 
passed. 
Judiciary Chairman Senator John 
Brinkman, its author, said the act is 
meant to align with Florida state stat -
utes and promote commitment to 
elected positions.
Senate approved Zachary Shenk -
man for a replacement Engineering 
seat and Joe Andreoli for a permanent 
graduate seat. An additional seven re -
placement seats and eight permanent 
seats remain open. 
Senator Jonathan C. Stephens 
stood during public comment earlier 
in the meeting and condemned the 
Rules and Ethics Committee’s exon -
eration of Senate President Elizabeth 
Hartzog June 2. He described the 
hearing as “comedic,” said the com -mittee’s ruling leaned into partisan 
loyalty and bowed to Hartzog’s au -
thority by accepting her defense. 
Minority Party Leader Faith Cor -
bett spoke in contradiction to the evi -
dence Hartzog presented during the 
hearing. Corbett told Senate she did 
not agree to cancel the May 17 Senate 
meeting as Hartzog testified. 
She said half of Hartzog’s defense, 
which argued Corbett agreed to can -
cel the meeting, should qualify as 
hearsay because Corbett was not sub -
poenaed. 
“I understand that this is now all 
behind us, but I wanted to set the re -
cord straight,” Corbett said.
The next Senate meeting will be 
in the Reitz Union Senate Chambers 
June 14 at 7 p.m.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgAmended Student Senate budget maintains fees, caucus addresses Senate President exonerationUF WILL ENACT MOST RECENT OFFER 
DESPITE COUNTERPROPOSAL FROM 
GRADUATES ASSISTANTS UNITED  
By Sandra McDonald
Alligator Staff Writer
UF’s latest offer to graduate assistants could be 
final, whether they agree to its terms or not.
The offer does not address Graduate Assistants 
United’s demand for an increased stipend and a 
clause in the bargaining agreement allows the uni -
versity to move forward without their approval. 
The current bargaining period, which started 
in October, ends June 28. If UF and GAU have not 
made an agreement by then, they will reach an im -
passe. 
The university’s previous plans, which UF’s labor 
lawyer called a tentative final offer, prompted a pro -
test. Its newest offer introduced both a 3% raise and 
one-time payment of $1,000. 
The current plan is the best UF could offer, labor 
lawyer Ryan Fuller said, because the university’s in -
come decreased by 4.3% from last year as it battles 
rising costs. 
Donors also ask the university to use money for 
a specific department or purpose. UF cannot repur -
pose earmarked funds to pay graduate assistants. 
The raise, which would begin retroactively from 
Jan. 1, will be implemented as soon as logistically 
possible, Fuller said at a bargaining session Wednes -
day, and the one-time payment would only apply to 
graduate assistants who make less than $18,500. 
The offer is still a paycut, GAU’s chief bargainer 
Esteban Rodofili said. They made a counterproposal 
that dropped the $1,000 bonus and increased the 
minimum stipend to $20,925 for nine-month con -
tracts and $27,900 for 12-month contracts.
The university’s plan reflected earlier negotia -
tions; $16,000 to $17,000 for nine-month contracts and $21,333.33 to $22,753.85 for twelve-month con -
tracts. 
A single adult should make $31,748 per year to 
make a living wage in Gainesville, according to the 
MIT living wage calculator GAU referenced during 
negotiations.
Spencer Murphy, a third-year doctoral student in 
the Counselor Education Program, said he currently 
makes $1,200 a month under his contract. His rent 
is $1,300 a month. 
Murphy said UF’s negotiators bargained in bad 
faith and that the contract’s stipulation that he can -
not look for outside employment is predatory; it en -
courages students to pull out loans to survive. 
“There will come a time when you are not con -
tinuing to bargain with us,” he said. “You will have 
a strike, and that’s not fun. You don’t want that.”
The union plans to protest again in front of Tigert 
Hall June 17 at 4 p.m., Bryn Taylor, GAU’s co-pres -
ident wrote in an email to the Alligator Wednesday 
night. 
Taylor asked Fuller whether he could personally 
survive on $18,000 in Gainesville.
“I don’t know the answer to whether that’s 
a viable situation,”
- Ryan Fuller, labor lawyer
Fuller said he was a graduate assistant in the 
early 2000s and made the equivalent of this; He did 
not respond after Rodofili said $18,000 in 2000 is 
equivalent to about $30,000 today, according to the 
CPI Inflation Calculator.
The Board of Trustees will discuss further in -
vestment into graduate assistants at its June 16-17 
board meeting, Fuller said, although it was unclear 
whether that would be an additional raise or another 
form of support.
@sn_mcdonald
smcdonald@alligator.orgGAU unsatisfied with proposed pay increase
SUMMER A INNOVATION 
ACADEMY STUDENTS 
SHOWCASED THEIR GROUP’S 
TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS  
By Lindsay Schindler 
Alligator Staff Writer 
Emerson Alumni Hall buzzed with con -
versation as people pitched futuristic ideas, 
from autonomous traveling workspaces to 
solar-powered benches.
UF’s Innovation Academy hosted its 
10th annual Summer A Catalyst Showcase, 
the first in-person one since the start of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, Friday. It concluded 
Innovation in Action, a course all first-year 
IA students take in Summer A or Summer 
B.
Students created ways for residents to 
engage in a 21st century community. They 
were randomly assigned to 32 teams of four 
or five students and had five weeks to com -
plete the project. 
Katelyn Allen, a 19-year-old UF account -
ing freshman, constructed an autonomous 
mobile pod serving as a collaborative work -
space. Office buildings and classrooms 
grow gloomy and monotonous, she said, 
and working in the same space repeatedly 
hinders creativity. 
The pod, made of glass that can be 
opaque or transparent, would drive around 
town so those inside can take inspiration 
from the sites around them. 
The group thought they lost and was delighted to hear their names as they pre -
sented the last award of the afternoon: the 
judges’ choice award. 
One group designed a solar-powered, 
cost-effective activity bench made of recy -
cled materials. 
The structure, lined with electrical out -
lets and outfitted with an overhead awning, 
would allow people to face each other in 
conversation.
“I don’t know about you, but I don’t 
want to sit down on the benches in 
Gainesville,” Maksym Marek, a 19-year-old 
computer science freshman said. He said 
the design would encourage him to get out -
side more, unlike a regular bus stop bench. 
Students were also tasked with improv -
ing San Felasco Tech City, a collaborative 
Alachua community contestants visited 
prior to the showcase.
Juliana Gomez, an 18-year-old UF jour -
nalism freshman, created an all-access card 
for San Felasco Tech city residents, which 
would enable them to access exclusive 
events and provide discounts at local busi -
nesses. She said they wanted to create con -
nections between residents and businesses, 
because they seemed disconnected when 
her group toured. Residents could purchase 
either a monthly or yearly payment plan. 
IA freshmen found new ways to incor -
porate technology into the future, and a 
fresh set of ideas will be presented when 
another group of students take the course 
in Summer B.
@lindsschindler 
lschindler@alligator.orgInnovation Academy hosts 
annual catalyst showcase
The amended $22 million budget passed its first reading unanimously and will fund 1000 student workers and resources on campus6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
medical aid or personal informa -
tion about himself or the vehicle, 
according to a Gainesville Police 
Department press release. Police 
found Paxton may have crossed 
the road against the light and out -
side of the crosswalk, according to 
WUFT News.
GPD arrested Figueroa July 1, 
2021, after an almost six-month-
long investigation. Police found his 
car at his father’s auto shop. 
Figueroa initially pleaded “not 
guilty” but changed his plea to no 
contest and sought the minimum of 
a four-year sentence March 28. The 
judge denied both.
Figueroa had been hospitalized 
since June 5 and could not partici -
pate in the scheduled June 8 hear -
ing, according to a WUFT article. 
The hearing resumed Friday, but 
Figueroa did not offer an official 
statement. The only reference to 
his hospitalization Friday was to 
confirm he was not on medication 
affecting his decision for the new 
plea.
Pena referenced letters from 
Paxton’s friends and family that de -scribed her as a determined, fierce 
competitor and a vibrant, enthusi -
astic ray of sunshine. Her mother, 
Lisa Paxton, teared up alongside 
other family members.
Pena said he received more let -
ters during this case than any other 
case he has presided over in 10 
years. 
James Paxton, Maggie’s father, 
said he appreciated GPD’s effort 
to identify Figueroa and everyone 
who wrote impact letters to Pena, 
which James thought were vital to 
Figueroa’s sentencing. 
He said although the final deci -
sion took longer than expected, he 
was overwhelmed and thankful a 
decision was made. He added it will 
be a tough six years for Figueroa.
“It took a little while, but we’re 
patient, and our faith tells us to be 
patient and look towards God,” 
James said.  
He looked forward to moving 
past this moment to celebrate Mag -
gie’s life and who she impacted, he 
said, though he did not know if clo -
sure was the right word to describe 
the moment.
@JacksnReyes
jacksonreyes@alligator.orgPAXTON,  from pg. 1Driver imprisoned
Julia Cooper / / Alligator Staff
Members of the Florida Not One More student group attend a press conference held by two 
attorneys representing the families of Maggie Paxton and Sophia Lambert March 3, 2021.
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
Gov. Ron DeSantis appointed 
Raemi Eagle-Glenn Thursday to fill the 
District 1 seat, which she lost to former 
commissioner Mary Alford in 2020 with 
only 37% of the vote. 
Alford resigned May 16 after an 
investigation found her in violation of 
residency requirements, and the seat had 
been vacant for 25 days.
She said she forgot to file a homestead 
exemption while she lived in District 4 
to care for a relative. She purchased a 
new house in District 1, which includes 
Micanopy and parts of Gainesville and 
Archer, Friday; she filed to run for the seat 
the same day. 
Because Alford resigned with more than 
two years left in her term, Eagle-Glenn 
will occupy the seat until Nov. 15 — seven 
days after the next general election.
Eagle-Glenn announced her appointment in a Facebook post and 
thanked DeSantis and her brother, 
Dane Eagle, the secretary of Florida’s 
Department of Economic Opportunity.
Eagle-Glenn’s appointment will 
bring a conservative voice to the county 
commission, said 77-year-old Northwood 
Pines resident Mary Stonecipher. She 
voted for Eagle-Glenn in 2020.
“They’ve all been marching in lockstep 
for too long, and that has hurt our county,” 
she said.
Even though DeSantis appointed Eagle-
Glenn, County Commissioner Ken Cornell 
said he hopes she becomes educated on 
local issues, listens to the public and 
contributes to the county commission in a 
way that represents District 1. 
“It's an honor to be a county 
commissioner, and I hope she takes it 
seriously,” he said.
Susan Cary, a 78-year-old District 4 
Grove Street resident, supports Alford’s 
campaign.“She's a person of high ethical and 
moral standards,” she said. “When she 
realized that something was amiss, she did 
what she should do, which was to resign.”
She said she was not surprised by 
Eagle-Glenn’s appointment to the seat and 
hopes she does not run again after her first 
election loss.
“It’s a totally political move,” Cary 
said. “People in Alachua County wouldn't 
vote for her.” 
Alford said she felt she had good 
support; a lot of people appreciated her 
recognizing the issue with residency and 
resigning.
“I worked really hard to be a good 
commissioner,” she said, “And I think 
people recognize that.”
Thomas Craig, a 66-year-old Newberry 
resident, voted for Eagle-Glenn in 2020 
and said he is excited for a Republican 
voice to join the commission.
After the residency violation, Craig said 
if it were up to him he would never let Alford run again but still expects she will 
win the fall election. 
Eagle-Glenn received her bachelor's 
degree in psychology from the University 
of Central Florida and a law degree 
from the University of Florida. She is 
the Alachua County Republican State 
Committeewoman, an attorney at 
Eagle-Glenn Law and a member of the 
Republican National Lawyers Association. 
She is also the third Republican to serve 
on the Alachua county board of county 
commissioners. 
Eagle-Glenn did not respond to 
comment after six phone calls, two emails 
and two Facebook messages. 
The next county commission meeting 
is scheduled for Tuesday, though it is 
unclear if Eagle-Glenn will be present, 
County Communications Director Mark 
Sexton said.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.org
By Mickenzie Hannon
Alligator Staff Writer
The man accused of raping a woman at Gainesville 
Place Apartments and kidnapping another woman near UF 
campus last September will not stand trial until a judge 
deems him mentally competent.
Antwine Johnson, a 32-year-old Gainesville resident, is 
being held at the Alachua County Jail on a bond of more 
than $1.6 million for kidnapping, sexual assault and theft 
charges. He will complete competency training at a mental health facility, State Attorney Brian Kramer said. 
Judge Phillip Pena granted Johnson’s request to trans -
fer the case to a new court Wednesday after reviewing a 
May 17 evaluation that found him incompetent to proceed 
in the trial. 
Incompetent defendants’ cases are transferred to and 
remain in a division five court, an administrative court 
within the Eighth Judicial Circuit, until they complete 
competency training, Kramer said. A division five judge 
— who presides over cases of insanity, incompetency or 
probation based on mental health conditions — reviews the defendants every six months or until they are deemed 
competent enough to stand trial.
A competent defendant must understand charges, al -
legations and possible penalties, Kramer said. They must 
also be able to communicate with their attorney, demon -
strate appropriate courtroom behavior and provide rele -
vant testimony.
The victim’s prosecuting attorney, Brooke King, did not 
object to the transfer. Johnson, who is represented by Joy 
Danne, is set to make an appearance in the felony foren -
sics court June 16.
@MickenzieHannon
mhannon@alligator.orgDeSantis appoints county Republican committeewoman to fill vacated county commission seat
Alleged Gainesville rapist and kidnapper deemed incompetent for trial
Antwine Johnson will be transferred to a mental health facilityRaemi Eagle-Glenn will fill the vacated county commission seat pr eviously held by Mary AlfordMONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
“It’s horrible to go to school 
with the lingering thought 
that it may be your last day 
on Earth. “This is how gun 
violence has shaped my 
generation.”
- Jackson O'Neill, student
Maigan Brusko, a Gainesville 
mother of four, walked among the 
crowd of residents, professors and 
students. Brusko, 38, said her last three 
years in high school were tinted 
by the 1999 Columbine shooting. 
It’s difficult to watch her children 
grow in a world where mass death 
has become normal, she said.
Brusko’s children attend local 
elementary schools where lock -
down procedures are inconsis -
tent, she said. Some schools told 
them to hide from bad guys, and 
others soften the reality by fram -
ing drills as a mission to hide from 
a bear. Brusko said, as her kids 
talk among themselves, their fears 
only grow — they have night -mares of bad guys and bears en -
tering their schools.
It is not the children’s responsi -
bility to defend themselves during 
these drills — adults must make it 
safer for them, Brusko said, and 
gun control is the first step. 
“You don’t hand everyone a 
match when there are fire prob -
lems,” she said, comparing gun 
violence in America to a raging 
flame. “You take away the match -
es.”       
She toted a sign Saturday read -
ing, “Data doesn’t lie. Politicians 
do. Guns are the problem!”
If people cannot feel safe in 
their homes, local activist Dani -
elle Chanzes said, then politicians 
should not feel safe in their of -fices. 
“You need to get familiar with 
these people and get familiar with 
their faces,” Chanzes said. “And 
when you see them out in public 
— give them hell!”
Four school board seats and 
three county commission seats 
remain up for grabs in Alachua 
County’s primary election Aug. 
23.
Though increased attention on 
school shootings is needed, lo -
cal activist Chanae Jackson said, 
people of color are still dispropor -
tionately affected by gun violence 
— it lives within institutionalized 
racism.
“White mass shooters get the 
benefit of the doubt,” Jackson said. “How is it that the data is 
clear about who we should be 
afraid of but we are not? Racism.”
As a Black woman, Jackson 
said she was disheartened she 
was outnumbered at the rally and 
believes there needs to be more 
courageous conversations with 
the Black community. It is imper -
ative all of the voices of the com -
munity are highlighted, she said.
“We’re all being forced to 
grieve the deaths of loved ones 
and strangers for no justifiable 
reason,” she said. “Our bodies are 
not designed to deal with so much 
grief.”
@namari_l
nlock@alligator.orgPROTEST,  from pg.1 Dismayed masses march
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Protestors march from Bo Diddley Plaza to Depot Park during the March For Our Lives rally June 11, 2022.
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
About 300 people at the March For Our Lives rally in Depot Park protesting gun violence June 11, 2022.Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Citizens protest gun violence while marching from Bo Diddley 
Plaza to Depot Park June 11, 2022.
Yingqun Zhu / / Alligator Staff
Protestors listen to speakers at Bo Diddley Plaza to rally against 
gun violence at the March For Our Lives event June 11, 2022.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida men’s and women’s track and field dominate 
national championship meets
Mike Holloway led both teams to NCAA outdoor titles in Eugene. 
Read more on page 12 . Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
SATURDAY’S EVENT AIMS TO 
ADDRESS A LARGE VOID IN 
QUEER NIGHTLIFE
By Anna Ward
Avnue Staff Writer
Covered by the pink hue of flash -
ing multicolor lights, an exuberant 
crowd filled How Bazar’s “D*ke 
Night” Saturday. Queer women and 
nonbinary folks of all ages danced 
to jams from Doja Cat to Daddy 
Yankee, smoked American Spirit 
cigarettes and spun around on roller 
skates.
The event pulled in more than 
100 people and lasted from 10 p.m. 
to about 2 a.m. Patrons tucked pride 
flags, available on the counter, into 
their ponytails.
Inspiration for the event came 
from co-founders Maureen Murtha, 
a 34-year-old lesbian communica -
tions specialist, and Shré Jethwani, 
a 25-year-old nonbinary queer ac -
tivist and DJ. They noticed a lack of 
inclusive sapphic, or lesbian, events 
in and around Gainesville.
The two set out to create a more 
welcoming and inclusive event. 
They said the name helped signal 
that.
“What would be the thing or 
the word or the phrase that I would 
immediately recognize as [me] be -
longing there?’ … It’s ‘D*ke Nite,’” Murtha said.
She described the definition as 
anyone who unapologetically re -
jects patriarchy.
“I do feel like it’s important to 
own those words,” she said. “To 
me, the word is the most politi -
cized, and it has the most weight of 
acknowledging our history.”
The event, one of two sapphic-
specific events Gainesville offers, 
was inspired from Murtha and Jeth -
wani’s time at St. Petersburg Pride 
last year. Some of their friends were 
excluded from every bar they went 
to, which Jethwani said was a prod -
uct of transphobia in lesbian spaces. 
University Club hosts a “ladies 
loving ladies” night on the first and 
third Thursday of every month. 
Monica Ditch, a 26-year-old les -
bian marine biologist at the Florida 
Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
Commission, said the one bi-month -
ly event is not enough, as Thursday 
events exclude adults who work 
Friday mornings and students with 
early classes.
“We’re relegated to Thursday. 
It’s sad,” Ditch said. “We deserve 
more.” 
Ditch and her friend Jenn, a 
29-year-old middle school teacher 
who declined to give her last name 
out of concern for job security, said 
when they want to be around other 
lesbians, they either throw their 
own gatherings or drive two hours to Orlando for a party.
Dayanna Peek, a 20-year-old 
UF international studies and public 
relations junior, has thrown three 
sapphic parties in Gainesville. As a 
nonbinary lesbian, they said it’s all 
about the energy.
“I like to just be in this space 
where it’s just like me and my 
femme gals just chatting it up,” Peek 
said. “It’s always just so warm and 
welcoming and cool to be around.” 
Ditch and Peek both noted the 
beneficial company of those with 
similar backgrounds.
“You’re oppressed as a woman 
and any brand of queer woman, 
so it’s the multiple layers of op -
pression. We can all come together 
and share an experience together,” 
Ditch said.
Safety isn’t just about accep -
tance: it’s also about being physi -
cally secure.
Identity-specific events are es -
pecially important for a community 
often branded as predatory for mis -
calculated advances, Murtha said. 
She said it’s difficult to comfortably 
approach others with interest with -
out some layer of security, and the 
event’s space is that layer of protec -
tion.
It also provided a space for sap -
phics to escape the sexism they face 
in all spaces — queer included. In -
stances of men who feel entitled to 
grab women’s bodies do not escape those not sexually attracted to them, 
according to Jane Perez, a 22-year-
old lesbian UF Latin American stud -
ies graduate student.
“Here, nobody’s grabbed my ass 
without my consent,” she said.
Many attendees said UC suffers 
a slight disconnect with the queer 
community. Its growing popularity 
with straight people brings tension 
to an otherwise safe space.
“You still have that fear of, 
‘Okay, this person’s in a gay bar, 
but are they actually an ally or a 
member of the community?’” Jenn 
said.
How Bazar seems to be a fresh, 
real and open ally the queer com -
munity needs, Jethwani said.
“It’s owned by a number of 
queer community members, so the 
space is intrinsically our own,” they 
said.
Murtha said that the fresh space 
of the newly opened How Bazar 
separated it from the heavy history 
another location may have.
She said it’s also vital to provide 
a space for intergenerational con -
tact, a space where people can wit -
ness others they can identify with at 
different life stages.
“Seeing a married lesbian couple 
with a baby — there’s something so 
valuable about that,” Murtha said. 
“That is so deeply validating. Like, 
they made it, they survived, they’re 
here.” 
Susie Vought, a 48-year-old les -
bian Gainesville resident, used to 
attend events similar to Saturday in the building that is now the How 
Bazar. Lesbian bands booked gigs 
there ten years ago, back when the 
space was Brophy’s Irish Pub.
Without spaces like these, the 
sapphic community becomes bro -
ken, isolated and stereotyped, 
Murtha said, a consequence voiced 
by others.
“You meet fewer people, you 
have less community, there’s small -
er groups and you’re more frag -
mented,” Ditch said.
@AnnaWard_
award@alligator.org
WITH NO MAJOR VENUES IN 
TOWN, UF STUDENTS WEIGH 
IN ON CHASING LIVE SHOWS 
AROUND FLORIDA AND BEYOND
By Averi Kremposky
Avenue Staff Writer
Carley James, a frequent concertgoer, is 
well-acquainted with trading sleep for the ec -
stasy of live music.
With heavy eyelids, the 19-year-old UF com -
munication sciences and disorders senior made 
the two-hour drive through the inky interstate 
back to Gainesville the same night she saw 
Dayglow, an indie musician, in Tallahassee. 
“That’s the point where you have to chug a 
Celsius,” James said. “Then you’re just praying 
that you don’t fall asleep at the wheel.” 
Gainesville’s meager population, compared 
to other large cities, can discourage big-name 
artists from performing in town. The predica -
ment forces UF concert lovers to flee the city if 
they want to catch hotshot musicians. If they 
also want to get attendance points for their 
classes the next morning, the late-night trek back to Gainesville is unavoidable. 
Pat Lavery, the facility and events manager 
at High Dive, said routing a tour through Flor -
ida is difficult. 
If an artist is coming from a different state, 
it takes roughly six hours to get to Gainesville, 
which is still north of other Sunshine State des -
tinations. 
Gainesville’s small-scale population already 
decreases an artist’s chance of making a prof -
it, and some can’t consider it because venues 
aren’t big enough to host them, Lavery said. 
High Dive, one of Gainesville’s largest venues, 
can only accommodate small-scale shows. 
Some venues institute radius clauses that 
prohibit artists from playing in neighboring cit -
ies within a certain number of miles of a previ -
ous venue. Artists performing in Jacksonville or 
St. Augustine can’t stop in Gainesville, anyway. 
Lavery said an amphitheater in Gainesville 
would be impractical. The St. Augustine Am -
phitheater, which Lavery considers to be one 
of the best venues in the country, hosts large-
scale concerts only 77 miles from UF’s campus. 
A venue that takes even 10 percent of the St. 
Augustine site’s business would never be able to support itself, he said. 
“From a financial side, it just doesn’t equate, 
and that’s why we just don’t have that here,” 
Lavery said. “It’s all numbers.”
Caroline Hickey, a UF biomedical engineer -
ing sophomore, said balancing her school work 
and passion for live music can be demanding. 
After traveling to Tampa and St. Augustine to 
see Phoebe Bridgers on both May 24 and 25, 
Hickey said she fell behind on Summer course -
work. 
Even though Hickey did homework in line 
for the show in Tampa, due dates still snuck up 
on her. After arriving home at 1 a.m., Hickey 
still had two physics quizzes to turn in.
“Was this a bad idea? Yeah. But I would 
do it again. You got to live a little.”
-Caroline Hickey, UF student
When James’ exam schedule and concert 
plans overlapped, she spent the weekend at 
two shows instead of studying for her test on 
Monday. The consequential grade spoke for 
itself. 
“I definitely should prioritize, but concerts are like my one happiness,” she said. 
When James is lucky, she can crash with 
her family in Tampa instead of making the late-
night odyssey back to her dorm. 
But the convenience of shelter doesn’t can -
cel classes the next morning. 
Besides the 6 a.m. wake-up call, James said 
every parking spot is usually taken when she 
gets back to her dorm. By finding an alternative 
spot, James risks getting a parking ticket.
To live in Gainesville is to sacrifice time to 
travel for a concert, or to not go at all. But some 
students see a certain charm in chasing tours 
around the state. 
Hickey said driving is never a burden — she 
loves playing music and being alone.
Whether it’s carpooling to save money or 
studying for their exam a week in advance, 
concertgoers are steadfast in finding ways to fit 
live music into their lives.
“If you really want to go to the concerts and 
you know you can’t afford to have bad grades,” 
James said, “you’ll get it done.”
@averijkremposky
akremposky@alligator.orgHow Bazar hosts sapphic space on Saturday
Around the state and back again: UF concert lovers must travel for live music
NIGHTLIFENIGHTLIFE
MUSICMUSICAnna Ward / / Alligator Staff
Attendees dance under 
the neon lights of the How 
Bazar at Saturday’s event.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
Online Auction Only
-Suncoast Greenscape, LLC. d/b/a Earth 
Works Landscape Management
-Located at 1450 Global Court, Sarasota, FL 
34240
-Auction ends: Tues, June 21st, 2022 at 
10:00 A.M.
-Auction will consist of: 2014 and 2015 Isuzu 
NPR Crew Cab Landscape Dump Trucks, 
(2) 2016 Isuzu NPR Crew Cab Landscape 
Dump Trucks, 2013 Dodge Ram 1500 Pickup 
Truck, (5) Enclosed Utility Trailer, (7) Hustler 
60″ Mowers, 20ft. Shipping Container, (2) 
Landscape Trailers and more. Registration, 
catalog, photos and terms available at www.
moeckerauctions.com
-Preview: 06/06 by appointment. Call for 
details (954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
-(No onsite attendance)
-AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin
6-13-1-10
11Motorcycles/
Mopeds
BAM POWER BIKE 
ELECTRIC / MANUAL - Like New. 
Black.  Kendra tires. 
Helmet & 2 battery packs included, $1200. 
Call 352-222-9649                        6-13-22-6-11
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     8-15-22-13-121For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
8-15-13-1
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
8-15-22-13-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         8-15-13-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367        
8-15-13-10
11..    MMoonneeyy,,  rreessoouurrcceess
11..    EEvveerryy  sseevveenn  ddaayyss55..    IInndduuccee,,  ssiimmuullaattee  
22..    DDoo  aawwaayy  wwiitthh66..    AArrmm  ooff  tthhee  sseeaa
33..    LLaattttiicceewwoorrkk  77..    PPiicckkeedd
44..    EEmmppeerroorr,,  mmoonnaarrcchh  AATTWWHHEELL
YYLLWWEEKKEEKKEEEEVVOO
TTEEIILLNN
SSOOIIAABBHHLL
RRTTIILLEELLSSHHOOCCNNSSEE
SSAAUUNNLLTTAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--WWeeaalltthh    55AA--EEvvookkee    66AA--IInnlleett    77AA--CChhoosseenn
11DD--WWeeeekkllyy    22DD--AAbboolliisshh    33DD--TTrreelllliiss    44DD--SSuullttaann    BB--KKiittttyy  HHaawwkk66--1133--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhiiss  NNoorrtthh  CCaarroolliinnaa  ttoowwnn  ggoott  iittss  nnaammee  ffrroomm  
AAllggoonnqquuiinn  ffoorr  ““ppllaaccee  ttoo  hhuunntt  ggeeeessee..””
BONUS● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                      8-15-22-13-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       8-15-13-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org10 For Sale
By John Lieb
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/13/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/13/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, June 13, 2022
ACROSS
1 Mustang 
automaker
5 Honey liquor
9 “__ Mia!”: ABBA 
musical
14 Nike rival
15 Convention 
center event
16 Noble gas in 
some lasers
17 Prepare for a 
newborn’s arrival
18 Softball glove
19 Entice
20 *Title of many 
compilation 
albums
23 Old 1-Across 
named for a 
horse
24 Stores
27 Costello partner
30 Sweetie
31 Vote in favor
33 Actress Polo
34 *Not at all 
talkative
38 Take along
40 ISP pioneer
41 Covert agents
42 *Taylor Swift 
song with the 
lyrics “You 
can’t get rid of 
it / ’Cause you 
remember it ... ”
45 “To be,” in French
46 Up to, briefly
47 Directional suffix
48 Agitation
50 White __ 
machine: sleep 
aid
52 Sight-singing 
teaching method
54 *“There’s no way 
to know yet”
59 Infomercial dude
62 Dancer Falana
63 Drink whose logo 
has frosted letters
64 LEGO brand for 
tots
65 “Stay” singer Lisa
66 CBS military 
drama
67 Reproductive 
health pro
68 Pop artist Warhol
69 Superlative 
acronym spelled 
out by the starts 
of the answers to 
the starred cluesDOWN
1 Long, pointed 
tooth
2 “Evvie Drake 
Starts __”: novel 
by Linda Holmes
3 Counterpart of 
run in calculating 
the slope of a  
line
4 Unit of 
information
5 Foul ball caught 
at a game, e.g.
6 Have life
7 Likely will, after 
“is”
8 Biblical verb
9 “Crash Into Me” 
rock group Dave 
__ Band
10 Childish retort
11 Old RKO rival
12 Messy hairdo
13 Industrious  
insect
21 __ for tat
22 “No need to 
tell me what 
happened there”
25 Mineral that 
resembles gold
26 Passover meals
27 Facing the 
pitcher28 German capital
29 S.O.S alternative
30 Kristen of “The 
Good Place”
32 Strong point
35 Young deer
36 Adversary
37 The “O” of iOS
39 Contributes to, as 
a group gift
43 Utah city near 
Provo
44 Soothing song
49 Super Bowl org.51 Setting of Elena 
Ferrante’s 
Neapolitan novels
52 Faint
53 Lubricated
55 “Boo’d Up”  
singer __ Mai
56 Danish shoe 
brand
57 A Skywalker twin
58 For fear that
59 Hullabaloo
60 Name
61 Fuel efficiency stat
By Robin Stears
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC06/07/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Patti Varol and Joyce Nichols Lewis
06/07/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, June 7, 2022
ACROSS
1 Multivitamin 
mineral
5 Joined the choir
9 Corn discard
12 Rachael Ray 
sauteing initialism
13 Ranch rope
15 “Knives Out” 
actress de Armas
16 Foam ball brand
17 Kampala’s 
country
18 Pro Bowl org.
19 *Social media 
time-out
22 Pinnacles
25 Church topper
26 *Channel bottom
30 Frozen rain
31 How-__: DIY 
guides
32 “Life of Pi” 
director Ang
33 Jazz poet  
Scott-Heron
34 *Area of 
Hersheypark 
with the 
Candymonium 
roller coaster
40 Half an umlaut
41 “Blue Bloods” 
actor Cariou
42 Thumbs-up at 
NASA
44 Land measures
47 *Bit of trickery on 
a return
50 Move in a breeze, 
as a flag
53 Printer brand
54 “Shoo!,” and an 
instruction that 
goes with the 
last words of the 
answers to the 
starred clues
58 Skeptical laugh
59 “__ Rouge!”: 
Kidman film
60 Written reminder
64 MSNBC journalist 
Melber
65 Came afterward
66 Actor McGregor
67 “Science Guy” Bill
68 Papaya discard
69 Many an 
auctioned auto, 
for short
DOWN
1 Super chill, 
informally
2 “Now __ seen 
everything!”3 Neither’s partner
4 Dunkin’ serving
5 Stuffing herb
6 Many a Moroccan
7 Spanish boys
8 “Wonder 
Woman” star Gal
9 Cocktail party bite
10 Among one’s 
records
11 “Swan Lake,” for 
one
13 “Star Trek” 
captain Jean-__ 
Picard
14 Doesn’t fight back
20 Inquire
21 Dessert that 
quivers
22 Play a role 
onstage
23 Shoe with lots of 
holes
24 Netting material
27 Rorschach test 
component
28 Fish that can 
swim backward
29 Handed out 
cards
33 Group with 
fortysomethings
35 Poetic opening
36 Halloween garb
37 Spill the __: 
gossip38 Fistfuls of  
dollars
39 Thumbs-down at 
NASA
43 Jeong of 
“Community”
44 Crocheted 
coverlet
45 “Ramona the 
Pest” novelist 
Beverly
46 Blues and folk 
singer/songwriter 
Foster48 German article
49 Warm-up act
51 Jackets named 
for a British 
school
52 Shake awake
55 Chimney part
56 Hurried,  
quaintly
57 Finish
61 Be indebted to
62 Slight touch
63 Ambient music 
pioneer Brian
06/06/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.12 Autos15 Services 20 Events/Notices 13 Wanted
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
6-13-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HIRING DANCERS
Inquire Coconut Cabaret, 4401 NW 6th St, 
Gainesville. 352-329-0543      8-1-22-13-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           8-15-22-13-14
Work with Autistic Adult
$20/hr includes leisure activities, light yard 
work, transportation to gym and custodial job, 
farm chores. Training provided. Summer job 
or longer, P/T or F/T. Need references, good 
driving record, car, and clear background 
check. (352) 301-4707                  6-27-22-6-14
Dietary Service Positions - FT, PT and PRN
UF Health Shands Hospital, one of the top 
employers in FL, is hiring FT, PT and PRN 
Cooks, Dining Associates and Nutrition 
Assistants. Multiple shifts available. We of-
fer generous pay and great benefits for FT 
employees.
Apply at https://shands.careers.ufhealth.org/
jobs/266332/
EOE and drug-free workplace.    7-5-22-4-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $13/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com           6-27-22-15-15
HELP WANTED DONUT CONNECTION
COUNTER / DRIVE-THRU SALES
Salary depends on experience.
5205A NW 39th Ave. Text 352-214-1506, 
email donutconnection1@aol.com. 
6-13-22-4-14
15 Services
NEED NEW FLOORING? Call Empire 
Today® to schedule a FREE in-home 
estimate on Carpeting & Flooring. Call Today! 
855-919-2509                                      6-13-2-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$74.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ 
channels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532     
6-13-20-15
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!            6-13-3-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 
18 months! Senior & Military Discounts 
available. Call: 888-460-2264          6-13-3-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      8-15-13-15If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
6-13-19-15
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans is 
here! Call our licensed insurance agents for 
an affordable quote for your needed coverage. 
Call for a no obligation free quote now! 833-
260-2632 (TTY: 711)                       6-13-3-15
Say:  "I FOUND IT IN   
the alligator"
16 Health Services
Attention: VIAGRA and CIALIS USERS! A 
cheaper alternative to high drug store prices! 
50 Pill Special-Only $99! 100% guaranteed. 
CALL NOW: 866-259-6816               6-13-2-16
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       6-13-20-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
8-15-22-13-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367
8-15-13-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
8-15-13-19
20 Events/Notices
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-20
Trivia Test  answers
answers below1. HISTORY: In what year did the Boston Tea 
Party take place?
2. MOVIES: Which 1990s animated movie has a 
character named Lumiere?
3. MUSIC: Who wrote the song "Make You Feel 
My Love," performed by Adele?
4. LANGUAGE: What is a zoonotic disease?
5. TELEVISION: Which TV sitcom was set at 
Greendale Community College?
6. ANATOMY: What blood type does a universal 
donor have?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Bantry Bay is an inlet in which 
European country?
8. FOOD & DRINK: What are sweetbreads?
9. LITERATURE: What kind of bird is titled in a 
John Keats' poem?
10. SCIENCE: What does an auxanometer measure?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
GRATITUDE UNLOCKS THE FULLNESS OF LIFE. 
IT TURNS WHAT WE HAVE INTO ENOUGH, ANE MORE. —MELODY BEATTIE
solution  belowWant to Get Paid Daily?
Work 30 minutes a day.
Watch your PayPal account grow.
Easy fun work!
https://www.clkmg.com/milestones13/usft
6-13-22-4-20
Crypto- Currency!
Learn the Pros and Cons.
Start building your wealth today.
Fully Explained! www.bit.ly/38ybQ1w    
6-27-22-4-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
8-15-13-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    8-15-13-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility for injury 
or loss arising from contacts made through advertising. We 
suggest that any reader who responds to advertising use caution 
and investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before giving out 
personal information or arranging meetings or investing money.1. 1773, when colonists dumped a shipment of tea into the Boston 
Harbor to protest taxes.  2. "Beauty and the Beast".  3. Bob Dylan.  
4. A disease that can pass from one species to another, especially 
animals to humans.  5. "Community".  6. O negative.  7. Ireland.  
8. Organ meat from the pancreas and thymus gland.  9. "Ode to a 
Nightingale".  10. Plants' rate of growth10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
1: FOR RENT (FURNISHED)
2: FOR RENT (UNFURNISHED)
3: SUBLEASE
4: ROOMMATES
5: REAL ESTATE
6: FURNISHINGS
7: COMPUTERS
8: ELECTRONICS
9: BICYCLES
10: FOR SALE
11: MOTORCYCLES/MOPEDS
12: AUTOS
13: WANTED
14: HELP WANTED15: SERVICES
16: HEALTH SERVICES
17: TYPING
18: PERSONALS
19: CONNECTIONS
20: EVENTS/NOTICES
21: ENTERTAINMENT
22: TICKETS
23: RIDES
24: PETS
25: LOST & FOUNDSUBMIT YOUR AD TO ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING CATEGORIES TODAY!   
alligator.org/ classifieds
classified @alligator.org  
(352)373- FINDMONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
By Brandon Hernandez
Sports Writer
Boston Celtics forward Al Hor -
ford, with 1:16 remaining in the third 
quarter of game four of the NBA Fi -
nals, knocked down a heavily con -
tested three in front of a rowdy home 
crowd. The shot was reminiscent of 
clutch moments back in the Stephen 
O’Connell Center, where Horford 
played for the Gators 15 years ago.
Basketball history is written in the 
NBA Finals. Teams fight for a chance 
to claim the Larry O’Brien Trophy on 
the biggest stage of professional bas -
ketball. For former Florida players 
like Horford and Golden State guard 
Chris Chiozza, the Finals are a com -
mon stomping ground.
Thirty-three Gators have made 
it into the league since 1969. Seven 
of the eight Gators who have won 
an NBA title did so since 2000. This 
includes Udonis Haslem (2006, 2012, 
2013), Corey Brewer (2011) and Mike 
Miller (2012, 2013), who all played 
under legendary UF head coach Billy 
Donovan. 
Despite Donovan’s absence from 
the basketball program for the past 
eight years, his impact is still pres -
ent in this year's finals. Horford, who started at forward during the 2006 
and 2007 title runs under Donovan, 
is in the first Finals of his career with 
Boston. The 36-year-old is also the 
first Dominican-born player to ever 
appear in a Finals game. 
The former third overall pick in 
the 2007 NBA Draft and five-time 
All-Star was a pivotal piece for the 
Atlanta Hawks in his first nine years 
in the NBA, starting for nine play -off appearances. However, after the 
2016 season, Horford moved to three 
different teams in pursuit of a ring.
The first stop was a three-year 
tenure with the Celtics from 2017-
2020 that led to deep postseason 
losses. Horford then found a spot on 
the Philadelphia 76ers the next year, 
but he never truly fit into their sys -
tem. After not making any progress 
toward the Finals, he was traded to the Oklahoma City Thunder, only to 
be “shut down” by the team. 
Now, back with the Celtics af -
ter a 2021 trade, Horford is closing 
in on his goal of becoming an NBA 
champion as a seasoned veteran on 
a young Celtics team currently two 
wins away from its first title in 14 
years. 
Horford took the court for game 
one rocking orange and blue shoes 
in homage to his alma mater, and he 
finished the game scoring 26 points 
on 75% shooting to help the Celtics 
steal the series opener on the road.
“Nobody deserves it more than 
this guy on my right, right 
here. His energy, his demeanor, 
coming in every day, being a 
professional, taking care of his 
body, being a leader. I’m proud 
to be able to share this moment 
with a veteran, a mentor, a 
brother, a guy like Al Horford.”
- Jaylen Brown, Celtics guard
 
Horford isn’t the only Gator look -
ing to win his first finals this year. 
Chiozza is making his first Finals 
appearance in only his third year in 
the NBA. He spent four years with the Gators from 2014-2018 under for -
mer Florida head coach Mike White. 
He averaged 7.4 points per game dur -
ing his collegiate career and started 
32 out of 34 games in his last season 
in Gainesville. 
His signature moment donning 
orange and blue came in 2017, when 
his miraculous buzzer-beater sealed 
a Sweet 16 win over Wisconsin.
The 5-foot-11-inch guard went un -
drafted in 2018 and signed with the 
Washington Wizards, who waived 
him after only a few months with the 
team. Chiozza then signed a 10-day 
contract with the Houston Rockets. 
In 2019, he inked a three-year deal 
worth a little more than $3 million to 
stay in Houston.
Chiozza joined his fourth team in 
three years when he arrived at Gold -
en State, and now he’s got a chance 
to win it all.
Though both of these Gators’ 
journeys after leaving the Swamp are 
different, they’ve both been given a 
chance to add to Florida’s NBA leg -
acy.
@BranH2001
bhernandez@alligator.orgHorford, Chiozza close in on adding to UF’s basketball legacy
Steven Senne / / Associated Press
Boston Celtics center Al Horford looks to pass against Golden 
State Warriors guard Klay Thompson during game four of the 
NBA Finals June 10, 2022.
signed with Maryland.
Despite less-than-ideal circumstances, UF 
went on a dominant run in the SEC, winning 
10 of 11 games to finish 10-6 in conference 
play. 
Finley recruited Zippy Broughton, a 
Rutgers transfer, out of high school before 
she signed with the Scarlet Knights in 2018.
Her connection with Finley breathed new 
life into her college career; the senior found 
a new home due in large part to Finley’s 
willingness to help her with anything she 
needed.
“In collegiate athletics, [there are so] 
many times where a lot of our sparks 
diminish, maybe because of a lack of 
confidence, maybe because of a lack of a 
belief from others,” Broughton said. “She 
reciprocated my energy.”
Broughton marveled at Finley’s ability to stay in the moment and give her players the 
attention they deserved no matter what kind 
of day she was having off the court.
“When she steps into these four lines 
or even when she steps into that 
office, she knows she has to show up 
for us because she is our leader,”  
- Zippy Broughton
Freshman Alberte Rimdal sees Finley 
as a passionate and confident role model. 
The Koge, Denmark, native earned SEC 
Freshman of the week in January and was 
named to the SEC All-Freshman Team under 
Finley’s guidance.
She wanted to be surrounded by strong 
women and credited Finley with fostering 
that environment. 
Finley’s ability to relate to players helped 
Rimdal change her approach to the game for 
the better. Rimdal categorizes herself as a 
cerebral player, to a fault. She said Finley loosened her up and got her to be more 
present on the court.
“She cares about us as players but also 
as humans on a whole other level,” Rimdal 
said. “I think that means a lot to us that we 
know that she cares about us.”
The Gators’ time in the NCAA tournament 
this season was short-lived; they fell to 
Central Florida in the first round 69-52. 
As Florida looks ahead to next season, 
however, three new additions to Finley’s 
depth chart signal great things ahead. Senior 
guards Leilani Correa and KK Deans flocked 
to Gainesville after three years at St. Johns 
and West Virginia, respectively. 
Junior center Ra Shaya Kyle will come 
to Florida after a two-year stint with the 
Purdue Boilermakers. The lengthy post 
player is sure to help an undersized Florida 
team compete underneath the basket. 
Under Finley’s tutelage, Florida’s new 
and returning key players are primed to 
make a splash as next season inches closer 
to tip off.
@bogle_brenda
bbogle@alligator.orgWOMEN'S BASKETBALL,  from pg. 1Finley fosters formFormer Gators Al Horford and Chris Chiozza are guaranteed to claim another NBA Finals ring for UF
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Head women's basketball coach Kelly 
Rae Finley watches her team from the 
side of the court Feb. 27, 2022.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, JUNE 13, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$33
KEY LIME KEY LIME SHOTSSHOTS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
BOGOBOGO
$$44
WELLS & WELLS & 
SELTZERSSELTZERS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIRETRACK & FIELD
By Curtis Michaud
Sports Writer
The Florida track and field 
teams’ might was on full display 
after back-to-back days of gator 
chomps echoed through Hayward 
Field. 
UF’s men’s and women’s 
teams finished with seven event 
titles, five school records and 19 
podium finishes this weekend 
— all culminating in an NCAA 
Outdoor Championship for both 
teams. The titles grew head coach 
Mike Holloway’s count to 12. 
The Gators men’s team, led by 
sophomore Joseph Fahnbulleh, 
captured its fifth outdoor title in 
program history to end its sea -
son Friday. UF scored 54 points, 
including 20 from Fahnbulleh 
alone, to secure its 10th men’s 
national championship of the 24 
awarded since 2010.
The Hopkins, Minnesota, na -
tive became the first UF athlete 
to win two individual national 
titles in running events, taking 
home the 100-meter and 200-me -
ter sprints. 
After he anchored Florida’s 
4x100 relay team to a second-
place finish, Fahnbulleh secured 
the 100-meter championship via 
a late surge and a 10.00-second time. Fahnbulleh joins Gators leg -
ends Jeff Demps and Bernard Wil -
liams as the only Florida sprinters 
to win the 100 at nationals; he 
was UF’s first winner since 2010. 
Also, senior Dedrick Vanover 
clocked in at 10.16 seconds, ce -
menting a fifth-place finish in his 
first collegiate nationals. 
Fahnbulleh returned to the 
track moments later to make his -
tory and defend his title in the 
200. The sprinter dominated the 
event for the second consecutive 
year, earning a personal best and 
school record of 19.83 seconds. 
The feat solidified the team title 
for UF in Eugene.  
With the title now in grasp, 
juniors Champion Allison, Jacory 
Patterson, and sophomores Ryan 
Willie and Jacob Miley led Flori -
da’s 4x400 relay team to another 
championship, the orange and 
blue’s third of the day. 
The men finished in 2:58.88 
seconds, just 0.35 seconds short 
of their own collegiate record of 
2:58.53, a mark they set earlier 
this season. Now, UF holds three 
of the fastest times in the 4x400. 
Less than 24 hours later, the 
women pushed towards winning 
their second team national cham -
pionship in program history.
Sophomore Talitha Diggs 
clinched the 400-meter crown with a time of 49.99 seconds to 
start Saturday’s competition. 
The Pennsylvania native 
crossed the finish line victorious 
with her arms in the air taking in 
the euphoric moment. She sepa -
rated herself from the pack on 
the last straightaway to earn her 
second national title of the year. 
The sprinter previously won the 
indoor 400 sprint. 
Moments later, UF punched 
huge points in the dirt. Jumper 
Jasmine Moore added a second 
national title to her resume, leap -
ing to an outdoor title in the triple 
jump contest, this weekend. The 
sophomore also claimed gold 
with her first attempt in the long 
jump at 6.72m/22-0.75.
Moore became the first woman 
in NCAA history to go eight-for-
eight on titles in a calendar year, 
sweeping both the national and 
conference titles.
The duo of junior Sterling Les -
ter and sophomore Anna Hall 
added to the point total in the 
heptathlon. Lester achieved a ca -
reer-best 5,571 points to take fifth 
place, while Hall became the first 
UF heptathlon champion with 
6,385 points with a 446-point 
winning margin. 
The Highlands Ranch, Colo -
rado, native took another bow at 
the podium after a runner up fin -ish in the 400-meter hurdle. Hall 
clocked in at 54.57 seconds to 
give Florida 18 team points. 
Florida maintained a comfort -
able 10-point lead with 66 total 
points through 19 events before 
freshman Parker Valby clinched 
the championship for the Gators. 
In the 5,000-meter race, Valby 
pushed through the finish line at 15:20.10 seconds, finishing sec -
ond to make the 4x400 relay race 
a non-factor. 
The Gators women’s outdoor 
crown goes hand-in-hand with 
their indoor championship in 
March, a clean sweep matching 
the 2012 men’s team. 
After a historic week for Flor -
ida, both teams will return to 
Hayward Field to compete in the 
USATF Outdoor Championships 
June 23-26.
@CurtisMichaud1
cmichaud@alligator.orgFlorida track and field sweeps national titles  
Steven Senne / / Associated Press
Sophomore Anna Hall secured the outdoor heptathlon national title in 
Eugene, Oregon, this weekend with a final point total of 6,385.
The Gators claimed a pair NCAA Outdoor Championships with 128 total points in Eugene this weekend