By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
In the final seconds of the game, 
Florida led by just one point against 
Auburn, who until Saturday had 
not lost in regulation time.
With 7.5 seconds remaining, 
The Tigers had possession. A 
season defining win for the Gators 
hung in the balance. Auburn 
guard Wendell Green came roaring 
downhill off a screen for a final 
chance at victory.
No dice. 
The buzzer sounded, and the 
Rowdy Reptiles rushed the court 
to relish in the moment with the 
team. 
UF had survived to earn its 
highest-ranked win inside the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
Florida (17-10, 7-7) defeated 
No. 2 Auburn (24-3, 12-2) in a 
monumental upset that may very 
well revive the Gators’ tournament 
hopes after a loss to Texas A&M on 
Tuesday put them in jeopardy. 
Beating a top-five and Q1 
team does wonders for Florida’s 
tournament chances. 
Despite rocky conference play 
and a handful of underwhelming 
performances this season, adding 
a victory over a projected one-
seed to the Gators’ resume will 
put them firmly in consideration 
for a bracket spot come Selection 
Sunday. Head coach Mike White 
was adamant post-game that the 
tournament is far from the team's 
focus. 
“If we’re worried about that, we’re not worried about how we 
can handle press late game better 
than that,” White said. “I know it’s 
boring, but I’m gonna continue to 
preach to our guys ‘Don’t worry 
about stuff we can’t control.’”
Storming the court is rare at 
Florida. 
The idea that UF is above such 
an act for any sporting event 
originates from former athletic 
director Jeremy Foley. Gators 
fans had not taken the court 
since defeating Texas Christian 
University in the 1986 NIT 
Tournament held in Gainesville.
“Without [the fans] we may 
have been a point short, or five 
or ten,” White said. “They were 
a factor. We forced 17 turnovers, 
that’s not happening without 
them. They were incredible, and 
I’m happy they got a chance to 
have that moment postgame.” 
The first half was a defensive 
struggle. 
Florida shot 25% from the floor 
and from three in the opening 
period. Auburn was comparatively 
streaky, shooting just 33.3% on all 
shots. The Gators grasped the lead 
through their effort away from the 
offensive end. UF snagged four 
steals, and forward Colin Castleton 
had two stifling blocks in the first 
half. 
There were moments of 
brilliance from Florida. The Gators 
led by as much as eight in the first 
half. 
Florida honed in on limiting the We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -Black Greek life celebrates
Teams compete in largest student-run stepshow in the 
Southeast region,  pg. 8
ACPS teachers could be getting a raise
The educator’s union proposed a $3.8 million plan,  pg. 2Gators baseball burned by Flames
The team dropped their second-straight 
season opening series. Read more on pg. 15
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 24
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Phlandrous Fleming Jr., #24, is swarmed by fans after the Gators’ win over Auburn on Saturday, 
Feb. 19. He had seven points, five assists and one steal during the game.
OVER 100 STUDENTS 
APPLIED FOR 50 OPEN 
SENATE SEATS
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer 
On Tuesday and Wednesday, 
students can elect 50 Senators and 
the Student Body President, Vice 
President and Treasurer, at eight 
polling locations across campus. 
More than 100 candidates, in -
cluding two independents, will run 
to represent the Gator, Change and 
Communist parties in 50 Senate 
seats, which are organized by col -
lege and year Change and Gator par -
ties also have candidates running for the Executive Cabinet, which in -
cludes the Student Body President, 
Vice President and Treasurer.
Polling locations will be open 
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. The lo -
cations are the J. Wayne Reitz Union 
Computer Printing Lab, Health Sci -
ence Center Library, Norman Hall 
Educational Library, Southwest 
Recreation Center, Springs Library 
and Recreation Room, Broward 
Recreation Room, Levin School of 
Law and Heavener Room 202.
Gator Party has 48 candidates 
running for Senate and holds 72 
seats in Senate. Change Party has 
46 candidates running for Senate 
and holds eight seats in Senate. 
Last Spring elections, the Gator 
Party won a supermajority of 46 Senate seats and the Executive Cab -
inet. Cooper Brown is Student Body 
President, Faith Maniti is Vice Presi -
dent and Giovanna Mompremier is 
Treasurer. 
The Executive Cabinet and Sena -
tors serve one-year terms.
The Change Party hopes to in -
crease their presence in Senate by 
filling at least a third of seats, presi -
dential candidate and Senate Mi -
nority Leader Gabrielle Adekunle 
(Change, District D) said.
Read the rest online at alligator.org.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgSG parties finalize candidates for Tuesday, Wednesday elections
SEE MEN'S BASKETBALL,  PAGE 16MEN'S BASKETBALL
Florida makes magic in upset over No. 2 Auburn
The Gators toppled the SEC-leading 
Tigers to earn a crucial conference winT oday’s WeatherTHE EDUCATORS UNION 
PROPOSED $4 MILLION 
TO BOLSTER 
INSTRUCTORS’ SALARIES
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer
The Alachua County Educa -
tion Association requested $3.8 
million Thursday from Alachua 
County Public Schools to add to 
teachers’ salaries. 
The ACEA and the ACPS bar -
gaining teams reviewed the pro -
posed salary increases for teach -
ers and education professionals, 
like librarians, media specialists 
and school psychologists. 
The proposal would provide 
education support to profession -
als and teachers with an addition -
al $0.55 per hour. 
This additional $0.55 per hour 
will increase teachers’ salaries 
by $808.50, Carmen Ward, ACEA 
president said.
ACEA’s request is a large ask, 
ACPS chief of finance Alex Rella 
said. 
“We’re certainly going to have 
to go back to the board for input,” 
Rella said.
No tentative agreement was 
made; the team must bring the 
proposal to school board mem -
bers for discussion and can then 
offer a counterproposal.
Some instructors think the 
price tag is worth it.
In a Tuesday night school 
board meeting, ACPS employees 
wore red shirts to show their col -lective effort to ask the board to 
consider ACEA’s salary proposal.
Ward began the public in -
put section of the meeting. She 
encouraged the board to listen 
to the union’s counter proposal 
Thursday, so the county can stop 
“bleeding employees.” 
Following her words, employ -
ees echoed salary concerns at the 
lectern. Each employee at the 
lectern sported a red sticker that 
read in all caps “I support ACEA’s 
best deal for all!”
Amy Beres, the band director 
at Howard Bishop Middle School 
and one of last year’s Teacher 
of the Year finalists, explained 
the financial struggle as a single 
woman. 
“My rent starting in April is 
$2,083 a month. My last paycheck 
was $2,041.75,” Beres said. “Over 
half of my monthly income is go -
ing to cover rent.” 
Janne Reichard, a school bus 
driver, resonated with Beres. 
“We have the same problem 
as that woman who just spoke,” 
Reichard said. “Only my check is 
about half of what hers is. Try liv -
ing off of that.”
Any solution to the district-
wide transportation problems will 
cost money, Reichard said. The 
county needs to find the money 
to attract drivers. 
“Your human resources are 
what’s most valuable,” Kim 
Hampton, a fourth grade teach -
er at Glen Springs Elementary 
School, said. “Your human re -
sources are what you need to take care of because without the 
human resources for our district, 
what are we? We are nothing.”
Hampton, who has taught for 
24 years in ACPS, works two 
jobs. She was a newspaper deliv -
erer for the “Gainesville Sun” and 
an Uber driver at one point’ now 
she is an after-school program tu -
tor at Glen Springs. 
Teachers work two jobs to be 
able to afford to teach, a concern 
second grade W.A. Metcalfe El -
ementary School teacher Doreen 
DiMauro expressed. 
“I’m very concerned about the 
future of education and whether 
teachers will really want to con -
tinue to do this work,” DiMauro 
said. “We need good teachers, 
and we need them to want to 
teach, and we need them to be 
able to afford to teach.”
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 24 Alachua teachers could be getting a raise
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENTMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
PROTESTS HAVE DWINDLED, 
BUT GAINESVILLE CUBANS 
ARE STILL FED UP WITH THE 
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
Ninety miles from the land of 
the free exists an island shackled 
by its government.
Within an island home to more 
than 7,000 different species of flora 
and fauna, distinctive waterfalls 
and thin powdery white sand, its 
people live with little electricity 
and shortages in everything from 
grocery products to medicine. 
On July 11, when protests began 
on the island for the first time since 
1994, they weren’t marching for 
necessities. They had adapted to 
survive without them.
They were marching for 
freedom.
Through social media, 
Gainesville residents organized 
more than three protests during 
the summer. At the protests’ 
peak about 70 Cubans, second 
generation immigrants, students 
and residents attended. 
Yet, the country has remained 
silent in terms of progress. Protests 
slowly dwindled since the summer. 
Gainesville residents and students 
continue to hold out hope that one 
day the island will change.
Despite the decline in protests in 
Gainesville, residents now look to 
social media to stay informed about 
political unrest in the country.  
Throughout the summer, 
protestors in Cuba posted videos 
of the police brutally beating 
people marching peacefully. 
There were also videos of police 
entering homes and taking children 
to be questioned for possible 
participation in protests. 
Now, almost seven months 
later, where do Cuba and its 
displaced people stand?
The Protest Organizers 
Elio Piedra came to the United 
States from Cuba when he 
was 19 years old and launched 
Gainesville’s first Spanish-language 
radio station, Tu Fiesta Radio in 
2021. 
After spending a day on a boat 
with his two daughters July 11, the 
30-year-old began receiving frantic 
texts and messages on Facebook.
Have you seen the news? Cuba 
is awake.
“I got a lump in my throat,” 
Piedra said in an interview 
translated from Spanish. “It was 
a mixture of emotions, like wow 
could this be the moment that 
Cuba will really be free.”
While Piedra felt incredibly 
hopeful, he also felt a twinge of 
guilt. 
“It was a mixture of concern, 
pride, fear for the people who were 
there and at the same time, if I’m 
completely honest, I was even 
ashamed of myself,” he said.
He regretted not being able to 
march with the people in Cuba, not 
being one of the people that started 
the fight. Inspired by what he saw 
on social media, Piedra took action. 
People in the community messaged him, asking where to 
meet and what to do. He made 
two posts, one in Spanish and one 
in English, on Facebook asking 
people to meet at Bo Diddley Plaza 
to march for Cuba. 
In an hour and a half, Cubans 
and Latin Americans in the 
Gainesville community organized. 
If people in Cuba weren’t afraid 
to pick up sticks and defend 
themselves against armed police, 
how could he be?
“The Cuban government is the 
worst — they’re like a mafia,” he 
said. “Tyrants.”
Piedra stressed the protests 
were for freedom and liberty. He 
said democracy doesn’t exist in 
Cuba. 
“Cuba is a prison,” he said. “It 
is an island surrounded by water 
where no one can leave unless 
they risk their lives swimming. 
Hundreds of Cubans die every 
month trying to go to Nicaragua, 
trying to get here to Florida.”
Since the July protests, Piedra 
believes people are losing faith 
because Cubans keep dying. The 
opposition movement in Cuba tried 
to organize another protest Nov. 
15; however, it was crushed by the 
government.
Piedra noticed that every protest 
after the first one on July 11 had 
a shrinking crowd. He attended a 
march in Gainesville in support of 
the November protest but said few 
attended. 
“There is no way to mask it,” 
he said. “They are killing Cubans, 
either with sticks, with shots, 
disappearing them. Mothers are 
suffering because of that — they 
are just kids, possibly people your 
age.”
The only solution left for Cubans 
is to escape the prison that is Cuba, 
he said.
“We Cubans do not want 
to negotiate with the Cuban 
government,” Piedra said. “We do 
not want a dialogue.  We do not 
want to discuss anything. We want 
them to leave.”
Piedra believes the Castros are 
at the root of the problem and that 
the system in Cuba is completely 
broken. 
“In Cuba, they would tell us 
what we had to eat, how we had to 
dress, what we had to say,” he said. 
“It was constant brainwashing. It 
was like a cult from the moment 
you were born.”
He’s thankful for the July 
protests. The world was finally able 
to see what Cuba was really like, 
he said. In one way or another, it 
unified the Latin community. 
Alexandra Quintana, a UF 
Spanish and political science 
senior, felt this unity when she 
organized a protest for Cuba on 
University Avenue and NW 13th 
St. on July 16.
She grew up hearing stories 
about Cuba from her parents and 
the Cuban community surrounding 
her in Miami. The 20-year-old’s 
parents fled their home country. 
“Honestly, I wish I could 
protest with them on the island 
and that’s why I wanted to protest 
here in Gainesville, knowing how 
many Cubans are here, how many 
people were from Latin American 
countries who also suffer from dictatorships,” she said.
Quintana organized the 
University Avenue protest 
through Take Action Florida, an 
organization she co-founded. 
About 70 people participated in 
the protest; they waved decorated 
signs and chanted “Patria y Vida” ー 
“homeland and life.” It’s a play on 
“Patria o Muerte,” which translates 
to “homeland or death” and was 
often said by Fidel Castro during 
the communist revolution.
Quintana has kept up with 
what’s happening in Cuba now 
by following organizations that 
amplify any information released 
from people in Cuba.
Cuba is currently conducting 
trials on people who were caught 
protesting, some of them as young 
as 16. The government has also 
cracked down on social media 
posts and even shut down internet 
access across the country during 
the protests. 
“If you’re a citizen of Cuba 
or you’re living on the island, 
any information that you have or 
videos or recordings that you try 
to release out into the internet, it’s 
being surveyed and controlled, so 
that can be used as grounds for 
arrest,” Quintana said. “Being able 
to speak freely in Cuba is not a 
reality.”
Despite the harsh situation, the 
protests gave Quintana hope. She 
believes there is a brighter future 
ahead. 
“I think that the moment people 
stop caring, stop sharing and stop 
lending their support and their 
love, that’s giving up hope on 
something that is possible,” she 
said. “That’s why we’re all fighting 
for it.”
The UF Community 
Kevin Trejos, Hispanic Student 
Association president, said he 
was inspired when he saw people 
standing up for their values.
Many Cuban students reached 
out to the association via Instagram with questions about how to help 
and where to go for protests.  
“HSA doesn’t take a political 
stance on things so what we like 
to do is just take an approach of 
educating people,” said Trejos, a UF 
master’s of science in management 
student. 
The organization posted 
infographics and resource guides 
on its Instagram. Trejos looks to 
student leaders on campus who 
are knowledgeable about specific 
issues to guide him. 
Daniel Badell, former HSA 
chief of staff, was involved in HSA 
for three years. Badell is also the 
Gator Party candidate for student 
government vice president. The 
21-year-old UF political science and 
international studies junior came to 
the United States at six years old. 
Badell’s family has made 
multiple attempts to leave Cuba 
since the 1980s. In 2006, his mother 
got the chance. The Costa Rican 
Embassy called her, and she was 
finally able to leave Cuba. From 
Costa Rica, she hopped on the back 
of a semi-truck that took her across 
Central America until they reached 
the border of the U.S.
They declared asylum and lived 
in Miami. Badell described Miami 
as Cuba but with freedom of speech 
and a stable economy.  
“As I grew up, I think I didn’t 
pay that much attention to how 
important that cultural identity 
was, though, until I came to 
UF,” he said. “I realized that I 
was obviously in a very different 
place. This wasn’t a Miami bubble 
anymore and that was important 
to recognize because I had grown 
up in a place that my identity was 
never a question.” 
When protests began in July, 
Badell felt very optimistic. He 
believes internet access and social 
media acted as a catalyst for the 
protests.
People who lived in Cuba their 
entire lives and only heard stories 
of the rest of the world from family members that had left, finally saw 
limitless skyscrapers and grocery 
stores filled with every product 
imaginable.
His generation grew up with a 
darker, more barren Cuba than the 
generations before, he said. This 
reality forced his generation to take 
action. 
“They don’t care anymore,” he 
said. “People don’t care what the 
repercussions are of being against 
the government. A generation 
that’s going to be out there and 
that generation also has a lot of 
influence on their parents and the 
internet. There’s nothing more 
revolutionary than that.”
Today, many of the leaders 
that ignited the first protests are 
in prison. Badell believes the 
opposition is still alive and fighting 
but struggling due to so many of 
their members being detained and 
killed. 
“That’s very much in line with 
what the current government has 
always done,” he said. “They’ve 
always taken political prisoners, 
put them in jail, completely 
tortured them and fed them 
basically nothing to make them 
starve, and then they die.”
Yet, Badell emphasized that 
the July protests were a vital step 
toward progress. 
“It’s going to be moments like 
what occurred last year, that are 
slowly going to start chipping away 
how people legitimize the regime, 
and people don’t find it legitimate 
anymore,” he said.“That’s the 
biggest thing.”
The question of “Where are we 
now?” does not exist to the Cuban 
people.
They adapt. They fight. They do 
what is necessary to survive. 
Where they are now is with 
each other, regardless of the miles 
or oceans that may separate them.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgGainesville’s Cuban community hold onto faith seven months after July protests
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   5 
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer 
Members on the executive tickets for the Gator and 
Change parties had an hour-long debate Feb. 15 night.
Candidates defended platform points and examined 
opponents’ initiatives with legislation and governing 
codes.
On the right side of the Rion Ballroom stage sat Gator 
Party’s executive ticket: Student Body President candidate 
Lauren Lemasters, Vice President candidate Daniel Badell, 
and Treasurer candidate Sierra Kantamneni. 
To the left, Change’s ticket: Student Body President 
candidate Gabrielle Adekunle, Vice President candidate 
Dayanna Peek and Treasurer candidate Kenya Warner. All 
six candidates wore masks.
Roughly 75 audience members, including students 
and candidates’ families, sat in front of the side they supported. The audience cheered as candidates entered 
and exited the stage but were asked to hold their applause 
during the debate.
SG faculty member Jerome Scott II wrote twelve 
rounds of questions, to which neither party had access 
to beforehand, said Supervisor of Elections Alexandra 
Stedman. Marna Weston, a 1994 UF alum, was the 
moderator.
“I feel like I got to use my voice,” Kantamneni said. 
“I got to defend ourself and our administration and our 
platform because we believe in each other, and we believe 
in the platform.”
Parties discussed platform points including on-campus 
resources like mental health and sexual assault prevention, 
blue lights and efforts for diversity and inclusion. 
Though candidates from both parties described the 
debate as successful, opponents also used words like 
lackluster, disrespectful and stark differences throughout the conversation.
Both parties used the opportunity to highlight opponents’ 
platform points that were seemingly impossible, like the 
Gator Party’s plans to put menstrual products in dorms. 
This may violate a  code which prevents SG-funded 
organizations from passing out single-use items, which 
would include these products, Change Party said.
Code 808.12 prohibits SG funded organizations from 
using student fees on items that can only be used by one 
person and can not be reused by someone else. 
The Gator Party also wants to put ice machines in 
dorms. Change Party VP candidate Peek said they were 
told by housing officials that ice machines could be a 
healthcode violation in dorms. 
Gator Party declined to comment on the 800 codes and 
the platform point about menstrual products. 
Other points for example, like the Change Party’s 
initiative to increase Later Gator bus services and Gator 
Party’s plan for a graduate bus route, didn’t explicitly 
address challenges like pandemic-related shortages in 
transportation. 
Change Party initiatives like “statistical scholars” for 
UF’s College of Business, which could create scholarships 
for student start-ups, could also violate Code 808.12. 
It prevents SG-funded organizations from investing in 
private businesses. 
The final question of the debate asked both parties to 
identify an opposing platform point they supported. Gator 
Party supported Change’s initiatives toward reducing food 
insecurity, and Change supported Gator’s sexual health 
platform point. 
More controversial topics included representation in the 
Senate, diversity and inclusion efforts, freedom of speech 
and even SG’s funding tool Docutraq, often described as 
outdated.
“The words that they’re using to criticize us are the 
words that are just reflected back to them with a mirror,” 
Adekunle said. 
Jacob Fazio, a 20-year-old political science sophomore, 
is unaffiliated, but he is a member of SG and knows 
candidates running for the executive positions. 
“I just wanted to come and observe,” Fazio said. “It’s 
kind of your civic duty to observe via debate every time.” 
Students can vote for 50 Senators and the Student Body 
president, vice president and treasurer in eight on-campus 
polling places Feb. 22 and Feb. 23. 
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
Plans for a new animal shelter may be 
the light at the end of a dark tunnel for 
Animal Resources and Care, formerly 
known as Alachua County Animal Services.
Animal Resources and Care is looking 
to move into a new shelter within two to 
four years, said Ed Williams, the shelter’s 
director.
He admitted the shelter’s current facility 
is outdated. It was built in the mid-1980s, 
when stray animals that were brought in 
would be euthanized within a few days. 
“If you could imagine what animal 
shelters were like in the mid-80s, versus 
what they’re like now, the way that we do 
business and the ways — best practices — 
about how we house animals have changed 
significantly,” he added.As of Friday, the shelter holds 148 dogs 
and 46 cats, Williams said, but not all of 
these animals are up for adoption.
For about a year, the shelter has been 
coordinating with Animal Arts Design 
Studios, a consulting firm which specializes 
in designing spaces for the care and shelter 
of animals, including vet clinics and 
shelters. It generated a needs assessment 
for the new shelter, recommending an 
increased animal holding capacity of 149 
dogs and 61 cats.
Animal Arts Design Studios suggested 
Williams set aside $23 million for the 
project.
The county has budgeted $2 million to 
purchase the land and draft preliminary 
designs of the facility, said Alachua County 
spokesperson Mark Sexton.
“They will be looking at certainly 
building a state-of-the-art facility that will best serve our animal population and the 
people that are involved in it ー people that 
adopt animals and people that give up 
animals,” Sexton said.
Hoping for more friendly, less stressful 
housing opportunities for the animals, 
Williams plans to deviate from the current 
shelter’s dreary concrete kennels.
He hopes to improve the layout of 
the kennels. Currently, a corridor inside 
houses 70 spaces, 35 down each side, one 
after the other, which creates a lot of noise 
and stress for the animals. 
In modern best practices, this 
concentrated layout would never have 
been approved, Williams said. 
Today, animals reside in the shelter 
for longer than they did in the ‘80s, so he 
recognizes the need for a more comfortable 
shelter.
“We need to have kennels that don’t encourage them to decline while they’re 
in our care, but actually are supportive to 
their mental health and hopefully prevent 
them from declining while they’re in the 
shelter,” he said.
The current shelter is too small to 
accommodate the overwhelming intake 
of long-stay dogs and is struggling with 
overpopulation. 
The shelter is now located in the remote 
northeast corner of the city, but Williams 
said the distance deters walk-in adoptions 
and volunteer support. 
The new location is undecided, but he 
hopes for a more accessible site that is 
closer to the heart of Gainesville.
“I think it’ll influence the foot traffic 
that we get at the shelter and help us 
to increase the number of adoptions,” 
Williams said. “And I also think it could 
help with volunteer support.”
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgGator Party, Change Party talk platforms in Student Government debate
Alachua animal shelter hopes to improve conditions with new facilityEsha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Student government executive ticket candidates for Change Party and Gator Party prepare for their opening 
speeches at the Reitz Union Rion Ballroom on Tuesday, Feb. 15.
The new facility could be coming in two to four yearsSome party platforms include points that could violate SG codes6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
Editor’s Note: This story contains 
graphic language. 
Rey Arcenas knew he was gay 
since he was 13. For five years he 
stayed in the closet, afraid. He was 
afraid his parents would kick him 
to the curb if he came out. The only 
person he felt safe around was his 
12th grade English teacher, Brittany 
Leach.
The 19-year old UF history 
freshman was one of two students 
who organized the March to Protect 
Queer Youth on Sunday afternoon. 
Alongside him was Ren Katz, a 
18-year-old UF biology freshman, 
who uses he/they/xe pronouns. 
The UF Young Democratic 
Socialists of America and Take 
Action Florida collaborated with 
Arcenas and Katz to gather 130 
students and community members 
to march from the corner of West 
University Avenue and 13th Street to 
Cora Roberson Park. 
The 1-mile-march protested the 
“Don’t Say Gay” companion bills 
HB1557/SB1834 which passed 
its first reading in the House on 
Thursday. The bills would prohibit 
“discussion about sexual orientation or gender identity in certain grade 
levels.” These policies could destroy 
students’ bonds with teachers, like 
Acrenas’ bond with Leach at Sebring 
High School.  
The bill also prohibits “school 
district personnel from discouraging 
or prohibiting parental notification 
and involvement in critical decisions 
affecting a student’s mental, 
emotional or physical well-being.”
This clause energized Arcenas to 
organize against the bill. The clause 
would allow teachers to inform 
parents about students’ sexuality 
without their consent, he said. 
“As someone who was closeted 
in high school, I know that if I were 
outed, I would not be here today,” 
Arcenas said.
Katz credits their high school 
teachers with helping them get 
through their junior year of high 
school, when they were outed. 
Arcenas and Katz shouted their 
condemnations at 2 p.m. as cars 
and pedestrians crossed the West 
University Avenue and Southwest 
13th Street intersection. They 
carried signs demanding the bill 
be overturned and advocated for a 
more inclusive school curriculum.
Organizers hosted a sign-making 
event Saturday that attracted a group 
of about 20 people at The Plaza of 
the Americas.Some signs read “Limp wrists, 
Clenched fists” and “Gay the Pray 
Away.”  
“Ideally, we’d want to halt the 
legislation, but that’s probably not 
a realistic goal,” Katz said. “We’re 
just trying to raise the bill’s visibility. 
There’s real student pushback.”
Protesters marched along the 
sidewalk while reciting several call 
and response chants. 
“No homophobes, no KKK, no 
facist USA,” the crowd chanted.
People on bikes made sure no 
one was left behind and blocked 
traffic at the roundabouts that were 
on the route to ensure safety.
“Queer is loud. Queer is proud”  
and “F*** DeSantis,” they shouted 
as they filled Cora Roberson Park.
The protesters were greeted by 
different organizations that were 
tabling. Planned Parenthood gave 
away free condoms and menstrual 
products. 
A life-size cardboard cutout of 
Ron DeSantis was also present at the 
park. 
“Ron DeSantis got yassified,” 
Arcenas said. “Everyone was 
yassifying him.”
Protesters drew rainbow pride 
colors on DeSantis’ tie, placed a 
trans rights pin on him and wrote 
“GAY RIGHTS!!!” on his chest. Then 
they decapitated it and threw it in a trashcan.
After Arcenas and Katz finished 
their speeches, protestors picked up 
the microphone and spoke against 
the bill. 
Gainesville resident Jane Spear, 
77, is a member of Parents, Families 
and Friends of Lesbians and Gays 
Gainesville. Legislation such as 
legalizing gay marriage made strides 
in the right direction, she said. 
Spear blamed the hyperpartisan 
division in the country for the lack of 
willingness to learn. 
“And then five years ago, 
with the election of an ultra right conservative administration who 
did not understand and had no 
willingness to learn, things began 
tightening up again,” Spears said. 
Arcenas hopes to continue 
fighting against bills that intend to 
silence LGBTQ+ identities.
“Queer people are everywhere,” 
he said. “We’re in classrooms; 
we’re teachers; we’re students; 
we’re parents. We are everywhere 
and trying to erase that identity is 
impossible.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.orgUF community protests Don’t Say Gay bill
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Nearing Cora P. Roberson Park, protestors march down 
Southwest Sixth Street. The protest started at the corner of 
University Avenue and 13th Street.
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Protestors walk down Southwest Sixth Street to organize against the “Don’t Say Gay” bill. The legislation, some activists say, would limit the rights of LGBTQ+ youth.
About 130 students marched to protest the 
bills that would prohibit LGBTQ+ discussionMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
ONE VIRTUAL EVENT AND ONE 
IN-PERSON EVENT HOSTED POETS, 
MUSICIANS AND SPEAKERS
By Allyssa Keller and Erina Anwar 
Alligator Staff Writers
The A. Quinn Jones Museum and Cul -
tural Center partnered with the UF Center 
for the Humanities and the Public Sphere to 
host two back-to-back events: one virtual 
event celebrating music and one in-person 
event celebrating Black artistry.
Both events celebrate Black love in cre -
ative outlets and give insight toward the his -
tory that made this expression possible.
The UF Center for African Studies, UF Of -
fice for Black Student Engagement and the 
City of Gainesville collaborated in creating 
this event.
Music
Speakers from different backgrounds 
came together to discuss Black culture and 
African music at an online discussion Sat -
urday.
The discussion was moderated by UF as -
sistant professor of musicology Imani Mos -
ley and featured a panel of Black artists, 
activists and academics from five countries. 
More than 60 attendees joined the virtual 
event. 
The museum hosted the discussion to 
bring new cultural programs to the com -
munity for Black History Month, museum 
director Carol Richardson said. 
Each panelist shared their personal playl -
ists with the audience in the chat. Audience 
members also shared their own playlists and 
song recommendations.
Cape Town University professor Mandisa 
Haarhoff explained how Black love is dif -
ferent because it often cannot be explained 
with token descriptive words, such as “but -
terflies in your stomach.”
“Black love is your grandmother and 
your great grandmother raising you with 
no generation in between,” Haarhoff said. 
“Black love is thinking that you will not love 
your whole life and then one day it kind of 
becomes clear to you and you have a map of 
all the ways you will love.”
Haarhoff focuses on English and literary 
studies and conducted research on South 
Africa’s apartheid period. Musicians who 
were living in exile expressed the Black 
South Africans’ struggle during apartheid 
— a time when their voices were silenced, 
Haarhoff said.
Haarhoff mentioned a new colonial 
movement that’s emerging among new art -ists, where they make music about Black 
history in South Africa.
“That’s a wonderful archive where we 
can tap into to get to know ourselves and to 
get to know our history in a way that wasn’t 
allowed in the country,” Haarhoff said.
Sharon Burney, a program officer for 
the Council on Library and Information Re -
sources and poet, spoke on how Black his -
tory is expressed in both classics and mod -
ern music.
Burney compared civil rights-era jazz 
sensation Nina Simone and hip hop artists 
Kendrick Lamar and J. Cole, saying they de -
livered similar messages of the history and 
racial injustices of Black people in America.
“If we look back historically over love in 
Black music, we see several things,” Burney 
said. “We see romantic love, spiritual love, 
the love of humanity, revolution of protest 
and familial types of love. ”
Virginia Tech sociology doctoral candi -
date Leslie Robertson Toney spoke about 
artists from her home country of Trinidad, 
like David Rudder and Baron, who some -
times mask political messages within the 
joyful beats of their music.
“I think a lot of the music, whether it is 
carnival music or music that is about cri -
tiquing the government, is music that can 
still make you laugh,” Toney said.
Toney feels Trinidad can expand the 
genre of love music in Black culture to fra -
ternal love, platonic love and queer love.
Haitian pop and soul singer-songwriter 
Tafa Mi-Soleil was also invited to speak 
about her experience with love songs in 
Haiti. Mi-Soleil spoke Haitian Creole at the 
webinar and her words were translated by 
Shadine Ménard, a translator and writer of 
15 years and founder of Haitian Internation -
al Pulse magazine.
Mi-Soleil’s music takes influences from 
jazz and gospel – a new type of combina -
tion in Haiti. She explains that because of 
this unfamiliarity, her music isn’t too popu -
lar there, and she often faces criticism as a 
female artist.
“I’m actually living in a sexist society 
that pretty much creates a system that re -
frain women from making their own deci -
sions,” Mi-Soleil said. “So for me, as a femi -
nist, I decided to impose myself in the music 
that I want to do and also my beliefs.”
Worlasi Langani, a Ghanaian musician, 
spoke about his songwriting process and his 
practice of immersing himself to make sure 
the sentiment of his music goes through to 
the audience.
“I’m always focused on how I feel and 
what I want people to hear,” Langani said. 
“I make sure my mind and my heart is in the same space and people have to feel exactly 
how I felt writing the music.”
He also spoke about how it’s often hard 
for Ghanaians to speak or sing about love 
and loving themselves when they’re faced 
with economic difficulties.
“I believe the love is still there but it’s 
getting less and less each day,” Langani 
said. “We have to keep finding ways of 
keeping the love alive.”
Creativity
The A. Quinn Jones Museum didn’t have 
enough chairs for the 50 guests who came to 
learn about Black culture on Saturday night.
About 50 people stood outside the build -
ing to hear the poetry of Alachua County’s 
2020 poet laureate, E. Stanley Richardson, 
and runner-up Terry Bailey. Guests laughed 
and dug into the food in their styrofoam con -
tainers as the two read their poems aloud.
The poems were about Black culture 
and love. Bailey read “On Pleasant Street,” 
a poem about what she loved growing up 
here. People laughed as she mimicked the 
voice of her grandmother.
DJ GeeXella, 30, traveled from Atlanta 
to fill the event with music centered around 
love in the African diaspora. 
A mix of jazz, hip hop and reggaeton 
played throughout the night. Flavorful, a 
local Afro-fusion restaurant, served Sen -
egal and Ivory Coast dishes. The restaurant 
handed out atticke, egusi and palm butter 
morsels.
“Black Love: Creativity, Expressions, and 
its Gifts” was a collaboration between the 
UF Center for the Humanities and the Pub -
lic Sphere, the City of Gainesville and the 
A. Quinn Jones museum. The event cost at 
least $5,000 and was sponsored by the UF 
Center for African Studies and the UF Office 
of Black Engagement. 
The museum contained a hat that A. 
Quinn Jones wore to church and documents 
about his time as a principal and educator. 
Headphones were available for guests to 
listen to oral history. The A. Quinn Jones 
museum, located northwest of UF campus, 
showcased the history of Jones, an educator 
and principal at Lincoln High School, an all-
Black school in Alachua, in 1923.
Quincy, where Jones is from, did not 
have a public school that would admit Afri -
can-American students.
Jones attended the Florida A&M Univer -
sity in Tallahassee for his high school diplo -
ma. He was one of the first three students to 
receive a Bachelor’s degree from the univer -
sity in 1915.
Twenty-four-year-old Ting Wang, a 
second-year graduate student majoring in health administration, came to educate her -
self on Black History Month.
As the Vice President of Public Relations 
for the Health Administration Student Asso -
ciation, she wanted to give her organization 
the same resources.
“We don’t want to teach it, because it’s 
not our place to,” Wang said. “So, we want -
ed to give opportunities for our members to 
come out themselves and learn about it.” 
For 33-year-old Brianna Wynne, a UF 
professor of medicine from Michigan, it was 
her first time at the A. Quinn Jones Museum.
“I’m not from this area, so there’s a lot 
of history around Gainesville that I did not 
know, especially with the African-American 
community,” she said.
Clarence, 47, and Sharonda, 44, Harris 
also saw the museum for the first time Sat -
urday. While they have lived in Gainesville 
for a few years, the two are originally from 
Mississippi.
Schools today need to teach Black culture 
from a different perspective, Clarence said.
“I’m saying we learned about slavery 
in our culture as a result of having to talk 
about the Civil War,” Clarence said. “But 
we did not go into the impact that slavery 
had on the world.”
Sharonda agreed with Clarence on what 
is missing in discussions about Black history 
and education.
“It’s not humanized,” Sharonda said. 
“It’s taught in a way where we talk about 
a few of the facts, but you’re not thinking 
about the human impact of that system and 
how it continues to have an impact on us.”
Alexandra Cenatus, who helped plan the 
event, said the process took about three 
months.
“I think this event is very important to 
me because it centers different Black voic -
es and showcases different Black perspec -
tives,” she said.
As the UF Center for the Humanities 
and the Public Sphere assistant director for 
programming and public engagement, she 
brainstormed event ideas with Carol Rich -
ardson, the museum’s director.
Richardson, who also works with the 
city’s Department of Cultural Affairs said 
Black love and culture means everything to 
her as a Black woman.
“When I think about Black love and 
Black culture,” Richardson said, “I love the 
idea of other people coming into my world 
and sharing it with me.”
@allygatorkeller
akeller@alligator.org
@erinaanwar_ 
eanwar@alligator.orgA. Quinn Jones Museum celebrates Black love with weekend events
Leo Ramsey-Watson / Alligator Staff
Alachua County Poet Laureate E. Stanley Richardson reads poetry to the crowd during 
the A. Quinn Jones Museum’s Black Literature and Love event on Saturday, Feb. 19.Leo Ramsey-Watson / Alligator Staff
Co-founders of Flavorful, a Gainesville catering service focused on African 
cuisine, tell their story during the A. Quinn Jones Museum’s Black Literature and 
Love event on Saturday, Feb. 19.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
Black Greek Life Steps it Up
Members of the National Pan-Hellenic Council compete 
in largest student-run stepshow in the Southeast region
Thandie Brown / / Alligator Staff
Members of the Zeta Phi Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi stroll down the right aisle of the Dr. Phillips Center on Saturday, Feb. 19. Behind them, Beta Sigma members stroll upward.Thandie Brown / / Alligator Staff
Members of Delta Beta Chapter strike a pose onstage on Saturday, Feb. 19.Thandie Brown / / Alligator Staff
Members of the Delta Beta Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha from 
Bethune-Cookman University celebrate their win onstage on 
Saturday, Feb. 19.Thandie Brown / / Alligator Staff
UF Alpha Kappa Alpha Brittney Louis performs her solo on the 
FISS & Furious Step Show in the Dr. Phillips Center Alexis & Jim 
Pugh Theater on Saturday, Feb. 19.
LUNES, 21 DE FEBRERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.UFD identifies suspect in sexual violence case
The man allegedly recorded a student in her dorm shower,  pg. 10El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
LAS PROTESTAS HAN 
DISMINUIDO, PERO LOS 
CUBANOS DE GAINESVILLE 
AÚN SIGUEN HARTOS 
DE LAS ACCIONES 
GUBERNAMENTALES
Por Melanie Peña 
Escritora del Caimán 
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán 
A noventa millas de la tierra de la 
libertad existe una isla encadenada 
por su gobierno. 
Dentro de una isla, hogar de más 
de siete mil especies diferentes de 
flora y fauna, cascadas distintivas y 
arena fina, su gente vive con poca 
electricidad y escasez de todo, desde 
productos comestibles hasta medica -
mentos.
El once de julio, cuando comen -
zaron las protestas en la isla por prim -
era vez desde 1994, no marchaban 
por necesidades. Se habían adaptado 
a sobrevivir sin ellas.
Marchaban por la libertad. 
A través de las redes sociales, los 
residentes de Gainesville organizaron 
más de tres protestas durante el ve -
rano. En el momento más intenso de 
las protestas asistieron unos setenta 
cubanos, inmigrantes de segunda gen -
eración, estudiantes y residentes.
Sin embargo, el país ha permane -
cido en silencio en términos de pro -
greso. Las protestas disminuyeron 
lentamente desde el verano. Los resi -
dentes y estudiantes de Gainesville 
siguen teniendo la esperanza de que 
algún día la isla cambie.
A pesar de la disminución de las 
protestas en Gainesville, los residen -
tes ahora recurren a las redes sociales 
para mantenerse informados sobre los 
disturbios políticos en el país.
 A lo largo del verano, manifestan -
tes en Cuba publicaron videos de la 
policía golpeando brutalmente a per -
sonas que marchaban pacíficamente. 
También hubo videos de policías ent -
rando a las casas y llevándose a niños 
para interrogarlos por su posible par -
ticipación en las protestas.
Ahora, siete meses después, en 
que posición se encuentran Cuba y los 
cubanos?
Los organizadores de la protesta
Elio Piedra llegó a los Estados Uni -
dos desde Cuba cuando tenía diecin -
ueve años y lanzó la primera estación 
de radio en español de Gainesville, Tu 
Fiesta Radio en 2021. 
Después de pasar un día en un 
bote con sus dos hijas el once de ju -
lio Piedra, de treinta años, comenzó a 
recibir mensajes de texto y mensajes 
frenéticos por Facebook.
¿Tu has visto las noticias? Cuba se 
despertó.
“Se me hizo un nudo en la gargan -ta”, dijo Piedra. “Fue un encuentro de 
emociones, como que wow sera este 
el momento que realmente Cuba va a 
ser libre”.
Si bien Piedra se sintió increíble -
mente esperanzado, también sintió 
una punzada de culpa.
“Era una mezcla de preocupación, 
me da orgullo, de miedo por la gente 
que estaban allá y al mismo tiempo, 
si te soy completamente honesto, me 
daba hasta vergüenza conmigo mis -
mo”, dijo.
Lamentó no poder marchar con 
el pueblo en Cuba, no ser uno de los 
que iniciaron la lucha. Inspirado por 
lo que vio en las redes sociales, Piedra 
tomó medidas.
La gente de la comunidad le envió 
mensajes, preguntándole dónde re -
unirse y qué hacer. Él hizo dos publi -
caciones, una en español y otra en in -
glés, en Facebook, pidiendo a la gente 
que se reuniera en la plaza Bo Diddley 
para marchar por Cuba.
En hora y media se organizaron 
cubanos y latinoamericanos de la co -
munidad de Gainesville. Si la gente en 
Cuba no tuvo miedo al agarrar palos 
y defenderse de la policía armada, 
¿cómo podría tenerlo él?
“El gobierno cubano es lo peor que 
hay, eso es como una mafia, unos ti -
ranos”, dijo.
Piedra enfatizó que las protestas 
fueron por la libertad. Dijo que la de -
mocracia no existe en Cuba.
“Cuba es una cárcel, es una isla 
rodeada de agua donde nadie puede 
salir a menos que arriesgue su vida 
nadando”, dijo. “Mueren cientos de 
cubanos todos los meses tratando de 
irse para Nicaragua, tratando de llegar 
aquí a la Estrecho, a la Florida”.
Desde las protestas de julio, Piedra 
cree que la gente está perdiendo la fe 
porque los cubanos siguen muriendo. 
El movimiento de oposición en Cuba 
intentó organizar otra protesta el 
quince de noviembre; sin embargo, 
el esfuerzo fue aplastado por el gobi -
erno.
Piedra notó que cada protesta 
después de la primera del once de ju -
lio tuvo una multitud cada vez menor. 
Asistió a una marcha en Gainesville 
en apoyo de la protesta de noviembre, 
pero dijo que asistieron muy pocos.
“No hay como adornarlo”, dijo. 
“Los cubanos los están matando, ya 
sea a palos, a tiros, nos están desapa -
reciendo. Madres están sufriendo por 
eso, apenas son niños, posiblemente 
gente que tenga la edad tuya”.
La única solución que les queda a 
los cubanos es escapar de la prisión 
que es Cuba, dijo.
“Nosotros los cubanos no que -
remos negociar con el gobierno de 
Cuba. No queremos dialogar. No que -
remos conversar nada. Queremos que 
se vayan”, dijo Piedra.
Piedra cree que los Castro son la 
raíz del problema y que el sistema en 
Cuba está completamente fracturado.
“En Cuba nos decían qué teníamos 
que comer, cómo teníamos que vestir, lo qué teníamos que decir. Era un la -
vado de cerebro constantemente. Era 
como un cult constantemente desde 
que eras chiquito”, dijo.
Está agradecido por las protestas 
de julio. El mundo finalmente pudo 
ver cómo era realmente Cuba. De una 
forma u otra, esto unificó a la comu -
nidad latina.
Alexandra Quintana, estudiante 
de último año de español y ciencias 
políticas de la UF, sintió esta unidad 
cuando organizó una protesta por 
Cuba en University Avenue y 13th St. 
(la calle trece) el dieciséis de julio.
Creció escuchando historias sobre 
Cuba de sus padres y la comunidad 
cubana que la rodeaba en Miami. Los 
padres de la joven de veinte años huy -
eron de su país de origen.
“Sinceramente, me gustaría poder 
protestar con ellos en la isla y por eso 
quería protestar aquí en Gainesville, 
sabiendo cuántos cubanos hay aquí, 
cuántas personas hay de países latino -
americanos que también sufren dicta -
duras”, dijo.
Quintana organizó la protesta de 
University Avenue a través de Take 
Action Florida (Toma Acción Florida 
en español), una organización que 
ella cofundó.
Cerca de setenta personas particip -
aron en la protesta; agitaron carteles 
decorados y corearon “Patria y Vida”. 
Es un juego de palabras con respecto 
a "Patria o Muerte", que fue dicho a 
menudo por Fidel Castro durante la 
revolución comunista.
Quintana se ha mantenido al tanto 
de lo que está sucediendo en Cuba 
ahora siguiendo a las organizaciones 
que amplifican cualquier información 
publicada por las personas en la isla.
Actualmente, Cuba está llevando 
a cabo juicios contra las personas que 
protestando, algunas de ellas de tan 
solo dieciséis años. El gobierno tam -
bién tomó medidas enérgicas contra 
las publicaciones en las redes sociales 
e incluso cerró el acceso a Internet en 
todo el país durante las protestas.
“Si eres ciudadano de Cuba o vives 
en la isla, cualquier información que 
tengas o videos o grabaciones que in -
tentes publicar en Internet, están sien -
do inspeccionadas y controladas para 
ser usadas como base de arresto”, dijo 
Quintana. “Poder hablar libremente 
en Cuba no es una realidad”.
A pesar de la dura situación, las 
protestas le dieron esperanza a Quin -
tana. Ella cree que hay un futuro más 
brillante por delante.
“Creo que en el momento en que 
las personas dejan de preocuparse, 
dejan de compartir y dejan de brindar 
su apoyo y su amor, eso es perder la 
esperanza en algo que es posible”, 
dijo. “Es por eso por lo que todos se -
guimos luchando.”
La comunidad de la UF
Kevin Trejos, el presidente de la 
Asociación de Estudiantes Hispanos 
(HSA), se inspiró cuando vio a la 
gente defender sus valores.Muchos estudiantes cubanos se 
comunicaron con la asociación a 
través de Instagram con preguntas so -
bre cómo ayudar y dónde ir para las 
protestas.
“HSA no adopta una postura políti -
ca, así que lo que nos gusta hacer es 
adoptar un enfoque en educar a las 
personas”, dijo Trejos, estudiante 
de maestría en ciencias de adminis -
tración de la UF.
La organización publicó infografías 
y guías de recursos en su Instagram. 
Trejos busca líderes estudiantiles en 
el campus que tengan conocimientos 
sobre temas específicos para guiarlo.
Daniel Badell, exjefe de personal 
de HSA, estuvo involucrado en HSA 
durante tres años. El estudiante de 
tercer año de ciencias políticas y estu -
dios internacionales de la UF de vein -
tiún años llegó a los Estados Unidos a 
los seis años.
La familia de Badell hizo múltiples 
intentos de salir de Cuba desde la 
década de 1980. En el 2006, su madre 
tuvo la oportunidad. La Embajada de 
Costa Rica la llamó y finalmente pudo 
salir de Cuba. Desde Costa Rica, se 
subió a la parte trasera de un camión 
que la llevó a través de Centroamérica 
hasta llegar a la frontera con los EE. 
UU.
Declararon asilo y vivieron en Mi -
ami. Badell describió a Miami como 
Cuba pero con libertad de expresión y 
una economía estable.
“A medida que crecí, creo que no 
presté mucha atención a la importan -
cia de esa identidad cultural, hasta 
que llegué a UF”, dijo. “Me di cuenta 
de que obviamente estaba en un lugar 
muy diferente, ya que este ya no era 
la burbuja de Miami y era importante 
reconocerlo porque había crecido en 
un lugar en el que mi identidad nunca 
fue cuestionada”.
Cuando comenzaron las protestas 
en julio, Badell se sintió muy opti -
mista. Él cree que el acceso a Internet 
y las redes sociales actuaron como 
catalizadores de las protestas.
Las personas que vivieron en Cuba toda su vida y solo escucharon histo -
rias del resto del mundo de familiares 
que se habían ido, finalmente vieron 
rascacielos ilimitados y tiendas de 
abarrotadas de todos los productos 
imaginables.
Su generación creció en una Cuba 
más oscura y árida que las genera -
ciones anteriores, dijo. Esta realidad 
obligó a su generación a tomar acción.
“Ya no les importa. A la gente no 
le importan las repercusiones de estar 
en contra del gobierno”, dijo. “Una 
generación que va a estar ahí afuera, 
y esa generación también tiene mucha 
influencia sobre sus padres y el Inter -
net. No hay nada más revolucionario 
que eso”.
Hoy, muchos de los líderes que 
encendieron las primeras protestas 
están en prisión. Badell cree que la 
oposición todavía está viva y luchan -
do, pero luchando debido a que 
muchos de sus miembros han sido 
detenidos y asesinados.
 “Eso está muy en línea con lo que 
siempre ha hecho el gobierno actual, 
siempre han tomado presos políticos, 
los han metido en la cárcel, los han 
torturado por completo y básicamente 
no les han dado nada de comer para 
que se mueran de hambre, y luego 
mueren”, dijo.
Sin embargo, Badell enfatizó que 
las protestas de julio fueron un paso 
vital hacia el progreso.
“Serán momentos como el que 
ocurrió el año pasado, que lentamente 
comenzarán a socavar la forma en 
que la gente legitimiza el régimen, y la 
gente ya no lo encuentra legítimo. Eso 
es lo más grande”, dijo.
La pregunta “¿dónde estamos aho -
ra?” no existe para el pueblo cubano.
Ellos se adaptan. Ellos pelean. Ha -
cen lo necesario para sobrevivir.
Ahora están el uno con el otro, 
independientemente de las millas u 
océanos que puedan separarlos.
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.orgLa comunidad cubana a siete meses de las protestas de julio
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
THE SUSPECT, DEONTRE 
DONNELL MASON, WAS ALSO 
CAUGHT RECORDING A GIRL 
IN A BATHROOM STALL AT 
UCF IN NOVEMBER
By Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
The UF Police Department is -
sued a warrant Wednesday for a 
man who used a cell phone to re -
cord a student in a Murphree Hall 
shower. 
Deontre Donnell Mason, 24, 
was arrested and released from a 
$10,000 bond Dec. 7 after Univer -
sity of Central Florida Police Depart -
ment officers arrested him, accord -
ing to a police report.
Mason has been banned from all 
UF properties, including UF Health, 
according to a UF Alert Timely 
Warning. UFPD worked with UCF -
PD to identify the suspect of the video voyeurism case.
The Clery Act requires UF to 
send campuswide timely warning 
messages. 
UFPD received a call Dec. 2 that 
a woman may have been videoed 
while in her Murphree Hall shower, 
but the caller was unable to describe 
the suspect. The police department 
believes that Mason did not have 
lawful access to the building, ac -
cording to the UF Alert warning.
UCF had a similar incident on 
their campus Nov. 29. Mason con -
fessed to recording the victim over 
the stall divider in a bathroom, ac -
cording to a police report. He was 
also banned from Palm Beach Atlan -
tic University in 2020 for wandering 
the female dormitory, according to 
the report. 
Mason had no affiliation with 
UCF, PBAU or UF.
During the investigation, UCFPD 
found concerning videos on Ma -
son’s phone, which they traced to Gainesville and UF.
“This is what started our inves -
tigation into Mason,” UFPD’s Ser -
geant Chad Holway wrote in an 
email.
UFPD identified Mason using a 
Facebook photo of him holding his 
blue iPhone with a black case, as 
described  by the victim. 
During the investigation, the po -
lice departments discovered Mason 
had additional videos of unknown 
victims on UF’s campus. 
UFPD asks anyone who believes 
they were filmed without their per -
mission between 2 p.m. and 6:30 
p.m. Dec. 2 in the Murphree Hall or 
Library West area to contact them 
at (352) 392-1111 or use the UFPD 
Silent Witness Link.
UFPD encourages all students to 
let only themselves into residence 
halls and close the door behind 
them. No one should be allowed 
access without a key fob, Holway 
wrote.“If you approach a door and you 
see someone standing outside the 
door waiting to be let in, and you 
don’t want to let that person in,” 
Holway said, “Go use a different door, or contact your RA or the Po -
lice Department.”
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org
VOLUNTEERS PLANTED NATIVE 
SPECIES FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 
THE WOODS’ HISTORY
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
A newly planted hickory tree peeks out 
from the leaves covering McCarty Woods’ 
floor. Its skinny branches seem fragile among 
the brush and vines that coat the ground, but 
the forest is resilient. 
New additions to the forest are “signs of 
hope” for Douglas Soltis, a UF biology depart -
ment professor and preservation advocate. 
They are the product of volunteers pulling out 
invasive species and planting native ones.
McCarty Woods is 2.9 acres of upland for -
est in central UF campus. It’s home to healthy, 
diverse plant life including a large ash tree — 
an uncommon flora this far south. The woods 
haven’t received care in about 30 years, Soltis 
said. The understory became overgrown with 
invasive species, which stopped the large trees 
from reproducing.
In March 2021, a 2020-2030 campus mas -
ter plan threatened the woods as it marked 
the conservation area a future construction 
site. Protests, led by the student and faculty 
organization Save McCarty Woods, broke out 
against this plan. A petition to save the woods 
reached more than 14,800 signatures. 
UF announced that it wasn’t moving for -
ward with plans to use McCarty Woods as a 
construction site on March 16.
Now, Save McCarty Wood fights against in -vasive species, limited resources and lengthy 
approval processes with UF.
On Feb. 12, about 40 volunteers gathered 
in the woods to plant native shrubs and trees 
for the first time in the woods’ history. Save 
McCarty Woods, the organization leading con -
servation efforts for the area, raised more than 
$7,000 on Gator Giving Day, Soltis wrote in 
an email.
In under a year, the conservation crew 
made progress in restoring the woods, but 
they still rely on volunteers and raising their 
own funds.
Lengthy approval processes can delay 
planting by months. By the time the UF Lands, 
Vegetation and Lakes committee approves 
anything, approved plants are all gone, Soltis 
said.
Soltis purchases the natives from a Melrose 
nursery, the only nursery in north Florida that 
grows them. By the time his list of plants is ap -
proved, the nursery may be out of the species, 
he said. Then he has to choose other plants 
that haven’t been approved. 
In December, UF Facilities Services sent 
a grounds crew to perform a routine cleanup 
along the outskirts of the woods on McCarty 
drive. Brush grew into the parking lot and 
blocked street lights, said Mark Helms, assis -
tant vice president of facilities services.
The director of grounds allowed Soltis to 
mark plants to ensure they were not cut back. 
Helms said the crew stayed outside of the con -
servation area, but Soltis said they went 10 
feet past what was originally promised. UF Facilities is now working with the UF 
Office of Sustainability and Planning, Design 
and Construction to improve perimeter mark -
ings of conservation areas, Helms said. The 
current lack of markings can confuse ground -
workers who use an aerial map.
Cutting along the edges demoralized many 
of the volunteers, Soltis said. The newly bar -
ren forest edge created room for invasive spe -
cies to enter.
For more than 20 years, invasives have 
outcompeted a lot of the native vegetation 
that used to occur in the woods, said Dr. Lu -
cas Majure, keeper of the UF Herbarium. Cat’s 
claw covers the forest floor and climbs up 
trees. Small trees may be engulfed by the vine, 
which hinders growth.
So volunteers clipped back a lot of the in -
vasive brush — creating light gaps in the tree 
canopy to allow for growth.
“We’ve literally pulled out probably thou -
sands of pounds of biomass in terms of inva -
sives that were in here,” Majure said.
Organizers wanted to reintroduce native 
species, increase diversity and beautify the 
woods by adding shade-tolerant plants in the 
forest and sun-loving shrubs and trees along 
the outskirts, Majure said.
There were 13 different native species 
planted Feb. 12 including American beau -
tyberry, a shrub that produces dark berries 
that can be used for jellies and wines; iron 
wheat, which produces dark purple flowers; 
and red buckeye, a native shrub once com -
mon to forests throughout Alachua County, 
Majure said.Returning native species into the forest will 
help restore it into a functional habitat, which 
will benefit the organisms that rely on the 
woods, Soltis said. 
“As you lose species, you just lose diver -
sity,” Soltis said. “We just have to get this to 
a point where it’s sustaining; by that, I mean 
that these trees are able to reproduce again on 
their own.”
McCarty Woods is a beneficial asset to the 
UF community, he said.
“This is also a great place for people to 
walk through and relax,” he said. “It’s a great 
teaching laboratory.”
Natural areas with large trees, like McCar -
ty Woods, are also arguably a carbon offset, 
or help to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, 
Soltis said. 
Ultimately conservation organizers have 
seen an immense amount of change in the last 
year. 
“Right now you can look into that forest 
and you can see stuff,” Soltis said, pointing 
at an east entrance. “Before, you couldn’t do 
that. It was so overgrown with some shrubs 
and trees that had gotten in there.”
The focus for volunteers now is watering 
the newly planted native species as tempera -
tures increase. They need as many people as 
possible to help with this project, Soltis said 
and anyone is welcome. Updates on volunteer 
opportunities and McCarty Woods are posted 
on Twitter @soltislab.
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.org
NEW POSITIVE CASES AND 
POSITIVITY RATES DROP
By Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writer 
COVID-19 cases in Alachua County have 
steadily declined throughout February.
As the omicron surge settles, UF Health 
Shands Hospital CEO Ed Jimenez ended his 
weekly updates to the press, including The Al -
ligator, on Feb. 14.
These media availabilities provided updates 
on the hospital and its response to the impacts 
of omicron. COVID-19 hospitalization numbers 
will continue to be available through Ken Gar -cia, UF Health spokesperson.
This semester, meetings began Jan. 4 and 
were held weekly. 
However, COVID-19 is unpredictable, 
Jimenez said. 
“So I would love to tell you that we’re not 
going to see any more surges, that there’s go -
ing to be no more variants,” he said. “But hey, 
I’m not a scientist…and I haven’t heard from 
the scientists that that’s the case.”
For the month of February, new COVID-19 
cases consistently decreased. New positive cas -
es fell from 2,330 in the week of Feb. 4 to 640 
in the week of Feb. 18, according to the county 
COVID dashboard.
“Thanks to the diligence of our citizens, 
businesses, and public health institutions, CO -VID numbers are moving in the right direction 
for the fifth week in a row,” a county Facebook 
post read.
The positivity rate dropped more than 10% 
throughout the month as well, going from 24% 
in the beginning of February to 10.5% in the 
week of Feb. 18, according to the dashboard.
Adult hospitalizations both rose and de -
clined throughout February. There were 273 
hospitalized patients on Feb. 2 and 165 on Feb. 
18, according to the county dashboard. There 
are 35 adults in the Intensive Care Unit as of 
Friday compared to 48 on Feb. 2. There are 
11 patients on ventilators as of Friday, most 
of whom are unvaccinated according to the 
county’s Facebook page.
About 181,000 county residents have been vaccinated, the county Facebook post read. 
On Feb. 14, Shands had 108 COVID-pos -
itive patients, Jimenez said. Of those, 32 are 
being treated in the ICU or Intermediate Care 
Unit. Eight patients are under 18-years-old, and 
of those, two are in the ICU.
“From last Monday, to this Monday, the 
numbers have dropped dramatically,” Jimenez 
said. “So we are focused on this idea that we’re 
headed in a really good direction.” 
Eighty patients are no longer infectious but 
continue to receive care, Jimenez said. Of the 
hospitalized patients, 73% are unvaccinated.
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgUPD identifies the suspect who recorded a victim in a dorm shower in December
‘Little signs of hope’ grow in McCarty Woods a year after conservation protests
As COVID-19 cases drop, Shands halts media availabilityEsha Nair / / Alligator Staff
Murphree Hall is seen on Thursday, Feb. 17.
THE VIGIL TOOK PLACE ON 
THE FOURTH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE MARJORY 
STONEMAN DOUGLAS 
HIGH SCHOOL SHOOTING
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
March for Our Lives Gainesville 
held its fourth annual vigil Feb. 
14 on the anniversary of the 
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High 
School shooting. 
The vigil, held at the Plaza 
of the Americas, commemorated 
the 14 students and three faculty 
who were killed during the 2018 
Parkland shooting and the two 
students who passed after. 
In 2018, 300 students attended 
the vigil at Turlington Plaza. This 
year the crowd was closer to 100.
Three speakers shared their 
experiences to the people gathered 
outside Library West before 
holding a 19-second moment of 
silence and lighting 19 candles.
From across the street, they 
could see Century Tower lit up to 
resemble a flickering candle.
After the speakers finished, 
people gathered to the front to set 
down their candles and remember 
those who were lost. Groups of 
people stood around hugging one 
another and comforting those 
who cried.  
“A lot of people from our 
school have stopped coming,” Daniel Nutter, 19, a UF biomedical 
engineering freshman said. “I 
know it’s painful for them, and I 
know they want to move on with 
their lives.” 
“I just hope that wherever they 
are, they at least have this in their 
memory.” 
Anisha Saripalli, 20, a 
biomedical engineering senior 
and president of March for Our 
Lives Gainesville, said last year’s 
vigil was much smaller due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic and its 
regulations. This year, students 
who were in the 1200 building, 
the site of the attack, gathered 
in Plaza as newly-admitted UF 
freshmen.
“This is their first February 14 
away from home,” Saripalli said. 
“So I think, because we provided 
this avenue for them, they just all 
came together to be with people 
who went through the same 
experiences that they did.”
Madison Gore, 21, a political 
science and history senior, said 
this was the first year all four 
grades of MSD students who 
experienced the shooting together 
were back on a campus together. 
The vigil was important 
because it allowed students to 
show support, she said — even if 
they didn’t go to MSD, they could 
still support those that did.
“They all came in support and 
I think that’s really special,” Gore 
said. “We don’t see that a lot these days.”
This year’s anniversary was 
the first one since the shooter, 
Nikolas Cruz, pleaded guilty to 
the charges against him. 
It was horrifying that four 
new classes of freshmen had to 
walk by the building every day knowing what happened there 
without seeing any progress, 
Nutter said. 
“We had no idea that this 
was coming, we had no idea that 
we’d be put through something 
so horrible,” Nutter said. “It 
was really inspiring to see kids from our school, just a couple 
years older than I am, talking to 
politicians in person and trying to 
push for actual change.”
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   11 
By Dazion Prosser
Alligator Contributing Writer
Filled with wonder, imagination and 
the prospect of having fun, adults rushed 
to the Cade Museum for Creativity and 
Invention Friday night.
The Cade Museum hosted its “Cade 
After Dark” event Feb. 18. The event 
featured a football party theme centered 
around the tailgate atmosphere of a Super 
Bowl celebration. 
For $15 per person, at least 50 attendees 
indulged in finger food, drinks, enthralling 
sports-themed activities and chances to 
win prizes upon entering in a free raffle 
during the three-hour event. The 21-and-
up event catered to adults who wished 
to take a timeout from adulthood and tap 
into their inner child.
The main attraction point for “Cade 
After Dark” is being able to add the 
event to the roster of nightlife options 
in Gainesville and keep people coming 
back for more, said Amanda Bernavil, the 
museum’s 27-year-old event manager.
Thirty-two-year-old UF Dietician 
Krista Mantay and 29-year-old UF music 
composition Ph.D student Dalton Ringey 
ran across a local Facebook ad that 
featured the event. 
The friends went to “Cade After Dark 
‘’ to kick off the celebration for Mantay’s 33rd birthday.
The pair were excited to experience the 
offerings at the museum since it opened in 
2018, but never got around to it until now.
“It’s something different than what we 
would be doing chilling at home,” Ringey 
said.
The freedom to explore the exhibits at 
their own pace coupled with the thrill of 
the hands-on activities were the X factors 
that made their night special.
“It’s definitely something that we will 
keep coming back to,” Ringey said.
As each attendee entered the main 
lobby, they were greeted by a full roster of 
“Cade Educators,” museum staff members 
who bolstered the event’s party-like 
atmosphere.
The museum welcomed guests to 
explore all exhibits and areas of the 
museum, including the “Sweat Solution” 
exhibit, which detailed the story of Dr. 
James Robert Cade, the lead inventor of 
Gatorade.
The museum was interwoven with 
the current theme “Tech Tapestry’’ 
coupled with its supplementary exhibit 
“Fabric Frontiers,” which tell the tales 
of how innovations in clothing led to 
major breakthroughs throughout society. 
Attendees could learn how a strong desire 
for fancy silks in 18th century France 
eventually led to the conception of the first computers.
The Creativity Lab featured hands-
on experiments like creating slime and 
spinning yarn from scratch. The Fab Lab 
housed a virtual reality gaming headset 
station and a centuries-old printing 
press, which served as education stations 
attendees could partake in throughout the 
night.
The museum harbors a creative 
atmosphere for staff members to let their 
imaginations run wild and present fun, 
campy new ideas. These ideas aim to 
spark feelings of nostalgia in adult visitors.
Kathryn Rohlwing, the 31-year-old 
senior marketing manager at the Cade 
Museum, expressed the central idea of the 
“Cade After Dark” event series.
“You’re never too old to be an inventor 
or to try something new,” Rohlwing said. 
“You get stuck in these rote tasks, and 
sometimes you forget that sense of child-
like wonder.”
Each theme, such as Friday night’s 
Super Bowl theme, aims to change 
participants’ perspectives on subjects that 
are familiar in order to feed their child-like 
curiosities. 
Bernavil, the museum’s event manager, 
posited the event series as a party-starter 
to other events happening throughout 
downtown Gainesville. 
“You know you can come here and have a great time and be a kid again,” 
Bernavil said.
“Cade After Dark” typically hosts 
around 75 to 100 people, depending on the 
time of year on college calendars, she said.
Friday night’s event was a community 
effort sponsored by First Magnitude 
Brewing Company and Goldie’s Burgers, 
with the partnership being influenced by 
both businesses being close neighbors to 
the museum.
First Magnitude provided the museum 
with the raffle prizes that included 
drinking accessories such as a koozie, a 
drinking glass and a coaster, as well as a 
gift card. In tandem with First Magnitude’s 
contributions, Goldie’s Burgers, located at 
201 SE. Depot Ave., included a discount 
on food to promote the event further.
The “Cade After Dark” series’ next 
event will feature a bathroom-themed, 
permanent exhibit focused on teaching 
fun facts about bathrooms. This exhibit 
will include a scavenger hunt specific to 
bathrooms, Rohlwing said.
Looking ahead, every third Friday of 
the month until the summer, the Cade 
Museum will host “Cade After Dark” with 
fresh, new themes for visitors to enjoy such 
as electricity, glow-in-the-dark activities 
and the “Cade After Dark” Birthday Bazar, 
celebrating the museum’s fourth birthday 
in May, Bernavil said.“Cade After Dark” 21+ event brings out the kid in attendeesJulia Coin / / Alligator Staff
UF students and community members gathered at Plaza of the Americas for a commemorative 
candlelight vigil honoring the victims of the Parkland shooting on Monday, Feb. 14.
March for Our Lives Gainesville holds vigil to remember mass shooting victims
Friday night’ s event was an afterparty to Super Bowl LVIBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020          4-18-22-8-13
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
2-21-2-131For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    NNaattiivvee  ________
11..    HHaavvee  ggoooossee  bbuummppss55..    PPuusshh,,  ppookkee  
22..    RRoouugghh,,  bbuummppyy  66..    ________  bbeeaamm  
33..    EEaattiinngg  ________77..    PPllaayy
44..    ________  ssyysstteemm  UUGGTTEENNOO
TTIILLNNEEGGNNGGEEUUDD
EERRAASSLL
RRUUAALLOONNDD
TTSSUUIILLEENNRRIIFFCCOOLL
RRMMEECCTTIIAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--TToonngguuee    55AA--NNuuddggee    66AA--LLaasseerr    77AA--FFrroolliicc
11DD--TTiinnggllee    22DD--NNoodduullaarr    33DD--UUtteennssiill    44DD--MMeettrriicc    BB--GGoollddeenn  GGiirrllss22--2211--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ffiinnaallee  ooff  ““TThhee  ________  ________””  wwaass  
wwaattcchheedd  bbyy  mmoorree  2277  mmiilllliioonn  vviieewweerrss..  BONUSPAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497      
2-21-2-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Timothy Schenck
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/21/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/21/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, February 21, 2022
ACROSS
1 Skin growth
5 Learns via word 
of mouth
10 Riot spray
14 Camera or eye 
part
15 Bates __: 
“Psycho” setting
16 Muslim holy man
17 How a boat may 
rock
19 Busting agent
20 Ziti or rigatoni
21 How boxers 
square off
23 Generous slice
26 Macho
27 How Fred 
and Ginger 
sometimes 
danced
32 “The guy over 
there”
33 Stadium 
attendance 
counter
34 Sports show 
rundown
38 Not fer
40 Assumed name
42 Lotus position 
discipline
43 Pulsate
45 Furnish with a 
fund
47 Fond du __, 
Wisconsin
48 How BFFs 
converse
51 Division in a 
church
54 Black  
gemstone
55 How people  
may agreeably 
see
58 Use elbow 
grease on
62 Take __ the 
waist: alter
63 1984 De Palma 
film, and a hint 
to five puzzle 
answers
66 “__ Talkin’”:  
Bee Gees #1 hit
67 Birch relative
68 Cosecant’s 
reciprocal
69 Cake decorator
70 Video chat  
choice
71 Abbr. at the end 
of a listDOWN
1 Thin trail of 
smoke
2 Mozart’s “Il mio 
tesoro,” e.g.
3 Frees (of)
4 Scary African fly
5 Managed care 
gp.
6 Camera named 
for a Greek 
goddess
7 Going __: 
bickering
8 Second effort
9 Place to hide a 
metaphorical ace
10 Beethoven’s 
Ninth is written 
in one
11 Stradivari’s tutor
12 Christmas song
13 Roast host
18 Conversations
22 Bleacher  
feature
24 “__ boy!”
25 Water heater
27 Chew the fat
28 Tipsy from wine, 
say
29 Kuwaiti ruler
30 “Cry Macho” 
(2021) star 
Eastwood31 Set out for, as a 
destination
35 Pepsi, for one
36 Food thickener
37 Agreement
39 One of Nolan 
Ryan’s seven
41 “Any day now”
44 Kiss from 
Consuela
46 “And your 
reason?”
49 One-celled pond 
dwellers50 “The dog ate my 
homework” is a 
sad one
51 Conductor Ozawa
52 Pessimist
53 Throw with effort
56 Egg yellow
57 Drain swirl
59 Passing words?
60 Arm bone
61 Fishing rod 
attachment
64 “You betcha”
65 Dr. of hip-hop
By Hoang-Kim Vu
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/15/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/15/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, February 15, 2022
ACROSS
1 Acting credits list
5 Start to  
crumble?
8 “__ of a 
Salesman”
13 “The Godfather” 
enforcer __ Brasi
14 It’s true
15 __ City Music 
Hall
16 Singer Lambert 
who sometimes 
sings with Queen
17 Thing to scratch
18 Equipment, on a 
balance sheet
19 Historic U.S. 
Olympics hockey 
victory, familiarly
22 Tolkien trilogy, to 
fans
23 Hosp. crisis area
24 Peter and Agnes: 
Abbr.
27 Satirist who 
redefined the 
word “truthiness”
31 Rd. or hwy.
32 Brontë’s Jane
33 Unpeaceful, 
queasy feeling
34 Structure with a 
keystone
36 Some school 
RAs
38 “__ Yankees”
39 Iroquoian people, 
or a hairstyle 
named for them
42 Enjoy an e-cig
45 Admin on Reddit
46 Police storage 
facility
49 Formerly named
50 “The Simpsons” 
outburst
51 Comics villain __ 
Kadabra
52 Tennis format 
with man-and-
woman pairs ... 
and a hint to each 
set of circles
57 Fast
60 Red gem
61 Move like 
molasses
62 Garlicky spread
63 Votes for
64 Shrek, for one
65 Welcome at the 
door
66 Std. paper size
67 Pained whineDOWN
1 Chowder 
ingredient
2 Car with a four-
ring 54-Down
3 Injury reminder
4 Leaf-wrapped 
masa dish
5 Wedding hires
6 Shoe brand that 
sounds like a 
sound
7 Word before 
origin or identity
8 Van Helsing 
nemesis
9 Facility
10 They pop up too 
often
11 Draw
12 Sweltering
14 Extremely, as 
rich
20 Deal (with)
21 Emoji, for one
24 Key tahini 
ingredient
25 Quake 
aftershock
26 Rise
27 Tried hard (for)
28 Geek Squad 
member
29 Stomach or guts
30 Flower harbinger31 Collegian’s diet 
staple
35 Ate
37 Counter offering 
Italian, French 
and Russian 
options
40 “Congrats to us!”
41 “Goldfinger” fort
43 Nawlins subs
44 Beige look-alike
47 Women’s 
Basketball Hall of 
Famer Miller48 Comics explosion
52 “Walk a __ in 
My Shoes”: Joe 
South hit
53 Two piece?
54 See 2-Down
55 Poet Pound
56 Noticed
57 “The Entertainer,” 
e.g.
58 Word with bag 
or ball
59 “The Raven” 
writer
02/14/2022
solution  on page 13answer on page 13
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
HELP WANTED - DONUT CONNECTION
Counter / Drive-thru Sales. Salary depends 
on experience. Text 352-214-1506 or email 
donutconnection1@aol.com    3-21-22-4-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
ALLIGATOR ROUTE
DELIVERY DRIVERS
The Independent Florida Alligator
Has IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student positions
Delivery drivers needed for
early morning newspaper  
routes in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting approximately
30 newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
MONDAY ONLY early morning
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Also needed, flexible hours/days
odd jobs / rack maintenance
Prefer to be filled by one of these drivers.
Please email interest to:
elight@alligator.orgor call 352-376-4446
15 Services
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 2-21-2-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
2-21-7-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
2-21-7-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          2-21-7-15CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
IF YOU WANT OTHERS TO BE HAPPY, PRACTICE COMPASSION.
 IF YOU WANT TO BE HAPPY, PRACTICE COMPASSION. — DALAI LAMA
solution  belowATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         2-21-7-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
18 Personals
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibil -
ity for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and in -
vestigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.
20 Events/Notices
Instructors wanted! God-centered self-help 
method. Up to $1000 per online workshop.
Free book & report: 888-638-4638    
2-21-3-20
● ● VENDORS WANTED ● ●
Art at The Archer Depot Festival
3/12/22 - Linda 352-374-8240
archerhistoricalsociety.org         2-28-22-2-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21 answers to the left1. MOVIES: Which 2000 animated movie's tagline is 
"Escape or Die Frying"?
2. HISTORY: When was the Peace Corps established?
3. LANGUAGE: What does it mean in British English 
to be "knackered"?
4. AD SLOGANS: Which company featured this 1985 
ad campaign: "It's everywhere you want to be"?
5. ANIMAL KINGDOM: Which animal has the longest 
tongue in relation to its body size?
6. LITERATURE: Which 20th-century novel begins with 
the line, "It was a bright cold day in April, and the 
clocks were striking thirteen"?
7. MUSIC: Which country music songwriter, singer and 
activist once sold Bibles for a living?
8. ANATOMY: What is the common name for the coc -
cyx in human anatomy?
9. FOOD & DRINK: Which restaurant chain is known 
for its "Grand Slam" breakfast?
10. U.S. STATES: In which U.S. state was the first 
official World Fair held?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. "Chicken Run"
2. 1961
3. Tired
4. Visa
5. Chameleon6. "1984"
7. Willie Nelson
8. Tailbone
9. Denny's
10. Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania (1876)
1. Glenna Collett-Vare.
2. The Brooklyn Dodgers.
3. Marvin Harrison.
4. Duckpin bowling.5. Cuba.
6. The Ninety Nine All Stars.
7. The Michigan State 
Spartans and Notre Dame 
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answersanswers to the left1. Name the World Golf Hall of Famer, known 
as the "Queen of American Golf," who won 
six U.S. Women's Amateur Championships 
from 1922-35.
2. Pitcher Carl Erskine threw two no-hitters 
and won a World Series during the 1950s as 
a member of what team?
3. Name the Pro Football Hall of Fame wide 
receiver for the Indianapolis Colts who set a 
record (since broken) for catches in a single 
season with 143 in 2002.
4. What variation of bowling is similar to 
ten-pin bowling but has shorter pins, a 
smaller ball and bowlers rolling three balls 
per frame?
5. The boxer known as Kid Gavilan, who held 
the undisputed welterweight title from 1951-
54, hailed from what Caribbean nation?
6. What was the name of the hockey exhibi -
tion team formed by Wayne Gretzky during 
the 1994-95 NHL lockout?
7. What two college football teams played 
in the Nov. 19, 1966, "Game of the Century" 
that ended in a 10-10 tie?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceOPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
SKATEBOARD FOUND
ON CAMPUS
Land Yatzee
Call to identify 406-208-5900
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.24 PetsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   13 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
Gators celebrate monumental upset over No. 2 Auburn
Florida earned the highest-ranked victory inside the O’Dome
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Colin Castleton, #12, races Auburn’s Walker Kessler, #13, to the hoop on February 19. Kessler 
stands two inches taller than Castleton at 7’1”.Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Colin Castleton, #12, celebrated with fans after the Gators’ win 
over Auburn on Saturday, Feb. 19. Some fans stormed the court to 
celebrate with the players despite the announcer’s pleas.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Anthony Duruji, #4, a senior from Germantown, Maryland, battles 
Auburn’s Jabari Smith, #10, at the hoop on Saturday, Feb. 19. 
Duruji had two rebounds and one steal in Saturday’s game.Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Colin Castlelon, a senior from Deland, Florida, lines up a shot before the home basketball game 
against Auburn on Saturday, Feb. 19. Castleton scored 19 points in the Gators’ win.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022   ALLIGATOR   15 
FEATURE
BASEBALLPREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO FEW, THE 
MANAGER GAMES ARE QUICKLY 
ENTERING THE PUBLIC EYE
By Jackson Castellano
Sports Writer
Nestled inside the walls of the Gators bas -
ketball practice facility, things begin to warm 
up on the night of Feb. 8.
Clad in various Gator gear, five equipment 
managers from the UF men’s and women’s bas -
ketball teams conduct their pregame warmup.
These student managers typically dedicate 
their time to UF class or serving the needs of 
their teams. A night like this is their time to 
take over the court.
Half an hour later, managers from the Uni -
versity of Georgia walk in. Members of Flor -
ida’s women’s team watch from the catwalk 
above the practice court, ready to cheer on the 
managers as roles reverse for the night. 
Florida and Georgia are just two of many 
teams nationwide taking part in Manager 
Games, a recreational league exclusive to the 
equipment managers of NCAA basketball 
teams. The competition ranges from the likes 
of mid-major Western Michigan to blue-blood 
Kentucky.
Almost every week when the college teams 
play, groups of managers break away from 
their duties to take on their peers in competi -
tive scrimmages. The games have grown from 
a casual pastime to a full league, complete with 
national rankings and a Final Four tournament 
that will come down to a championship on 
April 1 through April 4. 
Gators men’s basketball manager Max For -stot made it very clear that these games get 
competitive.
“When the game starts — ask any manager 
on our staff — it is us against them and we will 
let them know about it,” Forstot said. “We’ve 
had some heated games this year.” 
The most heated contests come against 
teams who employ the services of graduate as -
sistant coaches, many of whom have played 
college basketball. 
Forstot helps organize the Gators managers 
team as well as participating in the games. The 
most difficult aspect, Forstot says, is simply 
getting a matchup game scheduled. The games 
are typically played late at night on the eve 
of the college game. It’s the only time avail -
able once the managers complete their team 
responsibilities. 
Rashaan Surles, a graduate assistant at 
UGA, said that a great deal of effort goes into 
each game, and playing as a team makes it all 
worth it. 
“All the guys work hard and now, we final -
ly get a chance just to play outside of practice,” 
Surles said. “This reward is just being able to 
play against some different competition.”
Despite the competitive nature of the 
games, they also foster an environment of 
camaraderie.  The managers appreciate each 
other’s hard work. Having an outlet to bond 
and destress while playing the sport they love 
is huge, Forstot said. 
Florida’s managers are having one of their 
best seasons yet, since the league expanded 
to allow all NCAA managers to participate in 
2015. 
Boasting a 5-1 record on the season and 
listed as the second-best manager team in the 
country in the latest rankings, Florida’s staffers are primed for a deep postseason run this April 
and many more games to come. 
The games have been going on much lon -
ger than the online community has been fol -
lowing them, said Manager Games co-founder 
Thomas Northcutt. 
“Part of the reason that this whole event 
started was just as a way to record that this has 
been going on,” Northcutt said. “I can’t even 
tell you the earliest recorded manager game. I 
know it’s been going on forever.”
Northcutt joined the project in 2015, a year 
after its creation. The original founders were 
Ian May, Andrew Novak and Kevin Palka, for -
mer managers for Michigan State University. 
Palka is the mind behind KPI, a performance 
indicator that factors into NCAA’s Net Rating. 
The concept originally started as a league for 
managers in the Big Ten conference. 
When Northcutt came aboard during his 
time as a manager at Auburn, the group began 
expanding to the rest of the NCAA and concep -
tualizing a postseason tournament.
“Once a week they tweet out the standings 
on a white piece of paper that they typed out 
in Microsoft Word, and that was really how it 
started.” Northcutt said. 
The goal has always been to create the best 
experience possible for students who dedicate 
a majority of their time to taking care of the 
team and its equipment, Northcutt explained.
“These guys work really really hard, and 
it’s awesome for them to not only get to play 
and compete and everything, but just to know 
that they’re appreciated,” Northcutt said.
Northcutt, having watched the game grow 
since his time at Auburn to now, is pleased 
with how things are going.
“Part of the job of being a manager is going unnoticed.” Northcutt said. “Giving these guys 
a platform, giving these guys the chance to be 
something bigger and give them their 15 min -
utes of fame. To give them that moment where 
they can sort of celebrate them and show off 
their accomplishments it’s really a lot of fun.”
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.org
INEXPERIENCE IN THE 
BULLPEN CAUSES NO. 9 
FLORIDA’S DOWNFALL
By Ethan Budowsky 
Sports Writer
Florida Ballpark sat silent for 
most of Sunday, the only audible 
sounds were loud cheers from the 
Liberty dugout. The Flames knew 
they were in position to take two of 
three games and upset the Gators.
It was an eerie scene as Florida 
dropped its second-straight opening 
series, this time to the unranked Lib -
erty Flames. The Flames did not lie 
down to No. 9 UF and proved to be 
an extremely stiff challenge. 
As the final out was recorded, 
the Flames dugout erupted, leaving 
stunned silence everywhere else.
The series loss represents a ma -
jor setback for a team that had large 
aspirations coming into 2022. If the 
end to 2021 left a sour taste in the 
Gators’ mouths, the start to this 
season will have them wanting to 
throw up all over themselves.
Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
spoke very highly of Liberty all 
weekend and continued to do so 
following the series loss. He said he 
warned everybody that they were a 
quality opponent and was not sur -
prised they came to play.
“They attacked the entire week -
end on the mound,” O’Sullivan said. 
“They didn’t give us anything.”
The Gators took game one of the series in dominant fashion behind a 
tremendous start from left-handed 
pitcher Hunter Barco.  
The junior southpaw set a career 
high with 11 strikeouts and had a 
perfect game rolling into the fifth in -
ning. 
Barco had all four of his pitches 
working, including his newly devel -
oped changeup. The offspeed pitch 
adds to the already lethal fastball, 
slider, splitter arsenal he brings to 
the hill. His ability to mix his pitches 
and rack up strikeouts is one of the 
main reasons he is ranked as the 
No. 53 overall MLB Draft prospect, 
according to MLB Pipeline.
Another Gator on Pipeline’s Top-
100 Draft prospect list is right fielder 
Sterlin Thompson. He was the other 
star on Friday, launching two home 
runs to straightaway center, includ -
ing a seventh inning grand slam that 
blew the game wide open.
Thompson drove in five of Flori -
da’s seven opening night runs, pro -
viding the spark the offense needed 
to cruise to a 7-2 victory.
The bullpen struggled a bit as 
freshmen Nick Ficarrotta and Philip 
Abner had to be removed with run -
ners on base. With such a young 
roster, especially in the arms depart -
ment, O’Sullivan sees it all as just 
part of the process.
“The pitching is gonna be up and 
down at the beginning of the season 
because of the youth,” O’Sullivan 
said. “The offense has to take some 
of the pressure off of the young 
arms.” Game two against Liberty Sat -
urday did not go according to plan 
as starting pitcher Timmy Manning 
struggled, allowing four runs on five 
hits and two walks in three innings 
on the mound.
The Gators would claw back to 
tie the game at four in the fourth in -
ning, but the Flames would add on 
in the fifth and eighth to take a 6-4 
victory. 
Saturday also saw the first ap -
pearance of right-hander Brandon 
Sproat, who was penciled in before 
the season to be the Saturday night 
starter. He struggled to find the strike 
zone in two innings of work, allow -
ing a run on a hit and two walks. 
The Pace, Florida, native did add 
three strikeouts, showing the poten -
tial that makes him another one of 
Pipeline’s Top-100 Draft prospects.
All decisions related to the rota -
tion were based on performance 
and not matchups, O’Sullivan said. 
He added that the rotation is set 
for now, but can change. It will be 
something to keep an eye on after 
both Manning and Sproat struggled 
in their initial action of the season.
The rubber match had a very 
similar start to both Friday and 
Saturday’s games as freshman left-
hander Pierce Coppola racked up 
three strikeouts. Each Gator starter 
in the series tallied three Ks in the 
opening frame, an extremely im -
pressive feat.
Coppola kept it rolling and picked 
up two more in the second, striking 
out five of the first six just like Barco did Friday.
It was the fastball that did the 
trick for the 6-foot 8-inch southpaw 
as he ran it up to a blistering 95 
miles per hour. His big, lanky build 
creates a very different look than 
hitters are accustomed to and makes 
him extremely difficult to hit. Cop -
pola’s fastball was most effective up 
in the zone and generated plenty of 
swings-and-misses. 
O’Sullivan said the game plan 
was to help Coppola settle in by us -
ing his fastball early and often.
“The pitch call today was trying 
to make it as simplistic as possible,” 
O’Sullivan said. “I went into it with 
the mindset that I’m not gonna 
make this kid overthink.”
Coppola picked up seven strike -
outs over 4 1/3 innings but was 
chased in the fifth after allowing a 
double and a homer. Philip Abner 
would enter and immediately falter. 
The left-hander allowed a single and 
a double as Liberty drew even with 
Florida at three. 
The Gators took over in the pre -
vious half inning as Josh Rivera 
doubled in Wyatt Langford, who got 
hit by a pitch. Then junior BT Rio -
pelle unloaded on a ball to right field 
for a stroll around the bases. How -
ever, that would be the last time UF 
scored. 
The Flames took the lead in their 
half of the sixth after Abner walked 
two and catcher Gray Betts hit a 
sacrifice fly to right, scoring center 
fielder Derek Orndorff. 
The turn of events followed a series of events that became all too 
familiar for Florida last year: score 
runs in bunches, walk a bunch of 
hitters and place an unfair burden 
on the bullpen.
“If we do what we’re supposed 
to do offensively and build off the 
lead, then we don’t have freshman 
pitching in pressure situations,” 
O’Sullivan said. 
The Gators have huge long-term 
potential but are flawed in the short 
term. 
They are going to be forced to 
use a ton of young players in big 
spots, and while it can save them at 
times, it also may cost them a lot of 
games early. 
O’Sullivan knows it is not sus -
tainable to put the weight of the 
world on the young Gators’ shoul -
ders. Relieving the stress will be a 
pivotal step in overcoming this poor 
start. 
“These have been high pres -
sure situations right from the be -
ginning,” O’Sullivan said. “That’s 
where you’re seeing deep counts 
and maybe not being able to control 
their emotions as much as they’ll be 
able to going forward.”
Florida will look to bounce back 
with midweek games against Stetson 
(1-1) Tuesday and North Florida (1-
2) Wednesday. Attention then turns 
to a three-game slate with the Geor -
gia State Panthers next weekend.
@ethanbudowsky
ebudowsky@alligator.orgCollege basketball’s manager-only league is the sport’s newest traditions
Gators burned by Flames, suffers two losses opening weekendJackson Castellano / / Alligator Staff
UF basketball manager Bennett Andersen 
leaps for the jump ball against UGA’s 
managers on Thursday, Feb. 10 at the 
Florida Basketball Practice Complex.
16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREimpact of the nation’s best shot 
blocker, Walker Kessler. Auburn’s 
7-foot-1-inch forward averages 4.5 
blocks per game this season but 
failed to record one against UF.
Castleton, who saw the majority 
of matchups with Kessler, was a 
major offensive presence in the 
first. The senior scored 10 points 
on 50% shooting with signature 
physical buckets down low and a 
few mid-range jumpers. 
“I’m a fighter,” Castleton said. 
“It doesn’t matter what game 
or who I’m playing against, I’m 
gonna play as hard as I can and 
give everything I have.”
Florida was up just one point, 
22-21, entering halftime, but the 
O’Dome crowd was alive as ever, 
dancing, singing and chomping 
along with the pep band during 
every tune. 
The Gators had an upset 
lasered in their sights, playing 
with an excess of energy despite 
a lackluster performance at the 
game’s start. 
Auburn entered the second half 
a completely different team. 
The Tigers stormed out of the 
locker room with an 11-6 run to 
take control of the game. The 
momentum swing can be attributed 
to projected NBA lottery pick Jabari Smith’s 20 second-half points and 
an outpouring of support from the 
many Tigers fans in attendance. 
Castleton called Smith one of 
the best players he’s ever played 
against. UF guard Tyree Appleby 
chuckled and struggled to find 
the words to describe Smith’s 
performance before settling on 
“Yeah, he’s nice.” 
Appleby wasn’t content letting 
the game slip away easily.
The senior out of Jacksonville, 
Arkansas, finished with a season-
high 26 points. Florida broke 
through again with seven minutes 
remaining, reclaiming the lead, 48-
46, on a Phlandrous Fleming Jr. 
three-pointer. 
Florida cashed in seven of 13 
looks from behind the arc in the 
second period and closed the game 
by making four of its last five field 
goals. The Gators held a 48 field-
goal percentage in the second 
half after an abysmal first half of 
shooting. The late-game resurgence 
propelled the Gators to victory and 
sent the crowd into a frenzy. 
Florida faces another tough 
opponent in No. 23 Arkansas 
Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Stephen 
C. O’Connell Center. The game will 
be broadcast on ESPN 2. 
@jaxacastellano
jcastellano@alligator.orgMEN'S BASKETBALL , from pg. 1Gators pull off upset
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Contributing Photographer
Tyree Appleby and Colin Castleton celebrate Florida's upset of No. 2 Auburn Saturday afternoon.
