We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -ACPS buses delays frustrate parents
Find this story on pg. 2
Black, female business owners celebrate Valentine’s Day
Find this story on pg. 7FEST Wrestling brings intergender 
wrestling to Gainesville
The wrestling troupe breaks gender binaries. 
Read more on pg. 12
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 22
BOTH PARTIES ANNOUNCED 
12 PLATFORM POINTS ON 
INSTAGRAM AHEAD OF 
SPRING SG ELECTIONS
By Maia Botek and 
Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writers
UF Student Government elec -
tions are fast approaching, and 
some parties are releasing their 
platforms for the semester.
Students can vote for 50 sena -
tors and the Executive Cabinet in 
SG’s Spring election on Feb. 22 
and 23. Five parties are registered: 
The Gator Party, Change Party, 
Communist Party, Keg Party and 
Waffle House Party.
Polls will be open from 8:30 
a.m. to 8:30 p.m. on election 
days, per SG election codes. Stu -
dents who are unable to vote 
in-person can request absentee 
ballots through an online form 
before 5 p.m. on Wednesday, said 
Supervisor of Elections Alexandra 
Stedman. 
“Voting is really just getting 
your voice out there,” Stedman 
said. “We're all students here at 
the university. We're all expe -
riencing everything that's going 
on.”
Change and Communist par -
ties’ general platforms feature 12 
points that were released on In -
stagram during the last week of 
January. 
Gator Party, Keg Party and 
Waffle House Party have not re -
sponded to requests for comment 
about the party platform.
Last election season, Gator 
Party won 37 seats for a total 
supermajority of 60 seats in the 
Senate. Change won 12 seats and Communist won none.
“This semester, we've put a lot 
of emphasis on platform points 
that are really going to support and 
enhance the lives of students,” 
said Change Party President Cas -
sidy Campbell, “Things that are 
actually achievable through the 
student Senate.”
The platform focuses on points 
the party has developed during 
other semesters like shifting to 24-
hour libraries, which UF adminis -
tration oversees.
Change Party’s Student Body 
President candidate Gabrielle 
Adekunle organized a blue lights 
protest on Fraternity Row Friday 
afternoon. The march from Flavet 
Field to the president’s mansion 
advocated for a list of demands 
made by Change Party and Take 
Action Florida.
Some of the demands aligned 
with Change’s platform, such as 
expanding blue lights and increas -
ing report times for sexual assault.
About 40 students held signs 
and blue flashlights. 
Other party points include 
pursuing an online voting option 
for SG elections, integrating easy-
prep meal vending machines and 
increasing accessibility and ADA 
compliance.
“Leadership underneath 
Change Party would be very ac -
cessible and be representative of 
the student body as a whole,” Ad -
ekunle said.
The Change Party will be re -
leasing more information on plat -
form points before the election, 
Campbell said. 
The Communist Party was 
originally founded at UF as the Communist Party, Change Party announce campaign platforms
ANTI-LGBTQ+ BILLS 
MOVE FORWARD IN FLORIDA 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
AND SENATE
By Carissa Allen
Alligator Staff Writer
As the Florida Legislature 
pushes bills that would ban 
discussion of sexual orientation 
and gender identity in the 
classroom, Gainesville students 
and teachers push back. 
The ‘Don’t Say Gay’ 
companion bills, HB1557/SB1834, are circulating through 
the Florida legislature. The pair 
of bills would limit discussions 
about LGBTQ+ and transgender 
identities “in a manner that 
is not age-appropriate or 
developmentally appropriate for 
students.”
The measures are sponsored 
by Rep. Joe Harding, R-Ocala, 
and Sen. Dennis Baxley, R-Lady 
Lake. 
The representatives are 
framing the legislation as a 
restoration in parents’ autonomy 
to make decisions about the 
upbringing of their children. “This bill will help us focus 
on the priority that our students 
belong to families and that they 
are not wards of the state,” 
Baxley wrote in an email. 
“Parents should decide what is 
age-appropriate content for their 
children.”
Harding didn’t respond to The 
Alligator’s request for comment 
by email and phone in time for 
publication. 
The bills target primary grade 
levels, grades K-3, wrote Matt 
McClain, Senator Baxley’s senior ‘Don’t Say Gay’ bills would silence discussion of 
sexual orientation, gender identity in classrooms
SEE PLATFORMS,  PAGE 4SEE DON'T SAY GAY,  PAGE 4Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Gabrielle Adekunle (left), Change Party's presidential nominee, and Alexandra Quintana lead 
protestors down Fraternity Row on Friday, Feb. 4. The rally was held by Change Party to advocate 
for more emergency blue lights along Fraternity Row.T oday’s WeatherEVEN WITH INCREASED 
HOURLY PAY, SCHOOL BUS 
DRIVER VACANCIES AND 
ABSENCES SPUR DAILY DELAYS
By Emma Behrmann
Alligator Staff Writer
Chronic late buses frustrate 
Alachua County Public School 
parents as the fifth month of school 
continues to be marked by delays of 
up to 90 minutes. 
Skylah Banks, 36, a Gainesville 
resident, waited to leave for her 
2 p.m. shift until her two third-
graders came home from Marjorie 
K. Rawlings Elementary at 3500 NE 
15th St. 
“They didn’t get home until right 
at 5 o’clock,” Banks said. 
She was three hours late for her 
job at Walmart. 
The district and school send 
her updates on how late buses will 
be, but she said the afternoon time 
estimates are not accurate. 
In addition to the delayed bus 
notifications, she also receives 
calls from the Rawlings attendance 
office.
“The school office calls every 
day and says they’re missing class,” 
Banks said. Although the excused 
tardies will not affect their records, 
her children are still missing 
instructional time. 
Banks’ children are not 
alone. Route 1027, which serves 
Buchholz High School, Fort Clarke 
Middle School and Meadowbrook 
Elementary, has a tendency for 
tardiness — running up to 90 
minutes late 18 times in January. 
Route 2029, which also serves 
Buchholz High, Fort Clarke Middle 
and Meadowbrook Elementary 
along with Kanapaha Middle, has 
arrived late 53 times since Jan. 5. The district reported 25 late 
buses on Friday. This is about the 
same as the first three weeks of 
January when the district reported 
more than 30 late buses each day.
ACPS’ bus problem is nothing 
new. Late buses have been abundant 
throughout the school year due to a 
shortage of bus drivers, abundant 
absences and low wages. COVID-
19-related absences caused nearly 
50 late buses on days like Jan. 10 
and Jan. 11, ACPS spokesperson 
Jackie Johnson said.
The district experienced a surge 
in late buses alongside the surge in 
new COVID-19 staff cases.  
As new staff cases dropped by 
more than half, bus tardiness began 
to ease, Johnson said. 
Despite the improvement 
Monday and Tuesday, Wednesday 
had 46 late buses, Thursday had 37 
and Friday had 25. 
Even when a bus is late, the 
delay has been shorter this past 
week at 15, 20 and 30 minutes, 
Johnson said. However, 7 of the 
25 late buses Friday were delayed 
by 90 minutes or more, leaving 
students to miss instructional time 
or arrive home much later than 
expected.  
These issues are not county 
specific. Nationwide, school districts 
are plagued by bus driver shortages 
and delays. The U.S. Department of 
Education even offered a temporary 
option to waive a portion of the 
commercial driver's license (CDL) 
skills test to alleviate the shortage of 
school bus drivers. 
In an effort to improve conditions 
for current bus drivers, the Alachua 
County Education Association 
met with the district to discuss a 
reclassification of the bus driver job 
description so drivers could earn 
more money.
Superintendent Carlee Simon approved the reclassification of bus 
drivers Dec. 13, giving each driver 
at least an 8% increase in pay, 
Tessmann said.
A driver who earned $13.95 an 
hour would now earn $15.84 an 
hour. 
Reclassification is not a raise but 
is a change in the pay grade for a 
specific job title, ACEA service unit 
director Crystal Tessmann said. 
“Even with the reclassification, 
our bus drivers aren’t getting paid 
what they deserve, as with all of our 
employees,” Tessman said. 
She hopes the pay increase will 
help retain bus drivers; failure to 
retain drivers leads to vacancies and 
delayed routes. 
“We don’t have a fully staffed 
group of bus drivers,” Tessmann 
said. “We have way too many 
vacancies so that just exacerbates 
absences.”
The district is short 28 bus 
drivers, including substitute drivers 
who report every day to drive routes 
for absent drivers, Johnson said. 
ACPS continues to seek out 
qualified bus drivers and will pay 
for the required CDL training as well 
as school bus endorsements. Even 
though a higher hourly pay with 
available overtime is now offered, 
shortages and delays continue.
@emmabehrmann
ebehrmann@alligator.org 
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 22 Parents unhappy as school 
bus route delays continue
 352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENTMONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022legislative assistant, in an email.
The state bill is part of a larger question 
at the national level about who controls 
curriculum in classrooms, whether that be 
parents, lawmakers or teachers. 
“The lawmakers in Tallahassee are no 
longer going to defer to the judgement 
of educators, who we would hope 
would be experts in teaching,” said Clay 
Calvert, a UF law professor specializing 
in communications law and freedom of 
speech. 
Politically charged Florida laws on 
critical race theory and viewpoint diversity 
surveys have set the precedent for politics 
meddling with pedagogy, Calvert said.
Public school students have First 
Amendment rights to free speech, Calvert 
said, though they are not absolute. The 
landmark Supreme Court case Tinker 
v. Des Moines Independent Community 
School District established the substantial 
disruption test, which sets the criteria to 
determine whether a public school official 
is justified in suppressing a student’s 
speech.
If a teacher stifles a conversation raised 
by a student about their sexual orientation 
and identity, the student can sue, and the 
educator must prove that speech would 
have caused a substantial and material 
disruption of the academic atmosphere, 
Calvert said.
“That will be hard to do,” he added. 
“It’s problematic.”
Alachua County’s House and Senate 
representatives, Rep. Robert "Chuck" 
Brannan, R-Lake City, and Sen. Keith 
Perry, R-Gainesville, didn’t respond to 
The Alligator’s request for comment in 
time for publication. 
Some Alachua County public 
elementary school teachers like Danielle 
Engelhorn, a teacher at Carolyn Beatrice 
Parker Elementary, have expressed their 
discomfort with shutting down important 
conversations about students’ sexual 
identity. 
“We’re here to provide a safe place for 
kids to learn,” Englehorn said. “We can’t 
do that if we’re prevented from being able 
to address our students’ needs.”
Preventing teachers from discussing 
sexual orientation will not prevent 
students from asking questions about it, 
and it will not stop bullying, she added.
If the bill is signed into law, it may 
also lead to the banning of lessons on 
LGBTQ+ oppression and history, which 
Carolyn Beatrice Parker Elementary 
teacher Stephanie Walker said repeals her 
autonomy over her classroom. 
“If we don’t talk about something, then 
we don’t learn to accept it,” Walker said. 
“If it’s not talked about, then we’ll go back 
to the point where kids are afraid to say 
who they are.”Walker strives to make her classroom 
a safe space for every child, so her 
classroom’s walls are adorned with 
student-made pride posters and pictures.
As a mother of two LGBTQ+ young 
adults who came out in middle school, she 
fears for a state that may ban the teaching 
of tolerance and respect and a childhood 
in which kids must conceal their identity.
Reminded of the struggles her own 
children endured, Walker worries the bill 
will stifle students’ self-expression and 
engender mental illness.
The Trevor Project, the world’s largest 
organization providing crisis intervention 
and suicide prevention services to 
LGBTQ+ adolescents, is also concerned 
about the damage the bill may induce on 
LGBTQ+ youths’ mental health.
LQBTQ+ students deserve their history 
to be reflected in their education, like their 
peers, spokesperson Sam Ames said in a 
statement.
LGBTQ+ youth who learned about 
LGBTQ+ history and issues in school had 
23% lower odds of reporting a sucicide 
attempt in the past year, according to The 
Trevor Project’s research.
The bill would also require district school boards to adopt procedures for 
notifying parents if teachers notice a 
change in a student’s “mental, emotional, 
or physical health or well-being.” It 
mandates school district personnel to 
“encourage a student to discuss issues 
relating to his or her well-being with his 
or her parent.”
Damon Veras, a 21-year-old UF political 
science junior and UF LGBTQ+ Advisory 
Committee member, said this measure is 
a way of outing young children to their 
parents. 
The committee acts as a forum to 
address concerns of homophobia and 
transphobia on campus and assesses the 
quality of life of UF’s LGBTQ+ students 
and staff, recommending programs, 
policies and services to enhance their 
well-being, according to its website.
The committee is carefully drafting the 
letter to signify the group does not support 
the legislation and persuade the university 
to take an official stance, perhaps enlisting 
UF lobbyists. Veras calls upon students to 
oppose the bill on a smaller scale. 
“I want to encourage anyone who has 
the capacity and ability to do so, to call 
their representatives and tell them to vote ‘no’ on these bills,” he said.
Although UF isn’t a primary school and 
therefore isn’t directly impacted by the 
bill, the university governs P. K. Yonge 
Developmental Research School, a K-12 
public school in Gainesville.
The Alachua County School Board 
hasn’t yet discussed the bill, and therefore 
it has not taken a formal stance on it, 
ACPS spokesperson Jackie Johnson wrote 
in an email. 
“Depending on how it would be 
implemented if it does become law, 
obviously there is concern that this could 
have a chilling effect on speech and 
expression in the classroom,” she wrote. 
“The devil is often in the details.”
HB1557 was passed from the Education 
& Employment Committee to the Judiciary 
Committee in the House Jan. 25. SB1834 
has been added to the agenda in its 
first Senate committee, the Education 
Committee, to be discussed on Tuesday. 
As the public debate surrounding this 
bill intensifies, debate in the Florida 
Legislature continues.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgDON'T SAY GAY,  from pg. 1Gainesville teachers, students brace for anti-LGBTQ+ legislation
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Progressive Party by previous 
president Alfredo Ortiz. The party 
ran as Communist Party last elec -
tion and won no Senate seats.
Parties were required to submit 
a supporting petition with 500 sig -
natures by Feb. 1 to qualify. The 
Communist Party did not reach 
enough signatures, but eight can -
didates are running for Senate, said previous president, Alfredo 
Ortiz. 
The Communist Party platform 
features four foundations: radi -
cal democracy, boots off necks, 
economic relief and social justice, 
each of which have three points.
The party developed points 
under Ortiz and finalized the plat -
form under its current president, 
Aron Ali-McClory, a 19-year-old 
freshman studying anthropology 
and political science.Under the radical democracy 
point, the party seeks to abolish 
the two-party SG system, cre -
ate a union of SG employees and 
adhere to the demands of the UF 
Food Justice Coalition.
The boots off necks foundation 
would allow students to control 
UFPD’s budget, protect academic 
freedom and educate the student 
body through a mandatory course 
on Critical Race Theory.
Economic relief features points like student debt relief, subsidies 
for school supplies and creating 
workplace democracy, which is 
one of the beliefs of the Commu -
nist Party, Ortiz said.
The party wants to eliminate 
gendered restrooms, create an 
“anti-John’s committee” to pro -
tect leftist and LGBTQ+ students 
and assist transgender students 
with costs that accompany tran -
sitioning— like replacing a Gator 
1 card.
“I love Lib West, but it’s a 
six-story building with one gen -der-neutral bathroom,” said Izzy 
Myers, a 19-year-old sophomore 
studying history who was the par -
ty’s executive VP candidate.
SG will announce election re -
sults at about 9:30 p.m. Feb. 23 if 
no run-offs are necessary.
Questions about SG elections 
can be directed to Stedman at 
elections@sg.ufl.edu.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.org
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgPLATFORMS,  from pg. 1Gator Party did not respond for commentMONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
Jan. 11 marked the beginning of the 2022 
Legislative Session, providing Florida 
lawmakers with three big opportunities 
to change the trajectory of Florida’s fu -
ture and mitigate the impacts of climate 
change on our state. 
Here in Gainesville, we trust the science, 
and it tells us climate change is real. Roughly 
92% of Floridians agree — they know climate 
change is real, too. That’s because we’re 
paying higher electric bills from record heat waves and 
skyrocketing insurance from stronger hurricanes and 
increased flooding. 
In 2021 alone, we were hit with thousands of 
wildfires, and red tide lingered all summer from 
higher ocean temperatures hurting our health and our 
tourism economy. A recent report by Florida Taxwatch 
highlighted $175 billion in economic risk annually by 
2050 from climate change here in the sunshine state.
But what can state leaders do in the coming weeks 
to change Florida’s future?
First, Florida should set bold but achievable goals 
for electric vehicles, especially charging infrastructure 
deployment for medium and heavy vehicles. Lawmakers 
can jumpstart this transition by removing barriers to 
electric vehicle expansion. 
For example, simple tweaks to the state’s 
procurement practices will allow the total cost of 
vehicle ownership to guide fleet purchasing decisions. 
This would save taxpayers money over time while 
reducing air pollution. 
Second, legislators should solidify the Statewide 
Office of Resiliency under the Governor’s Office by providing this critical department with 
adequate resources and the requisite 
authority to direct resilience initiatives across 
Florida’s agencies, lead implementation of 
the state’s resilience strategy and leverage 
funding from the federal government and the 
private sector.
Third, lawmakers should reject any 
legislative proposals that would unfairly 
check the momentum of Florida’s burgeoning 
solar industry. Florida universities, families and small 
businesses should be able to continue recovering their 
costs at the same rate as Florida’s utilities. 
Demand for electricity is growing rapidly. Our over-
reliance on natural gas (75% according to the US Energy 
Information Administration) makes energy security and 
affordability vulnerable to global gas price volatility, 
cyberattacks and natural disaster events. We should 
be looking for ways to ensure our cities, universities 
and other tax-exempt organizations can make critical 
investment in solar to save taxpayer dollars, reduce 
risk and increase our resilience after a storm.
Florida lawmakers, before the end of session on 
March 11, have a real opportunity to lead on climate 
and the economy with common sense solutions. In just 
a few short weeks, we will know if they have risen to 
the challenge. Let’s hope they do; our state and our 
futures depend on it.
Dawn Shirreffs is the Florida Director of the 
Environmental Defense Fund.Last week, Sister Cindy stood in 
front of a crowd outside UCF’s 
reflecting pond and spewed her 
usual vitriol. 
Like any other day on Cindy’s 
“tour,” students ate it up. People re -
corded and posted to social media, argu -
ing with her, jokingly agreeing with her 
— all for the satisfaction of poking the 
wiry, unhinged, emotionally unstable 
bear. 
And as much as I’d like to pretend this isn’t true, Sister 
Cindy was once a journalism student at UF. At one point, she 
even worked for The Alligator. 
On her husband’s website, she shares unfounded lies 
about our school, shaming our students and putting down 
the college in general. She also tries to relate to students with 
the claim that she was once “a bad girl at the University of 
Florida.”
Now, she’s threatening to come back, and she may even 
be here today.
Common themes for Cindy’s speeches include slut sham -
ing, homophobic comments and racist remarks. She became 
famous by sharing her problematic beliefs on TikTok, and her 
hateful speeches have grown into a full-blown national tour. 
And really, I get it — when she’s standing outside with her 
phone clenched tightly in her waving fist, screaming about 
things that don’t really make any sense at all, it’s kind of hard 
not to watch. It might even be cathartic to argue with her. 
Even if I know it’s not productive, it might feel good to fight 
Hellfire with facts, to try to make Cindy feel bad for what 
she’s doing, to laugh at her. 
But that’s exactly what she wants. 
Because in her eyes, any engagement or ironic support of 
Sister Cindy is still support. In a world where clicks, follows 
and likes amass fortunes, she and her team don’t really care 
if you’re joking when you praise her. In fact, they rely on it. 
Even Cindy has acknowledged that the way she presents 
her content is satirical. But she also claims “she is presenting 
what she believes to be the truth.”
Young people have made her a celebrity, and she’ll stay 
that way as long as we keep showing up. Cindy has a TikTok 
account with almost 400,000 followers and nearly six mil -
lion likes, a cameo account where she’s paid to hate and an 
Instagram where students beg her to preach at their schools. 
It’s common to see street preachers at colleges like UF. 
In fact, we see (less famous) preachers gather at Turlington 
PlazaHall pretty often. And due to the property including 
many (even limited) “public forums,” they’re allowed to stay 
there. But not all of them are like Cindy.
If you feel like you have to show up and laugh, I can’t 
stop you. I can’t even blame you for feeling that way because 
I’m tempted, too. But before you post her words, support 
her (even ironically), give her a platform — remember this 
woman’s claim to fame is rhetoric that hurts people. It’s a 
privilege to only see her comments as a joke, to be unaffected 
by their results. 
Don’t be the soapbox that Cindy stands on to spew mi -
sogyny, racism and homophobia. She doesn’t deserve a place 
at our school. 
She doesn’t deserve the attention of real Florida Gators.
Sara Lindsay is the Spring 2022 Opinions Editor for The 
Alligator and a senior journalism major. She is currently a 
Pulitzer Fellow at the CJC and spends her free time at the park 
with her dog Sequoia.UF students make Gainesville the vi -
brant, progressive city it is. They sup -
port local small businesses, ride city-
managed public transportation and 
work in our community.
But students also make up a substantial voting 
bloc that is made to feel its voices don’t matter. A 
big part of this issue is our city leaders suppressing 
the student vote. 
Despite UF students comprising nearly a third 
of Gainesville’s population, there was no early 
voting location on campus during the most recent 
city election. 
Students used to have access to early voting at the J. 
Wayne Reitz Union — but even that was a hard-fought vic -
tory. 
For years, students begged their state-level officials to 
change the rules so they would have more convenient access 
to the ballot box in their community. It took a protracted 
2018 legal battle — led by UF students in partnership with 
the Andrew Goodman Foundation — for an early voting lo -
cation to come to UF and college campuses across the state. 
That year, nearly 8,000 people — primarily students — 
voted early at the Reitz Union.
This time around, our city leaders suppressed these votes 
by failing to instruct the Alachua County Supervisor of Elec -
tions to provide this critical voting option for students.
Eighty-four percent of UF students live off-campus. That 
means the average student had to balance classes, extracur -
riculars and other obligations with finding a polling location 
at a random hotel or church miles from where they spend 
most of their day. This wouldn’t have been the case if your city government had followed years of precedent 
and provided early voting at the Reitz. 
This voter suppression is only a symptom of 
a larger problem: our city leaders have routinely 
swept the concerns of students aside. For them, 
ignoring your voice is more convenient than mak -
ing genuine attempts to listen to you.
The last time your City Commission met with 
their counterparts in UF Student Government was 
on April 2019. Not a single person who was a stu -
dent senator at that time remains in the chamber 
now. How can your city leaders claim to repre -
sent you when they won’t even speak with your 
democratically-elected student leaders?
At a recent meeting, the City Commission took steps to 
eliminate the Student Community Relations Advisory Board, 
with zero concrete ideas as to how exactly they plan on hav -
ing “discussions with student neighbors on city issues.” I 
don’t know about you, but I’d imagine they could start by 
listening to student perspectives instead of purposefully ex -
cluding them from government discussions. 
This August, four out of seven city government seats are 
up for grabs — including the mayor’s seat. Students have the 
opportunity to elect leaders who truly represent them.
Voting for city commissioners who actually care about the 
student community would be a great start.
 
Claudia Tio-Cartagena is a member of the Alachua 
County Democratic Executive Committee, a former UF 
Student Government Senator and a proud resident of 
Gainesville.
State legislators should act now to change Florida’s climate futureSister Cindy doesn’t deserve 
your attention — ironic or notCity Commission silences students 
ColumnColumn Column
The Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. Names 
will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to  2700 SW 13th St. , or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 32604-2257.
Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.The views expressed here are not necessarily those of The Alligator.
Claudia 
Tio-Cartagena
Alachua County Democratic 
Executive Committe
Sara Lindsay
Opinions Editor
Dawn Shirreffs
Environmental Defense FundLUNES, 7 DE FEBRERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.Gator pitchers heal from arm surgery
Find this story on pg. 11El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
A PESAR DEL AUMENTO EN 
SALARIOS, LAS VACANTES 
Y LAS AUSENCIAS DE 
LOS CONDUCTORES DE 
AUTOBUSES ESCOLARES 
ESTÁN PROVOCANDO 
RETRASOS DIARIOS
Por Emma Behrmann
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán 
Los retrasos crónicos en los auto -
buses frustran a los padres de las Es -
cuelas Públicas del Condado de Ala -
chua ya que el quinto mes de clases 
sigue siendo marcado por retrasos de 
hasta noventa minutos.
Skylah Banks de 36 años, resi -
dente de Gainesville, esperó hasta 
que sus dos hijos de tercer grado 
regresaran a casa de la escuela pri -
maria Marjorie K. Rawlings en 3500 
NE 15th S para poder irse a su turno 
de trabajo a las dos de la tarde
“Ayer no llegaron a casa hasta las 
cinco de la tarde”, dijo Banks.
Ella llegó con tres horas de retra -
so a su trabajo en Walmart.
El distrito y la escuela le envían 
actualizaciones sobre qué tan tarde 
llegarán los autobuses, pero ella dijo 
que los estimados de la tarde no son 
precisos.
Además de las notificaciones de 
los autobuses en retraso, también 
recibe llamadas de la oficina de asis -
tencia de Rawlings.
“La oficina de la escuela llama to -dos los días para decirme que ellos 
están faltando a clases”, Banks dijo. 
Aunque las tardanzas justificadas no 
afectarán sus registros, sus hijos aún 
están perdiendo tiempo en el aula.
Los hijos de Banks no son los 
únicos. La ruta 1027, que sirve a la 
escuela secundaria Buchholz, a la 
escuela intermedia Fort Clarke, y a 
la escuela primaria Meadowbrook, 
también tiene una tendencia de re -
trasos: ha llegado hasta noventa 
minutos tarde dieciocho veces en 
enero. La ruta 2029, que también 
sirve a la escuela secundaria Buch -
holz, a la escuela intermedia Fort 
Clarke y a la escuela primaria Mead -
owbrook, junto con la escuela inter -
media Kanapaha, ha llegado tarde 
cincuenta y tres veces desde el cinco 
de enero.
El distrito reportó veinticinco au -
tobuses retrasados   el viernes. Esta es 
casi la misma cantidad que las prim -
eras tres semanas de enero cuando 
el distrito reportó más de treinta au -
tobuses retrasados   cada día.
El problema de los autobuses de 
ACPS (Escuelas Públicas del Con -
dado de Alachua) no es nada nuevo. 
Los autobuses retrasados   han sido 
abundantes durante todo el año es -
colar debido a la escasez de conduc -
tores de autobuses, las numerosas 
ausencias y los bajos salarios. Las 
ausencias relacionadas con el CO -
VID-19 causaron casi cincuenta au -
tobuses retrasados   en días como el 
diez y el once de enero, dijo la por -
tavoz de ACPS, Jackie Johnson.
El distrito tuvo un aumento en los 
retrasos de autobuses a la vez que 
los nuevos casos de COVID-19 sub -
ían en su personal. A medida que los nuevos casos 
de personal se redujeron por más de 
la mitad, las tardanzas en los auto -
buses comenzaron a disminuir, dijo 
Johnson.
A pesar de la mejora entre el 
lunes y el martes, el miércoles hubo 
cuarenta y seis buses atrasados, el 
jueves treinta y siete y el viernes 
veinticinco.
Incluso cuando un autobús ha lle -
gado tarde, la demora fue más corta 
la semana pasada con quince, veinte 
y treinta minutos de retraso, Johnson 
dijo. Sin embargo, siete de los vein -
ticinco autobuses que llegaron tarde 
el viernes se retrasaron noventa 
minutos o más, lo que provocó que 
los estudiantes perdieran tiempo de 
instrucción o llegaran a casa mucho 
más tarde de lo esperado.
Estos problemas no son especí -
ficos del condado. En todo el país, 
los distritos escolares están plagados 
de retrasos y escasez de conductores 
de autobuses. El Departamento de 
Educación de EE. UU. hasta ofreció 
una opción temporal para renunciar 
al requerimiento de una parte de la 
prueba de habilidades de la licencia 
de conducir comercial (CDL) para 
aliviar la escasez de conductores de 
autobuses escolares.
En un esfuerzo por mejorar las 
condiciones de los conductores de 
autobuses actuales, la Asociación de 
Educación del Condado de Alachua 
se reunió con el distrito para discutir 
una reclasificación de la descripción 
del trabajo del conductor del auto -
bús para que los conductores pudi -
eran ganar más dinero.
La superintendente Carlee Simon 
aprobó la reclasificación de los con -ductores de autobuses el trece de 
diciembre, otorgando a cada conduc -
tor un aumento salarial de al menos 
un ocho por ciento Tessmann dijo.
Un conductor que ganaba $13,95 
por hora ahora ganaría $15,84 por 
hora.
La reclasificación no es un au -
mento, sino un cambio en el grado 
de pago para un título de trabajo 
específico, dijo Crystal Tessmann, 
directora de la unidad de servicio de 
ACEA.
“Incluso con la reclasificación, a 
nuestros conductores de autobuses 
no se les paga lo que merecen, como 
sucede con todos nuestros emplea -
dos”, dijo Tessman.
Ella espera que el aumento salari -
al ayude a retener a los conductores 
de autobuses; la falta de retención 
genera vacantes y rutas retrasadas.“No tenemos un grupo completo 
de conductores de autobuses”, dijo 
Tessmann. “Tenemos demasiadas 
vacantes, lo cual exacerba las aus -
encias”.
Al distrito le faltan veintiocho 
conductores de autobuses, incluidos 
los conductores sustitutos que se 
presentan todos los días para con -
ducir las rutas de los conductores 
ausentes, Johnson dijo.
ACPS continúa buscando con -
ductores de autobuses calificados y 
pagará la capacitación de CDL re -
querida, así como los endosos de au -
tobuses escolares. Aunque ahora se 
ofrece un pago por hora más alto con 
horas extra disponibles, la escasez y 
los retrasos continúan.
@emmabehrmann 
ebehrmann@alligator.org
PROYECTOS DE LEY ANTI-LGBTQ+ 
AVANZAN EN LA CÁMARA DE 
REPRESENTANTES Y 
EL SENADO DE FLORIDA
Por Carissa Allen 
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido por Marian Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán 
A medida que la Legislatura de Florida 
impulsa proyectos de ley que prohibirían la 
discusión sobre orientación sexual e iden -
tidad de género en el aula, los estudiantes y 
maestros de Gainesville se oponen.
HB1557/SB1834 son proyectos de ley complementarios denominados como el 
proyecto de ley 'Don't Say Gay'  (‘No Digas 
Gay’) que circula en la Legislatura de Florida. 
El par de proyectos de ley limitaría las dis -
cusiones sobre las identidades LGBTQ+ y 
transgénero “de una manera que no sea ap -
ropiada para la edad o el desarrollo de los 
estudiantes”.
Las medidas están patrocinadas por el 
representante Joe Harding, R-Ocala, el sena -
dor Dennis Baxley y R-Lady Lake.
Los representantes enmarcan la legis -
lación como un restablecimiento de la au -
tonomía de los padres para tomar decisiones 
acerca de la crianza de sus hijos.
“Este proyecto de ley nos ayudará a cen -
trarnos en la prioridad de que nuestros es -tudiantes pertenezcan a sus familias y que 
no estén bajo la tutela del estado”, escribió 
Baxley en un correo electrónico. “Los padres 
tienen derecho a decidir cuál es el contenido 
apropiado para la edad de sus hijos”.
Harding no respondió a la solicitud de co -
mentarios del Caimán por correo electrónico 
o por teléfono a tiempo para esta publicación.
Los proyectos de ley apuntan a los niveles 
de grado primario, grados K-3, escribió Matt 
McClain, asistente legislativo principal del se -
nador Baxley, en un correo electrónico.
El proyecto de ley estatal es parte de una 
pregunta más amplia a nivel nacional sobre 
quién controla el plan de estudios en las au -
las: ¿Los padres y los legisladores o los mae -
stros?“Los legisladores de Tallahassee ya no van 
a ceder ante el juicio de los educadores, que 
esperamos sean expertos en la enseñanza”, 
dijo el Dr. Clay Calvert, profesor de derecho 
de la UF especializado en derecho de las co -
municaciones y la libertad de expresión.
Las leyes políticamente cargadas de Flor -
ida sobre la teoría crítica de la raza y las en -
cuestas de diversidad de puntos de vista han 
sentado el precedente para la política que se 
entromete con la pedagogía, dijo Calvert.
lee el resto en linea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman.
@carissaallenn
callen@alligator.orgLos padres de las Escuelas Públicas del Condado de Alachua están en 
descontento ya que continúan los retrasos de las rutas de los autobuses
Los proyectos de ley 'No digas gay' silenciarán la discusión 
sobre orientación sexual e identidad de género en las aulasAshleigh Lucas / / Personal del Caimán
Los autobuses de las escuelas públicas del condado de Alachua 
esperan a los estudiantes en la escuela primaria Littlewood el 
miércoles dos de febrero.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
THURSDAY
FEBRUARY 10
6 PM | at the
Harn Museum of Art
image: Gosette Lubondo, Baloon d’or, 2017
Sponsored by UF Student Government and the OOce of the Provost. Sponsored in part by the State of 
Florida, Department of State, Division of Cultural AAairs and the Florida Council on Arts and Culture. 
Presented with the support of the Center for African Studies.
FREE ADMISSION
AFRICAN POPULAR
MUSIC ENSEMBLE
AGBEDIDI DANCE
ENSEMBLE
NAN NKAMA
ENSEMBLE
A
ART TOURS
ART MAKING
FREE FOOD 
 
VIBRANT
AFRICA
#HarnMuseumNights
harn.uﬂ.edu/museumnights
GIVE THEM
IN A BOX Love
Valentine’s 
Day
(352) 554-5402     |     4949 Celebration Pointe Ave Suite 80, Gainesville, FL
FOURTEEN SELLERS CAME 
TOGETHER TO MARKET THEIR 
PRODUCTS FOR FEBRUARY
By Thandie Brown
Alligator Staff Writer
Wigs, Valentine’s Day-themed candy 
baskets, healthcare uniforms, jewelry and 
clothes lined the walls of Cypress & Grove 
Brewing Company Saturday afternoon. 
Gainesville family business Sistah’s 
Synergy hosted the “I am Black, I am Love” 
themed pop-up shop to celebrate both 
Valentine’s Day and Black History Month.
Mother Kendra Johnson, sisters Keoni 
Ellis and Chaquala “Quala” Ellis founded 
Sistah’s Synergy last year.
Sistah’s Synergy decided to get together 
small Black businesses that wanted to 
flourish, but it didn’t know where to start, 
Chaquala said. The owners started small 
events like the pop-up to promote their 
businesses. 
From noon to 4 p.m., 14 small business 
owners sold their store’s products on 
decorated tables lining the walls of the 
room.  
Chaquala expected about 40 people 
to visit. An hour into the event, about 11 
people shopped, she said. 
“Two years ago I got obsessed with the 
whole Black Wall Street idea,” she said. “I 
just thought it’d be awesome to see so many 
different people of all shapes and colors to 
just be able to sell [our products] versus 
anybody going to Walmart and Target.”
Chaquala started her Gainesville hair 
care business, Blessed Crownes, with 
homemade products that styled her and her 
daughter’s hair. 
She started her braiding career at 14 
years old, styling her mom’s, sisters’ and 
cousins’ hair. At 16, she began building 
clientele. 
She led her own table at the pop-up 
shop.Hair oils and butters, men’s facial care 
products, waist beads and facial jewelry 
filled Blessed Crownes’ booth. Chaquala 
crafted custom jewelry for her customers at 
the end of her table. 
She invited her clients to the event. 
Some attended as vendors, while others 
shopped as customers.
Kailey Wade, a 30-year-old systems 
research administrator in Jacksonville, 
set up her painting booth after Chaquala 
invited her to be a vendor. 
Paintings of faceless Black women with 
diverse hair styles line her “K. Lauren 
Creations.”
Afros, detailed braids, high puffs, wavy 
half-up-half-down and wrapped styles were 
displayed in her colorful art.
“I have been doing paintings since I 
was young,” Wade said. “Art has always 
had a special place in my heart, so this is 
just something I do on the side to relieve 
stress.”
Wade’s artwork caters to Black 
individuals, she said. Her pieces have bold 
backgrounds that center on Black women.  
At her first pop-up, she sold seven out 
of eight of her paintings, and she hoped to 
clear her table like that once more. 
Wade sees the event as an opportunity 
for Gainesville vendors to showcase their 
stuff. 
“Being a part of this, it’s fun and 
amazing,” she said. 
Tucked in the corner of the room, 
Brittney Harris, 32, stood beside her table 
stacked with sex toys ranging in color, 
shape, size and purpose. 
Harris saw Chaquala was hosting an 
event and knew she wanted to be part of it. 
“I actually saw that she was doing a 
Black-owned Valentine’s Day themed pop-
up shop and I was like: ’Well, that’s super 
dope,’” she said.
She sold three products by 1:30 p.m. 
Harris handed business cards to people 
walking by to purchase online for discretion. Harris said she doesn’t see a lot of Black-
owned adult toy sellers. The event was a 
great way to get exposure for her online 
store, Plenty of Freaks. 
When she wasn’t educating customers 
about her products, she visited other booths 
set up in the room. 
Anisha Dixon, a 30-year-old hair stylist, 
attended the pop-up shop to support her 
Florida School of Traditional Midwifery 
classmate, Alayna Jones, who sold 
Valentine-themed treats. 
“It’s just a cute, nice event,” Dixon said. 
“Everybody has a lot of cool things going 
on.”Dixon spent 30 minutes visiting 
booths and catching up with friends. She 
purchased a wig kit from Tracey Wells’ 
Flashy Fashion’s booth. 
Growing up, Chaquala attended 
Gainesville’s art festivals. She hopes her 
pop-up events will support and give back 
to the community.
“I really want to see all of them grow to 
further than where they are now because I 
know a lot of them don’t want to be in the 
spot that they are [now],” Chaquala said.
@decidedlioness
tbrown@alligator.orgBlack, female small business owners celebrate Valentine’s Day with pop-up shop
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Londyn Merricks, 9, whispers in her cousin Imani Huggins’, 7, ear at a Valentine’s 
Day pop-up shop at Cypress & Grove Brewing Company on Saturday, Feb. 5. The 
pair was helping their mothers sell accessories.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
By Melanie Peña
Alligator Staff Writer
There are now four candidates 
running for the position of 
Gainesville mayor in the Aug. 23 
election. 
This election will be the first 
in 12 years without an incumbent 
mayor running, with Ed Bielarski, 
City Commissioner Harvey Ward, 
City Commissioner David Arreola 
and Gainesville resident Donald 
Shepherd on the ballot. 
Bielarski, former GRU General Manager, filed his paperwork Jan. 
24. A day later, Ward announced he 
will run. 
Before Ward and Bielarski 
announced last week, the only two 
candidates running for the position 
were Arreola, who announced 
his race in December 2021, and 
Shepherd who filed his paperwork 
in June 2021.
Mayor Lauren Poe reached 
his two-term limit after six 
years of governing Gainesville. 
During his term, Poe focused on 
safe transportation, renewable 
energy and the growth of local entrepreneurial businesses in the 
community. 
Poe is hopeful for Gainesville’s 
future and remains committed to 
helping whoever wins the election 
do the best that they can. 
“At this point, I’m really hoping 
that each of the candidates has an 
opportunity to share their vision for 
the direction that they would like to 
see Gainesville go,” he said. “We’ve 
done some great work over the last 
six years, and I’m hoping whoever 
becomes mayor will continue that 
work.”
The race brings candidates from 
several backgrounds; Gainesville 
residents will have a variety of 
options to choose from come 
election day. 
Ward has served as a city 
commissioner since 2017 and acted 
as mayor pro tem in 2019 and 2020. 
He waited until after the special run-
off election to launch his campaign. 
“I know where and how things 
get done at City Hall,” he said. 
“I’ve developed those working 
relationships over the last two 
terms as a commissioner. I have 
developed the relationships 
with community groups, and 
neighborhood associations and you 
can’t do that quickly.”
Ward’s campaign will focus on 
many Gainesville issues including 
housing, clean energy and public 
safety, he said.
His competitor, Bielarski, 
announced his bid for mayor during 
a January City Commission meeting. 
During the meeting, Ward motioned 
to fire Bielarski as GRU General Manager after almost seven years in 
the position. The City Commission 
had also attempted to fire Bielarski 
in September.
Bielarski was shocked to see the 
community join together to defend 
and support him by attending 
the September City Commission 
meeting and calling in during public 
comment. 
“In that moment, I realized that 
I had an impact on people’s lives,” 
he said. 
This will be Berlaski’s first 
run in political office. He plans to 
run on a campaign that promotes 
accessibility, accountability, 
affordability and transparency. 
“I’m not a politician,” he said. 
“I’m just a leader. My principles are 
that we need to be accessible to the 
public. We need to be accountable 
to the public. We need to every year 
have a priority list and actually a 
three and five year plan where we 
say: ‘OK we’re working on these 
things.’”
Bielarski said on Friday that 
former City Commissioners Helen 
Warren and Scherwin Henry, former 
Newberry Mayor Bill Conrad and 
UF Assistant Dean for Inclusion M 
Smith will be joining his campaign 
team.
Arreola was surprised by 
Bielarski and Ward announcing 
their campaigns back-to-back but, 
simultaneously, expected it. He 
joked this would be the Daytona 
500 of mayoral races.
“It has been a very long time 
since Gainesville has had to vote 
for a brand new mayor without an incumbent mayor running for re-
election,” Arreola said. “I think I’m 
the candidate to really deliver that 
inclusive generational change.”
Arreola expressed satisfaction 
in how his campaign is currently 
proceeding. He reported a 
total of $6,085.47 in monetary 
contributions.  
Arreola was recently pushed by 
his competitor, Shepherd, during a 
City Commission meeting Jan. 27. 
He won’t press charges. However, 
Shepherd was trespassed from 
City Hall for a year and denies the 
accusation. 
Shepherd ran for mayor in 2013 
and 2016. In the middle of his 2016 
mayoral campaign, he was charged 
with grand theft auto for stealing 
a 1991 Ford F-150 truck. He was 
previously arrested in 1999 for a 
misdemeanor theft charge.
“I get accused of pushing David 
Arreola,” Shepherd said. “No, I did 
not push him. I put my finger upon 
his chest.”
Shepherd calls himself “the 
people’s representative” and has 
been consistently attending City 
Commission meetings for a decade. 
He said he rides his bike to every 
meeting, not for himself, but for the 
people.
“I’m running for mayor because 
of the homeless people,” he said. 
“I’m running for mayor because of 
equal rights to help people.”
@MelanieBombino_
mpena@alligator.org
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
UF Student Government paid Roddy 
Ricch $350,000 for his concert with Joy 
Oladokun Feb. 8. 
For the first time since 2020, Student 
Government Productions opened up its 
concerts to the general public. 
“We opened to the general public to 
welcome members of the Gainesville 
community,” SGP Chairman Jake Siegel 
wrote in an email.
The concert was exclusive to UF 
students until Feb. 2.
The contract outlined a capacity of 
6,500 tickets, but SGP didn’t announce 
whether there is a designated split of 
student and public tickets. 
Students could purchase $10 general 
admission tickets or $15 pit tickets in-
person at the O’Connell Center with their 
Gator 1 Card. Tickets are sold at Gate One 
from noon to 5 p.m. on weekdays. 
Pit seats sold out the first day of sales, 
Jan. 25.
Non-student tickets can be purchased 
on Ticketmaster for $20, after taxes, as 
of Feb. 2.In 2020, SGP held a Black History 
Month concert featuring Tory Lanez who 
was paid $91,500 for his performance. 
SGP wanted to bring performers who 
students and faculty enjoy and felt Ricch 
was a suitable artist, Siegel said.
Joseph Rodriguez, a 20-year-old UF 
junior studying sports management, 
bought pit tickets the first day of sales. 
The line wrapped around the arena as he 
left, he said.
Rodriguez is pleased with SGP’s 
decision to open tickets to the general 
public, especially after seeing Instagram 
comments requesting to do so, he said. 
“I really liked how they took time to 
listen to us and actually change their 
policies,” he said. “I have a roommate 
that, he goes to Santa Fe, and he would 
love to go.”
Doors for the concert open at 6 p.m., 
and the show is scheduled to begin at 7 
p.m.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgTwo candidates join the race for Gainesville mayor
Student Government Productions paid Roddy Ricch $350,000
For the first time since 2020, the SGP concert was open to general publicEd Bielarski and Harvey Ward announced their campaigns in the same week
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Harvey Ward, (left), and Ed Bielarski, (right).
Courtesy to The Alligator
Roddy Rich will grace the Stephen C. O’Connell Center stage on Tuesday, Feb. 8.
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person:  Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail : classified@alligator.org
By Fax : (352) 376-4556
By Mail : P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions ●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    SSiillkkyy  nneettwwoorrkk  
11..    AAttoommiicc  nnuummbbeerr  229955..    ________  rraattee  
22..    TTrruusstt,,  rreellyy  oonn66..    CChhoooossee
33..    FFeeaattuurree,,  ffaaccttoorr  77..    SSiirr  IIssaaaacc  ________
44..    TTyyppee  ooff  rruulleerr  BBWWCCEEBBOO
CCRRPPOOEEPPSSPPLLUUEE
TTLLEEEECC
VVEEEELLBBEEII
MMEEEENNTTEELLWWNNOONNEETT
TTAASSLLNNUUAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--CCoobbwweebb    55AA--PPuullssee    66AA--EElleecctt    77AA--NNeewwttoonn
11DD--CCooppppeerr    22DD--BBeelliieevvee    33DD--EElleemmeenntt    44DD--SSuullttaann    BB--SSuuppeerr  BBoowwll22--77--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: TThhee  ________  ________  iiss  bbrrooaaddccaasstt  
iinn  mmoorree  tthhaann  115500  ccoouunnttrriieess..  
BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency. ★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
POLISH TEACHER NEEDED 
Teachers of Polish and Romanian language 
needed for private lessons. Must be native 
speakers. Call 352 275 8171      2-7-22-1-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter -
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-14
Submit your ad today!
www.alligator.org/classifieds13 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Andy Wang and C.C. Burnikel
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/07/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/07/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, February 7, 2022
ACROSS
1 Has a balance 
due
5 Fish with valuable 
roe
9 Jeweler’s weight 
unit
14 Extra-long dress
15 “Those __ the 
days!”
16 Sister company 
of Enterprise 
Rent-A-Car
17 Wide smile
18 Arab League 
dignitary
19 “The Thinker” 
sculptor
20 Gets trounced
23 Crime scene 
clue exposed by 
dusting
24 Candied veggie
25 Apple operating 
system
26 “I get it now!”
27 Palindromic 
man’s name
30 Royal flush card
32 Cubs’ caretakers
35 Foamy hot drink
39 “College 
GameDay” 
channel
40 Vinyl collectible
42 Pork or beef
43 Tree houses
45 Veggies from 
Peru
47 Approx. landing 
hr.
49 Ripped apart
50 Cloud’s place
51 Govt. Rx 
watchdog
54 Fútbol cheer
56 Caribbean cruise 
stops
58 Home of the 
Metropolitan 
Opera ... and 
a hint to the 
“honest” guy 
hiding in 20-, 32- 
and 45-Across
62 Like much beer 
at a bar
63 “Et voilà!”
64 Slack-jawed look
67 Salary increase
68 Managed, with 
“out”
69 Brainstorm
70 Like a javelin’s 
path71 Russo of “Tin 
Cup”
72 Russian autocrat
DOWN
1 “Can u believe 
it?!”
2 Card-vs.-card 
game
3 Highway turnoffs
4 Red Sea 
peninsula
5 Sugary Southern 
beverage
6 Blouse edges
7 Operatic solo
8 Churchill Downs 
race
9 Milky Way 
ingredient
10 Tons
11 Diameter halves
12 Essential acid, 
familiarly
13 Salad bar pair
21 Etch A Sketch 
control
22 Have a bite
23 Temporary  
stage
26 “I feel the same 
way!”
28 Starbucks size 
after Short
29 Planet’s path31 Birth certificate 
entry
33 Initial poker stake
34 Osaka wrestler
36 Promos to pique 
interest
37 Homes for pet 
fish
38 Site with 
homemade gifts
41 Pre-grilling sauce
44 Bent down
46 Second to none
48 Every one51 Plant life
52 Bahrain currency
53 Playful prank
55 Large keyboard 
key
57 On the level
59 Social worker’s 
assignment
60 Birthday candle 
holder
61 Genesis garden
65 Split __ soup
66 Organ with a 
canal
By Julian Lim
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/01/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/01/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, February 1, 2022
ACROSS
1 iOS computers
5 Inbox annoyance
9 Increase
14 Texter’s modest 
“I think ... ”
15 Trendy berry
16 Stadium levels
17 Poseidon’s 
companions
19 Rushed
20 How ballerinas 
dance
21 Surprise from 
hiding
23 When a major 
might be chosen
27 Watson’s creator
30 Closing words
31 About to arrive
33 Road crew supply
34 Netflix series 
set in central 
Missouri
39 Query from 
“Test Man” in old 
Verizon ads
43 Disney mermaid
44 Purchase
45 Californian wine 
valley
46 Territory that 
became two 
states
49 Floral greeting
50 Oscar-winning 
actress for “12 
Years a Slave”
56 Turn to mist, in 
Manchester
57 Cocktail cubes
61 Brunch hr.
62 “It’s about to 
happen” ... or 
what each of the 
four other longest 
answers in this 
puzzle has?
66 __ de cacao
67 Insightful
68 Ballet class bend
69 __ fit: tantrum
70 Work with notes
71 URL opening
DOWN
1 Japanese soup
2 Sermon-ending 
word
3 Brit : chin-wag :: 
Yank : __4 “__ a gun!”
5 “Stay With Me” 
singer Smith
6 Angel dust letters
7 “Feels amazing!”
8 Returning lover’s 
question
9 Unsystematically
10 Anne Frank 
journal
11 Al __: pasta 
order
12 Cheerful refrain
13 Long-time 
kitchen products 
brand
18 “__ out!”: ump’s 
call
22 Sunbather’s goal
24 Caesar’s rebuke
25 Ousted Iranian 
ruler
26 Call to a pooch
27 Ancient Cuzco 
resident
28 Boo Boo or Yogi
29 Salon service, 
briefly
32 Bread for corned 
beef
35 Extremely chill
36 Like neat freaks
37 Lasso38 River in a 1957 
movie title
40 Quaint
41 One on the road
42 Meg of  
“The Women”
47 Remote batteries
48 Works with 
dough
50 Fastening feature
51 Gestation sites
52 Corn breads
53 Muslim officials54 Miracle-__: 
garden product
55 Zing
58 Boston NBAer
59 Work with 
needles
60 Dance class 
move
63 Three-time role 
for Keanu Reeves
64 Japanese coins
65 41-Down 
efficiency stat
01/31/2022
solution  on page 10answer  on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.16 Health Services 14 Help Wanted
Summer Camp Counselors Wanted
Oak Hall School in Gainesville is seeking en -
ergetic, creative, and enthusiastic individuals 
with a love for children to staff its summer 
camp program. For a complete listing of 
positions visit www.oakhall.org/employ -
ment. Interview process begins February 7th        
2-7-22-3-14
University of Florida, in Gainesville, Florida 
is seeking applicants for multiple full–time, 
12–month, non–tenure track positions at the 
rank of Research Assistant Scientist for the 
UF Genetics Institute. Duties and responsi -
bilities include: (1) aiding in lab management 
overseeing purchasing and compliance with 
institutional standards; (2) working with an 
established principal investigator’s research 
efforts on development of novel compounds 
that target nuclear receptors for potential use 
in treatment of human diseases, including 
cancer; and (3) conducting research focused 
on the use of chemical biology approaches 
to characterizing the physiological roles of 
these receptors as well as developing drugs 
targeting nuclear receptors for treatment of 
diseases including type 2 diabetes, heart dis -
ease, cancer and Alzheimer's disease.
Position requires a Master’s degree in 
Biology, Chemistry, Biochemistry, Molecular 
Biology, Pharmacology, Microbiology, 
Immunology, or a related field and five (5) 
years of experience in a technician role with -
in Medical/Pharmacy research labs.
For more information about the position, in -
cluding instructions on how to apply, please 
visit us on-line at https://explore.jobs.ufl.edu/
en-us/job/520060/research-assistant-scien -
tist and reference job opening ID: 520060.       
2-7-1-14
15 Services
UPDATE YOUR HOME with Beautiful New 
Blinds & Shades. FREE in-home estimates 
make it convenient to shop from home. 
Professional installation. Top quality - Made in 
the USA. Call for free consultation: 866-636-
1910. Ask about our specials!             2-7-5-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan -
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
2-7-5-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
2-7-5-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          2-7-5-15
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
IT IS BETTER TO SUFFER FOR TRUTH THAN TO PROSPER BY FALSEHOOD.
— DANISH PROVERB
solution  belowATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         2-7-5-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
ATTENTION MEDICARE RECIPIENTS! 
Open Enrollment for Medicare health plans 
is here! Call our licensed insurance agents 
for an affordable quote for your needed cov -
erage. Call for a no obligation free quote 
now! 833-260-2632                         2-7-5-16
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
Found something? Place a free "Found" ad 
in The Alligator Classifieds. Call 373-FIND  or 
email classified@alligator.org  today!
20 Events/Notices
Instructors wanted! God-centered self-help 
method. Up to $1000 per online workshop.
Free book & report: 888-638-4638    
2-7-1-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
Beautiful Rhodesian Ridgeback puppies, 
born Dec. 16th, will be weaned and ready 
for a forever home on Feb. 12th! Health 
Certification and vaccinations included! Call 
352-665-7062.                                2-7-22-5-24answers  below1. MYTHOLOGY: In Roman mythology, Cupid is the god 
of love. What's the name of the Greek god of love?
2. MOVIES: Which movie series features a character 
named Inspector Clouseau?
3. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the basic currency 
used in Greenland?
4. HISTORY: What was the first toy to be advertised 
on U.S. television?
5. MEASUREMENTS: What is the unit of measure -
ment used to gauge the speed and direction of a 
computer mouse? 
6. GEOGRAPHY: Which U.S. territory's unofficial slo -
gan is "Where America's Day Begins"?
7. TELEVISION: What is the longest running 
scripted TV series?
8. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Which president campaigned 
for election with the slogan "Happy Days Are 
Here Again"?
9. LANGUAGE: In British English, what is a wind -
cheater?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
EYES UP. PHONE DOWN.
DON'T TEXT & DRIVE.
1. Eros
2. "The Pink Panther"
3. Danish krone
4. Mr. Potato Head
5. Mickeys per second6. Guam, whose location is near 
the International Date Line
7. "The Simpsons"
8. Franklin Roosevelt (1932)
9. A windbreaker
10. Hypothalamus
1. Vitas Gerulaitis.
2. Marv Levy.
3. Goaltenders on the team 
with the fewest goals against. 4. Chicago's Soldier Field.
5. The Sheffield Shield.
6. One.
7. Vuvuzelas.
Trivia Test answersSports Quiz answersanswers  below1. Name the 1977 Australian Open tennis champi -
on from the U.S. who died from carbon monoxide 
poisoning in 1994.
2. What Pro Football Hall of Famer was head 
coach of the Buffalo Bills from 1986-97 and the 
team's general manager from 2006-07?
3. The NHL's William M. Jennings Trophy is 
awarded annually to players at what position? 
4. What current NFL stadium hosted a NASCAR 
race on July 21, 1956?
5. What prize, named for an English politician 
and cricket patron, is awarded in Australia's first-
class domestic cricket competition?
6. How many times did Jake LaMotta defeat box -
ing rival Sugar Ray Robinson in their six fights 
from 1942-51?
7. The plastic horns famously used by spectators 
at the 2010 FIFA World Cup soccer tournament in 
South Africa are known as what?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly Service10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no 
responsibility for injury or loss arising 
from contacts made through advertising. 
We suggest that any reader who 
responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser 
before giving out personal information or 
arranging meetings or investing money.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.MEN'S BASKETBALL
BASEBALLCASTLETON HOSTED 
MEET-AND-GREET AT THE 
IRONWOOD GOLF COURSE SUNDAY
By Declan Walsh
Sports Writer
Jeff Cardozo instantly noticed senior Colin 
Castleton when the Florida basketball star first 
contorted his lanky frame into the Ironwood 
Golf Course clubhouse.
The 6-foot-11-inch golf enthusiast awk -
wardly hunching over mortal-sized golf clubs 
is a common sight on the East Gainesville 
greens.
Castleton started coming to Cardozo’s golf 
course soon after transferring from Michigan 
in 2020. The two quickly bonded over their ex -
perience as Gators — Cardozo, 42, pitched for 
the Florida baseball team from 1997-2000 and 
has since migrated to the commentary booth. 
So when Castleton started brainstorming 
how to approach the new era of name, im -
age and likeness (NIL) deals and partnerships, 
reaching out to Cardozo was a no-brainer. 
Castleton hosted a meet-and-greet at Ironwood 
Sunday afternoon, where the All-SEC selection 
used his newly-rehabilitated shoulder to sign 
autographs for Gators fans and unveil his new 
logo. 
Castleton charged fans under 13 $10 for au -
tographs. He signed small items for $20 and large ones for $30. But the poster-topping pro -
motion was a $10 raffle, the winner earning 18 
holes with the Florida center. 
“The first thing we always ask our clients 
is: What are your passions? He loves playing 
golf, so I told him we should try to do some 
sort of NIL deal with a golf course,” said Mi -
chael Raymond, Castleton’s agent and founder 
of Raymond Representation. “He (Castleton) 
immediately mentioned Ironwood.”
Castleton has maintained a passion for golf 
since his upbringing 100 miles south of the UF 
campus in DeLand. The sport has become an 
outlet for the Gators’ big man away from the 
bright lights of SEC basketball. 
Whenever the Gators have an off-day, Cas -
tleton will make the 15-minute trek out to Iron -
wood and play nine quick holes of golf with his 
roommate, a manager on the men’s basketball 
team. 
“It’s just relaxing,” Castleton said. “It helps 
your mental state and keeps your mind on 
something like not related to basketball.”
A key element of Castleton and Raymond’s 
NIL philosophy has been incorporating the 
Gainesville community — both its businesses 
and people — into their marketing strategy. 
Castleton's appreciation for Gator Nation is 
evident after nearly every home game, where 
he recalls taking dozens of pictures with young 
UF fans eager to pose with their idol. The 
meet-and-greet Sunday included a photo with 
Florida’s leading scorer, and he highlighted his enthusiasm about getting to meet more fans. 
“I’m just a normal guy,” Castleton said. 
“Being able to meet all these people, getting 
to know who they are, is awesome. We hear 
them everyday when we’re playing, but it’s 
cool to interact with them.” 
Cardozo, who currently serves as Iron -
wood’s manager, also played an active role 
in facilitating Castleton’s event Sunday. The 
former Gator star emphasized the importance 
of NIL opportunities for student-athletes, es -
pecially those in non-or-partial scholarship 
sports. 
“Now you have an opportunity to make 
more money so you can take a girl on a date 
or go out to dinner,” Cardozo said. “I think in -
evitably those guys deserve it, and if they can 
profit from it, more power to them.”
He was particularly complimentary of Cas -
tleton and other UF student-athletes centering 
young Gator fans in the new wave of NIL en -
trepreneurial endeavours. 
Between his much anticipated return to the 
court Saturday and Ironwood event, it's safe to 
say Castleton had an eventful 48 hours. Florida 
basketball returns to action Wednesday for a 
matchup against the Georgia Bulldogs in the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center.
@declanaw
dwalsh@alligator.org
POGUE, NESBITT MISSED THE 
ENTIRE 2021 SEASON AFTER 
RECEIVING THE SURGERY
By Carson Cashion
Sports Writer
Nick Pogue sat on the couch of 
his Melbourne home last February, 
watching his Gator baseball team -
mates in the opening series of the 
2021 season against the Miami Hur -
ricanes. 
Florida was the consensus pre -
season No. 1 team in the nation, 
bursting with expectation. His team -
mates took in the crowd and electric 
atmosphere of the first-ever game 
at the new Florida Ballpark, a land -
mark moment in the program’s his -
tory.
Pogue wasn’t there to feel it.
Just days prior, he had under -
gone Tommy John surgery, a fix 
that repairs a torn ulnar collateral 
ligament (UCL). Pogue missed the 
entire season. 
The rehab from Tommy John 
surgery can be brutal. Recovery time 
ranges from 12 to 18 months, and 
that amount of time can wear on the psyche of athletes.
However, he was not the only 
Gator that underwent the surgery 
last spring. Tyler Nesbitt, who 
earned All-American honors in his 
freshman season, also underwent 
the same season-ending procedure 
in early March. 
Florida was down two pitchers 
before St. Patrick’s Day.
“It kind of broke my heart,” Nes -
bitt said. “I put in all that work get -
ting ready for the season, and I was 
really looking forward to helping in 
any way I could.”
Now, almost a full year removed 
from the surgeries, Pogue and Nes -
bitt are gearing up for returns to the 
mound for the orange and blue this 
season. For the team, their presence 
will bolster a pitching room in dire 
need of veteran experience. For the 
duo, all they can ask for is a chance 
to play again.
Pogue, now a redshirt sopho -
more, has an extra year of experi -
ence playing for the Gators under his 
belt over Nesbitt. After starting two 
games his sophomore season, he 
was prepared to take the next step.
Head coach Kevin O’Sullivan 
said that Pogue was likely going to become the team’s No. 2 starter be -
hind former-Gator Tommy Mace.
“Arguably, they were neck and 
neck as far as performance was con -
cerned,” O’Sullivan said.
Those hopes came crashing 
down as Florida returned for the 
spring semester.
“It kind of happened pretty 
quick,” Pogue said. “After Christmas 
break, I just threw a couple bullpens 
and my arm was kind of acting up 
a bit. We got the MRI and within a 
week or two later, I got the surgery.”
Pogue returned home to Mel -
bourne for much of his rehab, and 
for good reason. His father, Brian 
Pogue, is a physical therapist who 
has consulted with the Washing -
ton Nationals. Brian helped Nick 
through much of the spring, getting 
a first-hand look at his son’s recov -
ery process.
“I think what I saw more than 
anything else was that it seemed 
to motivate him to get back,” Brian 
said. “He was definitely very, very 
upset. I thought he used it as motiva -
tion to really work hard and be back 
for this next year.”
Nick couldn’t control how long 
it would take his arm to heal, so he maximized the things he could con -
trol.
“It was definitely a grind,” Nick 
said. “You just kind of have to at -
tack and show up every day and be 
positive.”
One potential benefit, though, is 
that pitchers can come back from the 
time away from the mound feeling 
better than ever. That’s because they 
have been using their shoulders in 
rehab more than ever before — with 
their elbows still recovering from the 
surgery, they have no other option.
“The rehab has definitely helped 
me because I feel like my shoulders 
and elbow weren’t as strong as they 
should have been, which is proba -
bly what led them to Tommy John,” 
Nesbitt said. “So with all the rehab, 
my arm is all caught up to where it 
should be.”
Nesbitt, for his part, would sit in 
the stands as the Gators’ season un -
folded; COVID-19 restrictions limited 
the number of people allowed in the 
dugout. After building such momen -
tum from his first season successes 
in Gainesville, watching his team -
mates from the bleachers was mel -
ancholic.
“I thought I was progressing pretty good, like from my freshman 
year to my sophomore year,” Nesbitt 
said. “I thought I got a lot better and 
then for it to just end like that kind 
of sucked.”
Nesbitt traveled to Hoover, Ala -
bama, to watch the Gators in the 
SEC Tournament and then observed 
Florida’s brief stint in the NCAA Re -
gional. The offseason had officially 
arrived, and recovery continued.
Nesbitt and Pogue, separated 
by only a year in age, began to talk 
about the shared situation that had 
cut their seasons short. The two re -
ceived the surgery from the same 
surgeon, a professional in Orlando 
whom Brian knew from his time 
with the Nationals.
“We’ve gotten a lot closer since 
the surgery,” Nesbitt said. “He 
seems to know a little bit more about 
it than I did. He’s really helped me 
on my path to getting better as well.”
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/sports.
@carsoncashion
ccashion@alligator.orgBasketball star prioritizes golf passion in NIL endeavour
Pitchers near end of journey from Tommy John SurgerySamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Colin Castleton, pictured above in white, 
hosted an autograph and raffle event at 
the Ironwood Golf Course Sunday.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREWRESTLING
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Gainesville has welcomed copious 
amounts of changes throughout it’s 153-
year span and new events let the city 
project a variety of differing cultures. The 
Downtown Festival and Art Show takes 
over the city streets while the Hoggetowne 
Medieval Faire has been held annually for 
20 years.
Now, The FEST, a local Gainesville 
wrestling promotion, has evolved 
uniquely by breaking the gender barrier in 
professional wrestling. 
For six years, FEST has taken over local 
Gainesville saloon Knockin’ Boots, barring 
2020 when the planet was on lockdown. The 
company sees everyone as equal and was 
one of the first Florida promotions to break 
the norm, said Tony Weinbender, company 
promoter. All the wrestlers have a chance at 
the world championship regardless of race, 
gender or creed.
“I think [wrestling] needs to be more 
diverse,” Weinbender said. “I mean, the 
world itself should be more diverse. We’re 
opening up. I mean, it’s 20-f**king-22, get 
with it.”
The gender-breaking tradition has 
continued through every FEST promotion 
from the holiday-themed “Pickle in the 
Tree” in December to its most recent 
addition, “Love is a Battlefield II: Electric Boogaloo” Saturday.
The Valentine’s Day-themed show 
centered around a tag team tournament for 
the Love Cup trophy and a chance to compete 
for the FEST tag team championships.
The tag team Artsy Fartsy exemplifies 
the means to shatter the gender wall and 
open new opportunities for the LGBTQ 
community. The tandem brings together 
industry best friends Erica Leigh and 
transgender performer Edith Surreal, 
who trained together in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
Leigh and Surreal instantly clicked. The 
team remains in touch with one another 
through group chats.
“Chemistry is there, and the bond is 
there,” Leigh said. “When you’re vulnerable 
with someone, it makes a lot easier to trust 
them in the ring.”
The stable has come to love and 
appreciate the FEST wrestling promotion 
and its welcoming community within 
Gainesville.
“I don’t feel like I’m a token or 
anything,” Surreal said.” I don’t feel like 
I’m just here for Pride Month or whatever. 
I’m here because of who I am and because 
of the performer I am. Everything else is 
just secondary, and I could just be myself. 
I love that.”
The promotion and performers 
haven’t received a lot of pushback to intergender wrestling, but acknowledge 
that bigotry and misogyny exist still within 
a few communities. Indifferent audiences 
sometimes deliver scrutiny, but the loyal 
FEST fanbase is there to defend its stars.
“For the most part, I’d say wrestling fans 
are from so many different walks of life that 
we have this truly diverse fanbase,” Leigh 
said. “Everybody’s here to have a good time. 
You might have one or two people that are 
negative or whatever, but you know, they 
get their ass kicked verbally on Twitter.”Ring announcer “Sweet” Charles Volkert 
has been the voice of FEST Wrestling for five 
years and believes it’s time for significant 
wrestling productions like World Wrestling 
Entertainment to adopt the intergender 
system.
“I think the wrestling world needs to 
just own up to it because these women kick 
ass,” Volkert said. “These men kick ass, 
and on any given day, all it takes is three 
seconds and the right momentum to win.” 
Artsy Fartsy hopes to return for the next 
FEST event, but Weinbender keeps his next 
plans under wraps. The overall goal is to 
return this summer.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgFEST Wrestling continues to shatter gender barrier
Courtesy to The Alligator
Edith Surreal and Erica Leigh embrace each other in the ring during Love is a 
Battlefield II: Electric Boogaloo.
Tag team Artsy Fartsy wrestles all competition thrown their way