We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator     @alligator_news -International markets, sushi, pool dates await couples
Pick your perfect Valentine’s Day date with The Avenue’s 
recommendations,  pg. 14
Gator Party, Change Party released tickets
Student Government executive candidates for Feb. 22, 23 el ection , pg. 6Kentucky demolishes Gators in away game
Gators road trip to Lexington ends in 21-point 
failure,  pg. 16
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @alligator_newspaperMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 23
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
The search for UF’s next 
president could be affected by a 
bill that would prohibit part of the 
appointment process from being 
accessible to the public.  
UF expects to start looking for 
a new president in March, UF 
spokesperson Hessy Fernandez 
wrote in an email. The search has 
been kept under wraps so far, and 
SB 520/HB 703 would keep it that 
way. 
UF President Kent Fuchs 
announced his resignation Jan. 5 
in a campus-wide email and video 
message. He will remain in his 
presidential role for the remainder 
of the year until a new president is 
appointed. 
Meanwhile, Florida’s senators 
and representatives have filed 
SB 520 and HB 703, which 
would delay the release of 
any information identifying a 
university’s presidential applicant, 
including meeting recordings that 
would disclose such information if 
obtained through a public records 
request. 
“I think [the bill] will be 
exceptionally positive for the Florida 
university systems,” said Florida 
Senator Jeff Brandes (R), sponsor 
of SB 520. “You are going to get a 
broader pool of applicants. ; Yyou 
are going to get better applicants 
who now can apply without fear 
their previous employer will know.” 
Brandes believes the bill will 
provide more transparency. He said 
the current process is run largely by firms who ask applicants to 
not apply until they reach the final 
candidates. 
Presidential searches at most 
state universities around the country 
are not subject to public records 
law, Brandes said. Florida has one 
of the broadest public records law 
in the country, and this bill would 
allow universities to pull from the 
best applicants in the nation, he 
said.
There will be a 21-day period 
after finalists are selected when 
the faculty senate and the student 
leadership can meet with the 
potential candidates and help the 
board make an informed decision, 
he said. 
But even with this period, some 
representatives find the bill to be an 
unnecessary lack of transparency. 
“I don’t see a reason to put 
this all behind closed doors,” said 
Florida Rep. Evan Jenne (D). 
Jenne will be voting against 
the bill’s new proposal. However, 
he said he voted in favor of its 
past variations. The bill has been 
debated each year for at least five 
years, he said.
The last time there was 
a presidential appointment, 
accomplished candidates — some 
from Ivy League schools — were 
selected, Jenne said.
The search for UF’s next 
president is occurring alongside the 
state’s gubernatorial election, which 
complicates things as politicians 
continue to step over the line 
and enter academia to politically 
influence the way students are Proposed law could keep UF’s 
presidential search under wraps
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
Evangelist Cindy Lasseter Smock, better known as "Sister Cindy" to her more than 360,000 TikTok 
followers, speaks to a crowd of over 500 students at Plaza of the Americas on Monday, Feb. 7. Smock is 
a UF alumna who travels to college campuses across the U.S. to proselytize. Read this story on page 8.
UF BLACK HAIR EXPO 
SHOWCASES BEAUTY OF 
NATURAL HAIR
By Eileen Calub 
Alligator Staff Writer
As a child, Christina Demps 
sat on the floor of her parents’ 
bedroom, her head tipped back 
as her mother intricately braided 
her hair. When they could, they 
sat together on Sundays and pre -
pared Demps’ hair for the next 
morning. But as Demps grew old -
er, it became harder to find time.  
“My mom was going to work around 7 or 8 in the morning and 
my dad wasn’t doing my hair, 
so I relaxed it because it was the 
convenient thing to do,” Demps 
said. 
As a 22-year-old health educa -
tion and behavior senior, Demps 
has come to fall in love with her 
natural hair while at UF, she said. 
“When I went home for winter 
break in freshman year, I cut off 
all the dead hair,” Demps said. 
“Now I love being able to wear 
my hair in twists, the wash-and-
go, or I can wear my puffs or my 
slick-back bun. I don’t see myself 
going back to that relaxed state.”
Through collaboration, Black campus leaders like Demps cu -
rated the 2022 Dr. Hilliard-Nunn 
Black Hair Expo, which gives 
students the opportunity to learn 
about and celebrate natural hair 
Feb. 18 at 6 p.m. in Pugh Hall. 
As some students share the ed -
ucational opportunities the Black 
Hair Expo brings, a master locti -
cian discusses how Gainesville 
residents with natural hair can 
benefit from going to trustworthy 
and experienced stylists. 
The UF Black Hair Expo is a 
spin-off of the Black Hair Show. 
The late Dr. Patricia Hilliard-‘Our truth is within our hair’: Falling 
in love with natural hair in Gainesville
SEE PRESIDENT,  PAGE 4SEE NATURAL HAIR,  PAGE 4Bill would exempt search from public record 
laws until 21 days before a decisionT oday’s WeatherBy Lily Kino
Alligator Staff Writer
Santa Fe College is launching a 
new STEM-focused charter school 
at the college’s northwest campus 
in Fall 2023. 
With a $2 million grant 
from the State of Florida, the 
school will offer high school 
students training in information 
technology and health sciences, 
according to a press release. The 
college received the grant Feb. 2 
as part of Gov. Ron DeSantis’ $89 
million plan to enhance workforce 
initiatives across the state.
SF will use the grant to 
renovate an existing facility on 
its campus so students have an 
up-to-date technology-enhanced 
learning space, said SF president 
Paul Broadie II. The college hasn’t 
yet released details on where the 
facility will be or how students 
will be admitted.
The school will open its 
doors in Fall 2023 for students 
grade nine through 12. Upon 
graduation, students will leave 
with a high school diploma, an 
associate’s degree and at least 
two industry credentials at no 
cost to them or their families. 
Students can then choose to enter 
the workforce or continue their 
education, SF spokesperson Jay 
Anderson said. 
The COVID-19 pandemic 
increased the need for skilled 
workers, especially in the health 
science field, said Henry Mack, 
Florida Department of Education’s 
Senior Chancellor of Career and 
Adult Education.“We want an economy that is 
preparing citizens for jobs that 
can withstand disruption,” he 
said. 
He hopes the creation of this 
specialized charter school will 
combat the needs of the pandemic 
and beyond.
A charter Career Technical 
Education School is dedicated to 
meeting a specific economic need 
where a traditional public school 
follows a more rigid course 
schedule, Mack said.
Broadie has received repeated 
requests from the community 
to infuse CTE more at the high 
school level, according to the 
college’s website.
Additional programs at 
SF’s new charter school seem 
unwarranted to some because 
SF already has CTE programs 
that allow Alachua County high 
schoolers to take college-level 
courses, Alachua County Public 
Schools spokesperson Jackie 
Johnson said.
“Unless the programs are 
dramatically different from what 
we already offer in the high school 
in collaboration with Santa Fe, it 
sounds like there may be some 
perhaps unnecessary duplication 
of programs and services,” 
Johnson said. “We won’t know 
that until we get more details 
about what these programs will 
look like.”
Johnson is worried the new 
programs may take away from or 
damage the existing successful 
programs.
While students can take dual 
enrollment courses in addition to their high school diploma, 
Broadie said, they don’t guarantee 
the student graduates with an 
associate’s degree.
The new charter school will be 
based on a new model of public 
education called the P-TECH 
model, giving students an 
associate’s degree, relevant work 
experience and guidance from 
mentors, according to the P-TECH 
website.
“This model will be able to 
greatly expand the number of 
students interested in Health 
Sciences and Information 
Technology who otherwise 
would not be able to qualify 
within the existing high school 
dual enrollment format,” Broadie 
wrote in an email.
Only eight students are 
currently participating in SF’s 
CTE dual enrollment program, he 
wrote.
But by the end of Fall 2023, 
Broadie anticipates there will be 
many students with one foot in 
the charter school hallway and 
the other one stepping into the 
workforce.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . To request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 23 Santa Fe College creates new charter school
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University EditorSenior News Director
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgDeclan Walsh, dwalsh@alligator.org
Jesse Richardson,  jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgElise Elder, eelder@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
Santa Fe College students work together in their public speaking honors class at the northwest 
campus on Thursday, Jan. 27.
The $2 million charter school will offer Information 
Technology and Health Sciences programsMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022Nunn, an African American stud -
ies associate professor who died 
after battling cancer in 2020, cre -
ated the show. The last hair show 
was in 2019, and this year’s re -
vival, hosted by The Gator Chap -
ter of the NAACP, is meant to 
honor Dr. Hilliard-Nunn’s legacy. 
Hilliard-Nunn was revered in 
the Gainesville community for 
challenging racial injustice — as 
a historian, an advocate, a poet 
and a teacher.
Through her passion for Black 
history, Hilliard-Nunn made a 
lasting impact on the students 
she taught, many of whom felt a 
genuine connection with her and 
were taken aback when she died. 
Demps, the president of wom -
en’s empowerment organization 
SISTUHS, Inc., said she loved Dr. 
Hilliard-Nunn’s African American 
studies class her sophomore year. 
“Being at a predominantly 
white institution, it is rare that 
you come across a Black profes -
sor,”  Demps said. “I think I’ve 
only had two or three since I’ve 
been here all four years, so it was 
a warm feeling to have a Black 
professor, especially for a class 
like African American studies.”
The expo will showcase the 
many forms of Black hair through 
the theme of “Black and Global” 
—  highlighting the diverse back -
grounds that Black hair comes 
from and the various styles that 
are worn.
Naiyla Durand, a 19-year-old 
environmental science sopho -
more and Black Hair Expo direc -
tor, said she hopes that non-Black 
students at UF will see how versa -
tile natural hair is. 
“What I want to accomplish 
most is for the Black student 
population at UF to feel comfort -
able in the many forms that their 
hair can appear in, learn new hair 
styles they’ve never tried before 
and the origin behind some of the 
hair styles,” Durand said.  
The process of learning to love one’s natural hair has been 
a significant journey for many 
Black students, including Darlesa 
Richardson, a 22-year-old adver -
tising senior and the president of 
LADIES Inc., an organization that 
provides mentorship to young 
women in Gainesville. 
For a large part of her life, 
Richardson had difficulty finding 
the right regimen to maintain her 
natural hair. 
“It’s hard trying to find a com -
bination of products that are for 
Black hair,” Richardson said. 
“Especially with social norms of 
having straight hair and having 
‘workplace hair,’ where you usu -
ally have a wig, or you flat iron 
your hair and there’s a lot of hair 
damage that comes into that.” 
During the pandemic, Richard -
son learned ways to style her hair 
and hopes hosting the expo at UF 
will allow attendees to appreciate 
natural hair in a new way.  
“It’s important to highlight our 
history as well as our truth, and 
a lot of our truth is within our 
hair,” Richardson said. “There’s 
a lot of stigma that comes with 
Black hair, with what’s appro -
priate and what’s not, so it’s 
important to highlight this part 
of Black culture and expose it to 
the Gainesville community to get 
a different perspective of what 
Black history entails.”
Outside of the UF community, 
a Gainesville master loctician, has 
worked tirelessly to help Black 
residents feel proud of their natu -
ral hair. 
Denisha “Dee” Williamson-
Walker, the owner of Locs By Dee, 
specializes in locs, a braided hair -
style also known as dreadlocks. 
Williamson-Walker’s 18-year-old 
business uses all-natural sham -
poos, oils and other products that 
promote hair health. 
Working in West Gainesville, 
Williamson-Walker sees a range 
of clients, from college students 
to doctors, working at local hospi -
tals. Most of them have attempted 
to style their hair at home or have 
been relying on friends and fam -ily to keep their hair up. 
If a hairstylist isn’t trained to 
service natural hair, there could 
be a myriad of consequences such 
as hair breakage, hair loss, clog -
ging one’s scalp and finding one’s 
hair unmanageable, she said. 
“You run the risk of not falling 
in love with your hair if you don’t 
find the proper way to take care 
of it,” Williamson-Walker said. 
Similar to Demps, Williamson-
Walker used to have her hair 
done every Sunday as a child by 
her grandmother. She credits her 
interest in the skill from the gen -
erations of women in her family 
who style natural hair. William -
son-Walker stated most instruc -tors don’t know how to service 
natural hair unless they have it 
themselves.
“It’s honestly very hard to walk 
in any other salon where they 
don’t look like you to trust that 
they’ve got the type of schooling 
or education that they need to 
handle your hair,” she said. 
Kimberly Brown, a 31-year-old 
licensed therapist, started visiting 
Locs By Dee in 2014. 
Before having her hair styled 
at Locs By Dee, Brown had a poor 
experience at a salon that didn’t 
specialize in natural hair.  
“They didn’t use the right 
products on my locs, so it messed 
with the texture,” Brown said. “A lot of that product got stuck in 
between my locs and it took me 
a couple of months to get it out.”
After eight years of getting 
her hair styled by Williamson-
Walker, Brown said she no longer 
experiences product buildup and 
her hair is thriving. Providing a 
rewarding natural hair journey 
like Brown’s is what Williamson-
Walker takes pride in most when 
it comes to her craft.
“The best part is someone not 
thinking that their hair looks good 
and then they get up and they’re 
like ‘Oh my gosh,’ they feel like a 
whole new person,” Williamson-
Walker said. “Helping people is 
my number one job.”
@eileencalub
ecalub@alligator.orgNATURAL HAIR , from pg. 1Local expert loctician advocates for knowing your hairtaught, he said. 
“I think universities and colleges need 
to be given room to breathe,” Jenne said. 
“Politicians need to stay out of the way of 
universities and stop trying to overlay their 
own belief system on an academic institution.” 
Almost two weeks after Fuchs announced 
his resignation, gubernatorial candidate 
and Florida Department of Agriculture and 
Consumer Services Commissioner Nikki Fried 
wrote a letter to the Board of Trustees. 
The letter reiterated the concerns faculty 
members, students, alumni and the general 
public all express about the ongoing issue. 
“Allow me to express in the clearest terms,” 
Fried wrote. “It is absolutely necessary that 
the search for the university’s next president 
be fully ethical, transparent, and nonpartisan, 
free from all political influence.” 
UF’s ongoing academic freedom scandal 
garnered national attention about the state 
government’s influence on the university’s administration. In October, the university 
denied three political science professors the 
ability to testify in a court case against the 
state.
Because four Board of Trustees members 
have political ties to Gov. Ron DeSantis and 
donate to his campaign, the decision raised 
concerns about how much influence the state 
has over university decisions.
If DeSantis is reelected, Jenne said he 
believes the governor will continue to try 
and remake the Board of Trustees in his 
own image while the Democratic candidates 
opposing DeSantis would try to give some 
authority back to institutions. 
Rep. Geraldine Thompson (D), who has 
voted against the bill every time it’s surfaced, 
said she believes politics will certainly leak 
into the appointment process based on the 
academic freedom issues occurring at the 
university.
The governor replaces the Board of 
Trustee members as their terms end, which 
indirectly applies the governor’s influence on administrative decisions, like presidential 
appointments, Thompson said. 
Two new board members will be appointed 
when Thomas Kuntz and Daniel O’Keefe end 
their five-year-long terms in January 2023. 
The chair of the board, who selects a 
search committee under the guidance of the 
Florida Board of Governors, has a particularly 
crucial role, said David Bloom, UF’s Faculty 
Senate chair. 
The committee must include at least 
three members from the university’s board, 
a member of the Florida Board of Governors 
and members of the faculty and student body, 
according to Florida Board of Governors’ 
regulations. 
None of the committee members can be 
drawn from the current president’s cabinet.
As they begin the process, the committee 
will set up criteria for the next president, 
Bloom said. 
“The search for and selection of the 
University of Florida’s next president 
hold great significance,” UF spokesperson Fernandez wrote. “The university is taking 
its time during the planning of that process to 
make sure that the search is as thoughtful and 
successful as possible.”
But concerns about the potential political 
influence and lack of transparency during the 
upcoming appointment persist despite UF’s 
assurance. 
Irene Mulvey, president of the American 
Association of University Professors, released 
a statement Jan. 25 expressing her concerns 
on academic integrity and the pending 
presidential appointment.
The AAUP is speaking out because it 
seems UF is again in a position to stray away 
from the mission of higher education to serve 
the common good, Mulvey wrote.
“This is yet another attempt to control the 
truth,” she wrote. “To enable them to make 
a decision on a new president without any 
of the requisite and valuable input from the 
faculty and staff that the new president will 
lead.”
@elenabarreraaa 
ebarrera@alligator.orgPRESIDENT , from pg. 1Bill sponsors claim it will improve search candidates
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Denisha Williamson-Walker using shampoo on a client's hair at her Locs by Dee salon located at 
4040 W Newberry Road Unit 1300 on Friday, Jan. 28.
THE GAINESVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENTThe Alligator  encourages comments from readers. Letters to the editor should not exceed 600 words (about one letter-sized page). They must be typed, double-spaced and must include the author’s name, classification and phone number. 
Names will be withheld if the writer shows just cause. We reserve the right to edit for length, grammar, style and libel. Send letters to opinions@alligator.org, bring them to 2700 SW 13th St., or send them to P.O. Box 14257, Gainesville, FL 
32604-2257.Columns of about 450 words about original topics and editorial cartoons are also welcome. Questions? Call 352-376-4458.Anna Wilder
DIGITAL 
MANAGING
EDITORSara Lindsay
OPINIONS
EDITORAsta Hemenway
ENGAGEMENT 
MANAGING
EDITORLianna Hubbard
EDITOR-IN-
CHIEFMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/opinions
By Alligator Editorial Board
For 50 years, The Alligator has operated as 
an independent student newsroom. For 50 
years, we have amplified our community’s 
voices, uncovered injustices and shared the 
truth.
Since 1906, we have printed our paper, and 
we don’t plan on stopping anytime soon.
Print journalism is not dead. It’s alive within 
the heart of student newsrooms.
On Thursday, Feb. 10, The Battalion, Texas 
A&M’s student newspaper, was told by uni -
versity administration to shut down their print 
edition. The 129-year-old student publication 
has been printing their paper since 1893. Texas 
A&M President M. Katherine Banks has de -
manded it ceases. 
If it doesn’t move exclusively online, The 
Battalion will be stripped of its resources, includ -
ing their office space and faculty advisor. 
The university president and administration 
hopes to transition The Battalion under a new 
Department of Journalism. Within this shift, a 
new rule would be implemented, where every -
thing the newspaper publishes “must be ap -
proved in accordance with applicable member 
rules or procedures.”
The Texas A&M administration is not only 
trying to kill the print edition; they are attempt -
ing to kill the independence of student journal -
ism altogether. The university’s administration 
is trying to destroy the roots of justice, account -
ability and transparency The Battalion has built 
for centuries. 
Texas A&M administration is censoring stu -
dent journalism. That is unacceptable. 
An attack on one student-run paper is an at -tack on all of us. 
Student newsrooms are unique in many 
ways. We are one of the only organizations to 
cover the universities we attend. We hold ac -
countable the multi-billion dollar entities that 
are home to our future politicians, scientists, 
doctors, lawyers and journalists. 
The Alligator prides itself on its coverage 
within multiple facets of our newsroom. Yet, 
most importantly, we value our independence. 
Fifty years ago, we had our fight for indepen -
dence. Our students and our reporters fought in 
court to break away from the university in 1973 
and have since maintained our right to publish 
without university interference. 
We wear our independence as a badge of 
honor.
It has also been our shield as we’ve held our 
university and city accountable. It’s our guide as 
we’ve shaped our coverage. 
Student journalists suffer the task of produc -
ing quality news and balancing a student’s life. 
We sacrifice countless hours to keep our com -
munities informed.
The Battalion operates as a student organiza -
tion, not an independent entity like The Alliga -
tor. Regardless, it still deserves the fundamental 
respect and rights a newspaper operates within, 
and that doesn’t include censorship from other 
entities. 
Texas A&M administration is ripping into 
the heart of students who pour themselves into 
serving their university community. Texas A&M 
administration is making a tremendous mistake. 
To the student journalists at The Battalion, 
we stand with you. We will fight with you. And 
most importantly, we will continue to strive to 
serve our community as truthful storytellers: as 
will you.By Alligator Editorial Board
UF has ditched its responsibility to 
inform the community about CO -
VID-19. 
The Alligator is not giving up on its 
duty. 
We’ve been reporting on COVID-19 since 
the pandemic hit in March 2020. Our reporting 
uncovered UF’s failures to respond to concerns 
of students, faculty and the greater community. 
We uncovered problems with UF’s covid dorms, 
UF testing and careless protective measures.
The Alligator has remained committed to 
providing updated information on changing UF 
policies and COVID numbers on campus. 
However, we took down our COVID-19 
dashboard Jan. 27. We lacked the data from UF, 
and in the interest of transparency, we feel that 
we owe our readers an explanation. 
At the start of the semester, UF stopped 
tracking it’s COVID-19 cases. It combined efforts 
with the Florida Department of Health. The Al -
ligator was told that requests for up-to-date data 
should be made through the FDOH starting Jan. 
1 and that this data would be available on the 
county COVID dashboard. 
Our reporters asked Jeremy Redfern, FDOH 
press secretary, multiple times for UF COVID-19 
numbers. 
His response? Confusion.
“They are reported as cases for Alachua 
County, which we post on CDC’s website.”
FDOH has always tracked COVID-19 num -
bers by county and it doesn’t have a way to tell 
whether a positive test belongs to a UF affiliate. 
So, Redfern was unsure why UF Health sent The 
Alligator to FDOH.
At the same time, UF Health has continued 
meeting with us weekly. 
UF Health Shands Hospital CEO Ed Jimenez 
and other UF Health representatives have met 
with reporters for transparency, updates on CO -VID numbers and how it is handling the omi -
cron variant. But this isn’t enough. 
Information for UF-specific numbers have 
been impossible to obtain since the end of UF 
Health Screen, Test & Protect. This isn’t OK.
When UF announced in December that it 
was transferring STP services to FDOH and that 
the UF COVID dashboard would be discontin -
ued, some faculty expressed concern given the 
omicron surge. Students, faculty and staff have 
long relied on UF’s COVID-19 numbers reports 
to remain aware of campus safety. 
However, others believe that the continu -
ation of the dashboard was unnecessary. We 
disagree.
Robert Cook, a UF professor in the Epidemi -
ology Department, wrote in an email that the 
data on the dashboard would most likely be in -
accurate. This is due to the increase of at-home 
tests and the possibility of COVID-19 positive 
people not reporting their positive tests.
In January, when omicron cases were at 
their highest, he believes the dashboard with 
specific numbers for campus weren’t needed to 
prove that cases were high. But as reporters our -
selves, we believe in UF’s transparency.
But Ken Garcia, UF Health spokesperson, 
shares Cook’s view. Continuing to report num -
bers would have resulted in incomplete and 
misleading numbers, he wrote.
“Case numbers, even if they could be ac -
curately measured, are far less important than 
things such as number of hospitalizations and 
vaccination status,” Garcia wrote. “This is a 
logical next phase as this pandemic becomes 
endemic and we maintain the ability to rapidly 
scale up mitigation measures if necessary.”
Health and Environment Reporter Lucille 
Lannigan contributed reporting to this editorial.
Read the rest online at 
alligator.org/section/opinions.The Alligator stands with The Battalion UF’s COVID-19 policies have left us in the darkEditorial Editorial6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
Change Party Candidates
President:  Gabrielle Adekunle 
Gabrielle Adekunle wants to remove 
barriers to access for resources and priori -
tize safety and sustainability. 
A 21-year-old junior studying political 
science and business administration, she’s 
also the Change Party’s Minority Leader in 
the Senate. She is a District D Senator and 
oversees the party’s eight Senators. 
As a Black, queer and femme individ -
ual, she understands what other people 
have to go through to feel represented, she 
said. 
“I’m one of the two Black people in 
Senate,” she said. “So I understand what 
it’s like to be a minority in spaces.” 
Adekunle ran for a class Senate seat 
with the party in Spring 2021 but did not 
win. She served as a Summer Replace -
ment Senator in Summer and won the 
District D Seat in Fall. 
In Senate, Adekunle has authored legis -
lation like SSB 2022-1002, a resolution that 
recognizes a Gainesville initiative for zero 
waste. Adekunle also authored SSB 2022-
1003, a resolution commemorating Black 
History Month. She is working to create a 
Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Adekunle advocates for party platforms 
like increasing the Later Gator Bus Ser -
vice and expanding SNAP services. UF 
and Gainesville’s Regional Transit System 
have been affected by pandemic-related 
shortages that have decreased these ser -
vices.  
Outside of SG, Adekunle founded Take 
Action Florida, a social justice organiza -
tion that recently organized a protest for 
more blue lights on campus. She formed 
the organization with her freshman year 
roommate, Catalina Loaiza, a 21-year-old 
criminology junior. 
“When I see her, I just know she’s 
meant to be a leader,” Loaiza said. “This 
girl is just completely determined to try to 
fix these situations for so many different 
types of people, and I think that’s abso -
lutely impressive.”
Vice President:  Dayanna Peek
Dayanna Peek wants to focus on creat -
ing programs and resources for marginal -
ized students.
Peek, a 20-year-old international stud -
ies and public relations sophomore who 
uses she/they pronouns, said they want to 
focus on direct representation and acces -
sibility.
“I don’t want to be just a figure lurk -
ing in the shadows that only comes out 
to large scale events,” she said. “I want 
students to look around, look on campus, 
and be like: ‘Oh, that’s my Student Body 
vice president right there.’”
If elected, Peek would work to include more gender neutral restrooms on cam -
pus and improve accessibility for students 
with disabilities, they said. 
In Fall 2020, Peek was selected as the 
director of social justice for UF’s Inter-
Residence Hall Association. They helped 
found the Lavender Living Learning Com -
munity, UF’s first gender-neutral housing 
option, where they are now a Resident As -
sistant. 
Peek also helped lead the Writing on 
the Wall project where students painted 
words that had been used to harm or mar -
ginalize them on bricks, followed by a cer -
emony and conversation about racism and 
discrimination.
Ryan Wilder, a 22-year-old UF graduate 
and Change Party founder, asked Peek to 
get involved with the party in 2020. 
“The second you meet Day, you have 
a friend and someone that will fight for 
you,” Wilder wrote in an email.
Peek was selected as the Change Par -
ty’s candidate for the Beaty Tower Senate 
seat in Fall 2020 and ran for a sophomore 
Senate seat the following year. They did 
not win either position. 
Despite the losses, Peek said the party 
noticed their campaign efforts and wanted 
them to hold a position on the executive 
board.
In Spring 2021, Peek served as the 
party’s deputy social media director along -
side the party’s current president Cassidy 
Campbell.
Treasurer: Kenya Warner 
Kenya Warner became involved with 
the Change Party during her second se -
mester on campus. Her roommate was on 
its executive board and told Warner about 
the party’s platform.
One of the Change Party’s platform 
points has been increasing resources for 
UF’s Counseling and Wellness Center, 
something that inspired Warner to slate 
with the party for a Senate seat.
The 20-year-old computer science 
sophomore is originally from Parkland 
and attended Marjory Stoneman Douglas 
High School. When Warner came to UF 
in 2020, she was frustrated with mental 
health resources on campus, like months-
long wait lists for an appointment with the 
CWC. 
“I felt like as a student, mental health 
is something that needs to be prioritized, 
especially coming to a top five university,” 
Warner said. “That was a big reason of me 
wanting to get involved in student govern -
ment.”
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgGATOR PARTY, CHANGE PARTY 
CANDIDATES ARE RUNNING FOR 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, VICE 
PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
Students can vote for 50 Senators, the 
Student Body president, vice president 
and treasurer in eight polling locations 
across campus on Feb. 22 and Feb. 23. 
Here are the candidates representing the 
executive tickets for the Gator and Change 
Parties: 
Gator Party Candidates
President:  Lauren Lemasters 
Lauren Lemasters went from being 
among 50 students in her graduating class 
to possibly overseeing a student body of 
57,000. 
The 21-year-old from Jacksonville is 
studying criminology, psychology and 
leadership in her fourth year at UF. 
This year, Lemasters is Chief of Staff 
to Student Body President Cooper Brown. 
“In the Chief of Staff role this past year, 
I’ve gotten to see everything under the sun 
having to do with the Executive Branch,” 
she said.
While the Gator Party platform won’t 
be announced until Monday, Lemasters 
said she wants every student to have an 
enjoyable experience at UF..
While she has enjoyed her time at UF 
so far, she understands it’s not the same 
for every student.
Lemasters is also involved with Florida 
Blue Key, Young Leaders Conference and 
her sorority Alpha Delta Pi.
Lemasters’ mother, Dawn, described 
her daughter as a supportive leader who 
does not do things with the goal of be -
ing recognized. When she cares about 
someone or something, she said, Lauren 
doesn’t change her mind.
“There’s that old adage that nice guys 
finish last,” Dawn Lemasters said. “Some -
times that’s not true. Sometimes the nicest 
people are the people who can accomplish 
big things.” 
Lauren Lamasters said a mentor of 
hers often asks “what do you give a damn 
about?” Her answer: the University of 
Florida. 
Vice President:  Daniel Badell
As a first-generation student, Daniel 
Badell found his place at UF through lead -
ership programs and involvement on cam -
pus with organizations like the Hispanic 
Student Association. 
The 21-year-old political science, in -
ternational studies and economics junior 
wants to use his role in SG to empower and further develop these opportunities 
for others. 
“The experience that you get here is so 
unique,” he said. “Not only rigorous aca -
demically, but there’s this huge involve -
ment culture of just giving back.”
In SG, Badell serves as Transition Divi -
sion Chair. During his sophomore year, he 
was the First Generation Affairs Cabinet 
Director. 
Badell enjoys the flexibility SG gives 
him to pursue his ideas, like establishing 
the First Generation Leadership Program 
and First Generation Student dorm, which 
opened in Fall 2021.
“I think a lot of times when we do take 
risks, we’re scared of the outcome,” Badell 
said. “Nine times out of 10 it’s welcomed 
and it’s encouraged and you’re empow -
ered to do so, and our administration will 
be a reflection of that.”
Fifteen years ago, Badell and his fam -
ily fled his birthplace of Cuba to move to 
the United States. When he arrived at UF 
during Summer B, he took part in UF’s 
PROMISE program, which helps first-year 
students transition to college. There, he 
found a community. 
He also joined HSA’s Mentor Leader -
ship Program during his freshman year 
where he met Kevin Trejos, 22, a master’s 
of science in management student.
“He’s not someone who’s okay with 
good enough,” Trejos said, “He’s someone 
who will break the status quo, who will 
work harder and seek out any opportunity 
he can to help out other people.”
While Badell has focused many initia -
tives on first-generation and Hispanic stu -
dents, his role as Transition Division Chair 
has given him a birds-eye view of issues 
on campus and expanded his involve -
ment, he said. 
He worked on creating a task force for 
the food justice initiative and advocates 
for administration to hire a director of 
advising, which affects students’ mental 
health, he said. 
Badell also serves as the Vice President 
for Gators for Israel. In Fall 2021, he joined 
Florida Blue Key.
On Jan. 26, when Badell was an -
nounced as the Gator Party’s VP candi -
date, he reminded students “si se puede,” 
which translates in Spanish to “yes, it’s 
possible!”
Treasurer:  Sierra Kantamneni 
On-campus organizations made UF 
feel like home for Sierra Kantamneni. The 
21-year-old information systems junior is 
running for treasurer to give a voice to the 
groups that gave her a sense of belonging. 
Read the rest online at alligator.org
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgMeet your candidates for Student Government’s Spring elections
Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
Gabrielle Adekunle (right), Change Party’s presidential nominee, addresses a crowd 
outside the Reitz Union North Lawn on Tuesday, Feb. 1. Beside her is Kenya Warner 
(left), treasurer nominee, and Dayanna Peek (middle), vice presidential nominee.Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
 Daniel Badell, Lauren Lemasters and Sierra Kantamneni (left to right) pose for a 
photo outside of Library West at the announcement of Gator Party’s executive 
ticket for Student Government on Wednesday, Jan. 26. Badell is running for vice 
president, Lemasters for president and Kantamneni for treasurer.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   7 
BLACK PAINTERS, POETS SHARED WORK IN 
VIRTUAL EVENT FRIDAY EVENING
By Allessandra Inzinna
Alligator Contributing Writer
Artists from poets to painters took to their screens to 
share work showcasing Black culture and relationships 
Friday evening.
“A Celebration of Black Love, Art and Poetry” gave 
Gainesville artists and poets an opportunity to display 
their work during a virtual celebration Feb. 11. The event, 
sponsored by the City of Gainesville Parks, Recreation and 
Cultural Affairs, was hosted by the Bailey Learning and 
Arts Collective, a Gainesville non-profit focused on art 
promotion and building a socially responsible community. 
The Zoom event allowed poets, painters and singers to 
show off their work through performances. Each performer 
turned on their cameras and recited or displayed their 
work. Terri Bailey, the founder of the Bailey Learning and 
Arts Collective, shared her screen to present other local 
Black photographers and painters who could not make it 
to the event. The night also featured an open mic. 
This is the event’s second year, said Bailey, 55. More 
than 50 people registered for the Zoom event. 
“Rarely, in my opinion in Gainesville are Black artists 
and poets celebrated and showcased in a manner that 
befits them,” Bailey said. 
The night featured about 12 poets and artists, including 
2020 Alachua County poet Laureate E. Stanley Richardson 
and local muralist Turbado Marabou. Bailey declined to 
answer questions about how much the event cost.
A sponsorship from the city of Gainesville allowed 
them to pay artists for participating, Bailey said. Carol 
Velasques Richardson, member of the Alachua County 
Arts Council, didn’t  respond for comment on how much 
the city of Gainesville paid in its sponsorship of the event. To kick off the night, Richardson read a poem titled 
“Brown South.” Riddled with vivid imagery relating to the 
color brown, the poem paid homage to his southern roots 
and family members. 
“Deep flowing waters, brown eyes close thinking 
beautiful brown southern thoughts,” Richardson said, 
reciting his poem at the event. 
Appreciation for Black mothers and women was a 
common theme throughout the night.
Kiara Laurent, a 23-year-old poet, read two pieces. In 
the first, she detailed the process of her mother braiding 
her hair. 
“I found love through hair braiding,” Laurent recited. 
“Eight hours, three strands, two hands.”
Marabou’s artwork and poem displayed the same 
admiration. He showcased works from his “Goddess 
Series.” The canvases displayed watercolor and colored-
pencil depictions of the divinity of Black women.
“We have seen in the last few years, the rise of women 
standing up —  politically, socially, culturally — and 
taking a very firm stance in places normally would not 
expect to see the presence of woman,” Marabou said. 
“And especially a Black woman.” 
His poem focused on one woman in particular: his 
wife, Bailey. The two were high school sweethearts before 
breaking up. When Marabou knocked on Bailey’s door 
about 15 to 20 years later, the pair reunited. For one of the 
last poems of the night, he read a tribute to her.
“The wholeness of you I am soul to soul
I only wish to sit under your
sacred tree.”
Wilermine Previlon, a 19-year-old linguistics 
sophomore, said the focus on Black love instead of trauma 
made the night special. 
“There’s a lot of trauma that comes with being Black,” she said. “It was nice to just focus on the good aspects that 
people don’t really talk about.”
Previlon, an intern for the Bailey Learning and Arts 
Collective, monitored the Zoom chat and lined up poets 
for the open mic. She noted that there’s not many spaces 
available for small artists to get together and collaborate 
like they did Friday evening.
“There’s a lot of stories about people’s moms, love 
stories to people’s moms, love stories to their spouses, 
love stories to themselves,” Previlon said. “It was really 
cool to see everyone talking about Blackness in a positive 
light.”
@ainzinna
ainzinna@alligator.comArtist pay homage to their mothers in Black History Month event
Courtesy to The Alligator
Turbado Marabou creates art that represents the 
divinity of Black women.
8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
In a long skirt and a blue T-
shirt with the slogan “Ho No 
Mo,” ‘Sister Cindy’ pranced in -
side a circle of more than 500 
students, blocking the walkways 
of Plaza of Americas in the after -
noon of Feb. 7.
“Welcome to the ho no mo’ 
revolution!” she shouted.
Cindy Smock, an evangeli -
cal street preacher with more 
than 360,000 TikTok followers, 
screamed and sobbed through 
a loudspeaker, while transgen -
der, queer and Soviet Union 
flags waved in protest. Students 
cheered for the viral preacher’s 
graphic sermon criticizing people 
for teaching “WAP-ism” and urg -
ing students to not get a “mas -
ter’s in oral sex.”
Smock has made a national 
college campus tour shaming 
students’ sexuality and sharing 
Jesus’ name. Her travels brought 
her back to UF, where she stud -
ied journalism until 1979 before 
dropping out. There she met her 
street preacher husband and 
even wrote for The Alligator. 
Two years later, in 1981, she returned to Plaza of Americas, 
on a similar Fall semester Mon -
day, bringing her same anti-sex 
rhetoric and crowd of jeering stu -
dents.
This week, students stood on 
Plaza benches for at least two 
days to peer at Smock publicly 
break down while degrading fe -
male students.
Opinions about her time on 
campus differ. Some believe she 
is advancing bigotry while others 
say listening to rhetoric like hers 
strengthens their beliefs. 
Students are not attending to 
listen to what Smock has to say, 
said Aron Ali-McClory, 19-year-
old UF Communist Party presi -
dent. They’re there for entertain -
ment. 
“I think the university is un -
der pressure as both an institu -
tion and as an institution be -
holden to the republican state 
government to protect what they 
call freedom of speech,” McClory 
said. “Which includes and en -
compases preachers harassing 
people.”
Students fought fire with fire, 
or in this case, satire with satire. 
Throughout Smock’s sermons, 
students asked for Smock’s pro -nouns, whether she’s a “top or 
a bottom” and if she would peg 
them.
Loud-mouthed sermons are 
nothing new.
Religion professor David G. 
Hackett sees the connection be -
tween Smock’s profitable street 
preaching and Christianity’s 
changing landscape in the 1500s. 
Then the idea that the after -
life is set in stone gave the faith -
ful anxiety. As part of the dawn 
of capitalism, economic success 
and salvation went hand and 
hand, Hackett said. 
Hackett said that economic 
success meant a higher likelihood 
of getting into heaven. Smock’s 
preaching has also brought her 
profit, through her online notori -
ety and merch sales. 
“They’re willing to shape 
their message to the media to 
an alarming extent to gain great -
er market share … and there’s 
something corrupt about that,” 
Hackett said, referencing the 
Smocks.
Hackett recognizes the impor -
tance of engaging with people 
who challenge his worldview. 
Talking to people with different 
ideologies is difficult, he said. In fact, he avoids them.
“That would take a lot of 
listening and a lot of willing to 
tolerate points of view different 
from your own,” Hackett said. “I 
think we need to do that.”
At one point, Smock talked 
about what she pegged as a col -
lege student’s typical date.
“Don’t you dare take that girl 
to a Mexican restaurant,” she 
cautioned the crowd. “If you 
buy her one margarita, she will 
spread her legs.”
University Police Department 
officers were not present during 
Monday’s 4-hour-long demon -
stration. 
Demonstrators who are not af -
filiated with UF and are disrupt -
ing campus activity by obstruct -
ing traffic or using unpermitted 
loudspeakers will be asked to 
leave, according to campus pol -
icy. In some cases, they may be 
arrested. 
UPD did not receive any calls 
about disturbances, so there was 
no reason for police to act, Ser -
geant Chad Holway wrote in an 
email.
“The entire campus is consid -
ered a free speech area protected 
under the First Amendment,” 
wrote Holway. “So people are 
free to stand on whatever side -
walk or outdoor area they want 
and speak to whomever they 
want.”
Other students like Brianna 
Kessler, a 20-year-old UF hor -
ticultural science major, be -
lieve Smock and George Edward 
“Brother Jed” Smock, her hus -
band, are rightfully exercising 
their freedom of speech and en -
couraging students to question 
their beliefs. 
Smock’s crowd dwindled slightly by Wednesday, but the 
cheers continued.
“Just because people are 
cheering doesn’t mean you have 
to cheer too,” said Layla Slate, a 
women’s studies junior.
Slate called out “Brother Jed” 
for mentioning students’ breast 
size in a discussion about what 
he believes men typically look 
for in a relationship. The day be -
fore, Cindy Smock called Slate a 
“blood drinking sl** vampire.”
“Obviously what they’re say -
ing is a misinterpretation of a lot 
of stuff,” she said. “It’s very bio 
essentialist. And it’s insulting.”
Because everything on the in -
ternet is based on likes and in -
teractions, shocking rhetoric like 
Smock’s is easy to engage with 
as lighthearted, Slate said. 
To Slate, it’s important to tell 
campus preachers that their ac -
tions are not as helpful as they 
believe. 
Throughout the demonstra -
tions, the Smocks took turns. 
While “Brother Jed” was rest -
ing on one of the nearby bench -
es during his break, Slate ap -
proached him and told him that 
their rhetoric is harmful. 
He downplayed Slate’s criti -
cism and accepted some stu -
dents’ request to take a selfie. 
‘Brother Jed’ said he and 
Smock realize the crowd of stu -
dents are making fun of them — 
they don’t care. 
“Do you realize a lot of her 
speaking is satirical?” he said. 
The pair doesn’t mind the 
hecklers. It gets people listen -
ing, liking their posts and buying 
their merch.
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org“Sister Cindy” returns to UF, draws a crowd of heckling students
Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
 A crowd of over 500 watch George Edward “Jed” Smock Jr., Sister Cindy’s husband and famous 
evangelist, simulate sex at Plaza of the Americas on Monday, Feb. 7.Alan Halaly / / Alligator Staff
UF students await the arrival of Cindy Lasseter Smock, a UF 
alumna and an evangelist who is famous on TikTok, at Plaza of 
the Americas on Monday, Feb. 7.
Her graphic sermons, social media success drew more than 500 onlookers Monday, WednesdayMONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   9 
Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
Roddy Ricch performs at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on 
Tuesday, Feb. 8. Student Government Productions coordinated 
the performance to kick off Black History Month.Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
Concert-goers watch Roddy Ricch perform at the Stephen C. O’Connell Center on Tuesday, Feb. 8.
Jiselle Lee / / Alligator Staff
Lion dancers perform at the UF Vietnamese Student Organization’s Lunar New Year show at the 
Reitz Union Grand Ballroom on Saturday, Feb. 12. The performers are members of JiaTing, Surge 
and Pi Delta Psi.Maura Schaeffer / / Alligator Staff
The Sabor Latino Dance Team strikes a final pose after performing at 
the UF Caribbean Students Association’s annual fashion and talent 
show at the Reitz Union on Sunday, Jan. 30.
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
Drag performer Aysha Dupree dances at #4playnight at 
University Club on Friday, Feb. 4. The LGBTQ+ bar hosts drag 
shows most nights of the week.
Gainesville nightlife steals the show LAB EDUCATES STUDENTS, COMMUNITY 
ON BLOCKCHAIN BENEFITS, SAFETY
By Fernando Figueroa
Alligator Staff Writer
UF received $270,000 to provide resources to 
students who want to learn and develop blockchain 
technology including cryptocurrencies and NFTs. 
The grant, received on Jan. 25, will fund the 
development of two undergraduate courses and 
four free professional courses on Canvas that will 
be available to the public, said Marko Suvajdzic, 
associate director and professor at the Digital 
Worlds Institute. The Blockchain Lab will be 
housed within UF’s Digital World Institute at the 
College of Arts and Sciences. 
Blockchain is a complex technology, and its 
applications have not yet been fully defined. Some 
popular applications of the blockchain include 
cryptocurrencies like Dogecoin and non-fungible 
tokens, or NFTs, which are typically digital 
artworks, like Bored Ape.  
Suvajdzic applied for the grant through the 
Algorand Foundation Grant Program.
“The blockchain lab by its very mission exists 
to support blockchain related activities both on 
campus and in Gainesville in general,” Suvajdzic 
said.
Fifty students are already enrolled in Blockchain 
Innovations in Digital Arts and Sciences. The 
class has been steadily increasing in size since its 
inception three years ago and will also be funded 
with the grant, Suvajdzic said
The Blockchain Innovations course was 
Ramessa Khan’s favorite class this semester. 
The 21-year-old UF data science senior from 
Bangladesh said the lab increased the amount 
of resources at her disposal and allowed her to 
expand her network. 
Khan is developing a virtual reality NFT video 
game that will be accessible to as many people as 
possible. 
In her home country, children cannot engage 
with these new technologies due to lack of 
resources and an oppressive government, she said. 
“I want to give a chance for communities — 
like the one I’m from — to have access to things 
like this,” she wrote in a text message.
Maurice Hendrix, a 21-year-old UF digital 
arts and sciences senior, said the course teaches 
students the history and development of blockchain 
technology without getting too technical.He took the class in Spring 2020 and has been 
interested in the blockchain since. 
“This moment right now that’s happening with 
NFTs is something we definitely talked about two 
years ago,” he said. “So it’s kind of crazy because 
it’s like, dang, I really wish I would have spent a 
little bit more time learning the … programmatic 
side of how to actually develop the stuff for the 
blockchain.”
As a musician, Hendrix is disheartened by the 
money streaming platforms, like Spotify or Apple 
Music, take from creators. NFTs act as a more 
direct link between artists and consumers. 
“It’s just a way to connect the fans and the artist 
better.” Hendrix said. “It’s just more trustworthy 
than the current standards of the music industry.”
However, Tao Li, an assistant professor 
of finance, said because blockchain is a new 
technology there is a general lack of regulation in 
comparison to traditional markets. 
Power consumption is another concern with 
current technologies that use the blockchain. 
Bitcoin mining is one of the top consumers of 
energy annually worldwide, Suvajdzic said. 
To create Bitcoin, it takes 91 terawatt-hours of 
electricity annually, which is more than what is 
used in Finland — the nation of about 5.5 million 
— according to a New York Times article. 
Older cryptocurrencies, like Bitcoin, require 
an immense amount of processing power to add 
data into the database because all computers must 
verify the transaction is legitimate. 
Algorand, however, uses a newer consensus 
mechanism known as proof of stake, which 
requires a smaller number of validators making it 
more efficient, Li said.
The company is the “most efficient and greenest 
blockchain available,” according to a press release 
by Algorand.
Algorand is a green crypto and has committed 
itself to be carbon negative, Suvajdzic said. 
He compared Blockchain’s emergence to the 
birth of the internet; people need to be educated 
on the new technology. 
Hendrix also sees the necessity for education in 
not only blockchain development, but also in its 
ethical concerns. 
“The best thing I could suggest is just educate 
yourself first on what you’re actually getting into,” 
Hendrix said.
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.orgUF funds Blockchain Lab
Minca Davis / / Alligator Staff
LUNES, 14 DE FEBRERO DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman El Caimán
Por Lily Kino
Escritora del Caimán
Traducido por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
Con una subvención de dos 
millones de dólares del estado 
de Florida, la escuela ofrecerá 
a los estudiantes de secundaria 
capacitación en tecnología 
informática y ciencias de 
salud, según un comunicado de 
prensa. La universidad recibió 
la subvención el dos de febrero 
como parte del plan de ochenta 
y nueve millones de dólares del 
gobernador Ron DeSantis para 
mejorar las iniciativas de la 
fuerza laboral en todo el estado.
SF utilizará la subvención 
para renovar una instalación 
existente en su campus para 
que los estudiantes tengan un 
espacio de aprendizaje mejorado 
con tecnología actualizada, dijo 
el presidente de SF, Paul Broadie 
II. La universidad aún no ha 
publicado detalles sobre dónde 
estará la instalación o cómo se 
admitirá a los estudiantes.
La escuela abrirá sus 
puertas en el otoño de 2023 
para estudiantes de noveno a 
duodécimo grado. Al graduarse, 
los estudiantes se irán con un 
diploma de escuela secundaria, 
un título de asociado y al menos 
dos credenciales industriales 
sin costo para ellos ni para sus 
familias. Luego, los estudiantes 
pueden optar por ingresar a la 
fuerza laboral o continuar su 
educación, dijo el portavoz de 
SF, Jay Anderson.
La pandemia de COVID-19 
aumentó la necesidad de 
trabajadores calificados, 
especialmente en el campo de 
las ciencias de la salud, dijo 
Henry Mack, Canciller Principal 
de Educación Profesional y para 
Adultos del Departamento de 
Educación de Florida.
“Queremos una economía que 
prepare a los ciudadanos para 
trabajos que puedan soportar 
esta disrupción”, dijo.
Él espera que la creación de 
esta escuela chárter especializada 
combata las necesidades creadas 
por la pandemia y mucho más.
Una escuela autónoma de 
educación técnica profesional 
está dedicada a satisfacer una 
necesidad económica específica 
mientras que una escuela pública 
tradicional sigue un horario de 
cursos más rígido, dijo Mack.
Broadie ha recibido repetidas solicitudes por parte de la 
comunidad para infundir más 
CTE en el nivel de la escuela 
secundaria, según el sitio web de 
la universidad.
Los programas adicionales 
en la nueva escuela autónoma 
de SF parecen injustificados 
para algunos porque SF ya tiene 
programas CTE que permiten que 
los estudiantes de secundaria 
del condado de Alachua tomen 
cursos de nivel universitario, dijo 
Jackie Johnson, portavoz de las 
Escuelas Públicas del condado de 
Alachua.
“A menos que los programas 
sean radicalmente diferentes de 
lo que ya ofrecemos en la escuela 
secundaria en colaboración 
con Santa Fe, quizás haya una 
duplicación innecesaria de 
programas y servicios”, dijo 
Johnson. “No lo sabremos hasta 
que obtengamos más detalles 
sobre cómo se llevarán a cabo 
estos programas”.
A Johnson le preocupa que 
los nuevos programas puedan 
quitarle mérito a los ya existentes 
o dañarlos, y estos programas ya 
son exitosos. 
Si bien los estudiantes pueden 
tomar cursos de inscripción 
doble además de su diploma de 
escuela secundaria, dijo Broadie, 
no está garantizado que los 
estudiantes se gradúen con un 
título de asociado.
La nueva escuela chárter se 
basará en un nuevo modelo de 
educación pública llamado el 
modelo P-TECH, que brinda a los 
estudiantes un título de asociado, 
experiencia laboral relevante 
y orientación de sus mentores, 
según el sitio web de P-TECH.
“Este modelo podrá ampliar 
en gran medida la cantidad 
de estudiantes interesados   en 
Ciencias de la Salud y Tecnología 
Informática que, de otro modo, 
no podrían calificar dentro 
del formato de inscripción 
doble existente en la escuela 
secundaria”, escribió Broadie en 
un correo electrónico.
Solo ocho estudiantes 
participan actualmente en el 
programa de doble inscripción 
CTE de SF, escribió.
Pero para fines del otoño 
del 2023, Broadie anticipa que 
habrá muchos estudiantes con 
un pie en el pasillo de la escuela 
autónoma y el otro en la fuerza 
laboral.
@lily_kino
lkino@alligator.orgSanta Fe College crea 
nueva escuela autónoma
Santa Fe College lanzará una nueva escuela autónoma centrada en 
STEM en el campus noroeste de la universidad en el otoño del 202310   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   11 
BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
12 Autos
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org1For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                     4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                            12-6-21-16-5
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    EEvvaalluuaattee,,  ttaakkee  ssttoocckk  ooff
11..    UUnnnneerrvveedd55..    AAssttoouunndd
22..    GGrraasspp,,  uunnddeerrssttaanndd66..    AAnnggrryy
33..    RRaaiissee77..    LLaatteesstt
44..    RReevveerrsseeVVUUYYEESSRR
NNEEHHAAKKSSAAZZEEAAMM
RRAAEEIITT
EEAALLEERRZZII
LLEEAAEEEETTVVSSTTEEEENNWW
NNVVEETTIIRRAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--SSuurrvveeyy    55AA--AAmmaazzee    66AA--IIrraattee    77AA--NNeewweesstt
11DD--SShhaakkeenn    22DD--RReeaalliizzee    33DD--EElleevvaattee    44DD--IInnvveerrtt    BB--KKeeaannuu  RReeeevveess22--1144--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  wwaass  bboorrnn  iinn  BBeeiirruutt,,  LLeebbaannoonn,,  
aanndd  rraaiisseedd  iinn  TToorroonnttoo,,  CCaannaaddaa..  BONUS● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
2-14-1-13
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497      
2-14-1-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
14 Help Wanted
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           12-6-21-12-14
Gainesville Eye Clinic is currently seeking a 
Full Time or Part Time Certified Ophthalmic 
Assistant or Technician to join their team! Pay 
rate $15 - $20 per hour, full benefits offered for 
Full Time. No experience necessary if inter-
ested in pursing a career in the medical field. 
Training provided to help you accomplish your 
career goals!                                      2-28-10-1413 Wanted 10 For Sale
By Paul Coulter
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/14/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/14/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, February 14, 2022
ACROSS
1 Erykah Badu 
hairdo
5 In pieces
10 The Beatles’ 
Pepper, e.g.: 
Abbr.
13 Attired
14 Pennsylvania in 
Washington, for 
example
15 Couple’s pronoun
16 Alliterative union 
litigator
18 State sch. with 
campuses in 
Providence
19 DoorDash rival
20 It follows dawn
22 Ancestry.com 
concern
23 Wicked one
25 Alliterative 
craftsperson
30 Lawyers: Abbr.
33 To no avail
34 On a cruise, say
36 __ Tin Tin
37 Discover
38 Word that fittingly 
fills the blanks in 
“_ _ propria _ e”
39 About to explode
41 Rapper __ Kim
42 “__, Brute?”
44 Nativity display
45 Quite often
47 Alliterative 
marriage 
specialist
49 Malodorous
51 One-named 
“Cheap Thrills” 
singer
52 ’90s trade 
acronym
54 Rain in light drops
59 NFL’s Cardinals
60 Alliterative 
accompanist
63 Anatomical 
pouch
64 Being
65 Act the blowhard
66 Civil War 
nickname
67 Indoor parking lot 
features
68 Nordstrom rival
DOWN
1 Censorship-
fighting org.2 Love handles, 
essentially
3 Broccoli __
4 Aroma
5 Personal user pic
6 Seats with 
kneelers
7 “__ questions?”
8 Regret
9 Brusque
10 Music for a 
movie
11 Trusted adviser
12 Excursion
14 Group 
co-founded by 
Bill W.’s wife
17 Merlot or Syrah
21 Acapulco article
23 Big celebration
24 Anger
25 Novelist Cather
26 Negro Leagues 
legend Buck __
27 Presidential 
workplace
28 Patriotic org. 
since 1890
29 Dead, as an 
engine
31 Church donation
32 Contemptuous 
look35 “Par avion” 
letters
38 Just slightly
40 “The Crying 
Game” actor 
Stephen
43 “Enough!” in a 
text
44 Happy as a lark?
46 Hanoi holiday
48 $100 bills, in 
slang
50 Narrow to a point52 Astronaut’s 
insignia
53 Speedy steed
54 Barbershop 
sound
55 Apprehends
56 Actress Sedgwick
57 Plumbing problem
58 Units of work
61 “Be there __ sec!”
62 Bank 
convenience, for 
short
By Jeff Stillman
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC02/08/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
02/08/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, February 8, 2022
ACROSS
1 Salon tool
5 Bay of Naples 
isle
10 Underworld boss
15 Actor Sharif
16 Setting for some 
van Gogh works
17 Salad fruit
18 Stringed 
instrument played 
by Jerry Garcia 
in the intro to 
CSNY’s “Teach 
Your Children”
21 Says, “We’re 
through!”
22 Aspire laptop 
maker
23 Jar top
24 Silky to the touch
26 Flip chart holders
29 Have high 
aspirations, 
despite being 
warned not to
33 Environmental 
prefix
34 __ kwon do
35 Say over and 
over
38 Model Campbell
41 Stumble
43 Protection
44 Home of the 
NBA’s Magic
46 Nintendo’s  
Super __
48 CPR specialist
49 “Based on what 
they tell me ... ”
53 Water depth unit
55 Newspaper 
space 
measurement
56 Laudatory verse
57 Cries of  
discovery
59 Regal domains
63 Land movement 
spanning 
millennia ... or 
what each set of 
circles suggests
67 Like a loud crowd
68 In unison
69 Hebrides hillside
70 Author Carroll
71 Warning opening
72 Rural agreement
DOWN
1 Deal with it
2 Gathering clouds, 
maybe3 Anti-DUI 
acronym
4 Like trumpet 
music
5 Remove, as a 
demon
6 Class with  
easels
7 Synthetic sofa 
portmanteau
8 Bounce back 
again
9 Archipelago part
10 Trifling amount
11 Boxing legend
12 Book names are 
on them
13 Benefit
14 Comic-Con 
attendees
19 Fancy airport ride
20 Say hi to
25 Soapbox  
speaker
27 Between ports
28 “You bet!”
29 UConn women’s 
basketball coach 
__ Auriemma
30 Plug-in vehicle, 
briefly
31 “You missed your 
chance”
32 Supply, as 
Muzak36 It’s up at the end 
of the test
37 Sunrise dirección
39 Sitcom set in 
Korea
40 Scoop
42 Be emphatic 
about
45 Private Ryan 
portrayer Matt
47 Hester Prynne’s 
letter color
50 “The Tempest” 
king51 Like much brandy
52 Close at hand
53 Kind of point
54 Be gaga over
58 Noggin
60 Old Pisa dough
61 Advanced lit. 
degrees
62 Academic 
acronym
64 __ chi
65 E-file agcy.
66 2022, por 
ejemplo
02/07/2022
solution  on page 13answer on page 13
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.20 Events/Notices 15 Services
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                 2-14-1-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
DirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
2-14-6-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
2-14-6-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          2-14-6-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen         2-14-6-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
12-6-21-16-16
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
CrytpoQuote  answer
Sudoku  solution ScrabbleGrams  solution
DO YOU REALLY WANT TO LOOK BACK ON YOUR LIFE AND SEE HOW WONDERFUL IT COULD HAVE BEEN 
HAD YOU NOT BEEN AFRAID TO LIVE IT? — CAROLINE MYSS
solution  belowInstructors wanted! God-centered self-help 
method. Up to $1000 per online workshop.
Free book & report: 888-638-4638    
2-14-2-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
NOTICE OF ON-SITE/VIRTUAL HYBRID 
PUBLIC MEETING
The Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area 
announces a hybrid - on-site and virtual public 
meeting via communications media technology 
to which all interested persons are invited.
DATE AND TIME: February 28, 2022 at 
3:00 p.m.
ON-SITE John R. “Jack” Durrance 
Auditorium, County Administration Building, 
Gainesville, Florida
VIRTUAL: Audio/Video - Cox Channel 12 
and the Alachua County Video on Demand 
Website [link below]
www.alachuacounty.us/video
Live Broadcast Public Comment Call-In - 
Call 1-800-876-7516
PURPOSE: Regular Business Meeting of 
the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized Area
A copy of the agenda may be obtained by 
visiting our website at www.ncfrpc.org (click 
Metropolitan Transportation Planning) or 
may be seen posted at 2009 NW 67th Place, 
Gainesville, Florida one week prior to the 
meeting. Due to the COVID-19 Public Health 
Emergency, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area will conduct a hybrid on-
site and virtual meeting via communications 
media technology. Public participation for 
this meeting on-site for this meeting is ac-
commodated, but is limited due to social 
distancing requirements. On-site public 
participants are encouraged to wear a face-
covering mask at all times. For on-site public 
comment, participants will be prompted and 
should follow the direction of the Chair to par-
ticipate. The public is encouraged to partici-
pate in the virtual public meeting. The public 
may submit comments to the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area through email 
(escalante@ncfrpc.org) or by calling into the 
public comment message line when prompt-
ed to call during the meeting. Public com-
ment will be taken by telephone for all non-
ministerial items on which the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization for the 
Gainesville Urbanized Area votes. Once pub-
lic comment is opened for an item under dis-
cussion, please call the public comment tele-
phone number. In addition, the Metropolitan 
Transportation Planning Organization will 
open telephone lines for a public comment 
session for the public to discuss items not 
on the Metropolitan Transportation Planning 
Organization for the Gainesville Urbanized 
Area agenda. Virtual Citizens Comment 
agenda item calls should be limited to 
transportation planning issues within the 
Gainesville Metropolitan Area. Duration of the 
Citizens Comment agenda item may extend 
as long as calls are received. For all Call-In 
Comments, Callers will be put in a queue, 
and prompted when it is their turn to speak. 
TO AVOID FEEDBACK, CALLERS TO THE 
PUBLIC COMMENT MESSAGE LINE MUST 
TURN DOWN THEIR MEETING SOUND 
WHEN ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION. 
Both call-in and on-site participants should 
state their names and limit comments to three 
minutes. The public is encouraged to submit 
any written or photographic documents prior 
to the meeting to escalante@ncfrpc.org. Any 
questions regarding participation should be 
directed to the Metropolitan Transportation 
Planning Organization for the Gainesville 
Urbanized Area Office at 352.955.2200, ex-
tension 114.
Public participation is solicited without regard 
to race, color, national origin, sex, age, dis-
ability, familial status, religious status, marital 
status, sexual orientation, or gender identity. 
Persons who require special accommoda-
tions under the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or persons who require translation ser-
vices (free of charge) should contact Michael 
Escalante at 352.955.2200, extension 114, 
at least 48 hours prior to the public meeting.    
2-14-22-1-20 answers to the left1. HISTORY: When did the first Winter Olympics take place?
2. PSYCHOLOGY: What is the extreme fear represent -
ed by a condition called ophidiophobia?
3. AD SLOGANS: Which company featured this adver -
tising campaign in the mid-1980s: "Quality never 
goes out of style"?
4. LITERATURE: Which 19th-century novel begins with 
the line, "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of 
my own life, or whether that station will be held by 
anybody else, these pages must show"?
5. MOVIES: Where were the park bench scenes from 
"Forrest Gump" filmed?
6. ANATOMY: What is the common name for the orbit 
in human anatomy?
7. MEASUREMENTS: What does a hygrometer measure?
8. U.S. STATES: In which state was the movie "Children 
of the Corn" filmed?
9. LANGUAGE: What does "fair dinkum" mean in Aus -
tralian English?
10. SCIENCE: What is the common name for nitrous oxide?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.1. 1924, Chamonix, France
2. Fear of snakes
3. Levi's
4. "David Copperfield"
5. Chippewa Square, 
Savannah, Georgia6. Eye socket
7. Humidity
8. Iowa
9. Unquestionably good
10. Laughing gasTrivia Test answers
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21
Surf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
NOTE:  This newspaper assumes no responsibility 
for injury or loss arising from contacts made 
through advertising. We suggest that any reader 
who responds to advertising use caution and 
investigate the sincerity of the advertiser before 
giving out personal information or arranging 
meetings or investing money.21 Entertainment
ALLIGATOR ROUTE
DELIVERY DRIVERS
The Independent Florida Alligator
Has IMMEDIATE NEED
Non-student positions
Delivery drivers needed for
early morning newspaper  
routes in Gainesville.
Must be EXTREMELY dependable.
Long-term employment desired.
Must have VERY reliable vehicle
capable of transporting approximately
30 newspaper bundles.
Hours approximate:
MONDAY ONLY early morning
between 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Also needed, flexible hours/days
odd jobs / rack maintenance
Prefer to be filled by one of these drivers.
Please email interest to:
elight@alligator.orgor call 352-376-4446
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022   ALLIGATOR   13 Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Who will be women's basketball's next head coach?
SEC coaches advocate for interim Finley. Find this story on pg. 15.
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
INTERNATIONAL MARKETS, 
SUSHI, POOL DATES AWAIT 
COUPLES
The Avenue Staff
LLove is in the air — and 
Gainesville is no exception.
This Valentine’s Day, the Av -
enue staff curated a list of ideal 
date spots around Gainesville to 
properly celebrate the holiday. 
Whether you’re meeting up with 
a last-minute Tinder match or cel -
ebrating an anniversary, each of 
the Avenue staff’s date night se -
lections will put a smile on your 
face.
Chun Ching Market and Zeezenia’s 
International Market: A romantic 
trip around the globe
By Makiya Seminera
For Gainesville’s home cooks, 
an intimate homemade dinner 
for two is sure to impress your 
valentine. But the true way to 
dazzle your date doesn’t come 
from fancy cooking equipment or 
Michelin-star plating — it comes 
from the top-quality ingredients 
available at some of Gainesville’s 
best markets. 
Chun Ching Market, a haven 
for a variety of Asian goods, is 
located at 418 NW Eighth Ave. 
Whether you plan to indulge in a 
do-it-yourself hot pot or butcher 
a whole squid for a crispy cala -
mari appetizer, Chun Ching has 
the ingredients you need to make 
a memorable meal. By strolling 
down the market’s extensive tea 
aisle, you and your date can care -
fully choose a tea flavor that will 
pair best with the night’s entrée. 
Couples can finish off their gro -
cery shopping marathon at Zeeze -
nia’s International Market to find 
authentic Middle Eastern ingredi -
ents to enhance any dish. Stocked 
with vegetarian ingredients like 
grape leaves and fava beans, as 
well as a wide selection of locally 
raised halal meats, Zeezenia’s, lo -
cated at 2325 SW 13th St, is an 
essential food stop. After a day of 
shopping, growling stomachs can 
find refuge at Zeezenia Kitchen, 
a seating area at the back of the 
market that serves Middle Eastern 
classics like kefta and hummus.
After visiting each of Gaines -ville’s finest markets, gather your 
ingredients and prepare to cook 
one of the best Valentine’s Day 
meals ever.
Arashi Yama: Sushi with a modern flair
By Eileen Calub
Located in Magnolia Parke, 
Arashi Yama Sushi & Hibachi 
Lounge is the optimal place to 
spend a romantic evening with 
your Valentine’s Day date. 
Opened in December, the res -
taurant’s modern interior and re -
laxed atmosphere sets the mood 
immediately for an enjoyable 
night. Once you take a seat, you 
can fill your table with platters of 
colorful and creatively arranged 
sushi. Salmon, yellowtail and eel 
introduces a medley of flavors 
that dance on the tongue. 
If sushi isn’t your vibe, there 
are plenty of soup and stir fry op -
tions to warm the soul during the 
chilly February weather. Arashi 
Yama also offers hibachi. Pair 
your meal with a lychee mojito 
— one of the restaurant’s most 
popular cocktails — to brighten 
your meal. 
To finish off the dining expe -
rience, choose between one of 
three scrumptious desserts: coco -
nut pineapple ice cream, mochi 
ice cream or green tea cheese -
cake. On Valentine’s Day, the res -
taurant will also be giving away a 
limited quantity of Godiva choco -
lates on a first-come first-serve 
basis. You won’t regret choos -
ing Arashi Yama, where you and 
your date can enjoy dishes that 
are pleasing to the eye and the 
stomach. 
Arashi Yama is open from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 
9:30 p.m. on Valentine’s Day. 
The Standard rooftop pool and 
Piesano’s Stone Fired Pizza: Dinner 
with a view
By Jared T eitel
A night under the stars is no -
where more perfect than upon 
the rooftop of one of Gainesville’s 
luxury student apartments, The 
Standard. The apartment build -
ing located at the corner of West 
University Avenue is home to two 
rooftop pools and jacuzzis with 
access provided to residents and friends of. Warm fire pits offer a 
romantic atmosphere of roasting 
sweet marshmallows fit for a Val -
entine’s Day treat. 
Piesano’s Stone Fired Pizza, a 
polite Italian restaurant, sits feet 
away from The Standard. No bet -
ter way to enjoy a night out at 
the pool than indulging in a take-
out meal of meatball and ricotta 
pizza pie or an Italian sausage 
calzone. Oh, and don’t forget the 
complementary oil-dripping Pie -
sano’s rolls that go with it! 
For football fans, a high-rise 
swim at a cozy residential com -
plex with a Monday-night game 
projected on the built-in mega -
screen is a must-do with your 
Valentine’s Day date. If watching 
the game isn’t your style, you can 
also admire the glowing land -
scape of Midtown’s strip from the 
pool deck that looks below.
Arcade Bar: Late night Valentine’s 
Day fun
By Alexis Carson
Drinks and pin ball are the 
perfect way to spend the night 
with your special someone. Ar -
cade Bar’s convenient location situated in the heart of Gaines -
ville’s nightlife delivers just that. 
Ideal for couples 21 and up, the 
three-story building has all differ -
ent types of entertainment to im -
press your valentine. With classic 
games such as skeeball, arcade 
basketball and Pac-Man.
Losers have to buy drinks!
You can go upstairs to the 
bar and dance floor, dancing the 
night away. Cutouts of famous 
celebrities decorate the walls 
including Kid Rock, Prince and 
Carrie Fisher dressed as Princess 
Leia. 
As the night progresses, cou -
ples can move their conversa -
tions to the lounge areas, which 
look like secluded booths located 
next to the dance floor and the 
vintage arcade games.   
Liquid Ginger, Hear Again Records 
and The Hyppo: A pleasant stroll 
through downtown Gainesville
By Aurora Jiménez Castro
Sushi makes for a great date, a 
simple sushi roll being fresh and 
light enough to leave room for 
dessert. Downtown Gainesville 
holds the mecca of sushi in Gainesville: Liquid Ginger. The 
local spot is a no-frills classic and 
casual sushi spot, serving a range 
of meals from a first-rate miso 
soup to massive sushi boats.  
Located in the heart of down -
town, Liquid Ginger serves as an 
ideal spot for an early dinner. 
Less than a block away is your 
after-dinner treat: Hear Again Re -
cords. Wall-to-wall vinyl, both 
old and new, fill the storefront. 
This is the perfect place to browse 
and get lost in with a date, with 
endless conversation starters and 
music for everyone. It's a great 
place to bond and possibly snag 
a last-minute gift for your Valen -
tine.
Finally, you can end your 
night with dessert at The Hyp -
po, a gourmet popsicle store, 
about two blocks away from 
Hear Again. The small popsicle 
bar has flavors ranging from the 
classics like strawberry to un -
conventional flavors like Mexi -
can Hot Chocolate. Downtown 
Gainesville serves as the perfect 
vessel to grab food, shop and en -
joy the cool weather this Valen -
tine’s Day.The best Valentine’s Day date spots in Gainesville
AVENUE RECOMMENDATIONSAVENUE RECOMMENDATIONS
Ashleigh Lucas / / Alligator Staff
A worker at Zeezenia International Market delivers Mediterranean food to a customer on 
Friday, Feb. 11.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.PERSPECTIVES
GYMNASTICSPROMINENT COACHES ARE IN FAVOR 
OF KEEPING KELLY RAE FINLEY
By Caleb Wiegandt
Sports Writer
Competing in the SEC under the duress 
Florida’s women’s basketball program has 
been through in the past year should be virtu -
ally impossible. 
Despite the noise, Kelly Rae Finley has the 
Gators not only winning, but thriving. 
The interim head coach’s trial season is 
deep into SEC play, and to the surprise of 
many, the Gators are blowing past expecta -
tions in a league they were expected to place 
11th in. Florida’s success over the past two 
months has the team on the verge of locking 
up its first NCAA Tournament bid in six years. 
Finley’s path to guiding the program, at 
least for the time being, is filled with turmoil 
and controversy. 
Former head coach Cameron Newbaeur 
resigned last summer after a woeful four 
years leading the Gators. A September report 
made national news as it unveiled the abu -
sive culture Newbauer created in his time in 
Gainesville. 
A five-year UF staffer and former associ -ate head coach, Finley was named the interim 
solution to the Gators’ problem. Florida ath -
letic director Scott Strickin chose her to lead 
the troubled program through the ensuing 
season.
Florida’s 2021-22 campaign wasn’t always 
smooth sailing. Early on, the Gators lost non-
conference games to Towson and George 
Mason. Then came the sudden departure of 
Lavender Briggs to Maryland via transfer Jan. 
20. However, since the start of the new year, 
Finley has flipped the script, and her Gators 
are stacking wins. 
Finley continues to make a case to retain 
her job, but she’s not the only one; Even op -
posing SEC coaches, in victory and defeat, 
have advocated for Finley’s permanent instal -
lation.
Louisiana State head coach Kim Mulkey 
is known for her fiery personality. It’s some -
thing she’s built a reputation for long before 
she arrived in Baton Rouge this season.
That fire was on display when Florida de -
feated Mulkey’s then-No. 11 Tigers 73-72 Jan. 
23. A game-high 35 points from LSU guard 
Khayla Pointer wasn’t enough to combat 
Gators Jordyn Merritt, Kiki Smith and Zippy 
Broughton combining for 53. 
In a Feb. 6 press conference, Mulkey praised Finley with that fire unprompted, call -
ing for her hiring at UF before another job 
comes knocking for the 36-year-old coach.
“I don’t understand why that girl hadn’t 
been named the head coach yet,” Mulkey 
said. “I don’t know her, but I know what I 
see.”
Mulkey’s not alone in that sentiment.
After getting eked out in the final seconds 
by Broughton’s heroics Feb. 6, Georgia head 
coach Joni Taylor also had strong words 
about Finley. 
“I’ve been asked a few times what’s the 
difference,” Taylor said in a press conference 
clip. “Kelly Rae Finley is the difference.”
The gutsy road win over the Bulldogs 
was the performance that finally vaulted the 
Gators into the Associated Press Top-25. 
If not outwardly praising Finley by name, 
other coaches have lauded her team’s perfor -
mance and the way she’s put Florida in a po -
sition to climb the SEC standings.
Finley’s team blistered national power -
house Tennessee 84-59 Feb. 3. The victory 
stands as UF’s largest win over a top-10 op -
ponent in school history. The Gators out -
rebounded the nation’s best rebounding 
team, leaving Tennessee head coach Kellie 
Harper perplexed. “I knew going in this is honestly, watching 
them play, one of the best teams in the SEC,” 
Harper said in a press conference clip. “I think 
they’re that good, and they’re getting better.”
Even after a game where the nation’s top 
team, South Carolina, snapped Florida’s five-
game SEC win streak, Gamecocks head coach 
Dawn Staley commended Finley’s body of 
work. She hinted at a new era coming, one 
where the Gators become a contender again 
with each following season.
“It’s just a matter of time,” Staley said. 
“She’s got ‘em rolling.”
In Finley’s year as an interim, she has Flor -
ida poised to put not just the SEC on notice, 
but the whole college basketball landscape. 
Gator fans can finally circle March on their 
calendars as meaningful again. 
However, the decision still lies in Strick -
lin’s hands. After all the losing and irrelevan -
cy, compounded by a scandal, Florida wom -
en’s hoops has suffered in recent years. The 
Gator faithful now wait to see if Stricklin will 
keep a rare winner on campus. 
If it were up to Finley’s peers, the decision 
would already be made.
@CalebWiegandt
cwiegandt@alligator.org
By Madeline Lawson
Sports Writer 
A sold-out crowd inside the 
Stephen C. O’Connell Center saw 
double when glancing upon the 
center-hung jumbotron heading to 
the final rotation. Florida Gators 
and Louisiana State Tigers were in 
a dead heat at 148.350.
Seniors Trinity Thomas and 
Nya Reed knew the pressure was 
on. They knew the score was tied 
when the Gators rotated to the 
floor. 
Florida brought its best when it 
was needed most. 
“I wasn’t worried,” Thomas 
added.
A 49.800 floor rotation score, 
including a perfect-10 from Reed 
and a 9.975 from Thomas, was the 
second-highest team score on the 
floor in program history.
UF defeated LSU 198.150-
197.852 Friday night in a top-five 
matchup filled with star power. 
The Gators’ third consecutive 
home meet with a SEC rival 
was a hot ticket and celebrated Florida Women’s Athletics 50th 
Anniversary. A packed student 
section played a large part in 
selling out the O’Dome but not 
everyone was there just to support 
the Gators.
Some attendees swooned over 
TikTok sensation and LSU gymnast 
Olivia Dunne. The sophomore 
competed in just one rotation, the 
uneven bars, but stole the hearts 
of many UF students in the crowd. 
Her social media presence of 
4.8 million TikTok followers and 
1.5 million Instagram followers 
drew in more than just gymnastics 
fans. Her talent and charm bring 
in more male spectators during 
every Tiger road meet as they try 
to be noticed by Dunne. 
Signs in the audience invited 
Dunne out on a date to Gainesville 
staple Piesanos and even on 
an upcoming fraternity formal 
trip. When the Valentine’s Day 
aspirations were put to rest, all 
those in attendance got to see a 
fiery meet. 
Florida’s been hot all season 
and the team seems to have a knack for breaking records. The 
Gators earned the third-highest 
team total in the nation this year.
Freshman Leanne Wong 
earned her second all-around title 
after having a tremendous night, 
starting with a career-high 9.900 
on vault. 
After the second rotation, 
Florida led the Tigers by only one 
hundredth of a point before facing 
the beam. 
Wong was captivating on the 
beam and tied her career-high 
with a 9.925. Senior Leah Clapper 
closed out the event, sticking her 
landing and winning the apparatus 
with a 9.950. 
The drama hit its peak as 
the night neared an end. Six 
performances from each team 
remained as the meet’s results 
hung in the balance.
“I thought it made it just a 
little bit more fun, to be honest,” 
Thomas said. 
Graduate student Megan 
Skaggs, who elected to return for 
a fifth season after being granted 
extra eligibility due to COVID-19,  took to the floor first for the 
Gators and put up a 9.900, setting 
the tone for her teammates. 
“I actually told [Skaggs] after 
floor how grateful this team is to 
have her here with us for another 
year,” UF Gymnastics head coach 
Jenny Rowland said. 
Wong went on to record 
another career-high on the night, 
a 9.975 on floor. 
Reed posted her second 
perfect 10 on floor this year after 
attacking her tumbling passes 
with tremendous power and 
height. She told UF assistant 
coach Adrian Burde it wouldn’t be 
her last.
“I can’t get complacent, I want 
another one,” Reed said. “I also 
[told Burde] I want to be a national 
champion on floor as well.” 
The Tigers didn’t go down 
without a fight and kept it close 
until the very end. Freshman 
Aleah Finnegan earned a career-
high 9.900 on floor while freshman 
KJ Johnson tied her career-high 
with a 9.950. 
Florida nearly went off course early in the evening, after an 
off-night from freshman Sloane 
Blakely led to her first three scores 
being dropped. The Frisco, Texas, 
native closed out on floor for the 
Gators, but her run served as a 
victory lap as the win was already 
secured. 
“Sloane is very determined,” 
Reed said. “She is a fighter.” 
Blakely had fun on the floor 
and put on a show that scored her 
a career-high 9.950. She left on a 
high note with something to build 
off of as she looks forward to the 
next meet. 
“I believe my athletes when 
they say ‘I got this,’” Rowland said 
of Blakely’s confidence before her 
floor routine. 
The Gators will hit the road 
Feb. 18 to take on another elite 
SEC opponent, No.10 Kentucky. 
The meet is set to begin at 6 
p.m. and will broadcast on SEC 
Network.
@MadsLaws
mlawson@alligator.orgWho will be hoops’ new head coach? SEC coaches think Stricklin’s move is obvious
No. 4 Florida Gymnastics edges out win over No. 5 LSU
The Gators had the third highest team total in the nation this year16   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREMEN’S BASKETBALL
By Jesse Richardson
Sports Writer
Saturday afternoon was an Os -
car Tsheibwe extravaganza. 
The 6-foot-9-inch, 255-pound 
center made it clear that Lexington, 
Kentucky is his territory, claiming 
a game-high 19 boards and domi -
nating the paint to the tune of 27 
points. Tsheibwe was the story of 
the game notching his 19th double-
double of the season. 
Florida (16-8, 6-6) was blown 
out by No. 5 Kentucky (21-4, 10-
2), 72-55. The loss snapped a four-
game win streak and now fall to 
1-9 against top-25 ranked oppo -
nents in 2022. 
Friday, the team was placed 
among the “First Four Out” for 
the NCAA Tournament accord -
ing to bracketologist Joe Lunardi. 
The 21-point loss Saturday places 
Florida on the outside looking in. 
They will need a major late-season 
turnaround to reignite their tourna -
ment hopes. 
The Gators have been on a roll -
er coaster of emotions throughout 
the season. They downed an at-
the-time No. 20 FSU Nov. 14, then 
guard Tyree Appleby placed a dag -
ger heard around the world against Ohio State Nov. 24. 
Florida reeled off  a short spurt 
of high-quality wins, but three con -
secutive losses to No. 15 Alabama, 
No. 9 Auburn and No. 12 LSU 
dampened their hopes for a post -
season campaign.
Florida head coach Mike White 
said he felt a lack of consistency 
from his squad throughout the 
matchup.
“The biggest key to the game for 
us was starting the game with less 
urgency and less communication 
level than needed,” White said. 
The seventh-year head coach 
believed his team fell behind in the 
frontcourt, playing catch-up with 
the consistent Kentucky offense.
Florida (45.1%) outshot Ken -
tucky (46.3) and managed to win 
the turnover battle. The Wildcats 
commanded every other statisti -
cal category; however, including 
rebounds, points in the paint and 
steals.
All seemed lost within the first 
five minutes of action when the 
Wildcats raced out to a 20-8 advan -
tage. UF senior forward Colin Cas -
tleton notched three-consecutive 
baskets, including two mid-range 
jumpers, to keep the Gators within 
reach, but the rest of the squad struggled to score early.
Eventually, the Gators would 
claw back with a 15-2 run, ignited 
by 3-point buckets from forwards 
CJ Felder and Anthony Duruji. 
Mid-range efforts by guards Kowa -
cie Reeves and Brandon McKissic 
would also fall to cut the overbear -
ing deficit. 
To Florida’s dismay, the glim -
mer of hope left just as it arrived.
Kentucky found its footing again 
and returned to running the offense 
through Tshiebwe. The Wildcat big 
commanded both the paint and 
Castleton for all 40 minutes, re -
bounding misses and cashing in 
numerous second-chance baskets.
Castleton recognized Tshiebwe 
as one of the best centers in the 
country and highlighted the impor -
tance of second-chance points.
“[Rebounds are] everything. 
Extra possessions, extra time in 
a game and more opportunity to 
score the ball,” Castleton said. 
“[Tshiebwe] does a good job of 
that. He’s probably the best re -
bounder I’ve ever played against.”
The 22-21 score, with 6:37 re -
maining in the first half was the 
closest it got.  The conference rivals 
traded haymakers before heading 
to the locker room. Kentucky reen -tered Rupp Arena with newfound 
energy. Florida forgot to refuel its 
gas tank.
The Wildcats launched a 14-6 
run while keeping the pressure 
down low, making it impossible for 
Florida rebounders to outreach the 
everlasting grasp of Tshwiebe. 
A win over Kentucky became a 
daydream, but Florida would find 
small embers of momentum with 
more 3-pointers from Penn State transfer Myreon Jones late in the 
game.
Florida continues a two-game 
road trip with a venture to College 
Station, Texas, to take on the Texas 
A&M Aggies Tuesday. Tipoff is set 
for 7 p.m. and will broadcast to the 
SEC Network.
@JesseRich352
jrichardson@alligator.orgFlorida hoops gets trampled by No. 5 Kentucky
Sammy Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Before heading north to face Kentucky on Saturday, Colin Castleton 
led UF to victory over UGA Jan. 9 with 13 points and nine rebounds.
Gators road trip to Lexington ends in 21-point failure