We Inform. You Decide. www.alligator.org
Not officially associated with the University of Florida Published by Campus Communications, Inc. of Gainesville, Florida
SPORTS/SPECIAL/CUTOUT
Story description finish with comma,  pg#Driver in Maggie Paxton hit-and-run tries to change plea
He unsuccessfully tried to plead no contest,  pg. 8
UF Jewish community celebrates Shabbat
Students make find family away from home,  pg. 7NFL teams scout out Gators
UF opened its doors to 28 NFL clubs last 
Monday. Read more on pgs. 6 & 12
MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022 VOLUME 116 ISSUE 29
FOLLOW US ONLINE FOR UPDATES
@FloridaAlligator       @TheAlligator_       @TheAlligator      @thefloridaalligator
By Maia Botek
Alligator Staff Writer
This semester, UF’s Senate 
continues a trend of passing 
fewer legislation compared to 
previous years.
Every Tuesday evening on the 
ground floor of the Reitz Union, 
the UF Student Government 
Senate meets to discuss and vote 
on legislation. 
During meetings, some 
Senators play computer games 
like Octagon, do homework in 
Canvas or scroll through social 
media. 
Seven bills have passed this 
semester and seven bills were 
passed last semester, compared 
to 19 last Spring.
The Senate once held lively 
debates and weighed issues 
like the impeachment of former 
Student Body President Michael 
Murphy and the interpretation of 
the Student Body constitution. 
Of the seven bills passed this 
semester, two made changes 
to SG’s structure, two revised 
SG’s codes with clarifications 
and three were resolutions, also 
known as statements of support.
One of the bills, SSB 2022-
1000, authored by former 
Pro-Tempore Noah Fineberg, removed the power of other SG 
members except for Senators and 
the Student Body President, Vice 
President or Treasurer to author 
or support legislation. 
Another dissolved the Internal 
Affairs agency and transferred 
responsibilities to the Senate and 
Student Body President as well 
as increasing resources for the 
Student Body Treasurer’s office. 
SSB 2022-1006 was authored by 
Judiciary Committee Chair John 
Brinkman.
In the most recent Senate 
meeting Tuesday, Change and 
Gator Senators worked together 
to sponsor and pass a resolution 
condemning Florida’s “Don’t 
Say Gay” bill, though Senators 
debated specific clauses in the 
bill.
Change Senators hoped to see 
a clause included that recognized 
the University of Florida’s 
transgressions against the 
LGBTQ community, specifically 
through the Johns Committee, 
which sought, interrogated and 
removed students and faculties 
from campus. Gator Party 
Senators struck it down, and the 
clause was not included.
Another bill was a resolution UF Senate passed few bills this semester
By Gregorio Ruiz-Perez
Alligator Staff Writer
As cars drove past University Avenue, 
many honked their horns to support 
graduate assistants who were advocating 
for wage increases. People marched, 
chanted, held signs and used chalk to 
leave their message at Tigert Hall Friday. 
Graduate Assistants United at UF 
protested for increased wages after delayed 
attempts at bargaining. GAU normally 
reopens salary negotiations with UF at the 
beginning of every Fall semester, but the 
university has since delayed a deal twice, 
each for 90 days.
About 70 people showed up for support, including City Commissioner David 
Arreola, and a few attendees walked up 
the building's stairs to give speeches on 
their struggles. For two hours, attendees 
chanted phrases like “Top 5 school, Top 
5 pay” and “gator pay bites” in hopes the 
university administration would agree to 
another bargaining session. 
UF and GAU didn’t make a wage 
increase deal by March 30. Instead, the 
university informed GAU Thursday that it 
would need a second delay lasting another 
three months to work out the numbers. 
It’s a stalling tactic, said July Thomas, a 
30-year-old UF physics graduate assistant 
and mayoral candidate. The university’s 
refusing to meet in hopes that people lose interest.  
“What they're trying to do is they think 
if they wait long enough, it'll lose steam, 
and they're just making the situation worse 
for themselves,” Thomas said. “Especially 
now that the inflation is through the roof.”
Thomas has been an assistant in the 
college of physics for six years, but their 
pay increases have been basically flat, 
making them maintain a strict budget. 
However, rising housing costs and food 
prices have made it difficult for them to 
manage. 
UF cannot do anything about inflation, 
but it can at least help meet basic needs in 
the interim, they said.
The GAU initially asked for $38,833 salary but has come down to $29,450, 
which would cost UF an estimated $10.7 
million, said Esteban Rodofili, a 30-year-
old graduate assistant and GAU’s chief 
bargine.
The wage increase would amount to 
less than 0.5% of the $2,458,870 million 
spent by UF in employee compensation 
and benefits.
Based on the MIT living wage 
calculator, single adults living in Alachua 
County need $31,695 to have what is 
considered a living wage. The minimum 
stipend that graduate assistants receive at 
UF is $21,333, which is more than $10,000 
below the livable wage. 
The wage GAU is asking for is based 
on the minimum pay graduate assistants 
at the University of Georgia receive. The 
group chose UGA based on location — UF graduate assistants protest for better wagesLeo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
Meera Sitharam, UF professor of computer science and engineering, discusses the importance of 
academic freedom at #FreeUF Academic Freedom Day on Wednesday, March 30. Read more on pg. 2
 SEE SENATE,  PAGE 4
SEE PROTEST,  PAGE 4Seven bills have been passed this 
semester compared to 19 last Spring
About 70 protesters chanted for increased pay outside Tigert HallT oday’s WeatherPROFESSORS, STUDENTS 
SPOKE ABOUT ONGOING 
ISSUES TO GAIN MORE 
SUPPORT AND AWARENESS
By Elena Barrera 
Alligator Staff Writer 
 Echoes of grievances from eight 
UF professors rang out across the 
Plaza of The Americas Wednesday 
morning. 
Students and professors from the 
Free UF Coalition banded together to 
host a teach-in event to inform pass -
ersby about the university’s academic 
freedom struggles. 
Eight professors spoke out in 
November about their rights being 
barred by the university, raising ques -
tions about the institution’s indepen -
dence from the state government. 
Since then, students and faculty 
have been working to spark change 
around the campus. The United Fac -
ulty of Florida, UF Young Democratic 
Socialists of America, UF College 
Democrats and the United Campus 
Workers organized the coalition and 
the outdoor event.
Ten speakers stood at the center 
of Plaza to talk about the history of 
academic freedom at UF and ways 
to help protect professors’ academic 
integrity. 
The event’s central location at -
tracted students to take a pause from 
their day and listen to a few minutes 
of the speakers’ speeches. Coalition 
members also stood on the outskirts 
of the event passing out flyers ready 
to educate anyone willing to listen. 
A professors’ speech boom -
ing over the portable sound system caught 21-year-old statistics junior 
Francesca Carbone’s attention. Car -
bone, who is on the College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences student council, 
said academic freedom was a major 
discussion in the Fall.
Faculty members wanted to meet 
with CLAS student council to hear 
from students, many of whom were 
on the professors’ side. The faculty 
was happy to have their support and 
know they weren’t alone, she said. 
“Professors are the ones teaching 
us,” she said. “I would like them to 
not be censored in what they believe 
they should be teaching. What’s the 
point of coming to a public university 
if they’re going to be censored about 
what they’re supposed to say?” 
Three student musicians per -
formed in between the speakers. Or -
ganizers wanted to include live music 
to draw people in and bring the three-
hour event to life, said Allan Frasheri, 
president of the UF Young Democrat -
ic Socialists of America.
Frasheri and the vice president of 
YDSA recently went to the Student 
Government chambers to talk about 
the administration’s censorship of 
faculty. It was clear the majority of 
UF Senators had no idea what he was 
talking about, he said.
“When the people who are elect -
ed to represent you don’t even know 
what’s going on, that’s harming your 
interests,” he said. 
Frasheri said this issue is just as 
important for students. He talked 
about how professors’ academic in -
tegrity affects them in the classroom.
Infringements on professors’ free -
dom harms students’ ability to take 
classes they want and devalues aca -
demic degrees by degrading the repu -
tation of the university, he said. Just as much as students need to 
take a stand, Frasheri said the admin -
istration should protest pressure from 
the state legislature more.
“They should actively oppose for -
eign interference, like political influ -
ence, on our university, especially 
when it goes against the mission of 
the university,” he said.
The issue at hand, he said, is that 
the administration is self-regulating 
themselves to avoid conflict with the 
state. 
“I would say morale is low,” said 
Steven Kirn, a UFF and retired faculty 
member. “There is fear, and there is 
a sense that it’s smarter to put your 
head down.”  
Anything that takes away from the 
pursuit of the truth and knowledge 
has a detrimental effect on students 
and learning, Kirn said. 
Part of the learning process in -
volves putting students outside of 
their comfort zone, he said, but leg -
islation is preventing professors from 
teaching topics that might make 
someone uncomfortable. 
“That stifles what university edu -
cation is supposed to be about,” he 
said. 
If professors are constantly wor -
ried about whether they can say, 
teach or research certain topics, it 
creates an unhealthy environment, 
he said. 
This is not a new issue; it has his -
torical precedence, and UF has a long 
history of academic integrity viola -
tions, he said.
Hopefully the event helped people 
to see the importance of academic 
freedom and why the community 
needs to take a stand, he said.
“It’s not like you snap your fingers 
and suddenly you got a revolution,” 
he said. “It’s more like you start a fire 
here, you start a fire here and just 
like wildfires sometimes they grow 
together, and then you got a move -
ment. So, this is our little small fire.”
@elenabarreraaa
ebarrera@alligator.org
Subscription Rate:  
Full Year (All Semesters)  $60The Alligator  offices are located at 2700 SW 
13th St. © Copyright 2020. All rights reserved. 
No portion of The Alligator  may be reproduced 
in any means without the written consent of 
an officer of Campus Communications Inc.The Independent Florida Alligator  is a student 
newspaper serving the University of Florida, 
published by a nonprofit 501 (c)(3) educational 
organization, Campus Communications 
Inc., P .O. Box 14257, Gainesville, Florida, 
32604-2257. The Alligator  is published 
Monday mornings, except during holidays 
and exam periods. The Alligator  is a member 
of the Newspaper Association of America, 
National Newspaper Association, Florida 
Press Association and Southern University 
Newspapers.Not officially associated with the University of Florida
Published by Campus Communications Inc., of Gainesville, FloridaISSN 0889-2423
The Alligator strives to be accurate and clear in its news reports and editorials. 
If you find an error, please call our newsroom at 352-376-4458 
or email editor@alligator.org
Have an event planned?
Add it to the  alligator ’s 
online calendar:
alligator.org/calendar2   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
    Got something going on?  Want to see it on this page? Send an email with “What’s 
Happening” in the subject line to engagement@alligator.org . T o request publication in the next 
day’s newspaper, please submit entries before 5 p.m. Please model your submissions after the 
above events and keep them to 150 words or fewer. Improperly formatted “What’s Happening” 
submissions may not appear in the paper. Press releases will not appear in the paper.VOLUME 116 ISSUE 29 Free UF Coalition hosts teach-
in on academic freedom
352-376-4458 NEWSROOM:
352-376-4482 DISPLAY ADVERTISING
Advertising Office Manager
Intern Coordinator
Sales RepresentativesCheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
Sophia Handley, Emily Gamble, Maya Naim
352-376-4482 • info@sparkitcreative.org SparkIt Creative  Advertising
SparkIt TeamManaging Director
Aarin Rutkin, Adriana Colón, Dalia Rubinowicz,
Jenny Gomez, Levi D'Amato, Maria Vanderbilt,
Melanie Peña, Nazil Ahmed, Samadu Adeyemi,
Sammy Fadool, William Chen, Skyler DavisSkyler Davis
352-373-3463 CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Classified Advertising Manager Ellen Light, elight@alligator.org
352-376-4446 BUSINESS
Administrative Assistant Ellen Light,  elight@alligator.orgComptroller Delia Kradolfer, dkradolfer@alligator.org
Bookkeeper Cheryl del Rosario, cdelrosario@alligator.org
352-376-4446 ADMINISTRATION
General Manager Shaun O'Connor, soconnor@alligator.org
Administrative Assistant Lenora McGowan, lmcgowan@alligator.org
President Emeritus C.E. Barber, cebarber@alligator.org
SYSTEMS
IT System Engineer Kevin Hart
PRODUCTION
Production Manager Jordan Bourne, jbourne@alligator.org
Publication Manager Deion McLeod, dmcleod@alligator.orgEngagement Managing EditorEditor-In-Chief
Digital Managing Editor
Features & Investigative Editor
Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editors
Editorial Board
Opinions EditorPhotography Editor
Graphic Design Editor
the Avenue EditorMetro Editor
University Editor
Copy Desk Chief Lydia Parker, lparker@alligator.orgMakiya Seminera, mseminera@alligator.orgSara Lindsay, slindsay@alligator.orgAlan Halaly, ahalaly@alligator.org
Jake Reyes, jreyes@alligator.orgJesse Richardson, jrichardson@alligator.org
Joseph Henry,  jhenry@alligator.org
Carson Cashion,  ccashion@alligator.org
Lianna Hubbard, Asta Hemenway, 
Anna Wilder, Sara LindsayJiselle Lee, jlee@alligator.org
Julia Coin, jcoin@alligator.orgAnna Wilder, awilder@alligator.orgAsta Hemenway, ahemenway@alligator.orgLianna Hubbard, lhubbard@alligator.org
Kalia Richardson, krichardson @alligator.org
352.284.3016WRAPS 
SIGNS
GRAPHICS 
Leo Ramsey-Watson / / Alligator Staff
Rachel Hartnett, a 34-year-old English graduate student, and Bryn
T aylor, a 25-year-old rehabilitation science graduate student, pose for
a photo at the #FreeUF teach-in on Wednesday, March 30.
MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022   ALLIGATOR   3 
Learn more about all of Tobacco Free Florida’s tools  NEW!
Quit tobacco with virtual Group Quit.
There’s never been a more important time to quit. 
Free, expert-led online  sessions are now availabl e for all Florida residen ts,
regardless of insurance status. Upon class completion, participants are eligible
to receive free nicotine replacement therapy such as gum, patches or lozenges.*
For more information on virtual Group Quit classes, contact:
352-273-5224
*if medically appropriate for those 18 years of age or older
 ealth  Ed
Centers (AHEC) gr
UNIVERSITY of FLORIDA
4   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022supporting Black History Month 
and the third upheld Gainesville’s 
zero waste initiative. All three 
resolutions were authored by 
Change Senators.
While Senator Santiago has 
successfully authored legislation, 
some of the reason why bills 
and amendments aren’t being 
heard is because the Gator-Party-
controlled judiciary committee 
blocks them before they reach 
the chamber, he said. 
The Judiciary Committee is 
a subdivision of the Senate that 
hears legislation prior to Tuesday meetings. The committee decides 
if a bill is constitutional and if the 
Senate will vote on it. Currently, 
all committee members are part 
of Gator Party. 
This semester, the Judiciary 
Committee blocked legislation 
like a resolution against false 
information pertaining to 
COVID-19.
At Sunday's committee 
meeting, a resolution supporting 
the restructuring of the RTS 
bus app, which students have 
complained about, was postponed 
indefinitely. The legislation was 
written by Change Senator Grace 
Shoemaker.
“The Judiciary Committee just kills legislation that have merits,” 
Santiago said. “So legislation 
that we want to pass never gets 
proper debate.”
Senator Brinkman didn’t 
respond to requests for comment 
about the Judiciary Committee's 
decision to veto legislation or 
how many bills have passed in 
time for publication. 
Bills that are postponed 
indefinitely cannot be introduced 
again to the Senate until after the 
next election.
For other leaders in the 
chamber, like Majority Party 
Leader Emily Pecora, being 
involved with legislation is 
the reason why she wanted to become involved in the Senate. 
“I hope to inspire senators 
to talk to their constituents and 
work with their fellow senators to 
solve problems on campus,” she 
wrote in an email. “My ultimate 
goal is to make UF a place where 
every student on campus feels 
like they belong.”
Senate President Elizabeth 
Hartzog and Pro-Tempore Olivia 
Green also made promises 
when elected to strengthen 
relationships between the parties 
and representation of students. 
Hartzog described plans for 
tabling, where students could 
interact with the Senators that 
represent them.When asked specifically about 
the amount of legislation that 
has passed this semester, Pecora, 
Green and Hartzog did not 
respond in time for publication. 
Students who would like to 
make public comment, which is 
a five-minute speaking period 
open to anyone in the student 
body during Senate meetings, 
can submit requests to the Senate 
President and Secretary until 24 
hours before the meeting. 
The next Senate meeting will 
be held in the Senate Chamber at 
7:30 p.m. on April 5 and two bills 
are up for first reading.
@BotekMaia
mbotek@alligator.orgAthens has comparable living costs to 
Gainesville. Previously, the union had also 
asked for $34,794, which is the minimum 
pay at the University of Michigan, a school 
closer to UF in university rankings. 
“There have been delays, but I have 
confidence that we can reach a deal,” 
Rodofili said. “We’re all Gators here, and 
there is no reason for 29% of GA’s not to 
be able to buy groceries.”
The last time UF administration and GAU met was at a bargaining session at 
the end of February, where about 100 
people questioned the university on its 
intent to provide increased wages. Soon 
after, the GAU held a protest in response 
to the lack of seriousness, said Meridith 
Miska, the 36-year-old co-president of the 
GAU and geology graduate assistant.
“We really are just here to get UF at the 
table to tell them to stop delaying,” Miska 
said. “We really just want to be able to 
pay for the things that we need to live our basic lives.”
Bryn Taylor, a 25-year-old graduate 
assistant in rehabilitation science and 
communication chair, said UF has given 
just one proposal since the bargaining 
session began. It included a one-time 
flat raise of $1,300 but would also get 
rid of the non-tuition fee relief that the 
university provides. It would be a raise of 
around $60 a month, Taylor said. 
“Why the hell would we do that?” 
Taylor said. “People aren't gonna improve their living conditions with 60 bucks a 
month — people aren't gonna be able to 
see the doctor with 60 bucks a month.”
GAU is asking for a minimum wage 
increase to help the graduate assistants 
at the bottom who are making starvation 
wages, Taylor said. But a one-time raise 
that expires when the current union is 
gone isn’t enough.
“Do you want your teachers to not be 
able to feed themselves?” Taylor said. 
“Do you want your teachers to have to 
use food stamps? Do you want them to 
have to take out thousands of dollars of 
loans every year, to be able to afford their 
basic expenses — all of that is going to 
come back into their productivity and the 
quality of work that they do.”
Kasey Pham, a 26-year-old biology 
graduate assistant, is at UF on a fellowship 
and is paid around $31,000 a year. 
“I’m glad that I’m not being paid the 
minimum,” Pham said. “That’s the reason 
why I can actually afford to live here at all, 
and anybody who’s being paid anything 
below that is struggling right now.”
Ashley Hamersma, a 24-year-old 
biology graduate assistant, gets paid the 
minimum wage and has found it difficult to 
afford her medical expenses and housing. 
“I very much consider dropping out of 
my program because it is so stressful to 
find housing that has a price that I can 
actually deal with,” Hamersma said.
In the apartment she rented last year 
she paid $850, but it lacked heating and 
was advertised as a 1 bedroom apartment 
when it really was a studio. Now in 
her new apartment, she has dealt with 
flooding, cockroaches and mold, which 
she’s allergic to. It got so bad that she had 
to move into a friend's place.
Her medical issues have also increased 
her cost of living expenses as well.
“I have a chronic illness as well as 
ADHD, and both of those things are really 
difficult to deal with on the stipend we’re 
given,” Hamersma said.  
Her medication is difficult to afford 
because her university insurance only 
offers a couple providers meaning she 
cannot doctor shop. 
“I've just had a very stressful time 
actually affording everything and jumping 
through all the hoops that I've had to, 
with research, with teaching, with other 
work and with this unpaid stuff I do for 
the department,” Hamersma said.
@GregRuizPerez1
gruiz-perez@alligator.orgGregorio Ruiz-Perez / / Alligator Staff
Members of the UF community protest for higher graduate assistant wages in front of Tigert Hall on Friday, April 1.
SENATE,  from pg. 1PROTEST,  from pg. 1
Senators before the pandemic held lively debates, passed more billsUF stalled wage negotiations for  a second timeLUNES, 4 DE ABRIL DE 2022
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman
Síganos para actualizaciones
Para obtener actualizaciones de El 
Caima ́n, síganos en l ínea en
www.alligator.org/section/elcaiman.UF encourages vaccination with art
Portraits,  murals educate students on COVID-19. Read more on pg. 8El Caimán
Mantente al d ía con 
El Caima ́n en Twitter.
Envíanos un tweet 
@alligatorElCaiman. 
A University of Florida Graduate Student
with Journalism Experience
(unpaid member of the board of directors)
For an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Monday, April 11th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The Alligator 
by Monday, April 11th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN ABSOLUTE 
DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by the Board of 
Directors will be held on Friday, April 15th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be a graduate student at the 
University of Florida. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator. The Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following position:
Campus Communications, Inc. is an Equal Opportunity EmployerThe Board of Directors of Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of:
&
announces the opening of the following positions for the SUMMER semester:
Current openings:
EDITOR
A paid position as head of the 
Editorial Division and as an unpaid 
member of the Board of Directors
 
ENGAGEMENT MANAGING EDITOR
AND
DIGITAL MANAGING EDITOR
Paid positions and unpaid 
members of the Board of Directors
Campus Communications, Inc. is 
an Equal Opportunity EmployerFor an application, email Alligator General 
Manager Shaun O’Connor at soconnor@alligator.
org, Tuesday through Friday between 10 a.m. and 
4 p.m. from now until Monday, April 11th. No phone 
calls, please. 
The application must be returned to The 
Alligator by Monday, April 11th at 4 p.m. THIS IS AN 
ABSOLUTE DEADLINE.  Interviews and selections by 
the Board of Directors will be held on Friday, April 
15th via Zoom. 
Applicants must be degree-seeking college 
or university students. Preference will be given to 
those who have experience with The Independent 
Florida Alligator.AMIGOS Y FAMILIARES 
ASISTIERON A LA AUDIENCIA 
EN APOYO A PAXTON
Por Troy Myers
Escritor del Caimán
Traducido Por Marian 
Hernandez
Escritora del Caimán
 
Más de cincuenta asistentes en 
persona y cuarenta espectadores en 
línea se reunieron en silencio en los 
minutos previos a la audiencia de 
cambio de declaración de culpabili -
dad de Joshua Figueroa el lunes por 
la mañana.
Figueroa está siendo acusado de 
matar a la estudiante de la UF, Mag -
gie Paxton, en un atropello y fuga que 
ocurrió el 9 de diciembre de 2020. 
Anteriormente se declaró inocente, 
pero decidió cambiar su declaración 
a no disputar, sin admitir ni negar la 
culpabilidad de los cargos.
El juez no aceptó el cambio de 
alegato con la sentencia mínima pro -
puesta por el abogado de Figueroa, 
Robert Rush. Figueroa, su madre, su 
padre y Rush se sentaron en silencio 
sin rechazo visible.
Los amigos y familiares de Paxton 
y los bomberos estaban sombríos 
cuando se presentaron en el juzgado 
penal del juez Stephen P. Mickle 
para escuchar las declaraciones del impacto de la víctima y la decisión 
del juez Phillip Pena sobre la declara -
ción de culpabilidad del acusado.
Figueroa y su abogado propu -
sieron la sentencia mínima, cumplir 
cuatro años con 10 años de libertad 
condicional después de un delito 
grave. No pudieron ser contactados 
para hacer comentarios.
Deborah Rothenburg, fiscal es -
tatal adjunta de la Oficina del Fiscal 
Estatal del Octavo Circuito Judicial, 
le dijo al juez que 10 años de liber -
tad condicional por un delito grave le 
permitirían al acusado demostrar si 
es una persona decente que cometió 
un error, o si es, de hecho, un crimi -
nal y que solo fue capturado esta vez.
La familia Paxton expresó en las 
declaraciones de los testigos de las 
víctimas que creen que el acusado 
debe rendir cuentas por completo, y 
el juez dijo que el tribunal tiene difi -
cultades para aceptar el cambio de 
declaración de culpabilidad.
Los asistentes se ofrecieron pa -
ñuelos entre sí. Algunos salieron de 
la sala del tribunal con lágrimas en 
los ojos cuando Rothenburg le infor -
mó al juez lo que sucedió la noche 
del accidente.
Rothenburg le dijo al juez Peña 
después de discutir con la familia 
que el estado no está de acuerdo con 
la declaración de culpabilidad, expre -
sada además por las declaraciones 
de impacto en la víctima del amigo 
de Paxton, Kylee Borg, la madre de 
Paxton, Lisa, la hermana de Paxton, Holly, y el padre de Paxton, Jim. El 
juez Peña dijo que el tribunal tam -
poco está de acuerdo.
Borg subió al estrado primero 
para compartir su declaración con 
respiraciones inestables y una voz 
vacilante.
Ella le dijo al juez que el acusado 
había cambiado la vida de todos para 
siempre y que es inaceptable que se 
permita que el acusado continúe 
participando en la sociedad mien -
tras ella y todos los afectados por la 
muerte de Maggie sobreviven.
Borg compartió con el juez Peña 
cuán cercanos eran Paxton y ella. 
Borg y Paxton, que en ese momento 
eran estudiantes de primer año de la 
UF, estuvieron cuatro meses juntas 
cuando se suponía que tendrían cu -
atro años más juntos en la universi -
dad, dijo Borg.
Terminó su declaración dicién -
dole al juez que quiere que Figueroa 
nunca olvide lo que le hizo a Paxton 
esa noche de diciembre de 2020.
Lisa Paxton caminó lentamente 
hacia el estrado, respirando profun -
damente en el camino. Comenzó su 
declaración diciéndole al juez que no 
ha vuelto ni volverá a ser la misma 
desde la noche en que mataron a su 
hija.
“La que me convirtió en mamá se 
ha ido para siempre”, dijo Lisa Pax -
ton.
El tiempo no ha aplacado el do -
lor ni el pedazo de su alma que le 
arrancaron, dijo entre lágrimas. Lisa compartió con todos que está en con -
stante angustia, desesperación y mie -
do paralizante de que algo le haya 
pasado a su hija menor o a alguien 
más a quien ama.
El 17 de marzo, dos estudiantes 
de la UF se vieron involucrados en at -
ropellos y fugas separadas con horas 
de diferencia. Mackenzie Mullen fue 
atropellada mientras conducía su 
pequeña moto en la avenida  Univer -
sity, a pocas cuadras de donde Mag -
gie fue atropellada, y sufrió heridas 
graves. Prateek Sharma fue atropel -
lado y asesinado por un conductor 
ebrio mientras caminaba por la acera 
en la calle Southwest 34th.
“Revivo esa noche todas las 
noches, imaginándomela tirada en la 
calle sola”, dijo Lisa Paxton.
Le dijo al juez Peña lo orgul -
losa que está de su hija y de todos 
sus logros, dirigiendo su atención a 
Figueroa y al puñado de personas 
que se presentaron por él. Señaló 
al acusado, a su madre y a su padre 
diciéndoles que no hay excusa ni dis -
culpa por lo que Figueroa le hizo a 
su hija. Los tres se sentaron estoica -
mente.
Lisa Paxton recordó los siete me -
ses que tomó la investigación del De -
partamento de Policía de Gainesville 
para encontrar a Figueroa y su vehí -
culo, que estaba escondido en el pa -
tio del taller mecánico de sus padres.
Terminó su declaración deseán -
dole algo a Figueroa.
“Espero que el acusado encuentre a Dios en prisión”, dijo Lisa Paxton. 
“Al menos una onza de Él”.
Holly Paxton, la hermana de Mag -
gie, abrió su declaración, mientras se 
limpiaba las lágrimas, con su recuer -
do de los hechos ocurridos la noche 
en que se notificó a su familia. Holly 
se despertó con los "gritos desgarra -
dores" de su madre y encontró a su 
padre abrazándola en el piso de su 
casa con dos policías parados afuera 
de la puerta principal.
Holly Paxton tiene recuerdos con -
stantes y pesadillas de esa noche, 
explicando al juez lo difícil que ha 
sido la vida para todos desde que el 
acusado mató a su hermana.
“Poner un pie en mi propia casa 
me hizo sentir mal”, dijo Holly Pax -
ton.
Ella le dijo al juez Peña cuán dife -
rente la tratan en la escuela, incluso 
acosada con preguntas personales in -
vasivas. Sollozaba hasta que le costó 
respirar, dijo.
“La definición de egoísta es falta 
de consideración por los demás”, 
dijo Holly Paxton. “Esto describe 
exactamente al acusado ante usted 
hoy”.
Las manos de Figueroa estaban 
en su regazo y su mirada caída.
Lee el resto en línea en 
alligator.org/section/elcaiman. 
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgEl conductor en el atropello y fuga de Maggie Paxton intenta cambiar su declaración, sin éxito6   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
PRO DAY
Florida football players aim to make statements at Pro Day
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Running back Dameon Pierce participated in various drills in front of NFL scouts Monday.Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Running back Malik Davis reaches out for a 39.5-inch vertical jump at Florida Pro Day.
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Defensive lineman Zachary Carter looks on between drills. 
Carter showed off his elite athleticism Monday.Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Linebacker Lancedrick Brunson at Florida Pro day. Brunson ran a 
five-second 40-yard dash and leapt 31 inches on the vertical jump.
Keep up with the 
Avenue on Twitter.
Tweet us 
@TheFloridaAve. 
MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/the_avenue
Florida men’s tennis prepped for championship
The team could snag another title this season, pg. 11
Scan to follow the Avenue on Spotify
UNDER NEW OWNERSHIP! vapecompanyWE CARRY  : CBD • DELTA 8 • KRATOM
MUST BE 21 AND UP WITH VALID ID• MEDICAL MARIJUANA SUPPLIES
• HUGE SELECTION OF DISPOSABLES
• GLASS AND PIPES
• BEST PRICES IN TOWN!BOGO
ON ALL 
HOUSE JUICE
WITH STUDENT ID
LIMIT 1 PER CUSTOMER407 NE 23RD AVE  |  GAINESVILLE, FL 32609  |  (352) 672-6799
NE 23RD AVE
N MAIN ST.
Be a part of something  BIG
  GIVE Blood.
Over 1,000 people gathered to form one of 
the largest human blood drop formations in 
the country. LifeSouth’s North Florida district 
needs just as many donors per week to meet 
the need of our  community hospitals.
Be a part of something big and give blood today. 
For more information, 
call 888.795.2707 
or visit www.lifesouth.org.Photo by Photography 35
Connecting our donors to our patients
CHABAD AND HILLEL LEADERS 
SHARE THEIR OBSERVANCE OF THE 
SABBATH AWAY FROM HOME
By Jared T eitel
Avenue Staff Reporter
A congregation forms on a Friday night 
under a brightly-lit synagogue, reciting and 
singing aloud hymns and prayers that toast to 
a hard week’s end. 
An hour service of Hebrew readings is then 
reconciled by a relaxing dinner of matzah ball 
soup, gefilte fish, latkes and brisket. But this 
isn’t before additional blessings are conduct -
ed over the glass of wine and slice of challah 
bread consumed before the main course. 
The next morning, a second service com -
mences as congregates are reminded of les -
sons in the Torah and the work of the proph -
ets in the Nevi’im, passages from the Tanakh 
— the Jewish holy scripture. The day of prayer 
is brought to an end by another service in the 
afternoon, celebrating more of the Torah.
This day of Sabbath — better known as 
Shabbat — is a biblical tradition that holds 
great weight to observers coming from all 
branches of the Jewish community. 
The Tanakh notes the creation of the uni -
verse, the Earth and mankind within a six-day 
period — God taking the seventh day to rest. 
A full day’s celebration of completing a 
laborious week became a staple of Jewish 
tradition, occurring every week on Friday’s 
sundown and ending on sundown Saturday 
when the lights go out for bedtime.
Although a holiday typically is observed 
at home in the company of family, Shabbat 
has become an important campus tradition 
of UF Jewish students’ lives — fostered by Jewish leaders, students and other observers. 
This common practice has allowed UF Jewish 
community members to surround themselves 
with each other and embrace their common 
heritage. 
Nicole Buenavida grew up in Venezu -
ela where she was surrounded by a vibrant 
Jewish community. Despite not being a con -
sistent observer of Shabbat throughout her 
childhood, she always knew the day to be a 
celebration with a small, tight-knit group of 
family and friends. 
That was until her love for the celebration 
was renewed at UF in Fall 2017. 
“One of the main concerns before coming 
to college was [having] a Jewish community,” 
the 22-year-old biomedical engineering junior 
said. “It’s obviously different to be celebrating 
Shabbat (at) … a square table with no more 
than 20 people than coming to Chabad and 
celebrating a Friday dinner with over 100, 150 
and even 200 students.” 
In an effort to continue her practice of 
Conservative Judaism, Buenavida stumbled 
upon Lubavitch Chabad, an on-campus Jew -
ish organization and synagogue. The expan -
sive size of UF’s Jewish community came as 
a shock, but Buenavida became deeply in -
volved in Chabad, befriending more Jews her 
age and eventually being appointed president. 
“I started growing more and more in Juda -
ism and even more religious than I even was 
at home,” she said. 
Raised in a Conservative Jewish house -
hold, Buenavida remembers lighting candles 
in the home on Friday nights with her mother 
and aunt and praying for health and happi -
ness while the men partook in a brief religious 
service at the temple.
On other nights when women did attend 
services, she recalls embracing white articles of clothing with fellow congregates as they 
sang along to “Lekha Dodi,” a prayer welcom -
ing the “bride,” or the end of the week. 
Coming from a Sephardic Jewish back -
ground, which originates in Spanish and 
North African regions, Buenavida knew staple 
Shabbat lunches and dinners to include cui -
sines and ingredients originating from Arabic 
countries like grape leaves and Mahshi — 
vegetables stuffed with different meats and 
rice. But as Chabad fostered Jews of different 
backgrounds, Buenavida came across foods 
that became a whole new part of Shabbat. 
“It was kind of shocking for me,” she said. 
“Instead of seeing the Moroccan fish … my 
mom would make at home, I started seeing 
the gefilte fish.” 
For Rabbi Jonah Zinn, executive director 
of UF Hillel — another Jewish organization — 
the celebration of Shabbat was also a familial 
experience. This idea of family has pervaded 
Zinn’s values he promotes within UF’s Jew -
ish life.
“The blessings over the meal, blessings 
over the challah [and] the children — those 
are all a different category of Shabbat rituals 
that don’t take place in the synagogue, but 
rather people practice in the context of fam -
ily,” said Zinn, 40. “On campus, we combine 
all of those rituals into a single Shabbat ex -
perience where students will have the com -
munal worship experience and then will join 
together for a communal Shabbat blessing 
experience.” 
This emphasis on community and togeth -
erness makes the celebration of Shabbat par -
ticularly special for Zinn. He said its unique 
ritual of a public Torah portion reading on 
Saturday morning creates a fuller experience 
with family and friends compared to its Friday 
evening counterpart. “I think the communal element is core to 
Jewish life,” he said. “Shabbat is a particu -
larly visible example of that.”
United under the tradition of Shabbat and 
other days of commemoration, each branch of 
Judaism possesses its own unique approach 
to observance based on the scriptures they 
draw upon. 
“In Orthodox Judaism — and to some 
degree in Conservative — they look at the 
Rabbinic understanding of what constitutes 
work,” Zinn said. “For example, in bibli -
cal times there is no talk about electricity on 
Shabbat.” 
This interpretation makes activities such 
as cooking a hot family dinner something 
hard to reconcile on Shabbat in Orthodox tra -
dition, considering the dependence on electri -
cal ovens and stovetops in modern times. 
Additionally, the prohibition of financial 
expenditures during the hours of Shabbat is 
taken more lightly within modern sects of Ju -
daism like Reform, which looks to activities 
like a night out at the movies or a day at the 
beach for quality family time, Zinn said. 
Reflecting on why he decided to devote his 
livelihood to Jewish study, Zinn once again 
notes his faith’s capacity to foster a commu -
nity of support and companionship. 
“[Jewish tradition] takes difficult times, 
and it gives us the strength to persevere 
through that adversity,” he said. “That’s 
a huge part of the work we do on campus: 
building a community that gives us meaning 
and ensures that every Jewish student has the 
opportunity to find their people.”
@jaredteitel
@jteitel@alligator.orgShabbat traditions give Jewish students home away from home
CULTURECULTURE8   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
A UF-FUNDED VACCINE 
CONFIDENCE PROJECT 
SPREADS ACCURATE 
COVID-19 INFORMATION
By Fernando Figueroa & 
Lucille Lannigan
Alligator Staff Writers
COVID-19 informational flyers 
are being swapped out for artistic 
displays. 
A UF-funded arts and vaccine 
confidence project on campus aims 
to spread accurate information about 
COVID-19 and vaccines as part of a 
larger campaign. 
In Alachua County, 70% of the 
population at least 12 years old are 
vaccinated against COVID-19 as of 
the week of March 11, according to 
the Alachua County COVID-19 dash -
board. 
On Tuesday, a blue tent stood in 
front of a mural promoting unity in 
getting vaccinated. Students visiting 
the tent could find snacks, tote bags, 
free condoms and even Narcan. 
Workers for both the mural proj -
ect and UF HealthStreet were also 
surveying students on why they 
thought their local community was 
or wasn’t getting vaccinated. They 
were also guiding students toward 
the vaccination van that was parked 
by Library West next to the B’z Ge -
lati food truck.
According to the CDC, the largest 
age demographic who has yet to get 
the vaccine are those between the 
ages of 18-29: the project’s target age 
range.With Florida’s vaccination man -
date prohibition, 66.22% of the 
state’s population is fully vaccinated. 
The number of daily doses adminis -
tered in the state has slowly dwin -
dled to a record low of 10,257 on 
March 16, according to Our World 
in Data.
The event is part of Engaging 
Arts for Vaccine Confidence at UF, 
an initiative led by Natalie Rella, to 
promote vaccine confidence. The 
initiative granted seven different 
projects with grants between $3,000 
to $10,000. 
Alexandra Rodriguez, a research 
division intern at the Center for Arts 
in Medicine, led the mural project 
“Work COVID Silly, Gators.”
The multi-mural project hosted 
its first event on Monday and will 
host its next event on Friday. The 
project curator, Jenna Horner, artist 
and Gainesville resident, chose art -
ists Brittany Webber, Cristi Lopez 
and Amelia Cecilia to paint three 
murals. Two are outside Library 
West and the third is at the Springs 
Residential Complex. 
Flu and COVID-19 vaccines were 
also available at the event.
A 2021 Georgia installation of 
public art promoting vaccination in -
spired Rodriguez to take on the proj -
ect, she wrote in an email.
Gainesville artist Lopez drew in -
spiration from a piece she completed 
in 2021 commissioned by the Chica -
go Design Museum and the Chicago 
Department of Public Health.
Her mural reads “Protect each 
other,” with five vaccinated people 
of different ethnicities and genders 
embracing one another. Her piece was inspired by United 
Colors Of Benetton, a progressive 
fashion company that used multi-
ethnic and disabled models in the 
1980s and ‘90s.
“I would hope that these murals 
can show people that there’s a way 
to promote vaccination awareness 
in a positive way,” Lopez said. “Be -
cause I think the tactics that are used 
are often shaming, very negative and 
very guilt ridden.”
Some people are adamantly 
against the COVID-19 vaccine be -
cause they do not like being told 
what to do, Lopez said. She hopes 
the murals are a gentle encourage -
ment rather than an order.
The murals will display QR codes 
with links to a survey about the proj -
ect’s impact, a guide to nearby vac -
cination sites and the CDC website.
Exhaustive COVID-19 coverage 
has also decreased, especially with 
the Russo-Ukrainian War, Rodriguez 
said.
“So, to bring about talking about 
vaccination again in a way that is 
not stale, I think is incredibly impor -
tant,” she said.
Last week, UF promoted getting 
vaccines through art, this time with 
photography.
On March 21, a vaccination bus 
with 54 available COVID-19 vac -
cines was parked on the Reitz Stu -
dent Union lawn while Dr. Giuliano 
De Portu, a photographer and UF 
Health Shands ER doctor, snapped 
headshots of students who provided 
proof of vaccination or chose to get 
vaccinated on site. 
This portrait project was concep -
tualized by Nicole Villanueva, a UF arts and medicine program alum 
who wanted to encourage COVID-19 
vaccination. Her family experienced 
firsthand stress from the pandemic 
due to her dad working as an ER 
doctor and both she and her parents 
getting COVID. She reached out to 
Dr. De Portu and Nicole Morgan, a 
UF grad student, to help her put the 
project together.
The team received $5,000 from 
UF to put on this two-phase project 
in November, Villanueva said.
Dr. De Portu shot portraits of 20 
students, two of which received a 
booster shot, Villanueva said. These 
students will receive a free digital 
copy of their professional headshot.
The organizers will display the 
portraits along with students’ state -
ments on why they chose to get vac -
cinated in April.
Villanueva believes the arts are a 
vehicle to make people relate to mes -
sages by presenting information in 
an easily digestible way. She hoped 
free portraits would provide an in -
centive for students to either get vac -
cinated or raise awareness by having 
their portrait taken.
“I just hope that it makes people 
reflect upon everything that we’ve 
been through as a society,” she said. 
“When they see the image … it’s re -
flecting on … each person who has 
been impacted by COVID in a lot of 
different ways.”
Dr. De Portu has worked as an 
ER doctor for 11 years, and he said 
he’d never seen as many people die 
as he saw with COVID-19.
Vaccines, he said, are a wonder -
ful way that science has allowed 
people to protect themselves from numerous diseases. He hopes this 
project spreads awareness among 
students and helps protect other 
people from getting sick or dying. 
“Everybody can relate to arts,” he 
said. “I think arts, to some extent, is 
more intertwined in the community 
and maybe sounds more appeal -
ing than just a flier with a bunch of 
data.”
Rebecca Arias, a 29-year-old UF 
plant science senior, stopped by the 
vaccination bus after seeing a flier on 
campus. She received the COVID-19 
vaccine last year as soon as it was 
offered on campus but was looking 
to get a professional photo done for 
her career portfolio.
She thought the campaign was a 
smart way to catch students’ atten -
tion.
“In reality, the people that want -
ed to get vaccinated already did, 
so now you’re left with people that 
have made excuses or just not want -
ed to,” Arias said. “Sometimes you 
have to give them a little incentive 
to do so.”
Arias got vaccinated after she 
ended up in the emergency room for 
another illness and was surrounded 
by COVID-19 patients. 
“I could see those people on 
ventilators … in rooms that have a 
special pass and negative pressure, 
and the nurses that were basically in 
astronaut suits,” she said. “Of course 
I’m going to get vaccinated. I don’t 
want to be a part of that.”
@fernfigue
ffigueroa@alligator.org
@lucillelannigan
llannigan@alligator.orgA gentle encouragement: Art provides new incentive for COVID-19 vaccinations, discussionsFRIENDS AND FAMILY ATTENDED THE 
HEARING IN SUPPORT OF PAXTON
By Troy Myers
Alligator Staff Writer
More than 50 in-person attendees and 40 
online viewers silently gathered in the minutes 
leading up to Joshua Figueroa’s change of plea 
hearing Monday morning. 
Figueroa is being charged with killing UF 
student Maggie Paxton in a hit-and-run that 
occured Dec. 9, 2020. He previously pleaded 
not guilty but decided to change his plea to no 
contest — neither admitting or denying guilt to 
the charges. 
The judge didn’t accept the change of plea 
with the proposed minimum sentence by 
Figueroa’s attorney, Robert Rush. Figueroa, 
along with his mother, father and Rush all sat 
in silence without visible rejection. 
Paxton’s friends and family and fire rescu -
ers were somber as they filed into the Judge 
Stephen P. Mickle Criminal Courthouse to hear 
victim impact statements and Judge Phillip Pe -
na’s decision on the defendant’s plea. 
Figueroa and his attorney proposed the 
minimum sentence, serving four years with 10 
years of felony probation after. They were un -
able to be reached for comment. 
Deborah Rothenburg, assistant state attor -
ney for the Office of the State Attorney Eighth 
Judicial Circuit, told the judge that 10 years of 
felony probation would allow the defendant to 
prove if he is a decent person who made a mis -
take, or if he is, in fact, a criminal and was only 
caught this time. 
The Paxton family expressed in their victim 
witness statements that they believe the defen -
dant needs to be held fully accountable, and the 
judge said the court is having difficulty accept -
ing the change of plea. 
Attendees offered each other tissues. Some stepped out of the courtroom with tears in their 
eyes as Rothenburg informed the judge what 
happened the night of the crash. 
Rothenburg told Judge Pena after discussion 
with the family that the state is not in agree -
ment with the plea. This was further expressed 
by the victim impact statements from Paxton’s 
friend Kylee Borg, Paxton’s mother Lisa, Pax -
ton’s sister Holly and Paxton’s father Jim. Judge 
Pena said the court isn’t in agreement either.
Borg took the stand first to share her state -
ment with unsteady breaths and a wavering 
voice. 
She told the judge that the defendant had 
changed everyone’s lives forever and it’s unac -
ceptable the defendant is allowed to continue 
living in society while her and everyone affect -
ed by Maggie’s death scrapes by. 
Borg shared with Judge Pena how close 
Paxton and her were. Borg and Paxton, who 
were UF freshmen at the time, had four months 
together when they were supposed to have four 
more years together in college, Borg said. 
She ended her statement telling the judge 
that she wants Figueroa to never forget what 
he did to Paxton December 2020.
Lisa Paxton slowly walked to the stand, 
taking deep breaths on the way. She began 
her statement by telling the judge she has not 
and will never be the same since the night her 
daughter was killed. 
“The one who made me a mom first is gone 
forever,” Lisa Paxton said. 
Time has not fixed the pain or the piece of 
her soul that was ripped away, she said through 
tears. Lisa shared with everyone that she is in 
constant distress, desperation and paralyz -
ing fear that something has happened to her 
youngest daughter or someone else she loves. 
On March 17, two UF students were in -
volved in separate hit-and-runs within hours 
of each other. Mackenzie Mullen was hit while 
riding her scooter on University Avenue — a few blocks from where Maggie was hit — and 
had critical injuries. Prateek Sharma was hit 
and killed while walking along the sidewalk on 
Southwest 34th Street by a drunk driver. 
“I relive that night every night, imagining 
her lying in the street all alone,” Lisa Paxton 
said. 
She told Judge Pena how proud she is of her 
daughter and all her accomplishments, turn -
ing her attention to Figueroa and the handful 
of people that showed up for him. She pointed 
at the defendant, his mother, and father telling 
them there is no excuse or apology worthy for 
what Figueroa did to her daughter. All three of 
them sat stoically. 
Lisa Paxton recalled the seven months it 
took for Gainesville Police Department’s inves -
tigation to find Figueroa and his vehicle, which 
was hidden in his parents’ auto shop yard. 
She finished her statement hoping for one 
thing for Figueroa. 
“I do hope the defendant finds God in pris -
on,” Lisa Paxton said. “At least one ounce of 
Him.”
Holly Paxton, Maggie’s sister, opened her 
statement, while wiping away tears, with her 
recollection of the events that happened the 
night her family was notified. Holly was awo -
ken by the “gut-wrenching screams” of her 
mother and found her father embracing her on 
the floor in their home with two police officers 
standing outside the front door. 
Holly Paxton has flashbacks and nightmares 
of that night, explaining to the judge how dif -
ficult life has been for everyone since the defen -
dant killed her sister. 
“Stepping foot into my own home made me 
feel ill,” Holly Paxton said. 
She told Judge Pena how differently she 
is treated at school, even bullied by invasive, 
personal questions. She would sob until it was 
hard to breathe, she said. 
“The definition of selfish is lacking consid -eration for others,” Holly Paxton said. “This 
exactly describes the defendant before you to -
day.” 
Figueroa’s hands were in his lap and eyes 
down. 
Jim Paxton, Maggie’s father, embraced his 
daughter as she sat down. He made his way to 
the stand. 
“There will be no college graduation, there 
will be no career, there will be no love of her 
life, there will be no wedding, there will be no 
grandchildren to spoil,” Jim Paxton said. 
He called Figueroa a coward for taking his 
daughter away, for not staying on the scene to 
help and for hiding for seven months until GPD 
took him into custody.
“I’m not inclined to accept the minimum 
sentence,” Judge Pena said. “This does not ap -
pear to be a minimum case.”
The judge set the next court date for the af -
ternoon of April 20 and expedited a two week 
presentence investigation report —documents 
showing the legal and social background of 
the defendant to determine if there are circum -
stances that may influence the severity or leni -
ency of sentencing.
On April 20, the court will review findings 
from the presentence investigation and further 
statements from both sides. 
As the court was adjourned and the defen -
dant and attendees that showed up for him 
were leaving, a long-time friend of Maggie’s 
yelled out from the pews “F*** you,” before 
Figueroa left the courtroom.  
Friends and family members gathered in 
the hallways outside, sharing laughs, hugs and 
memories of Maggie. Most of them said they 
will be back here on April 20 to take the next 
step forward. Like Maggie’s favorite saying, 
“Progress over perfection.”
@Troy_Myers1
tmyers@alligator.orgDriver in Maggie Paxton’s hit-and-run case unsuccessfully tries to change his pleaBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FINDBUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.BUY IT. SELL IT. FIND IT. 373-FIND
MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
www.alligator.org/classifiedsHow to Place a Classified Ad:Corrections and Cancellations:
Cancellations:  Call 373-FIND M-F, 8am - 4pm. No refunds or credits can be 
given. Alligator errors:  Check your ad the FIRST day it runs. Call 373-FIND 
with any corrections before noon. THE ALLIGATOR IS ONLY RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE FIRST DAY THE AD RUNS INCORRECTLY. Corrected ads will 
be extended one day. No refunds or credits can be given after placing the 
ad. Corrections called in after the first day will not be further compensated. 
Customer error or changes:  Changes must be made BEFORE NOON 
for the next day’s paper. There will be a $2.00 charge for minor changes.Online:  w/ major credit card at www.alligator.org/classifieds
In Person: Cash, Check, MC, Discover, AMEX or Visa @ The Alligator Office :  
    2700 SW 13th St. M-F, 8am - 4pm
By E-mail: classified@alligator.org
By Fax: (352) 376-4556
By Mail: P.O. Box 14257 G-ville 32604
See alligator.org for more informationCall 352-373-FIND for information. 
Sorry, no cash by mail. 
Credit cards or checks only.
ELIMINATE ROACHES GUARANTEED! 
Buy Harris Roach Tablets. Odorless, Long 
Lasting. Available: Publix, Hardware Stores 
and Home Centers.                          4-4-2-10
When the heat is on
and it's bucks that you need,
Best Jewelry and Loan
your requests we will heed. 
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367     4-18-15-10
Goats for Sale & Lease
Horse Boarding - 7 miles to UF
Charlie - 352-278-1925                    4-18-15-10
Online Public Auction
WPC Industrial Contractors, LLC
Auction ends: 
Tues, April 12, 2022 at 10:00 A.M.
Assets located at 4070 Keystone Road,
Tarpon Springs, FL 34688
Auction will consist of: Caterpillar 420E
Backhoe Loader; Caterpillar 420F Backhoe 
Loader; Komatsu PC210LC-10 Excavator; 
Hyundai R25Z-9AK Mini Excavator; Ford 
3000 Grading Tractor With Box/brushhog; 
20′ Flatbed Dual Axle Equipment Trailer; 40′ 
Shipping Container With Contents; 1990 
Tandano Tr280xl Crane. 
Registration, catalog, photos and terms 
available at
https://moeckerauctions.com/2022/03/15/
wpc-industrial-contractors-llc/
Preview: 04/08 and 04/11 by appointment. 
Call for details
(954) 252-2887 | (800) 840-BIDS
Assignment for the Benefit of Creditors Case 
No. 16-2021-CA-005270
AB-1098 AU-3219, Eric Rubin           4-4-1-101For Rent
furnished
 SS & VA ARE WELCOME!
$500/BedRoom ● No Deposit! ● Furnished 
Cable ● Internet ● Utilities
www.campuswalk.co 352-337-9098
4-18-15-1
2For Rent
unfurnished
2BR $600/mo
Call:. 352-647-6632                         4-18-15-2
★★ ELLIE’S HOUSES ★★
Quality single family homes. Walk or bike to 
UF. www.ellieshouses.com 352-215-4990 or 
352-215-4991                             4-18-22-15-2
5 Real Estate
NEW CONDOS-WALK TO UF
For Info on ALL Condos for Sale,
Visit www.UFCONDOS.COM or
Matt Price, University Realty, 352-281-3551
4-18-15-5
6 Furnishings
You need the money
to do what you will.
Rich at Best Jewelry and Loan
has the cash for those bills.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367         4-18-15-6
10 For Sale
●UF Surplus On-Line Auctions●
are underway…bikes, computers, furniture,
vehicles & more. All individuals interested in
bidding go to: SURPLUS.UFL.EDU 392-0370
4-18-15-10
11..    CCoonnssiiddeerr
11..    CChhaassee,,  ffoollllooww55..    SSeenndd,,  ttrraannssffeerr  
22..    RRoommaann  ________66..    AAwwaakkeenn,,  ssttiirr
33..    EEnneerrggiizzee  77..    CCuussttoommeerr  
44..    BBrriieeff  ttiimmee  ppeerriioodd  EENNPPOORRDD
UUEEUURRPPSSEERRTTIIMM
SSEEOORRUU
UUNNEEMMAARRLL
EEUUHHSSEENNTTNNIIEETTCCLL
EEMMMMTTNNOOAANNSSWWEERRSS::  11AA--PPoonnddeerr    55AA--RReemmiitt    66AA--RRoouussee    77AA--CClliieenntt
11DD--PPuurrssuuee    22DD--NNuummeerraall    33DD--EEnntthhuussee    44DD--MMoommeenntt    BB--MMoouunntt  RRaaiinniieerr44--44--2222
ACROSS
DOWNCLUE
CLUEANSWER
ANSWERbbyy  DDaavviidd  LL..  HHooyytt
CCoommpplleettee  tthhee  ccrroosssswwoorrdd  ppuuzzzzllee  bbyy  llooookkiinngg  aatt  tthhee  cclluueess  aanndd
uunnssccrraammbblliinngg  tthhee  aannsswweerrss..    WWhheenn  tthhee  ppuuzzzzllee  iiss  ccoommpplleettee,,
uunnssccrraammbbllee  tthhee  cciirrcclleedd  lleetttteerrss  ttoo  ssoollvvee  tthhee  BBOONNUUSS..HHooww  ttoo  ppllaayy
&&  HHooyytt  DDeessiiggnnss..          AAllll  RRiigghhttss  RReesseerrvveedd..22002222  TTrriibbuunnee  CCoonntteenntt  AAggeennccyy,,  LLLLCC    
SSeenndd  ccoommmmeennttss  ttoo  TTCCAA  --  116600  NN..  SStteettssoonn,,  CChhiiccaaggoo,,  IIlllliinnooiiss  6600660011  oorr  DDLLHHooyytt@@HHooyyttIInntteerraaccttiivveeMMeeddiiaa..ccoommJJUUMMBBLLEE JJUUMMBBLLEE
RRTTMM
11
6622
5533
7744
CLUE: ________  ________  iiss  tthhee  mmoosstt  ggllaacciiaatteedd  
ppeeaakk  iinn  tthhee  ccoonnttiigguuoouuss  UU..SS.. BONUSCASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                     4-18-22-8-12
● We Buy Junk & Used Cars ●
 ●Trucks, Vans - Titled only ●
KT 352-281-9980 sunnyman315@gmail.com
4-18-15-12
13 Wanted
CASH FOR UNWANTED CARS / TRUCKS
Running or Not. Top Dollar Paid
Call 352-259-2020                        4-18-22-8-13
St. Francis House is a homeless shelter
located in downtown Gainesville.
Our mission is to empower families
with children to transition from
homelessness to self-sufficiency by
providing case management, housing, food, 
training and educational resources
in a secure environment.
If interested in volunteering
please contact the volunteer coordinator
at 352-378- 9079 ext 317 or
sfhcoor@stfrancis.cfcoxmail.com
St Francis House depends on monetary
support from individual donors and
community businesses
in order to provide meals to the homeless 
and the hungry.
To make a donation by mail,
please send checks
payable to St. Francis House
P.O. Box 12491
Gainesville Fl 32604
or our website at
Stfrancishousegnv.org12 Autos 10 For Sale
By Chris Sablich
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC04/04/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
04/04/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Monday, April 4, 2022
ACROSS
1 Japanese 
cartoon art
6 Search high and 
low
11 Bar with beers
14 Like kings and 
queens
15 Abode
16 Tina Turner’s 
onetime partner
17 Rolling friction-
reducing part
19 After taxes
20 Like a properly 
sized carry-on 
bag
21 Regret
23 Condo 
management gp.
24 Type of pants 
with a flared leg
29 Flag maker Betsy
31 Southern 
California Air 
Force base
32 Indy competitor
35 Fancy neckwear
36 Pay attention to
37 Punk rock 
offshoot
38 “The Science 
Guy”
42 WWII command 
for 16-Across
43 Lowers, as lights
45 Grabbed a chair
46 Juárez coins
48 Still on one’s plate
50 Shaft of light
52 Cotton-picking 
pest
54 Place to crash
57 Simpson trial 
judge Lance
58 Lashed out at
61 11-Across drink
63 Stubborn but fun-
loving dog breed
66 “__ Misérables”
67 Prefix with face 
or lace
68 Visibly sad, say
69 Orchestra space
70 Trunk of the body
71 Twisty turns
DOWN
1 Some Wall St. 
traders
2 Opposite of o’er
3 Inuit home4 Online viruses 
and such
5 Idris of “The Wire”
6 Oil-bearing rocks
7 WordPerfect 
producer
8 Apt rhyme for sí
9 Admiral’s org.
10 Sprout again
11 Forest cone 
droppers
12 Luau strings
13 Wager
18 Goes out, as the 
tide
22 Salt Lake state
25 Boxer Spinks
26 Person’s yearly 
celebration, for 
short
27 “__ Joy”: 
component of 
Beethoven’s 
Ninth
28 Windows 
predecessor
30 Planet
32 Provide new 
audio for
33 Type of acid in 
proteins
34 Most attractive
35 Sandwich initials39 “Ah, of course”
40 Daily Planet 
colleague of Kent 
and Olsen
41 MPG-testing org.
44 Rock __: ice 
melter
47 Roman and 
British realms
49 Small-time
50 Unpretentious 
restaurant
51 In addition53 Lowlands
55 Wanted poster 
word
56 Plow pioneer
59 “Laugh-In” 
regular Johnson
60 Prohibitionists
61 Austrian peak
62 Gift with an aloha
64 Game with Skip 
and Draw Two 
cards
65 Paper size: Abbr.
By Rafael Musa
©2022 Tribune Content Agency, LLC03/29/22Los Angeles Times Daily Crossword Puzzle
Edited by Rich Norris and Joyce Nichols Lewis
03/29/22ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE :Release Date: Tuesday, March 29, 2022
ACROSS
1 Costume
7 Word with friendly 
or interface
11 NFL team leaders
14 Do very well
15 Backsplash piece
16 In the style of
17 Having the same 
ability
19 Prom rental
20 Firefighting aid
21 On the __: being 
broadcast
22 In the loop
24 Touch and go, 
grammatically
27 Amount to take, 
in an Rx
31 Property claim
32 Acting together
33 Gardener’s bagful
35 “Good point”
39 “Guilty or not 
guilty?”
42 Back of the neck
43 D.C. helper
44 Exams for Ph.D. 
candidates
45 Top line on many 
an application 
form
47 Deny
48 1939 Stephen 
Foster biopic
53 “Coco” studio
54 Collectible 
records, for short
55 “Roll Tide” school
59 Yalie
60 Rarely ... or 
what each set of 
circled letters is?
64 Hoopla
65 Brewpub array
66 In a scary way
67 Dreaming sleep 
stage
68 Preferred brownie 
piece, for some
69 Spanish “You’re 
welcome”
DOWN
1 “Conversely,” in 
texts
2 “Hmm ... no 
chance”
3 Square root of 
nueve
4 Pillars of Islam 
count5 “__ had enough!”
6 King-jack, e.g., in 
bridge
7 Wombs
8 Polite title
9 West __: high-
end furniture 
outlet
10 Back up, as a 
backup
11 Doha’s country
12 Words on a 
jacket
13 Jazz woodwinds
18 __ for tat
23 Stopped running, 
as a stream
24 A long time
25 Tapenade 
ingredient
26 White or Blue river
27 First light
28 Workplace safety 
org.
29 Source of some 
suds
30 Rabbit ears
33 Less likely to 
speak up, maybe
34 Ref. work 
that added 
“freshperson” in 
202136 Narrow inlets
37 NCAA Bruins’ 
home
38 Site for 
handmade gifts
40 Get under  
control
41 Crowd eruption
46 Make fizzy
47 Like matryoshka 
dolls
48 Asparagus piece
49 Olivia of “House”50 Set theory truth
51 “Uncle!”
52 Corp. honchos
55 Swiss capital
56 Asics competitor
57 Fuse
58 “Game of 
Thrones” girl __ 
Stark
61 Chap
62 New car stat
63 Word before a 
birth name
03/28/2022
solution  on page 10answer on page 10
©2022 King Features Synd., Inc.15 Services 13 Wanted
● ● ● ● NEED CASH? ● ● ● ●
Buying ★ Gold ★Jewelry ★ Coins,
★ Exchangable Currency.★
Call 352-554-4654. Coin Kingdom
3446 W. University Ave.
4-18-22-15-13
The surf's up at "Pawn Beach"
we're all making the scene.
If you're in need go see Rich,
Best Jewelry and Loan's got the "green".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367       4-18-15-13
TOP CA$H PAID FOR OLD GUITARS! 
1920-1980 Gibson, Martin, Fender, Gretsch, 
Epiphone, Guild, Mosrite, Rickenbacker, 
Prairie State, D'Angelico, Stromberg. And 
Gibson Mandolins / Banjos. 833-860-0454.    
4-4-7-13
The American Cancer Society
Road to Recovery Volunteers Needed!
VOLUNTEER DRIVERS NEEDED
to transport cancer patients to treatment. 
Flexible schedule.
Training and liability insurance provided. 
Please call
800-227-2345 if interested.
PAYING TOP CA$H FOR MEN'S SPORT 
WATCHES! Rolex, Breitling, Omega, Patek 
Philippe, Heuer, Daytona, GMT, Submariner 
and Speedmaster. Call 888-937-6497        
4-4-7-13
14 Help Wanted
Yard Help:
Part time, flex hrs, experience necessary, 
$11-$13 hr. SW side of town. 
Mr Z: 352-278-8071                      5-23-22-7-14
HIRING OFFICE CLEANERS
M-F & every other Sat. Night shift starting 
at 5:30 p.m. Must own a car / lots of driving. 
Weekly pay. $14/hr. If interested please call 
352-214-0868                           4-18-22-15-14
Home helper. Student to help retired UF grad 
close to campus w/chores. Some cleaning, 
yardwork, errands, pet maintenance, simple 
repairs, etc. No equip req. Some exp helpful. 
Short resume. A few hrs/wk. $12/hr. Reply: 
ghpolkgator@gmail.com              4-11-22-4-14
Arts & Engineering Day Camp Counselors
Seeking creative out of the box thinkers who 
want to build and play with kids this summer! 
Looking for engineers, builders, artists, mak-
ers! FT (M-F) May 18th-Aug1st. $15/hr Send 
resume to masterbuildercamp@gmail.com 
for more info                                 4-4-22-4-14
House Keeper/Personal Assistant:
Part time, flex hours, will ask for references, 
non covid jab preferred. $12-$15 hr. SW side 
of town. Mr. Z 352-278-8071     5-23-22-7-14
VETERINARY ASSISTANT & RECEPTIONIST
Mon - Thurs. Salary depends on experience 
in vet hospital $20 - $30 / hr. 
River Region Animal Hospital in Crystal River
Email: rrahrecords@yahoo.com   
 4-18-22-3-14
●●● COME JOIN THE ADVENTURE! ●●●
●●●● CAMP KULAQUA is HIRING! ●●●●
FT / PT / Seasonal Positions
Food Services, Housekeeping, Building/
Property Maintenance, Horse Wrangler, 
Animal Tech.
SEASONAL: Lifeguarding, Challenge Tower 
Workers, Go-Cart Attendant
For more info call 386-454-1351
Or Visit www.campkulaqua.com
23400 NW 212th Ave, High Springs
●●●● JOB FAIR COMING SOON! ●●●●
March 20th & April 10th, 2022, 1-7 pm
Camp Kulaqua Gymnasium
4-4-22-4-14CrytpoQuote  answer
 Sports Quiz  answersSudoku  solution
 ScrabbleGrams  solution
PHOTOGRAPHY DOESN'T TEACH YOU HOW TO EXPRESS YOUR EMOTIONS;
IT TEACHES YOU HOW TO SEE. — BERENIECE ABBOTT
1. The ACC, with Clemson (men) and Florida State (women).     2. Sprague and Odie Cleghorn.     3. Mark Martin.     4. Joe Kirkwood Jr.     5. Wander Franco.     6. Elvis Stojko.     7. "Double Dribble."
solution  belowDirecTV Satellite TV Service Starting at 
$59.99/month! Free Installation! 160+ chan-
nels available. Call Now to Get the Most 
Sports & Entertainment on TV! 844-614-2532       
4-4-12-15
BCI Bath and Shower- BEAUTIFUL 
BATH UPDATES in as little as ONE DAY! 
Superior quality bath and shower systems at 
AFFORDABLE PRICES! Lifetime warranty 
& professional installs. No payments for 18 
months! Senior & Military Discounts avail -
able. Call: 888-460-2264                   4-4-7-15
Planning to liquidate
stereos, TV's, instruments and tools?
See Rich At Best.
He'll give cash for your jewels.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367      4-18-15-15
If you or a loved one worked around Roundup 
Weed Killer, (glyphosate), for at least two 
years and were diagnosed with lymphoma, 
you may be entitled to compensation. To 
see if you qualify, call now: 833-479-1286                 
4-4-11-15
Career Training and Medical Billing- TRAIN 
ONLINE TO DO MEDICAL BILLING! 
Become a Medical Office Professional online 
at CTI! Get Trained, Certified & ready to work 
in months! Call 877-324-4096. The Mission, 
Program Information and Tuition is located at 
CareerTechnical.edu/consumer-information. 
(M-F 8am-6pm ET)                          4-4-12-15
16 Health Services
ATTENTION OXYGEN THERAPY USERS! 
Inogen One G4 is capable of full 24/7 oxygen 
delivery. Only 2.8 pounds. FREE information 
kit. Call 866-925-2362. Inogen       4-4-12-16
HIV ANTIBODY TESTING
Alachua County Health Dept. Call
334-7960 for app’t (optional $20 fee)
Alcoholics Anonymous 
24-hour hotline #352-372-8091
www.aagainesville.org
No dues or fees
DRUG PROBLEM?
WE CAN HELP!
24 HOURS         7 DAYS
CALL NARCOTICS ANONYMOUS
352-376-8008
www.uncoastna.org
pr@uncoastna.org
Need CPR Training?
(352) 727-4733 www.GatorCPR.com
CNA Prep Classes from GatorCNA.com
4-18-22-15-16
18 Personals
When you're stuck out in Oz
and you need cash to get home,
click your heels three times
and think of Best Jewelry and Loan.
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-18
19 Connections
The end of the term
and the end of your rope,
Best Jewelry and Loan is
the needy Gator's hope!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    
4-18-15-19
20 Events/Notices
$250 DAILY Possible Online!
No Tech Skill Or Experience Required.
Start Now! Go To: www.250dailyincome.com     
5-9-22-4-20
When cash is low
and the bills seem out of reach,
Best Jewelry and Loan
is the surfer's "PAWN BEACH".
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-20
21 Entertainment
WALDO FARMERS & FLEA MARKET
Vintage & Unique - Like EBay in 3D
Sat & Sun    www.WaldoFlea.com
4-18-15-21answers to the left1. FOOD & DRINK: What was the first food eaten 
in space?
2. LITERATURE: A character named Piggy is fea -
tured in which 20th-century novel?
3. GEOGRAPHY: What are the residents of Cyprus called?
4. MEASUREMENTS: How many pounds are in a 
stone?
5. LANGUAGE: What does Ph.D stand for?
6. ANIMAL KINGDOM: What is the color of a gi -
raffe's tongue?
7. MEDICAL: What is the common name for ony -
chocryptosis?
8. HISTORY: What is a more common name for the 19th-
century killer known as the "Whitechapel Murderer"? 
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What is the color of "black 
boxes" used to record flight data on aircraft?
10. SCIENCE: What is considered to be the ideal 
"room temperature"?1. MEASUREMENTS: How many 
inches are in a mile?
2. ASTRONOMY: What does the 
acronym SETI mean to the scientific 
community?
3. LANGUAGE: What does the Lat-
in prefix “sub-” mean in English?
4. U.S. PRESIDENTS: Who was the 
only president to serve two noncon-
secutive terms?
5. LITERATURE: Which 20th-cen-
tury movie star penned the autobiogra-
phy “Me: Stories of My Life”?
6. HISTORY: What was the first 
National Monument proclaimed in the 
United States?
7. GEOGRAPHY: Where is the 
island of Luzon located?
8. MOVIES: Which sci-fi movie has 
the tagline, “Reality is a thing of the 
past”?
9. GENERAL KNOWLEDGE: What 
was the name of the United States’ first 
nuclear-powered submarine?
10. GAMES: What are the four rail-
road properties in Monopoly?
Answers
1. 63,360 inches
2. Search for extraterrestrial intelli-
gence
3. Below or insufficient
4. Grover Cleveland
5. Katharine Hepburn
6. Devils Tower, 1906
7. The Philippines
8. “The Matrix”
9. The USS Nautilus
10. Pennsylvania, Short Line, Read-
ing and B&O
© 2020 King Features Synd., Inc.
January 27, 2020King Features Weekly Service
by Fifi
Rodriguez
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
© 2022 King Features Synd., Inc.
1. In 1961, Russian cosmonaut 
Yuri Gagarin ate pureed meat 
and then chocolate sauce.
2. "Lord of the Flies"
3. Cypriots
4. 14
5. Doctor of Philosophy6. Blue, black or purple
7. Ingrown nail
8. Jack the Ripper
9. Bright orange to aid in 
recovery
10. 68-72 degrees FahrenheitTrivia Test answers
answers to the left1. What college athletic conference produced 
both the men's and women's NCAA soccer 
champions in 2021? 
2. Name the brothers, known for their vio -
lent style of play, who were teammates on 
the Montreal Canadiens in the 1920s and 
died within days of each other in 1956.
3. What NASCAR driver had 40 wins in his 
Cup Series career from 1981-2013 and fin -
ished second in the standings five times with -
out winning a season championship? 
4. What pro golfer from Australia portrayed 
comic-strip boxer Joe Palooka in 11 films 
from 1946-51?
5. On Sept. 7, 2021, what Tampa Bay Rays 
rookie reached base safely for the 37th 
consecutive game, passing Mickey Mantle's 
36-game on-base streak for a player age 20 
or younger?
6. Name the Canadian men's figure skater 
who won silver medals at the 1994 Lilleham -
mer and 1998 Nagano Winter Olympics.
7. In what Nintendo Entertainment System 
video game included basketball teams 
named the New York Eagles, Los Angeles 
Breakers, Boston Frogs and Chicago Ox?1. Tommie Aaron, brother of Hank, hit 
how many home runs in his seven-sea-
son Major League Baseball career?
2. Bill Chadwick, the NHL’s first 
U.S.-born referee and later a broad-
caster for the New York Rangers, went 
by what nickname? 
3. The name for the Albuquerque 
Isotopes Minor League Baseball club 
was inspired by a fictional team from 
what TV comedy series?
4. Jim Covert and Ed Sprinkle, two 
members of the Pro Football Hall of 
Fame Class of 2020, spent their entire 
playing careers with what NFL fran-
chise?
5. What traditional Japanese martial 
art is literally translated as “the way of 
the sword”?
6. Floyd Mayweather Jr. defeated 
what mixed martial arts superstar in a 
2017 boxing megafight in Las Vegas?  
7. What Croatia-born basketball 
player won three NBA championships 
with the Chicago Bulls from 1996-98 
and was the 1996 NBA Sixth Man of 
the Year?
Answers
1. 13. He hit eight of them in his 
1962 rookie season.
2. The Big Whistle.
3. The Simpsons. 
4. The Chicago Bears.
5. Kendo.
6. Conor McGregor.
7. Toni Kukoc.
© 2020 King Features Syndicate, Inc.
May 25, 2020King Features Weekly ServiceSurf on down to "Pawn Beach"
when the tide seems too high.
We're your summer cash friends
so your blues will be all sky!
523 NW 3rd Ave  352-371-4367    4-18-15-21
24 Pets
OPERATION CATNIP
Spaying/Neutering Free-Roaming Cats
Borrow a Trap / Make a Clinic Reservation
Make a Donation / Volunteer
New Expanded Hours
Lots of NEW info at
http://ocgainesville.org/
25 Lost & Found
Found something? Place a free FOUND ad 
in the Classifieds!21 Entertainment10   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
¿hablas español? lee
el periódico universitario 
independiente mas grande 
de estados unidos.MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
www.alligator.org/section/sports
Follow us for updates
For updates on UF athletics,
follow us on Twitter at 
@alligatorSports or online at
www.alligator.org/section/sports.Follow our newsletter
Love alligatorSports? Stay up to date on our 
content by following our newsletter. Scan the QR 
Code to sign up.
alligatorSports has a podcast! 
The alligatorSports Podcast 
releases episodes every 
Wednesday and can be 
streamed on Spotify, Apple 
Podcasts or your other 
preferred streaming platform.TENNIS
GYMNASTICSTHE RECENT SUCCESS FOR 
THE GATORS HAVE THEM 
IN A GREAT SPOT TO MAKE 
ANOTHER POSTSEASON RUN
By Joshua Morgan
Sports Writer
Florida men’s tennis is coming off 
its first national title in program histo -
ry and has provided ample evidence 
this season that it could be the next 
team to repeat.
The last collegiate tennis team to 
accomplish back-to-back champion -
ships was Virginia, who were cham -
pions for three consecutive years be -
tween 2015-17.
The Gators opened the season at 
the top of the rankings, but a loss in 
their first match against then-No. 5 
TCU quickly dethroned the king of 
the hill. It was the first time Florida 
had ever lost its opening match of the 
season. 
Since then, however, the Gators 
have enjoyed considerable success, 
their only other loss of the season 
coming against Texas during the ITA 
Indoor Championships. Florida is 
currently running high on a 12-game 
win streak that has encapsulated the 
entirety of SEC play, and is now just 
three matches away from completing 
a perfect SEC season.
UF has been in a tug of war as of late with TCU for the No. 1 ranking, 
but recently reclaimed the top spot. 
With a match against the Horned 
Frogs under their belt, the Gators are 
now hopefully well equipped to get 
another shot at them, and other top 
teams, during the NCAA tournament.
Freshman Nate Bonetto said the 
team will continue the same day-to-
day operations that got them to the 
top last season.
“We try not to focus too much 
on the winning and losing,” Bonetto 
said. “I think more for us, it’s about 
being a process-oriented team, focus -
ing on the process and trying to get 
better every day.”
One key aspect of Florida’s success 
has been dominance in doubles. The 
team’s top pairing, senior Sam Riffice 
and sophomore Ben Shelton opened 
the year unranked and struggled 
through the early part of the season.
The duo broke through their ob -
stacles and have won the last six-of-
seven games, rising to No. 11 in the 
most-recent doubles rankings.
Senior Andy Andrade and gradu -
ate student Mattias Siimar have ex -
celled, compiling a 15-3 record to -
gether and placing at No. 27 in the 
rankings.
The Gators have been just as good 
in singles play, sporting six ranked 
players, including the No. 1 player in 
the nation: Shelton. 
The Gainesville native has built off his strong freshman season with 
a sterling 15-2 record this season, fac -
ing a number of the top players in 
the country. Though Riffice manned 
court one early in the season, Shel -
ton is 9-0 since taking over and has 
shown no signs of slowing down.
Riffice equally benefited from the 
change, as he has risen to No. 26 in 
the rankings by going 9-0 during his 
time on court two. Last year’s ITA 
singles champion is 13-4 on the sea -
son.
It hasn’t just been a two-man 
game for the Gators, as they lay claim 
to one of the nation’s deepest lineups. 
No. 93 Andrade has matched Rif -
fice’s 13-4 record while breaking and 
improving upon the program record 
for most all-time singles wins (127). 
No. 98 Duarte Vale, No. 120 Josh 
Goodger, and No. 121 Siimar round 
out Florida’s lineup with winning re -
cords across the board.
Additionally, a recent develop -
ment has been the breakout of Bonet -
to. The No. 16 recruit in the class of 
2021 has emerged as a clutch player 
for the Gators, making the most of his 
seven singles appearances with a 6-1 
record.
As one of just two freshmen on 
the team, Bonetto attributes much of 
his early success to being able to learn 
from the veterans around him.
“We have a lot of pretty old guys 
on this team and it’s awesome to learn from them and get to experience 
being around them,” Bonetto said.
The Bend, Oregon, native gifts an 
extra body to support the Gators’ six-
man lineup. The extra man allows 
Siimar to shift his focus on doubles, 
but also gives head coach Bryan Shel -
ton plenty of options moving forward 
as the team competes for another na -
tional title. 
Bonetto believes this is one of the 
team’s greatest advantages.
“Having as many good guys as we 
do on this team definitely gives you a 
level of comfort when playing match -
es because you know all 10 guys are 
totally capable of winning matches,” 
Bonetto said. “It’s also super motivat -
ing because you look around and see nine other guys that are amazing ten -
nis players. It makes every guy come 
out and bring it every day because 
they know they have to.”
One challenge the Gators surely 
won’t look over will be the upcoming 
SEC tournament on April 20-24. 
Despite winning the regular sea -
son SEC crown last year, it was Ten -
nessee that emerged victorious in the 
SEC tournament. The Gators want to 
fill that gap in their trophy case this 
year.
Florida has just three matches left 
in 2022 before it gets the opportunity 
to do just that.
@JoshuaMorgan37
jmorgan2@alligator.org
FLORIDA’S 198.775 IS A PROGRAM 
RECORD AND THE THIRD-HIGHEST 
SCORE IN NCAA HISTORY
By Madeline Lawson
Sports Writer 
Senior Trinity Thomas’ flawless execution 
in her opening double layout pass on floor 
demanded the audience's attention. 
Her effortless combinations guided her 
into the final tumbling pass, where she float -
ed across Neville Arena and was textbook 
perfect in her front-full to front layout. 
Thomas picked up the 16th and 17th per -
fect scores of her career in the dominant per -
formance by the No. 2 Gators at the Auburn 
Regional final Saturday night, setting a pro -
gram record and sending them to the NCAA 
semifinal round in Fort Worth, Texas. 
The 18-time All-American extended her 
career events record total to 106, and claims 
sole ownership of third in Florida’s all-
around career wins list with 24. 
Thomas secured her first 10 of the night 
in the opening rotation on floor, making it 
her fifth perfect score on floor this season 
and second-consecutive meet with a perfect 
score. She was awarded her next 10 of the 
night the following rotation on vault. The York, Pennsylvania, native charged 
down the runway and stuck her Yurchenko 1 
½ to keep Florida in excellent position early 
on in the meet. The 10 on vault became her 
eighth perfect score, and leads the nation 
this season.
“Continuing to believe in myself and 
trusting myself is my most important thing,” 
Thomas said. “I focus on the details. I focus 
on the big things and just literally trusting 
myself is the thing I can do better.” 
This was also Thomas’ second-consec -
utive meet with two perfect scores. She 
earned a 10 on floor and bars in Thursday 
night’s second-round win.
“Those are the routines that [Thomas] 
does every day in the gym,” head coach 
Jenny Rowland said. “It’s so great to see her 
come out and be so confident in herself and 
so calm and own her gymnastics.” 
Freshman Leanne Wong is already half -
way to a Gym Slam in her first season. She 
earned her first 10 on bars against Arkansas 
Jan. 28. Saturday, Wong drilled her vault 
landing for another perfect score. 
Wong replaced her previous career-high 
all-around score of 38.850 with a 39.875. 
Thomas tied her career-high and nation-
leading all-around score, 39.900. 
Florida’s massive 198.775 is a school 
record and the third-highest team total in NCAA history. UCLA and Stanford remain 
tied with the overall highest score of 198.875. 
“It just goes to show what 18 individuals 
who give their heart and soul day in and day 
out can do,” Rowland said. “So thankful for 
the staff and for this amazing team to keep 
pushing themselves to be the best that they 
can every day.” 
Freshman Sloane Blakely matched her 
season-high bar score of 9.900, while gradu -
ate student Megan Skaggs stuck her routine 
for a collegiate-best 9.950.
The Gators put their competition to 
shame, leading No. 7 Auburn by .700 after 
the third rotation, followed by No. 10 Ken -
tucky (1.100) and No. 15 Denver (1.150). 
UF broke another program record to close 
out the night with a 49.750 team total on 
beam. 
Skaggs led off with a 9.925 that would 
later be dropped because Blakely, Wong, 
Thomas, graduate student Alyssa Baumann 
and senior Leah Clapper all earned 9.950s on 
the apparatus. 
Blakely had excellent elevation on her 
side aerial to full, sticking the landing. 
Baumann’s 180 extensions on her leaps 
and Wong’s breathtaking fluidity stood out 
amongst the elite Gator performances. 
The night came down to the Wildcats and 
Tigers fighting for runner-up. Separated by .400 heading into the final rotation, Ken -
tucky needed to hit every performance it had 
left to book its ticket to the Championship. 
UK senior Arianna Patterson fell in the 
final pass of her tumbling series on floor. 
Sophomore Isabella Magnelli and senior 
Anna Haigis redeemed their teammate by 
earning 9.900s. Junior Raena Worley tied 
her season and career-high at 9.975, but it 
wasn’t enough to topple the Tigers. 
Auburn freshman Suni Lee, who leads 
the nation on beam, controlled her combina -
tions and connections to earn a 10 on the 
apparatus. Fifth-year Drew Watson tied an 
Auburn program-record vault with a 9.975, 
and the Tigers earned a team total 197.775 
to advance. 
Denver turned out some great routines, 
but it wasn’t enough to stay in contention 
with the SEC powerhouses. The Pioneers 
posted a final score of 197.225. 
“We still have more to give,” Rowland 
said. “We’ve got two more weeks, we keep 
dancing.” 
The Gators now move to the NCAA 
Championship semifinal round in Fort 
Worth, Texas, April 14. Florida will compete 
in the second semifinal at 6 p.m. against 
No. 3  Michigan, No. 7 Auburn and No. 11 
Missouri. The meet will be broadcasted on 
ESPN2.
@MadsLaws
mlawson@alligator.orgFlorida positioned to contend for another national title
Thomas, Wong lead Florida to NCAA ChampionshipSamantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Florida men’s tennis sits on top of the world, riding a 12-match win 
streak after a national championship campaign in 2021.
12   ALLIGATOR    MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2022
  THURSDAY NIGHT THURSDAY NIGHT 
  ALL YOU CAN DRINKALL YOU CAN DRINK
ON THE ROOFON THE ROOF
1010pm pm - 12- 12 A mA m
wednesdaywednesday
nightnight
77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$55
MAC N’ CHEESEMAC N’ CHEESE
MAC NIGHTMAC NIGHT
$$55
LIQUORLIQUOR
PITCHERSPITCHERS   && KARAOKE KARAOKEon theon the   ROOFROOF
regular, buffalo chicken, regular, buffalo chicken, 
BBQ pork, or tacoBBQ pork, or taco
PERFECTPERFECT
WEDNESDAYSWEDNESDAYS
PITCHERPITCHER
99pm pm ON THEON THE  ROOF ROOF
FRIDAYFRIDAY
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 12- 12 A mA m
$$33offoff
allall  BURGERS & BURGERS & 
SANDWICHESSANDWICHES
$$11
$$33
$$44
WELLSWELLS
LEMONLEMON
DROPSDROPS
FIRST MAGNITUDEFIRST MAGNITUDE   
DRAFTSDRAFTS
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
saturdaysaturday
LIVE LIVE DJDJ  @@  1010pmpm
@TheSocialMidtown @TheSocialGNV www.thesocialgnv.com 1728 West University Ave
::
$$22
PINKPINKWHITNEYSWHITNEYS
$$55
MULESMULES
NIGHTNIGHT
 77p m p m - 10- 10 P mP m
$$33offoff
 allall  SEAFOODSEAFOOD
ITEMSITEMS
$$22
 $$33
$$44
DOUBLEDOUBLE
WELLSWELLS
SWAMPHEADSWAMPHEAD   DRAFTSDRAFTS
JACKJACK
JACK JACK HONEYHONEY
JACK JACK FIREFIREFOOTBALL
KAIIR ELAM, ZACHARY CARTER AND 
DAMEON PIERCE WERE THE GATORS 
GARNERING THE MOST PRAISE
By Joseph Henry
Sports Writer
As the NFL Draft looms, Gators looking to 
make it at the next level put forth their best effort 
to stand out among hundreds of draft-eligible 
prospects. 
The pressure is immense when a room full 
of eyes gaze at a single athlete on the field, ev -
ery minute detail being scrutinized. Through the 
stress of the pre-draft process, Florida defensive 
lineman Zachary Carter said it best 一 every op -
portunity is a blessing. 
Carter was one of 15 UF football players to 
workout during Pro Day at the Florida Indoor 
Practice Facility Monday. Wide receiver Rick 
Wells was slated to participate, but ultimately 
was not present. Representatives from 28 of 32 
NFL teams were on site in Gainesville, getting an 
up-close look at the Gators’ prospects. 
The morning began with each player being 
measured for their height and weight. Then, 
their strength and agility were put to the test. 
Cornerback Kaiir Elam, who had just been at 
the NFL Scouting Combine in Indianapolis a few 
weeks prior, was the prospect no one could look 
away from. 
He impressed with a 37.5-inch vertical jump, 
which would have been good enough to tie him 
for fourth at the Combine. Elam moved on to re -
cord 10 bench-press reps and a 4.21-second time 
in the 20-yard shuttle. 
The Riviera Beach, Florida, product is the 
lone Gator expected to land in the first round. In 
the latest mock draft from Chris Trapasso of CBS 
Sports, he has Elam landing with the Pittsburgh Steelers at pick No. 20. The corner’s athleticism 
and ball skills were on full display during indi -
vidual drills at Pro Day. 
Elam was Florida’s lock-down guy on the 
outside in 2021, and quarterbacks would rarely 
even think to throw his way. He tallied just one 
interception and five pass breakups on the sea -
son, but it’s Elam’s football IQ and elite man-to-
man coverage skills that ultimately make him a 
first-round prospect.
Contrary to common practice, Elam did say 
Monday that he is entering the draft without 
an agent and instead has a team of family and 
friends supporting him. 
“I just rely on them,” Elam said. “They have 
done right by me my whole life.” 
Elam has set up multiple interviews with NFL 
franchises but opted not to get into the specifics. 
Beyond the Gators’ star corner, Carter is the 
other big name from the Florida defense entering 
this year’s draft. 
In 2021, he was second on the team in two 
categories, totaling eight sacks and 11 tackles for 
loss. The redshirt senior was a dominant force 
on the defensive line and a notable veteran pres -
ence in the locker room. 
On Monday, Carter had a chip on his shoul -
der. He is currently projected as a day-two pick, 
but believes he is better. 
“I wanted to come out here and show that 
I’m one of the top defensive linemen in the 
draft,” Carter said. 
The Tampa, Florida, native ran a 5.06-sec -
ond 40-yard dash, just a hair slower than his 
effort at the Combine. Carter really started to 
shine once position-specific drills began. He and 
his teammates worked with coaches from the 
Jacksonville Jaguars and Arizona Cardinals to 
demonstrate their burst off the line and tackling 
abilities. 
Carter is a big defensive end, standing 6-foot-4-inches and weighing in at 285 pounds. His size 
mixed with his athleticism makes him a unique 
prospect and a steal if he does end up in the 
round two-to-three range. 
On the offensive side of things, it was all 
about the running backs. 
Prospects Dameon Pierce and Malik Davis 
were electrifying as always. Both backs are fresh 
off seasons with more than 500 yards on the 
ground, an especially impressive task in an of -
fensive that had plenty of mouths to feed. 
The tandem combined for 18 touchdowns, 
but both runners were held back by the split 
workload. Yet, Pierce always stood above his 
teammate and still does heading into the draft. 
Currently the third-best half back accord -
ing to PFF, Pierce wields a lethal combination 
of quickness and power. He showed this off in 
drills Monday, making quick cuts and acceler -
ating to top speed with ease. The Bainbridge, 
Georgia, product sits in the same conversation 
as Michigan State’s Kenneth Walker III and 
Iowa State’s Breece Hall. Depending on team 
fit, Pierce could realistically be the first running 
back off the board and shapes up to be a day-
two selection. 
Pierce’s backfield partner, Davis, doesn’t 
have the same buzz, but did impress at Pro Day. 
His 39.5-inch vertical jump and 10.7-inch broad 
jump caught scouts’ attention early. Davis’ 4.71 
second 40-yard dash did leave something to be 
desired; it would have been the slowest time 
among running backs at the Combine. 
Davis does have opportunities lined up, 
though, having multiple conversations with NFL 
teams. He also has a meeting set up with the 
Dallas Cowboys soon. 
Flipping back to the defensive side, defensive 
lineman Antonio Valentino felt he had a good 
day Monday. As more of an interior player, Val -
entino thought he showed that he does have good athleticism. 
He ran a 5.28 second 40-yard dash, jumped 
29.5 inches in the vertical and bench pressed 25 
reps. In position drills, Valentino was the stand -
out, alongside Carter. The Columbus, Ohio, na -
tive has a workout with the Tampa Bay Bucca -
neers scheduled in the upcoming weeks. 
Another performance of note came from de -
fensive tackle Daquan Newkirk. He led all par -
ticipants with 29 reps on the bench press. 
The NFL Draft in Las Vegas begins April 28 
and will wrap up April 30. The Alligator Sports 
desk will have updates whenever Gators get se -
lected, and all rounds of the draft will broadcast 
on ESPN and NFL Network.
@Josephhenry2424
jhenry@alligator.orgScouts take notes as Florida football hosts Pro Day a month before NFL Draft
Samantha Harrison / / Alligator Staff
Cornerback Kaiir Elam participated in 
Florida football’s Pro Day Monday along 
with 14 other prospects.
