Correction appended
Two GW professors will try to help reverse a long history of gender inequality in Pakistan by working to revamp a women’s college there over the next three years.
Anthropology and international affairs professor Barbara Miller and associate human and organizational learning professor Shahista Khilji earned a $1 million State Department grant last week that will fund a three-year partnership with Lahore College for Women University in Pakistan.
Miller said the grant will help strengthen the LCWU masters program for gender and development studies to emphasize women’s rights – in a country that ranked 120 out of 146 on the United Nations’ Gender-Related Development Index. About 250 women enroll in the program annually.
“The global gender program at GW and the gender and development department at LCWU will work together to improve education and cultural awareness for students at both universities,” she said.
LCWU, located in the city of Lahore, Pakistan, enrolls about 10,000 students annually in nearly 40 different departments, ranging from zoology to Pakistan studies.
Nine other faculty members will also help develop leadership sessions. GW faculty will create webinars about gender and development which they will share with faculty in Pakistan.
“Women’s empowerment is a critical issue in human [and] international development,” Khilji said. “We are helping LCWU faculty and students identify needs of local women in Pakistan and develop/deliver training for them to empower them.”
LCWU faculty will come to GW next fall to lecture and develop ideas for joint research projects, which the $1 million grant will also fund. Miller said she hopes students from both universities will join the faculty in the research.
Pakistani students will also come to GW over the next three summers to take classes in Foggy Bottom. The University does not currently permit students to travel to Pakistan because of its political climate, something the professors hope changes in the coming years.
“Promoting cultural and social ties between people of Pakistan and United States is very important, and the possibility of really making a difference in the lives of many women and through entire communities is very motivating,” Khilji said.
This post was updated to reflect the following correction: 
The Hatchet incorrectly reported that all nine professors will be traveling to Pakistan this spring. We regret this error.
This article appeared in the  October 4, 2013 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

The Center for Career Services wants to raise $100,000 this year to supersize its program for paying students who take on unpaid internships.
If the center succeeds, the funding pool would double the amount for the inaugural internship grants program. It would pay for 100 students working at nonprofits or government agencies to receive an average of $1,000 per semester.
Rachel Brown, head of Career Services, said the Office of Development and Alumni Relations has taken over the fundraising effort. She added that she’s not concerned about the goal because the fund “sells itself.” Parents and alumni have already offered to donate to help students get their foot in the door at prospective jobs, she said.
“It’s important for students to be able to pursue their passion, and to not have the fact that their internship is unpaid be a deterring factor,” Brown said. “We want to be able to support students to do that.”
The University first offered the program last fall, awarding grants to 37 students. Universities like Tufts, Northwestern and Virginia run similar programs.
The fundraising effort comes at a time when unpaid internships are in a harsh spotlight – with some outrage billowing after a string of lawsuits against film and media companies this year.
Alex Munoz, who graduated with a master’s in information systems in 1994, said he donated to the fund because internship opportunities are crucial to finding a job in a sluggish economy, especially because employers look to hire people who can “hit the ground running.”
“As the economy rebounds, having a workforce that is graduating from college with the experience to succeed immediately in the area of their choosing is paramount to increasing the reputation of the school as well,” he said.
While the program is meant for students looking to break into the government and nonprofit sector, Brown said the office will also consider students who apply for small startups.
Last summer’s grant allowed Brady Baldwin, a senior economics major, to commit to an internship at the Legal Aid Society in New York City. He said he needed the grant to pay for the city’s high costs of living.
“I do think that it’s really valuable to be able to take an internship in a field that you want to pursue a career in,” he said. “I wouldn’t have been able to do that if it wasn’t for the grant.”
Baldwin said the internship reinforced his interest in public service law, and “it also helped me start to build the skills that I will need to succeed in that field.”
Avery Jaffe, a junior political communications major, said his grant funded his internship with the Ready for Hillary Political Action Committee.
“It’s definitely something that embodies what GW is all about,” he said about the hands-on, political internships. “Converting what you learn in the classroom to make an actual impact out in D.C. or even worldwide.”
This article appeared in the  October 4, 2013 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
