Media Credit: Photo Illustration by Auden Yurman | Senior Photo Editor
Rubenstein managed “day-to-day coordination” and “grassroots scouting efforts” in the Sacramento Kings' scouting office before joining Pro Insight, where he evaluated high school and college prospects.
Men’s basketball head coach Chris Caputo hired a former member of the Sacramento Kings scouting office as the team’s director of recruitment Monday, according a press release.
Caputo named Eric Rubenstein to the job, which marked his first staff hiring since he was tapped to lead the program after men’s basketball fired former head coach Jamion Christian and the entire coaching staff in March. The release states Rubenstein worked with Caputo at Miami for three years, where he helped with analytics and scouting on the support staff while Caputo was associate head coach, before working in the Kings’ scouting office to manage “day-to-day coordination” and “grassroots scouting efforts.”
“Eric is one of the most passionate, bright minds in basketball,” Caputo said in the release. “His work capacity and attention to detail is really unmatched. Eric will bring great experience from his time in grassroots basketball, college basketball and the NBA.”
Rubenstein has most recently served as a senior basketball analyst at Pro Insight – a database that features up-and-coming basketball players – where he evaluated and analyzed high school and college prospects and helped scout professionals and international players.
“I’m extremely honored to be a part of Coach Caputo’s staff here at GW,” Rubenstein said in the release. “Coach has been a tremendous mentor to me during the early part of my career, and I could not be happier for him as he has earned the opportunity to run this program.”
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Sidney Lee | Graphics Editor


On this week’s episode of What’s New Buff and Blue, Host Sarah Sachs speaks with Managing Editor Isha Trivedi about FRESHFARM reopening in the Foggy Bottom neighborhood.

 This podcast was hosted and produced by Sarah Sachs. Aulx Studio
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
If there’s any word that I would use to describe my past four years at The Hatchet, it would be chaotic.
The first story I took for The Hatchet was about a Capital Bikeshare station that was installed on the Mount Vernon Campus, where I lived my freshman year. I signed up to take the story on a Sunday afternoon and immediately started knocking on doors in my residence hall asking people if they had just two minutes for a quick interview. I was proud of the reporting I had done on such a quick turnaround, but when it was time to sit down to write the story, I was at a loss.
My editor texted me asking for a first draft and I hesitantly shared her on the measly 400 words I had pieced together from my work study computer. Her comments were harsh, but it wasn’t so bad. I met with her in what is now called the University Student Center, and she patiently went over edits with me.
After that, The Hatchet became my outlet. I quickly took on more stories about local politics, covering Advisory Neighborhood Commission meetings, approaching passersby to ask them what they thought of the city’s ban on certain red lights, following Ward 2’s dramatic D.C. Council race – no topic was too small or mundane to matter to the community. When I went through a breakup that fall, I took two stories that week to get my mind off of things.
My sophomore year came to an abrupt end halfway through the spring semester when the pandemic broke out, crushing my plans to get an internship in D.C. that summer and study abroad in Prague. Instead, I spent my junior year covering GW’s response to the pandemic, diving into the abundance of research GW was pumping out and getting to shed light on how the pandemic was affecting the mental health of professors, students and community members. When my community seemed to be upended, the one constant was that I would cover it all as it unfolded.
When I became editor in chief – a role I was elected to from my childhood bedroom – even more chaos ensued. Former University President Thomas LeBlanc resigned just a week after classes ended and I had to rally my newly appointed staff to put together a special issue of The Hatchet to unpack the news. I would spend the rest of the year sifting through The Hatchet’s finances and dealing with breaking news that cropped up at the most inconvenient times.
I could never expect what I would have to deal with each day, but as time went on, I learned that I preferred things that way. I learned that I thrive when I never quite know what’s going on, and luckily, GW is just the right spot for that. My time at The Hatchet and at GW has been a lot of things, but I can’t say that it’s been boring.
Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Here’s what I’ve come to accept – The Hatchet is never going to be perfect. There was never going to be enough hours in the day to follow through on all my ideas for the paper and there was no way I was going to make absolutely everyone happy with my decisions. I’ve spent much of the past year frustrated with those facts and much of the past year realizing that that’s the only way things can move forward. What I’ve learned at The Hatchet and what I will take with me for the rest of my life is that there is truly only so much I can control – it’s best to submit to the chaos and take things day by day.
This paper is earnest and scrappy and tired but it’s going to be just fine.
Here’s to the people who’ve made the chaos worth it:
Current staff:
Zach: You have been the best managing editor/business manager/IT support/audience engagement director/senior consultant/friend I could have asked for. Running this paper alongside you has been an absolute blast. I seriously think I would have fallen over on day one if it wasn’t for you. Even the stressful parts you turned into a fun time. Each time I came to you overwhelmed with a problem your response was always the same – “We’ll figure it out” – and most of the time we did. Thank you for listening to me complain every single day and for sitting on the phone with me for hours while I worked through decisions. Thank you for laughing at the stressful parts of this job. There’s a part of me that’s convinced that the two of us could do anything if we put our minds to it. It’s no secret you’re gonna do big things, just promise you’ll check in every once in a while?
Jared: You have been such an anchor for me and for the paper as a whole this past volume. I know we’ve joked about keeping you as Hatchet historian, but after five long years you’ve dedicated to The Hatchet you’ve brought a wealth of institutional knowledge to the paper that no one else could have. Thank you for stepping into whatever the paper needed from you this volume, whether that was stand-in copy editor, filing FixIts for the countless times the basement has flooded or helping ed-board understand the student court. Between being my senior news editor last volume and my ME this volume, you’ve had to deal with my attitude and my scattered brain more than most, but I am so grateful for the friendship we’ve formed from it all. I’ll never forget the countless hours we’ve spent dishing about staff in my office or poring over our video projects in the edit lab for our capstone class. I know you will be excellent in whatever post-grad life has for you and I can’t wait to see what you get up to.
Grace Hromin: You are seriously one of the kindest and most hardworking people I’ve ever met. I could always rely on you to get a last minute photo together or just be there to listen to me vent about whatever was holding up prodo that day. I know you’ll be great at whatever you do in life. I hope you can get some sleep and get back to a normal schedule in this next chapter of life.
Tiffany: I was so happy when you agreed to come on as MD this semester! I know we only worked together for a few months but the energy and joy you brought to the role was so refreshing. I always looked forward to our Sunday morning meetings and you were by far the best Jeopardy host anyone could have asked for. I know you will excel at whatever you do in life.
Hannah: I had a blast working with you during the fall semester. You planned a bomb conference, even though you unfortunately didn’t get to be there for it. Thank you for being a sounding board and just being there to talk about life. I know you’re doing awesome things at The Post these days!
Jarrod: I’ve had the pleasure of transitioning you into two of my former roles on The Hatchet, and I’m glad at least one of them got to be in person. The time and precision that you bring to every single story is unmatched, and I know that dedication will serve you well leading the paper next volume. Be good to your team and trust your instincts. Remember that you were elected to this role for a reason – I can’t wait to see what you do with the paper.
Zach Blackburn: You are reckless on Twitter but you’ve been such a joy to work with. Your chaotic energy reminds me of me when I was a sophomore. You’ve stepped up this past year on multiple occasions to cover some tough stories. Your obsession with transportation policy and the D.C. court systems are proof that you are fit to be a great SNE. Be a tough journalist, read the fine print and don’t get in too much trouble.
Nick Pasion: I first met you over Zoom for our SMPA mentorship meeting and I remember thinking how genuine you seemed, even virtually. I was thrilled to learn that you would join staff and I can’t be happier to know that you’ll be leading the news team next volume. You are a tough journalist who has never hesitated to go to great lengths to get the story right – even if it means purchasing at-home mold testing kits to do so. Keep that energy up in Vol. 119 and push your team to do the same – The Hatchet will be better for it.
Lauren: I think it’s safe to say that few people have spent the same amount of time in the townhouse as you have. Covering a beat as unpredictable and 24/7 as the Student Association isn’t for the faint of heart, but you did it with such compassion and care that brought our coverage to a whole new level. I was so happy to learn that you would be MD in the coming volume. I hope you can take a breather from all things student-government related for a bit, you deserve it.
Isha: It has been an absolute honor working with you. Whether you were inspecting the University’s HVAC units or unpacking the enigma that is shared governance, everything you’ve covered you’ve done with a precise care for how these stories get told. I couldn’t be happier to know that you’ll be running the show as ME next year. I know your ideas and your attention to details – however seemingly mundane – will make the paper better. Despite my objections, I do secretly hope to see more snow-themed coverage in the paper. I know you’ll do great at whatever life throws at you. Please stay in touch.
Abby: My birthday twin! Even only knowing you over Zoom when you were a Health and Science reporter, I knew that I wanted you to be student life editor. Your energy and your genuine kindness toward students is what has helped you excel at this role. I hope you have a blast in social this upcoming volume!
Dan: You were thrown into several different positions when you first came on staff but you took each of them in stride and have pumped some impactful news stories along the way. I’m thrilled to know that you’ll be taking on the administration beat next year. Be tough and have fun with it.
Ishani: You stepped up to be health and science editor when the paper needed you and for that I am so grateful. It’s been wonderful to watch you grow as a writer and editor this semester. Your grit and your ability to parse through research jargon is going to take you far in life.
Team Ops: Andrew: I’ll never forget coming into our first in-person ed-board meeting a bit worried that people were going to be awkward with each other after a year of virtual Hatchet operations, but you made everyone feel so comfortable with each other that by the end of the meeting you had made everyone gang up on me and started joking about framing me for a crime. Ops was the one section that intimidated me a bit to start editing, but I was so impressed with how you ran your section that it made my editing job so much easier. Thank you for advocating for your writers in budgeting meetings and for coming up with out of the box ideas that you put your own spin on. Shreeya: I’ve so enjoyed getting to edit your work this year. You have such a wonderful presence and I’ve truly appreciated how you approach each pitch when we’re deciding what to approve at budgeting each week. Each of your pieces you’ve written with such care and a distinctive voice that only you can deliver. I know you’ll do great things post-Hatchet and I can’t wait to see what they are.
Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Team Sports: Nuria: You’ve stepped up to cover the craziness that is GW Athletics and you put out some incredibly impactful stories this year. I couldn’t be happier to know that you’ll be running the show as sports editor next year. Your passion, drive and kindness are going to take you so far in life and I can’t wait to see what you do at The Hatchet and beyond. Remember to advocate for yourself – no one’s going to fight for you the way you will. Roman: Your thoughtfulness and attention to detail in your writing drove the sports section this year. I’ve greatly appreciated your energy and your willingness to cover every sport (although we now know you didn’t enjoy basketball). I know you’ll do great as a writer in the future – I can’t wait to see what you accomplish.
Team Photo: Danielle, Aduden, Sydney, Camille: You have done such great work this year that has truly brought our content to the next level. Whether it’s running off to cover breaking news at a moment’s notice or getting out into the city for a Halloween-themed photo essay you all brought your A-game and I could not have been happier to have you as my photo team!
Team Culture: Anna: You’ve brought so much fun to the Culture section this year. I’ve loved hearing your creative pitches each week and seeing new projects come together. I feel like all the time we’ve spent over-caffeinated in my office trying to figure out our data journalism homework deserves a nod here as well! I know you’re going to go so far in life – take it easy. Clara: It’s been a pleasure to watch your work grow this year as contrib and I can’t wait to see where you take the section as Culture editor next year! Keep coming up with great stories – I’ll be reading!
Team Video: Amanda & Thais: I looked forward to our budgeting meeting every week because I was laughing the whole time! The two of you came up with the most creative pitches and brought such a joyful energy to the paper that I’m glad to know will be carried on into the next volume. Dante: It’s been such a pleasure to work with you at The Hatchet and elsewhere this past year. I have mad respect for all the work you’ve done with the video section over the years and I can’t wait to see what you do beyond GW.
Jaden: When I hired you the copy section was a bit of a sore spot – I couldn’t find anyone within staff to step up to the plate and I was wary of bringing in an external editor. But I was absolutely blown away by the way you took ownership over your section this year. As much as I may have rolled my eyes at your late-night, last-minute copy edits, the paper was always better for it. I’m so glad that you’ll be back at it next year with your copy edits and your input at ed board.
Team facts: Henry, Sam & Tara: You all stepped up to do a job that can sometimes feel thankless, but I hope you took pride knowing that you were the last line of defense to make sure stories got told the right way. No matter how late prodo went on Sundays and Wednesdays I knew I could count on the three of you to make the paper the best it could be.
Team Podcast: Sarah: Whether you were interviewing professional ghost hunters or unpacking the city’s cat census, you always brought the most creative pitches to budgeting. I couldn’t be happier to know that you’ll be coming back to podcast in the next volume – I’ll be listening! Sejal: I am so proud of all that you’ve accomplished since you were in my section reporting health and science news during the pandemic. I’ve loved what you’ve done with the podcast this year and I can’t wait to see what you do at The Hatchet and beyond. Don’t forget to take care of yourself. Ethan: Though I only got to work with you for a semester, I’ve been so impressed with what you’ve brought to the podcast this spring. I was so happy to learn that you’re sticking around in social and on ed board next year!
Team Design: Grace Miller: (or should I say David) Your energy and humor lit up the basement Sunday nights and it’s one of the reasons I so looked forward to piecing the pages together in the middle of the night every week. Whether you were hiding inside a suitcase or projecting Harry Potter on the white boards, there was never a dull moment in the basement with you around. I hope you can get some rest this summer. Isabella: It’s been such a joy watching you grow into your role this past year! I know you’ll have a blast heading the Design section this upcoming semester. Nick Anastacio: Your graphics are the best thing ever. No matter how crazy of an idea staff members would come to you with, you put together the most professional-looking graphics. I know you will have no trouble finding an amazing job – stay in touch!
Team Social: Amy, Molly & Sidney: The three of you have brought creative ideas and such a joyful energy to the paper this past year. I’ve been blown away at how you’ve grown our audience this past year and I can’t wait to follow your careers as you take the next steps.
Vol. 119: This paper is what you put into it and I have no doubt you’ll raise the bar in the next volume. Taking on the role of storytelling comes with immense responsibility, but don’t forget to have fun and make memories, because that’s what truly makes this worth it.
Past staff:
Dani: Whenever people ask me how I joined The Hatchet the answer I give is that I had a really cool Metro editor my freshman year and I wanted to be like her. And that’s the truth. You pushed me out of my comfort zone and made me surprise myself with what I was capable of. Thank you for asking me to join staff and for challenging me to do my best work.
Sarah: I sure did have big shoes to fill. I did nowhere near the job you did but the care you put into everything you do inspired me in tough moments. I’m never going to forget the first Zoom call we had at the start of my transition when I hopped on early and you were not expecting me to be there. Thank you for leaving this paper in a better place than where you found it. Thank you for raising the bar.
Alec: Your calm presence was greatly missed on The Hatchet this semester, but I know you’re killing it these days. I hope our paths cross sometime soon!
Ilena: My fellow Metro Queen! I am so sad that we didn’t get to work together after sophomore year but I am so glad for the time we did get to spend together. I know you’re out there crushing it at Columbia.
Lizzie: When you had a million things on your plate as student life editor during Vol. 116 you still made a point to check in on me when I was Metro editor. You poured so much care and dedication into the work you did at The Hatchet, but most importantly you were a great friend to me. I know you’re out in the world doing great things! If you ever find yourself in D.C. again, let’s get coffee.
Michelle: I was so glad to hire you after you were a star reporter all throughout the virtual year. Even as you’ve taken a step back from staff this semester I know that your presence has been greatly appreciated by the news team. I hope you make it back to The Hatchet before you graduate. I know that whatever you do, you’ll be great at it.
Friends, family, mentors and professors:
Professor Zuckerman: Your guidance this past year has been so helpful and has truly made the paper better. Thank you for always answering my calls and then calling back later with more thoughts. Your dedication to this work and to your students is inspiring and has gone so far.
Catie, Taylor, Eliza, Zakir: Thank you for keeping me in check. Thank you for listening me to rant about The Hatchet for who knows how many hours. Thank you for helping me close my computer and be present. I love y’all more than you know.
Delaney: My Colorado/D.C. pal! You have been alongside me every step of the way and I could not be happier that you made it to the District. Thank you for getting what it’s like to be way too invested in your niche college activity and for helping me to get away from it when I needed to.
My professors: Dr. Cheers, Professor Roberts, Ashley: Thank you each for pushing me to do my best work. Whether it was for The Hatchet or for class, I know I’m coming out of the past four years a stronger journalist thanks to your guidance.
Mama, Papa, Zara, Rosebud and Frankie: When you dropped me off at GW, I don’t think any of you expected to have to watch me work for my college newspaper from home. None of this would have been possible without you. I can’t wait to show you around the city that I love during Commencement. I love you all!
-30-
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor
Each year, graduating editors are given 30 final column inches – “30” was historically used to signify the end of a story – to reflect on their time at The Hatchet, published in the final issues of the year.
“Boy Meets World” was one of my favorite shows growing up.
I stumbled upon it one morning when I was eating breakfast, and I quickly became invested in the show. I felt a connection to the protagonist, Cory Matthews, and I was eager to find out what he and his friends would do next and what big life lesson they would learn. Throughout the series, Cory referred to his decisions and the twists of fate in his life as part of “the universe,” through which he learned to follow his passions and made connections with others. And he was always looking to find his place in the world.
I tried out journalism for the first time as an elective as a high school sophomore and quickly picked up a column analyzing the political news of the day. While working on a name, “Boy Meets Gov” jumped out at me as an offshoot of the show I was so fond of. I created my own space on the paper – a place where I found my niche.
Coming to GW, it made sense to major in journalism, but I wasn’t sold on it upon walking into The Hatchet’s townhouse for the first time one Monday night. What sold me was the excitement and the fun, along with the admiration I developed for this organization and journalism as a whole. And, of course, the people I met along the way.
Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor
When I first joined the paper, I looked up to the news editors at the time – whom I referred to as “the five” – so much that I wanted to be just like them. I knew that was my place in the Hatchet universe. When I eventually became an editor, I was most excited to have the chance to oversee coverage of amazing stories and serve as a mentor for the next generation, like my predecessors before me.
The Hatchet can sometimes feel like its own universe, with its own shared struggles, inside jokes and passions for improving the lives of the GW community. And I’ve looked to find my niche to fill a role in that universe and better the organization. This organization has existed and passed down its customs for many generations before me, and I hope it will remain for many generations after.
Of course, not all parts of the process are the most exhilarating. What helped an immeasurable amount were the people right there with me, doing the same job I was. Reflecting back on all the nights working on drafts together, all the hours sitting in Faculty Senate meetings, all the Sundays and Wednesdays putting the final touches on stories, the other members of staff are who helped me make memories I’ll fondly look back on.
Helping lead the paper during the pandemic was something I couldn’t have anticipated. A more normal experience being senior news editor would have been preferable. However, the pandemic led me to one of my most difficult and important decisions: to take a year off school to return in person this past fall. During one of the most emotionally and mentally difficult times for everyone, The Hatchet was one thing that helped me manage the pandemic and know what day it was.
I didn’t know what The Hatchet would look like coming out of the pandemic. We had basically undergone a yearlong pause on normal operations, stopping most nonreporting parts of the normal Hatchet experience that make this fun. Realizing this led me to find my new niche in the Hatchet universe that I pledged myself to this past year: restoring all of the customs that make The Hatchet a family.
Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor
It’s ironic to me that I took on the role of the institutionalist/Hatchet historian actively working to bring back as many traditions as I could remember because most of my time on The Hatchet was based around helping reform this organization for the better. The history of this paper matters – it’s something that sets us apart, something that makes The Hatchet like a family run newspaper with all its storied legacy. But nothing should stay the same forever. Traditions are meant to evolve, andt they should evolve through active decision making. Bringing back these traditions will give future generations of The Hatchet the opportunity to decide what to continue and what to let go. My advice to future volumes: find your own meaning in these long-held traditions, but keep making new ones.
Five years is a long time for anything, but the time I’ve spent on The Hatchet passed in the blink of an eye. I feel lucky and honored to have been able to not just help guide the paper through a major crisis but rebuild after it. And I can’t imagine my GW years having gone any other way.
I owe everything to the people who have supported me along the way. I can’t begin to say “thank you” for all the good times, laughs, motivation, guidance and companionship. But here’s a start.
Leah: It feels fitting that my Hatchet mom and the first person I ever met on the paper is the first person I address here. I definitely did not plan for the way I would join The Hatchet a few weeks after the others in my freshman class, but I can say fairly confidently that fate worked out for the best here. From the moment you introduced yourself to me on that Monday evening in September, you were the friendliest and most supportive editor I could have asked for. I remember how you consoled and encouraged me to move forward as I cryingly told you an expert yelled at me for asking what he considered a dumb question while I was reporting my first story. I had no idea what to expect upon joining The Hatchet, but your kindness and devotion to the health and sciences beat and your reporters are what pulled me in so quickly. Beyond that, you went from editor to mentor to friend along the way, and I’m so grateful for that and that you were so crucial to some of my earliest memories on The Hatchet.
Olivia Dupree: While it’s so easy for different sections of the paper to just hang in their own corners only interacting with other sections when necessary, you specifically sought to break that mold, which is what led you to chat with a relatively quiet new news editor at a small Hatchet social event. From that conversation on, I knew I had my first real outside-the-newsroom Hatchet friend. Our talks ranged from intense food discourse deliberations to stress to levels of friendship, and I always knew that I could be honest in my takes and expect the same from you. P.S. I forgive you for abandoning me on the scavenger hunt.
Sarah: It was clear to me early on how crucial you were going to be to the future of The Hatchet. I remember meeting you in the Marvin Center freshman year for the first time to plan for our only co-byline together. I had just begun to think through the story while you already had a fully fleshed out reporting plan with sources and a schedule to stay on track with the story for the week. I’m sorry we didn’t have an opportunity to work on another assignment together because of the parallel trajectories our Hatchet careers took, but I’m so happy we were able to work together to guide the paper through the virtual year. I couldn’t have asked for a better EIC to work under as SNE, as I knew I could turn to you for help with difficult stories, sources and circumstances (and there were many). Our check-in calls may have sometimes gotten off topic, but I was always happy to lend an ear for whatever you needed and still am.
Dani: I thought of you as the mysterious one for much of the first half of my time with The Hatchet because you were the only editor I hadn’t really spoken to, and I had stories in all beats except metro (I promise it wasn’t intentional!). That continued somewhat with academics not being in your designed beats for the Vol. 116 news team. But your training was so crucial to my success as SNE. The Navy SNEal training was what I need to prepare me for what is a difficult job as you know. I admittedly had doubts about my ability to take full SNE coming into Vol. 117, but your support is what convinced me I could do it.
Parth: I always felt that we had an interesting dynamic during our time on the paper. My first memory of you was you last-minute calling me at the end of freshman year to peer pressure me into taking event blogs, and you knew I was likely to say yes. I wasn’t fully sure what to expect when you were about to become my SNE, knowing your sarcastic side but openly not being scared of you, as I often reminded you. I soon saw the advantages of you as my boss, knowing that your top priority was to provide the support Zach, Ilena and I needed, along with the rest of news, to be as successful as possible. You were a big reason why I succeeded in the multiple positions I’ve held for the Hatchet, and I owe you one for that. P.S. Offering the spare room in your Dupont apartment for that summer was pretty helpful and fun too. I guess I owe you two.
Lizzie: Where do I even begin? I was happy when we quickly became friends after I attended one of my first GW Hillel events and realized you were in The Hatchet too, but I had no idea what an important friendship it’d be to me. Your friendship has played such a major role in my life that it’d be impossible for me to tell the story of my college experience without you in it. I don’t think I’ve met anyone who cares so deeply about the things you care about, and I’ve always admired that. You wore so many different hats during your time on The Hatchet and excelled at all of them. I knew by freshman year how important you were going to be to The Hatchet, and by senior year you were one of the most respected leaders on the paper. Our SNE-copy debates, even when I was wrong (which, admittedly, happened often), definitely helped prepare me to stand in for copy this semester. There’s no one else I’m so convinced can do anything they put their mind to. You’ve been one of the most supportive, thoughtful, caring friends I’ve ever had, and I’m so grateful for that.
Lia: I remember being so happy and excited when I heard you planned to run for EIC because I knew you were going to be as successful as you have been in everything else you’ve done for The Hatchet. I couldn’t imagine a better person to lead the paper back to in-person operations than you. You’ve handled every challenge thrown at you and the paper this year with perspective and a clear vision. I wish I could’ve gotten to know you better earlier in my time on The Hatchet, but I really enjoy the friendship we’ve developed and the occasional snipes we throw at each other. There are so many opportunities available to you for the future, and I can’t wait to see which one you take.
Zach Schonfeld: My Hatchet partner-in-crime – we’ve had such similar paths on this paper that I can’t remember a time when we weren’t working on something together. I’ve always felt we worked so well together because our respective strengths and focuses complemented each other perfectly. Your outside-the-box thinking with pitching story ideas and ways of telling stories are things I’ve aspired to and have long admired in you. It was always a comfort as SNE knowing that if a story could be done it would be, regardless of your role as top boy scout. I know you’ll be successful in everything you do just based on who you are as a journalist, colleague and leader.
Ilena: I honestly think if there had to be an MVP of our year on the news team, it would’ve been you. You were one of the best reporters and editors I’ve seen on The Hatchet, and if any story ever needed to get done by the end of the day, it could be given to you. There were so many times you fully reported and wrote academics stories that I had barely made progress on entirely on a Friday, and I’ve always been grateful for that. On a more personal level, I really enjoyed all the time spent in the townhouse or JBKO finishing stories together, bonding and occasionally letting off some steam. You’ve been such a great friend – star babies onward.
Tiffany: From the moment you had to step away from staff, I said if anyone would come back it would be you, and I’m so happy I was right. You are one of the most enthusiastic members of The Hatchet and are so passionate about every story. I’ve really enjoyed watching you grow and become the reporter you are today. I know you’ll go far in anything you decide to pursue.
Alec: You were such a reliable reporter when I was academics editor that I pretty much knew I could rely on you for anything. I really enjoyed reporting alongside you while getting to know you, even including our one time getting kicked out of an office – an experience for us both. You took the podcast in its relative infancy and turned it into a major part of the paper and tackled so many fascinating topics. I can’t wait to see all you do in your career, even if you’re a New Yorker.
Ed: It feels so long ago that we met in Leah’s weekly reporter meetings when we were often the only two to show up. Working in facts and copy may be underappreciated parts of staff, but your work helped keep the paper running smoothly and up to the standards we strive for. Despite the difficulty, you stayed flexible and were always looking for ways to contribute, which I always appreciated.
Jarrod: I remember first being told about this reporter with a similar name to mine junior year after the latest SA lawsuit. I heard you were impressive, but I was hesitant to get too excited over a reporter in their first byline. I’m so glad time proved that I shouldn’t have been. It’s been a pleasure watching you rise to every occasion you have faced on The Hatchet. Despite barely seeing each other in person before this past August, we’ve come a long way since I apparently let you borrow my charger when we first met. I was proud watching you and working with you as my SNE successor, and I’m excited to see all you will do as EIC. You got this.
Isha: My Hatchet child! From early on in the year after you joined academics, I was bragging to the rest of the news team about my reporter Isha and how great she was. After seeing how amazing of a reporter you are, I’ve loved getting to know you as a person outside of our work and becoming friends outside The Hatchet family tree. Covering the Faculty Senate and their occasional drama (maybe more than occasional) with you was one of my favorite parts of the virtual year, and it was nice bonding with someone who cares about senate operations as much as I do. It was great getting to train you twice, and I know you’ll be a great ME. I’m glad you’ll remain a presence on The Hatchet next year, as your deep institutional knowledge of our coverage and the paper will move us forward.
Lauren: One of the largest, random effects of The Hatchet is gaining a bunch of niche knowledge about a very specific subject, and your student government coverage has turned you into a pro. You have almost single-handedly built so many relationships with SA leaders and consistently produced spot-on stories week after week. I know you’ll be a great steady resource as MD and care so much about people’s well-being. I feel comfortable knowing you’ll be part of an exciting management team next year.
Zach Blackburn: I had no idea what to expect upon meeting you for the first time after reading your Twitter for almost a year prior. I’m happy to say I was pleasantly surprised. As much as your posts sometimes give me stress (though not too much recently!), I’ve watched you grow and mature as an editor to now being ready to help lead the news team. You’re a lot of fun to be around and care deeply about the paper. Keep jumping around the townhouse as SNE – your enthusiasm rubs off on everyone around you.
Nick: I knew your name from seeing your byline while I was SNE, but it was amazing watching you blossom into the reporter you’ve become while you were a fact checker. You continued the dominant legacy of academics editors well, and I’m excited to see you take up SNE next year because I know you are ready to help lead this paper. I’ve enjoyed our occasional banter and your branding of me as the institutionalist. Maybe take the baton after me?
Abby: Covering student life isn’t easy, and it’s been great watching you come into the role and grow as a reporter. It’s been nice having a fellow Philly sports fan on staff, and I’m very happy you’ve decided to stay on staff next year. I’ll keep an eye on my inbox.
Ishani: As SNE, I always liked when I saw your byline at the top of a draft I received because I knew it’d be an easy story to edit. You were one of the best reporters I edited while I led news, and it’s been nice getting to know you this year too. I can’t wait to see all you accomplish.
Dan: You’re one of the most energetic people currently on staff. I still can’t believe you cleaned the entire business office just because you felt like it one day, which was actually a huge help. Admin is a difficult beat, but I know you’re capable of taking it and excelling.
Michelle: I don’t think I’ve meant anyone juggling as many things as you do, and you do amazing at all of them. Your drafts were also one of the easiest edits I needed to do because I needed to do so few of them, and I was so happy when you became health and research editor. I know you’ll be successful at all you do, but remember to sleep here and there.
Grace Hromin: I didn’t know what to expect needing to be in constant coordination with photo while I was SNE, but I couldn’t have asked for a better person to work with. You constantly were ready to adjust, even when stories changed last minute, and handled everything like a pro, like with some last minute photo essay ideas courtesy of Zach. I enjoyed getting to actually know you in person after having known you by text for a year, and you helped prodo run smoothly and make it so much more fun. I’m here anytime to fix your passive voice or for anything else you need.
Grace Miller: My fellow INFJ! You’ve grown into an exceptional design editor, always ready with a new idea to make our fronts and guides more visually appealing while still focusing on the small details. I know how much tracking can be a drag, but you always made sure everything looked right regardless. You were such a fun and central part of basement gang, helping us keep things together and enjoy ourselves as we went into the night. I’ll think of you and your alter ego David the next time I see “Harry Potter.”
Jaden: Despite the many, many arguments we may have had over the smallest copy rules, I’ve so much respect for you and the work you do every day. I learned firsthand just how difficult copy can be, and you not only did it for a year but signed up for a second. You’re so effective at leading this underappreciated but crucial section, and I know you’ll keep caring about all the small things that keep The Hatchet up to standard. I really enjoyed working with you, even as I worked to undermine your curly apostrophes and quotation marks.
Hannah and Andrew: Constantly putting your opinions in text to possibly be praised or skewered by others online is something that requires so much bravery. You both were always ready to churn out a new piece, sometimes at the last minute when necessary, and stood by the words you wrote. I know this will take you both far.
Sejal: I was so excited when a prospective reporter first called me asking for my advice and experience on The Hatchet, and I was so happy when that reporter joined. It’s been great seeing you report so many important stories and feel so passionate about giving a voice to others on campus. Keep up that drive as you continue your Hatchet career.
Professors Griesshammer, Wagner, Cohen-Cole, Orti and Dugan, former Provosts Maltzman and Blake and Chief Tate: I haven’t spoken to most of you in a little bit since I stopped doing reporting for the most part for The Hatchet, and that is one of the parts I miss the most from those days. Other Hatchet reporters and I have sent you all many requests for comment over the years, and you’ve all shown a commitment to help inform the community that is admirable. You made my job much easier, and I enjoyed hearing from all of you. As always, thanks for taking the time to talk with me.
Crystal: The relationship between the press and media relations is generally known for being adversarial, but your efforts to support us were so important to us accomplishing our mission. You advocated for us when we needed someone with our interests and the wider GW community’s in mind and made my job and so many other people’s jobs much easier. You made our reporting better, and I couldn’t have done my job as SNE without you. I will always appreciate that.
Zachary, Blake, Emily, Jonathan, Lila, Siena and Sinykin: The life of friends of a Hatchet member is simultaneously a unique experience and one that puts you in a club with many others. I definitely needed to say “sorry, I can’t, I have Hatchet” more often than I would’ve liked or you wanted to hear. Despite that, I can’t begin to say how much I appreciated the support I had from all of you both related to The Hatchet and life in general, along with the occasional rants you listened to. Thank you for being some of the best friends I’ve had. You might remember that I had some less than ideal roommate issues during the fall of freshman year that largely made me feel isolated before I met you in the spring. I would go through that all again in a heartbeat if it would lead me to you guys.
My family: You knew early on how important The Hatchet became to me and the role it would play in my life, and you were always supportive of my goals on the paper. Even when things got hard, you pushed me forward knowing I would be better off for it professionally and personally. This probably resulted in many fewer calls and texts from me than you would’ve liked, but it was good to know my family was always there to support me when I needed them. (I promise to try to improve on that a bit in my Hatchet retirement.) You all inspired me to follow my passions, so I have you to thank for where I am today. Felicia, there’s probably no one more responsible for my path in journalism than you. You’re the reason I’m the journalist I am today. I can’t thank you enough for all the times you’ve been there for me, and you know I’m always ready to do the same.
-30-
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Grace Hromin | Assistant Photo Editor 
GWPD Chief James Tate said the small sample size of two years of data makes it "hard to judge" what may have caused the decrease in the number of stops from 2020 to 2021. 
GW Police Department’s pedestrian stops dropped in 2021 despite the University’s campus reopening, but officers stopped a greater percentage of Black pedestrians than other racial demographics, according to a GWPD report issued earlier this month.
GWPD released its second annual report on the ethnic, racial and gender demographics of the pedestrians that officers stopped earlier this month, which stated that officers stopped 52 pedestrians in 28 total stops in 2021 – a drop from 57 pedestrians in 2020. The report states 27 stopped pedestrians were Black, 15 were white and the race of the other 10 were unknown.
Male pedestrians accounted for 37 of the stopped pedestrians, while officers stopped 14 female pedestrians. One pedestrian’s gender was unknown to officers.
GWPD Chief James Tate said the drop in stops from 2020 to 2021 is “hard to judge” because the sample sizes are limited to those two years. He said GWPD may take about three years to better interact with the data to understand the GW community, but he was still happy to release the data on a yearly basis for transparency.
“I’m still proud of the fact that we’re sharing that because I think it’s important when it comes to transparency and accountability with our community,” he said.
GWPD released its first demographic data report last April after demonstrations protesting the killings of unarmed Black people like George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Daunte Wright pushed police departments to start instituting reforms in 2020. The department released the report days before Derek Chauvin – the former Minneapolis police officer who murdered George Floyd after kneeling on his neck for several minutes – was convicted of second- and third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.
Nicholas Anastacio | Graphics Editor
The number of Black pedestrians that GWPD stopped in 2021 climbed by 10 people. Tate said searches of pedestrians who fit the description of the suspect in the G Street Garage assault in October and stops tied to unlawful entry reports at residence halls could have accounted for the jump.
“We had a number of reports of unlawful entry into the residence hall early on in the fall,” Tate said. “And that required us to be much more vigilant in trying to find individuals that are described to us in terms of the description.”
Of the 28 stops, GWPD officers used force three times, according to the report.
GWPD officers opened an investigation into one of the three incidents, stemming from a November pedestrian stop of an individual who reportedly walked in and out of traffic, which led to a foot pursuit and deployment of pepper spray before the subject’s arrest. They investigated the use of force and disciplined the officer, but Tate declined to say how the officer was disciplined.
Tate said officers should have a suspicion of a crime before initiating a foot chase, and GWPD determined the officer did not have reasonable suspicion when the officer began to chase the subject.
“You have to have reasonable suspicion that some sort of crime has been committed before you initiate the foot pursuit,” Tate said. “And in that case, the supervisor that night very quickly realized that we didn’t have that in that case.”
Tate said when an officer uses any level of force – like forcibly putting handcuffs on a person – the officer must fill out a form that details the situation and amount of force used. GWPD’s defensive tactics instructors then review the form, which the officer’s captain and Tate approves if the use of force is determined to be justified.
“If there’s a problem anywhere in the process that’s concerning that our officer may have violated policy, then there is a pause and an investigation is initiated,” Tate said.
Tate said GWPD has made a “tremendous amount of progress” in furthering community outreach among students and student organizations, and the department is currently planning two community outreach events, which he said will be part of some of GWPD’s largest-ever outreach initiatives.
Tate said the student reception to the released data has been generally positive. He said students asked clarifying questions about the specifics of the race and gender breakdown of the data and appreciated the transparency of the demographics data, which he said was critical in building trust with students.
“Since 2020, I am pleased with the feedback that I typically receive regarding our transparency and efforts to work with the community and community engagement,” Tate said. “So we’ve come a long way. I also think we have a very long way to go.”
John Sloan III, a professor emeritus in the department of criminal justice at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said in an email that GWPD’s released data was “problematic” because the limited sample size did not allow for comparisons between stops that could reveal “larger patterns” within the data. He said the data should record the races and genders of pedestrian stops of multiple people and should include factors related to the stops like probable cause and pedestrian consent.
“These reports may seem like an attempt at increased transparency but the problems associated with the way the data are presented results in just the opposite – continued opacity,” Sloan said in the email.
Michael DeValve, an assistant professor of criminal justice at Bridgewater State University, said campus police departments regularly release demographic data about their stops, but GWPD’s data should be more descriptive to align with their standards. He said he would have preferred to see more information about the nature of the stops themselves, like the reasoning behind the stops.
“As a criminologist, I’d be curious to know more about what those look like,” DeValve said. “Because those are slightly more of an imposition because then they involve a degree of detaining so the person is not free to leave.”
DeValve said he would be “hesitant” to draw conclusions from the ethnic and racial elements of data because of the relatively small sample size of the people stopped. He said GWPD could use the data to ask questions and better assess their practices, but only if trust exists between students and the department.
“It’s a place to begin, and if that conversation is a trustful one, it’s a place to begin dialogue,” DeValve said. “If not, you’re going to have to take a different strategy.”
Jared Gans, Talia Miller and Zach Blackburn contributed reporting.
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Indecent Exposure/Sex Offense
1959 E Street
4/17/2022 – 11:17 p.m.
Open Case
A female student reported that a male subject exposed himself to her while she was walking on E Street.
— Case open.
Harassment: E-mail and Electronic Media, Harassing Telephone Calls
Multiple Locations
4/18/2022 – Multiple
Open Case
A female student reported receiving multiple harassing emails, text messages and telephone calls in addition to a Craigslist post that revealed her address and other personal information.
— Case open.
Public Drunkenness
2100 Block of G Street NW
4/19/2022 – 11:00 p.m.
Closed Case
While on patrol, GW Police Department officers witnessed a non-GW-affiliated individual helping a stumbling, intoxicated female student. EMeRG paramedics arrived to the scene and, after a medical evaluation, sent the student to the GW Hospital emergency room.
— Referred to Division for Student Affairs.
Theft II/From Building
University Student Center
4/20/2022 – 12:35 p.m.
Open Case
A female staff member reported her wallet as stolen.
— Case open.
Simple Assault
2200 Block of I Street NW
4/20/2022 – 2:35 p.m.
Closed Case
A female faculty member reported that a male student pushed her but ultimately decided not to proceed with criminal charges.
— Case closed.
Harassment: Email and Electronic Media
Multiple Locations
4/21/2022 – Multiple
Open Case
A male faculty member reported receiving harassing emails from a non-GW-affiliated subject, who inquired multiple times about work and study opportunities at GW.
— Case open.
— Compiled by Acacia Niyogi.
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

More than seven months after the University responded to mold infestations last semester, this academic year is set to end much the same way it began. At The Aston and other residence halls, students are still dealing with persistent maintenance issues and facilities problems.
Students’ rooms are their safe spaces, but reports of flooding, leaks, mold, water shutoffs, elevator outages, security concerns and delayed maintenance highlight how unsafe they really are. The University must respond to these concerns more rapidly and transparently and offer more than token compensation to students facing emotional and financial stress over the state of their residence halls. Until it does so, students’ persistent self-advocacy can apply pressure on GW to meet one of their most vital needs – a safe, secure living space.
GW has renovated nearly a dozen of its decades-old first-year and upperclass residence halls within the last decade. The COVID-19 pandemic and the continued search for a permanent University president have respectively interrupted and set back GW’s strategic plan. Dramatic overhauls of mid-century apartment buildings have meanwhile allowed the University to continue housing thousands of students in the nation’s capital.
These expensive renovations allow for dramatic ribbon cuttings, but behind-the-scenes preventive maintenance and emergency repairs are equally vital. The University’s $22 million, three-year plan to improve campus accessibility barely begins to scratch the surface of a $300 million overall deferred maintenance backlog – for comparison, the ongoing overhaul of Thurston Hall cost $85 million. It’s unclear which maintenance projects the University has deferred and how long it has deferred them.
Maura Kelly-Yuoh | Cartoonist
Addressing the overall condition of students’ residence halls seems like even less of a priority than already deferred maintenance. And while the University’s 2022 budget provides more than $129 million for capital expenditures, which includes facilities improvements meant to address that maintenance backlog, the University has not clarified how it evaluates which issues are the most pressing.
Perpetually deferred maintenance can pose a real threat to students’ safety. Perhaps the problems facing residence halls are so severe that preventive action is simply no longer possible, but officials are surely aware that such problems exist.
While the context of the pandemic and the challenges involved in returning to campus explained GW’s failure to properly inspect its buildings for mold at the beginning of last semester, it’s certainly no excuse for current issues. Sporadically reacting to mold, poor ventilation, pipe bursts, HVAC issues, stuck elevators and dozens of other malfunctions days or weeks after they appear is hardly fair to students and others who reside on campus, especially when the University is aware of the inconvenience and even danger they pose.
Across campus, officials’ failure to respond to an array of maintenance and facilities issues means residence halls can be an unwelcoming, hazardous environment rather than a unique, comfortable and safe residential experience. GW’s failure to address these concerns has attracted the attention of D.C. officials, who fined the University $1,000 in 2019 for sewage leaks in Building GG.
The University understands that maintenance issues and subsequent attempts to resolve them can hugely disrupt students’ life, work and academic schedules and force them to shuffle between residence halls and off-campus living arrangements with little to no access to their personal items. In 2018, GW reimbursed residents of Guthridge Hall an unspecified amount after pipe damage, flooding and ceiling leaks temporarily displaced students living there. Compensation is one means of recourse, but it must be more than a token gesture – earlier this month, the University has so far publicly offered only $250 to the residents of The Aston for similar problems.
If GW is unable to provide its students with genuinely habitable conditions, it ought to reimburse them an amount more reflective of their total housing costs that can reach over $16,000 dollars a year. The University’s requirement that students live on campus for at least three years establishes an obligation to provide students with quality, affordable housing. If long-term disrepair prevents students from living in safe and secure conditions, GW ought to grant exemptions allowing them to live off campus. It isn’t fair to make residents pay thousands of dollars a year to live in subpar conditions, and that poor cost-benefit ratio will determine the University’s reputation among current and prospective students.
Until GW is able to address these issues, the burden of reporting, pursuing and addressing them unfairly falls to the student population. Yet their persistence seems to have paid off – while inadequate, officials issued Aston residents the $250 housing credit only after dozens of students used an email template to notify them of collective and individual problems in the building. While it shouldn’t take petitioning GW en masse to address these concerns, and its response ought to be more than a $250 credit, it’s an effective strategy in the absence of clear communication and effective action from the University.
Officials have been tight-lipped about the reasons behind and their response to these facilities problems, but leaks, outages and floods are detrimental to students’ lives and livelihood. A more thorough acknowledgment of this crisis and more transparent and effective communication would address students’ concerns pending actual repair work.
Every student deserves access to quality, safe and affordable housing. While there may not be a quick fix to longstanding maintenance and facilities issues, one thing is clear – to enjoy the benefits of student life at GW, students need to feel comfortable living there.
The editorial board consists of Hatchet staff members and operates separately from the newsroom. This week’s staff editorial was written by incoming opinions editor Ethan Benn and incoming contributing opinions editor Riley Goodfellow, based on discussions with culture editor Anna Boone, contributing sports editor Nuria Diaz, design editor Grace Miller and copy editor Jaden DiMauro.
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

If reelected this November, D.C.’s Congressional Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton would enter her 16th term in office. But before the general election, Norton will face two younger challengers in this June’s Democratic Party primary. While this isn’t the first time that other candidates have challenged Norton, an accomplished politician and formidable defender of D.C. statehood, this primary contest has stark implications for the District’s democracy.
Norton’s 31-year career has made her synonymous with the office she occupies, but placing D.C.’s already meager representation in the hands of one person has backfired. No politician remains in office forever, but Norton’s insistence on continuing to serve in Congress has strengthened her own position at the cost of her inevitable successor. Though extremely popular, Norton’s hold on power demonstrates that D.C. voters cannot imagine a future without her. D.C. shouldn’t let one person, however benevolent, define its government in perpetuity. Facing younger challengers with new ideas, Norton should drop her reelection bid in an effort to pass on the baton of democratic representation.
Norton, 84, is one of the oldest members of the U.S. House of Representatives at a time when voters are increasingly aware of how poorly Congress reflects the nation as a whole. But Norton’s age alone is not a reason to call on her to step down from public life. Instead, Norton’s and her colleagues’ age underlines how poorly Congress reflects the people it serves. Americans 65 and over make up about 35 percent and 53 percent of members of the U.S. House and Senate, respectively, but 2019 U.S. Census data indicates that the same age bracket only makes up about 16 percent of the population. For comparison, the 21 to 44 age range accounts for nearly 32 percent of the population, but only 31 members of the House and one senator were born after 1980.
Norton’s challengers in the Democratic Primary – Kelly Mikel Williams, 55, and Rev. Wendy Hamilton, 53 – are from a different generation than Norton. Even though Williams, Hamilton and Norton all have similar progressive ideas, their platforms are notably different. Norton remains focused on achieving D.C. statehood while leveraging her position on House committees to steer more funding for the District. Williams, a podcast host and former D.C. Council employee who was once unhoused, hopes to address homelessness, reduce crime and encourage job creation. Hamilton – a former adviser to Andrew Yang’s 2020 presidential campaign – holds a focus similar to Norton on D.C. statehood but also wants to address inmate abuse and facility neglect in the city’s jails and test out a universal basic income program.
Whether you agree or disagree with Williams and Hamilton, their ideas are new. And while novelty alone is no reason to vote for a candidate – and this is certainly not an endorsement of either of them – it demonstrates that Norton may not be as in touch with what her constituents really want or need from their representative.
Despite Williams’ and Hamilton’s efforts, Norton will likely cruise to reelection because of her incumbent status and past history of electoral success. Key to Norton’s campaign is her seniority, a result of her 15 terms in office, which allows her more access and influence among her Democratic colleagues within the House.
But Norton isn’t just the city’s representative – she’s its only representation at the federal level. Her role as D.C.’s sole congressional delegate has effectively prevented new political talent from rising. With every year and every term, Norton’s seniority increases and her incumbent position solidifies, making potential challenges less likely and less successful.
Norton knows this. When Kim Ford, a then-37-year-old former Obama administration official, challenged Norton in 2018, The Washington Post quoted Norton as saying, “D.C., if you wanted to get rid of me, this wasn’t the year to do it!” But if not 2018, 2020 or 2022, when precisely can the city’s voters remove Norton from office if they see fit? Norton has proven to be so vital to the District’s representation, especially in times of crisis, that she knows voters won’t remove her from office.
I know Norton cares deeply about the District and its residents, but the idea that she is too important to lose her election feels like a patently undemocratic boast. In 2022, Norton’s attitude remains unchanged if not strengthened. Norton dismissed Hamilton as “whoever she is” in a Washington Post article earlier this month.
D.C.’s marginal representation in Congress has allowed Norton to consolidate her office around herself to the point where the two are inseparable. The District’s reliance on Norton to fight its battles has weakened its democratic institutions and resulted in the loss of generations of potential leaders.
After an extensive career in public service, the time has come for Norton to bow out of this year’s election. Ripping the band-aid off will be painful, but it is necessary. Norton’s successor may have to deal with a likely Republican-controlled Congress without her experience and connections, but D.C. voters deserve to truly assess their politicians, not just rubber-stamp their reelection.
I have immense respect for Eleanor Holmes Norton, but I respect the office she occupies much more – no matter how much she has done, the office of D.C.’s congressional delegate is more important than any single person in the city. D.C.’s public offices belong to the people – not the politicians they elect.
Ethan Benn, a sophomore majoring in journalism and mass communication, is an opinions columnist.
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

When my at-home antigen test was positive after exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms two weeks ago, I faced the reality that I would need to isolate. My community coordinator quickly set up a room for me in the One Washington Circle Hotel and told me to move in as soon as possible. Before I left, she texted me that I needed to bring my own bedding to the hotel room, but upon my arrival, I realized I needed much more – my room lacked toilet paper, towels, shampoo, food and water. This lack of resources left me frustrated and hungry and made me spend large sums of money while recovering from severe symptoms. To better take care of students during the pandemic, GW must improve its COVID-19 isolation policy to include living necessities and more effective communication. Students should not have to pay for basic resources just to get through isolation.
My community coordinator explained that there were not many options available for isolation housing because more students had recently tested positive amid a spike in COVID-19 cases in the D.C. area. This influx of students also meant I received a roommate who tested positive through GW. Once testing positive, contagious students cannot leave isolation to get anything they need. The last thing students should have to worry about is whether they will have pillows to sleep on – GW must provide the basics for its students, especially during a difficult time.
Between telling friends that I inadvertently exposed them to the virus, contacting professors about missing class and experiencing symptoms while in isolation, I resorted to finding overpriced toilet paper and shampoo on Grubhub. Students already have a tight dining budget and many run out of GWorld as is, so leaving an expensive food delivery app as the only option for essentials is not acceptable.
Earlier this semester, students stayed at four-star hotel Yours Truly with three daily meals sent to them for a cost of $30 because drop offs from friends or delivery services were not allowed. Between delivery fees and Grubhub service charges at One Washington Circle, I paid upwards of $40 a day for toilet paper and one meal that I split three ways.
GW’s COVID-19 messaging, including its isolation guidelines, state that “the University has your safety and care as a top priority and has developed the necessary measures to help you recover as quickly as possible.” But it did not feel like the University prioritized me or helped my recovery. I was alone. In the email I received about what to expect from my isolation experience, food and bedding were not mentioned at all. I was lucky my community coordinator even told me to grab some blankets.
GW and the hotel offered no food to me at any point even though GW’s website states that officials would reach out with special instructions regarding food during isolation in hotel rooms. The University’s guidance about living resources for isolation housing offers little description of how to actually prepare for isolation, stating that the GW CARE Team will “make arrangements that accommodate specific dietary restrictions and/or food allergies.” I only received the number of the hotel lobby phone with instructions to call when I needed my food deliveries brought up to my room and ended up relying on my friends to bring me shampoo and food. I did not want to put my friends in the uncomfortable position of walking to my hotel and dropping things off, but I had no other choice.
Students can isolate in their residence hall if they have a one-person room or if their roommates also test positive, but this housing setup also faces the same problem – they still must order food through Grubhub or a similar service, per GW’s website on COVID-19 isolation and tracing. But at least these students can pick their orders up outside their building on their own as long as they wear a mask.
GW lags behind other D.C. area schools in respect to their pandemic isolation response. American and Georgetown universities distinctly outline what students need for COVID-19 isolation and what their space will supply them with. Students at these schools need to bring personal items like clothes and medicine, but food delivery, water and other amenities are covered. GW’s communication only tells students in hotel rooms that they will receive further instructions. The University needs to detail its instructions and improve them to make sure students are receiving the meals they need in hotel room isolation.
It is imperative that students are able to focus on recovering in isolation instead of worrying about whether they will have enough food to eat. While it is understandable that the pandemic has taken a large toll on the University, it should have prioritized proper isolation protocol from the beginning.
More than two years into the COVID-19 pandemic, students should not be suffering from GW’s troubled isolation policy. The University has had ample time to figure out how to provide basic living resources to students, so the lack thereof blatantly disregards their needs. During a time of sickness and stress, there must be more guidance and resources to ensure the well-being of students. GW should not ignore them simply because they walk a block away to a hotel room to isolate.
Riley Goodfellow, a freshman majoring in political science, is an opinions columnist.
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Skylar Epstein | Staff Photographer  
Senior Sophia Halloran said Sunrise GW organized the march to "reclaim the radical roots" of Earth Day. 
Sunrise GW marched with dozens of protesters through campus Friday pressuring officials to reject fossil fuel research funding from companies like ExxonMobil, after demanding federal investment in sustainable practices like renewable energy and GW’s divestment from the fossil fuel industry throughout the academic year. 
Protesters marched past Interim University President Mark Wrighton’s F Street House – with what appeared to be GW Police Department officers guarding its front door – to the Office of the President, Provost, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer while chanting for climate action from officials. In 2020, officials announced their plans to divest GW’s endowment from fossil fuel industry companies by 2025, but student climate activists said they are still awaiting funding transparency from officials. 
Sophia Halloran – a senior and the former hub coordinator of Sunrise GW – said Sunrise GW raised awareness for their climate action over the past semester through tabling in Kogan Plaza to teach students about fossil fuel investments and meeting with the University president and vice provost. She said Friday’s march was a culmination of this semester’s efforts, but will not be the last event of the campaign. 
“We’ve been building power throughout the semester in the past few years to really raise some consciousness around how much money GW is taking from the fossil fuel industry and to take a stand with students and faculty and say that’s not okay,” Halloran said. 
She said both students and University department heads are unaware of where a lot of their funding is coming from.
“It’s confusing, but it’s also devastating to know that they’re taking money from this industry that is destroying our futures and has already destroyed so many people’s lives,” Halloran said. “So it’s devastating to see that and it’s devastating to not even know the extent of it.”
Halloran said Sunrise GW organized the march to “reclaim the radical roots” of Earth Day, by demanding direct actions from officials and corporations rather than focusing on making sustainable, conscious decisions as consumers. She said she hopes students are motivated to take more action while demanding climate justice in the future.
“I want the students at GW to be galvanized and know that we want to reject fossil fuel money because it’s destroying our future and the people we love and the places we call home,” Halloran said. “And I want the administration to know that that’s our only ask – we want them to reject fossil fuel money and align with the values they’ve already acted on before to reject fossil fuel money and protect our futures.”
Pada Schaffner – a sophomore and a hub coordinator for Sunrise GW – said this year, the organization “started from the ground up” launching a petition for divestment that garnered almost 2000 signatures and demanded climate action from officials, but the group has not seen any action from the University. 
“Since that doesn’t seem to work, we haven’t been able to make any real commitments to bold action on climate change and climate denial on campus,” he said. 
Schaffner said Earth Day promotes more sustainable methods of lifelike composting and recycling, which made a good opportunity to protest against fossil fuel investments. He said he hopes officials will begin to take the organization’s message more seriously going forward. 
“On Earth Day, all kinds of people come out and say ‘Look, we’re doing all of these great, green things,’” he said. “Even fossil fuel companies. They’ll say ‘We’re investing in green energy, building solar fields and all that.’ We don’t want GW to do the same thing. It’s banning single-use plastics, it’s increasing water refilling stations, while it’s refusing to end the era of fossil fuel influence on college campuses.”
Mary McManus – a freshman and a member of Sunrise GW – said while the University already agreed to divest from fossil fuel industries, they are continuing to receive funding from large fossil fuel corporations for research. She said she hopes the Earth Day protest prompts officials to recognize the impact of their actions on the climate.
“We care about our planet a lot and we want GW to acknowledge that they care about our planet too,” she said. 
This article appeared in the  April 25, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
