Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Henry’s report also addressed how GWIT restructured into a shared services model under the Office of the Provost after officials consolidated the University’s decentralized technology services in summer 2020 to decrease costs and mitigate the financial impact of the pandemic.
GW Information Technology staff received 31 percent fewer support request calls last month than in November 2021, officials reported at the Faculty Senate meeting this month.
Geneva Henry, the vice provost for libraries and information technology, said GWIT received 2693 support request calls last month – a significant decrease from the 3908 it received in November 2021. Henry said the drop follows GWIT’s restructuring into a shared-services model under the Office of the Provost after officials consolidated the University’s decentralized technology services and laid off staff members to decrease costs and mitigate the financial impact of the pandemic during the summer 2020.
Officials moved GWIT under Henry’s leadership in July, following a surge in support requests in fall 2021.
“Going into shared services, it was not only financial and people cuts, but just a change of culture, frankly, to the entire University because this has been a challenge,” she said. “So, yes, it’s been a lot of treading water and trying to keep our heads above water and trying to get the ocean to calm down a little bit, which I think we’ve been successful in doing.”
Henry said GWIT is now divided into five divisions overseen by four associate vice presidents and one director – Academic Technology and Digital Transformation, Enterprise Systems and Development, Cybersecurity, Infrastructure and Research Technology, Business Intelligence and IT Service Delivery. She said GWIT is overseen by herself, Provost Chris Bracey and Sharon Reich Paulsen, the executive vice president and chief administration officer.
GWIT, Academic Technologies and the other technology offices were separated and run by individual schools like the Columbian Columbian College of Arts and Sciences and the Elliott School of International Affairs prior to the consolidation of GW’s technology services into a single body, which led officials to ask employees to reapply for a limited number of positions following the merger.
“There is accountability on all parts of GW for IT because we serve the entire University,” she said.
Henry said GWIT staff answered about 22 percent more support calls last month than in November 2021, jumping from about 74 percent of calls answered to about 96 percent. She said the increased number of support calls answered is a “huge improvement.”
“The message is we’re doing a whole lot better on support, and I hope you’re seeing that,” she said.
Henry said GWIT is upgrading the Banner system, including a new interface that consolidates students’ academic information, like their current GPA and holds that prevent them from registering for courses, into one profile on Banner’s site. She said GWIT has launched that profile along with some other updates, like a feature that allows students to register for courses from a pre-planned schedule and streamlined profiles on students for advisors to view their academic progress.
Henry said the Banner upgrades will also include a redesign of the interface where faculty and staff view their paycheck information.
Officials also upgraded Banner to ensure that students’ updates to their personal information, like their first name, gender identity and pronouns, carry into Banner’s downstream systems so that the information is up to date in all of the University’s databases, Henry said. This upgrade comes after some transgender and nonbinary students expressed frustration for being deadnamed in University communications like emails, despite updating their personal information in GW’s record-keeping systems.
Henry said GWIT is also working towards a “digital transformation” to transition its technology services from onsite systems to systems based in the Cloud.
The Senate also passed a resolution that will mandate all faculty to participate in updated Title IX training each time Title IX policy is revised, asking that the Provost provide “appropriate” communication times, an “adequate timeline” for completion and effective ways for faculty to participate in the training.
This resolution came after President Joe Biden’s administration announced an updated Title IX policy in June that would require all faculty and staff to attend Title IX training and reinstate protections for LGBTQ+ and pregnant students under the Title IX umbrella.
Guillermo Orti, a professor of biology and a faculty senator, said that the lack of faculty participation in current forms of online Title IX training can be attributed to poor communication from the Title IX office.
“The most recent reminder email about Title IX training was sent in July, which is not the best time of year to communicate with faculty,” he said. “A link to this training module also cannot be found on the Title IX office homepage, the only reference we can find anywhere concerning training is from that July email.”
Katrin Schultheiss, an associate professor of history and a faculty senator, said current forms of online Title IX training hardly mention student interactions with faculty and fails to provide a point of contact at the Title IX office for additional questions about Title IX policy.
“It said nothing about the kinds of responsibilities we have, what should we say to a student who implies some kind of abuse, but doesn’t come right out and say it?” she said. “At what point do we have to warn them that we’re reporters? None of that is addressed.”
She said that by passing the resolution and improving Title IX training, the University is sending a message that they care about students and the wider community.
“If we are supposed to be signaling with this training that we take Title IX seriously, this is sending the opposite message that we don’t really care, we just want to tick the box,” she said. “So I just strongly support the resolution.”
Phil Wirtz, a professor of decision sciences and psychology and a faculty senator, proposed an amendment that requires any Title IX training provided to faculty be “reviewed and endorsed” by the senate. The amendment passed with an 11-9 vote, ensuring Faculty approval of any future mandated Title IX training in an effort to reform training and build meaningful relationships between faculty and students.
Caroline Laguerre-Brown, the vice provost for Diversity, Equity and Engagement at GW, said that the University provides training to fulfill its commitment to Title IX education. Laguerre-Brown said despite some thinking the training seems generic, the Title IX training is GW-specific and contains information on Title IX resources at GW.
“The University has a broad commitment that is articulated in many different places in the Title IX policy, in our equal opportunity, anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policy,” she said. “It’s articulated under the D.C. human rights law that we have to follow. And the language appears in several university policies.”
Jim Tielsch, the vice chair of the presidential search committee, said the committee plans to share the shortlist of candidates for the next University president with the GW community in the “very near future.” He said the selection process will include bringing the candidates to campus but said he did not know if the candidates’ names would be made public when they are brought to campus.
Ianne Salvosa and Nick Pasion contributed reporting.
This article appeared in the  December 12, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Maya Nair | Photographer
Senior forward Ricky Lindo Jr. led the way for the Colonials with 18 points and nine rebounds while hitting seven of his nine attempts from the floor.
Men’s basketball fell to D.C.-rival American 64-69 Saturday after struggling to convert open jump shots throughout the game.
The Colonials (5-4) struggled to overcome American’s defense, shooting 38.2 percent from the field and 24 percent from beyond the arc, well below their respective season averages of 48 and 34 percent. GW managed to get high-quality looks from midrange and from deep but struggled to capitalize as the Eagles (7-2) overcame an early lead.
Senior forward Ricky Lindo Jr. led the way for the Colonials with 18 points and nine rebounds while hitting seven of his nine attempts from the floor.
Lindo got the scoring started when he collected a missed layup from junior center Noel Brown that he laid back in with ease to put GW on the board first. A minute later, the 650-person crowd at the Smith Center leapt to their feet after Lindo powered home a two-hand dunk off an assist from senior guard James Bishop, giving the Colonials a quick 4–0 lead two minutes into the game.
GW pushed their lead to six – their highest advantage of the night – just after the 15-minute mark when Bishop netted a trio of free throws after drawing a foul from beyond the arc. Eagles junior forward Johnny O’Neil finished a contested layup in response before knocking down a 3-pointer on the next possession to cut the GW lead to just a point with 12 minutes to play in the half.
With just under 10 minutes to go, Bishop rattled in a high floater to push the GW lead to 5. Bishop finished with 14 points and seven assists but shot 30 percent from the floor, his lowest mark on the season.
American took their first lead of the night with less than six minutes remaining until the half when freshman guard Geoff Sprouse hit a jump shot from the high post to make it 20-18. Senior forward Qwanzi Samuels knotted it back up for the Colonials with a slashing baseline dunk.
The Eagles pushed ahead again to a 7-point lead and closed out the half up 30-24.
GW shot just under 30 percent from the field and made one of their 12 attempted deep balls in the first half, despite consistently gaining open looks.
“In the first half we had some good looks,” Head Coach Chris Caputo said. “Going into the game we were eighth in the country in effective field goal percentage so you would think some of those would go in, but we told them at halftime that we got good looks and competed defensively.”
The lead would change hands seven different times in the second half, and a 3-point deficient in the first four minutes would be the only hurdle for the Eagles before they took off on a 13–5 run. A deep 3-pointer from O’Neil to beat the shot clock punctuated the offensive tear to give American a 53-46 lead. O’Neil led the game with 19 points while collecting six rebounds.
With just under three minutes to go in the second half, Adams drained a deep 3-ball off an assist from Bishop to bring the game back to within two possessions. The next play, Harris stole the ball and ignited the fast break to give Lindo an easy two points that cut the lead to just a basket.
American junior forward Matt Rogers posterized Lindo for a resounding dunk in response that stole back the momentum and pushed the lead to 4 with a little more than a minute to play. After both squads exchanged empty possessions, GW began to intentionally foul to stop the clock, down two possessions with less than 50 seconds left.
Down six, Adams scored a tough layup and drew the and-one, halving the lead for the Colonials as 35 seconds remained. Harris stole the ball off American’s next baseline inbound but couldn’t net a contested, fadeaway layup that would have cut the lead to one.
GW was not able to foul and stop the clock until time ticked down to 20 seconds. American converted two free throws on the final possession to finish with a 5-point victory, 69–64.
GW’s leading scorers and starting guards Adams and Bishop combined for less than 30 percent shooting from the field, compared to their season average of 48 percent, leaving an uphill battle for the rest of the Colonials’ offense. American finished the game at a 50 percent mark from the floor and 38 percent from three.
Senior forward Hunter Dean – who usually starts as the high post in the GW offense – did not suit up for the first time since the season opener. Caputo said Dean was injured but did not give specific details on the injury. Dean is fifth in scoring for the Colonials and ranks second only to Lindo in rebounds.
“They play hard every night and they had points and made their free throws, James had seven assists,” Caputo said. “But it is going to be hard if they go 7/25, those two guys, for our team, especially without Hunter, it’s going to be hard for us. That’s just the reality.”
GW will continue non-conference play versus Coppin State Tuesday at 6 p.m.
This article appeared in the  December 12, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Kate Carpenter | Photographer
The building currently houses the Washington Passport Agency, which handles emergency passport problems.
The University exercised an option to purchase a 450,000-square-foot office building in Foggy Bottom earlier this month, further strengthening its grip on property near campus.
The University purchased 600 19th St. NW from the World Bank, an office building across the street from Thurston Hall that’s valued at $231.6 million, per the deed. University spokesperson Julia Metjian said the University entered an agreement with the World Bank in 1980 that included an option allowing the University to purchase the building at a later date.
“The property is currently leased through 2028 by the General Services Administration, and the University has not identified a use beyond that date,” she said. “GW regularly makes decisions regarding its real estate portfolio in support of the University’s broader academic mission.”
The DC Office of Tax and Revenue shows GW purchased the building for $11.5 million – well below the building’s value of about $230 million. The General Services Administration pays about $23 million per year in rent for the building until 2028, according to the Washington Business Journal.
The 1980 agreement allowed the University to purchase the building as long as it did so before 2022.
The University has been in talks to purchase the building since 2019, according to the Washington Business Journal.
The building currently houses the Washington Passport Agency, which handles emergency passport problems. The University has yet to announce plans for the site.
This article appeared in the  December 12, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

The Student Association Senate’s finance committee Monday reported a record-low fulfillment of student organization funding requests due to budget cuts.
Nathan Nguyen, the director of the Legislative Budget Office and an ad hoc member of the committee, said student organizations requested about $2.2 million for the spring semester, but the SA’s budget consists of about $343,000, only 16.75 percent of the amount requested. He said most student organizations received between two and 10 percent of the amount they requested.
“Everyone will say that their org didn’t get funded,” he said. “No one’s org got funded as sufficiently as we would like to, and that’s simply because of these numbers.”
Nguyen said the finance committee declined requests to fund large events because those requests can be submitted via cosponsorships, which the finance committee considers separately on a rolling basis from another fund. Events for more than 350 students can receive funding from the University-Wide Programs Fund, which officials established this year from funds that formerly would have gone to the SA’s budget.
He said the finance committee tried to preserve the “operations” of student organizations by prioritizing funds for online subscriptions and national dues over funds for events and lodging. He said organizations asked for more funding than the SA could provide.
“They asked for a lot of things that we simply can’t fund, either per University mandate or SA bylaw mandate,” he said.
Nguyen said next semester, the finance committee will host a “crash course” for student organizations on SA financial allocation processes. He said he and SA Sen. Linsi Goodin, CCAS-G and the chair of the finance committee, completed allocations over the course of 72 hours, reviewing about 2,300 line items.
Nguyen said former SA Sen. Ian Ching, the former chair of the finance committee who resigned at the last meeting, delayed the general allocations process, meaning the finance committee had to deliberate on allocations quickly to meet its revised deadline.
“The way that we did this process was because of the short timeframe,” he said. “Typically, this committee would have about 10 calendar days to do deliberations, and because of the last chairperson’s schedule that was set, we had 72 hours.”
Goodin said 296 student organizations submitted funding applications this year, an increase from the 274 requests last fall and the 244 requests last spring.
SA President Christian Zidouemba said he had concerns about the transparency of the recent allocations process because his treasurer was not permitted to attend meetings. Zidouemba said he was specifically concerned with how many finance committee members were actively involved and how much of the process was deferred to the legislative budgeting office.
“Sadly, I do not believe that the finance committee allowed transparency through the process and to hear different voices through the process,” Zidouemba said.
Zidouemba said in a statement to The Hatchet that he was “concerned” that the finance committee took less than an hour to approve allocations. He said the executive branch “will be conducting necessary inquiries” into the allocations process.
“It is our hope that the allocation appeals process before the Committee on Governance and Nominations is conducted with transparency and all relevant parties have the opportunity to create a far more equitable allocation than that proposed by the finance committee,” he said.
Senate Legal Counsel Juan Carlos Mora said executive branch members should not be a part of legislative committee meetings as it is a “violation of separation of powers.”
SA Vice President Yan Xu, the former finance chair, said during the allocations process the finance committee should remain separate from executive oversight. Xu said after the process is completed then the executive can be involved in reviewing the results.
“The executive branch is the agency for auditing to organizations which they have the power and are required to do so,” Xu said. “It is a standard finance logic that the budget and all the things should be separate and not interfering.”
Goodin said the committee spent between 30 and 45 minutes deliberating allocations as a whole after the 72-hour period. SA Sen. Simon Patmore-Zarcone, Law-G, said most funding request denials were determined according to SA bylaws, leaving little room for debate.
The senate unanimously passed the Executive Operational Budget Modification Act, which directs the money formally allocated for online subscriptions, “career development activities” and funding associated with the Cookout with the President to go toward “all unexpected necessary costs” from the executive cabinet’s programming. SA Treasurer Arya Thakur, who sponsored the resolution, said the budget should be more flexible for executive activities that are often planned on short notice.
The SA Senate elected freshman Aanika Veedon, who previously served as the chief parliamentarian in the senate, and junior Daniel Galgano, a former assistant news editor for The Hatchet, to fill undergraduate at-large seats which can be occupied by any undergraduate student. The senate also elected former Senate Chief of Staff Zachary Ragozino to the undergraduate Elliott School of International Affairs seat formerly occupied by Ching.
In her speech to senators, Veedon highlighted a policy priority will be to increase GW’s support and resources for sexual assault victims. Veedon plans to try and expand access to the sexual assault nurse examiner exam for students by making it available at the GW Hospital.
“I want to expand sexual assault resources on campus by urging the university to encourage GW hospital to provide rape kits,” Veedon said. “There’s currently only one hospital in the entirety of the D.C. metropolitan area that offers this service and it takes over an hour to get to using public transportation.”
Only MedStar Washington Hospital Center provides rape kits in the District.
Veedon said students have asked the University to provide rape kits “for more than a decade.” In 2007, a student filed a lawsuit against GW, GW Hospital, Howard University, Howard University Hospital and the District, alleging that they prevented her from receiving a medical examination for rape.
Veedon said the University of Wisconsin-Madison provides rape kits for students. Its health center provides the examinations at no cost.
The senate also elected Ragozino to be chair of the Physical Facilities and Urban Affairs committee, which works with campus services like mail delivery. The senate also confirmed SA Sen. Kai Simson, CPS-G, as the chair for the Graduate Education Policy committee.
Simson served as acting chair of the committee after SA Sen. Linsi Goodin, CCAS-G, resigned from the position to serve as the finance and allocations chair.
The senate confirmed Izzy Brophy as the executive secretary for campus services, which works with campus provisions like housing. The senate confirmed Matthew Debellis as an associate judge for the Student Court and Ishana Bandyopadhyay as senate chief of staff.
The associate judge position has been open since the former judge resigned on Sept. 5.
Xu said he is reaching out to student organizations and administration about expanding all access bathrooms on campus. Xu said Thurston Hall’s all access bathrooms serve as a model the SA would like to see adopted in older campus buildings to be more inclusive for students.
Xu said a timeline has not yet been determined for this initiative.
“It’s often necessary to ensure that all students are comfortable and represented, which is currently not the case because of some of our buildings on campus,” Xu said.
Zidouemba said the University raised over $31,000 on Giving Tuesday.
The next senate meeting will be held on Dec. 18 at 8 p.m. over Zoom.
This article appeared in the  December 12, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Sophia Young | Photographer 
The shuttle will leave from Funger Hall every 40 minutes between noon and 4 p.m. on Dec. 10 and Dec. 17, both Saturdays.
The University announced in an email Thursday that a free weekly shuttle between the Foggy Bottom campus and Safeway will begin operations Saturday.
The shuttle will leave from Funger Hall every 40 minutes between noon and 4 p.m. on Dec. 10 and Dec. 17, both Saturdays, before pausing for winter break. The shuttle will resume service on Jan. 14 and run each Saturday of the spring semester.
The shuttle follows an announcement from Whole Foods that it will stop accepting GWorld in June 2023.
The University’s website states that Mount Vernon Campus students can use Lyft vouchers for up to $20 of value to Safeway up to three times per month, so long as they are used on Saturdays between noon and 4 p.m. The vouchers will not roll over between months.
At the SA’s biweekly meeting on in mid-September, SA Vice President Yan Xu said he was working with the University to coordinate the shuttles.
This article appeared in the  December 12, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

