Media Credit: Sophia Moten | Staff Photographer 
Protesters cry out in unison at the Women's March near the U.S. Capitol in October. The crowd of thousands rallied support of pro-choice congressional candidates in a year struck by threats to abortion protections.
The fast-paced fervor of Foggy Bottom and the city that surrounds it can reach a momentary standstill through the lens of a camera, offering a glimpse of its own story – a flicker of the world in motion.
Our photo team set out across D.C. this year to capture the visual side of the news we report, from protests against war and violence overseas to the roaring cheers of sports fans in the Smith Center. We picked the most emblematic shots of the past 12 months that GW and the District have experienced.
Take a look back at the images that defined 2022:
Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor
Thousands of demonstrators protested federal COVID-19 vaccine and mask mandates at the National Mall in January, yelling “lock him up” in reference to President Joe Biden and his then-Chief Medical Adviser Anthony Fauci.
Sydney Walsh
Hundreds of protesters gathered near the White House in solidarity with Ukraine after Russia invaded the neighboring country in late February.
Erin Leone | Staff Photographer
Cherry blossoms reached peak bloom in late March as pink petals drew in crowds of onlookers basking in the beauty of early spring.
Grace Hromin
Interim University President Mark Wrighton feeds a treat to his dog Spike at the F Street House. Wrighton and his furry friend have become familiar faces to the streets of Foggy Bottom since January.
Auden Yurman | Senior Photo Editor
Swae Lee entertains a crowd of students at Spring Fling in University Yard in April.
Auden Yurman | Senior Photo Editor
A protester grips a sign outside of the Supreme Court in May following the leak of the court’s decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, a ruling that would be made official the following month.
Jordyn Bailer | Assistant Photo Editor
A graduate stands in celebration at Commencement on the National Mall in May. The event marked the in-person return to the spring tradition after the pandemic pushed ceremonies online for the classes of 2020 and 2021.
Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor
Student Association President Christian Zidouemba looks on as former SA Legislator General Dylan Basescu speaks in Student Court. Basescu represented Cordelia Scales, the SA’s former chief of staff who alleged Zidouemba’s presidency was illegitimate.
Allison Robbert | Photographer
Junior opposite Liv Womble was an electrifying source of energy for volleyball, steering the program to the Atlantic 10 semifinals and leading the team in kills.
Allison Robbert | Photographer
President Joe Biden wore shifting expressions as he reflected on the midterm elections in the White House in November. Democrats exceeded expectations, winning control of the U.S. Senate.
Kimberly Courtney | Photographer
The men’s basketball squad huddles around Head Coach Chris Caputo, the program’s new leader who has sought to restore a culture of winning in the Smith Center.
Florence Shen | Photographer
Eyes glued to the TV monitors at Duke’s Grocery, soccer fans exhibited signs of defeat watching the United States’ run in the World Cup come to an end with a 3-1 loss to the Netherlands earlier this month.
This article appeared in the  December 30, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Auden Yurman | Senior Photo Editor
After the leak of the Supreme Court's majority draft opinion to overturn Roe v. Wade in May, student organizations mobilized abortion rights advocacy efforts through letter-writing, phone-banking, social media activism and canvassing campaigns.
2022 was a year of evolution mixed with tension for GW – as new administrators arrived, University decisions, free speech disputes and abortion rights advocacy stirred debate on campus and across the country.
GW started the year with a new president in office as Mark Wrighton took the helm of the University’s top post in an interim capacity and navigated through moments of controversy, fielding criticism over a project that tracked students’ movement without their knowledge, and campus history, marked by the retirement of the Colonials moniker. Instances of faculty discrimination against students in the classroom, a Supreme Court justice’s departure from a GW Law seminar and an attempt to oust the Student Association president from office spanned the rest of major headlines this year.
Here’s a look at the top stories at GW from 2022:
Students face acts of discrimination in the classroom
Photo Illustration by Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
 Thousands signed a petition calling on officials to fire a professor who a student said incorrectly claimed she couldn’t have a service dog in class in February.
Students spoke out against acts of racism and ableism in the classroom this year through petitions and protests, prompting reviews of faculty positions and sparking calls for officials to address a history of discrimination and prejudice on campus through a diversity review of GW.
During the first week of spring in-person instruction in January, GWTeach Professor Alicia Bitler used the N-word in an Anti-Racist STEM Education course when it appeared in a painting she was presenting to the class. Bitler stepped down from her position teaching the class following the incident, and officials declined in February to say whether the University would take disciplinary action against her.
Bitler’s name is no longer listed on the GWTeach faculty page.
Days later, more than 4,000 people called on officials to fire School of Business Professor Marie Matta after she denied a student access to her service dog in class. Officials declined to say in February whether the they would take disciplinary action against Matta.
Matta is set to teach three sections of the course in the spring 2023 semester, according to GWeb.
GW replaced a human rights professor Michael Stoil in late September after he defended racist comments that he told his students he made to a provost during a phone call. Stoil later said he would leave his position at GW at the end of the fall semester.
This fall, Black Student Union leaders and students called on officials and student leaders to take further action to combat racist incidents involving faculty members against Black students. 
Administration grapples with criticism, historic change under Wrighton
File Photo by Kyle Anderson | Photographer
As interim University President Mark Wrighton wraps up his first calendar year in his up-to-18-month tenure in the University’s top spot, officials have begun to narrow the list of candidates for his replacement.
After the tumultuous tenure of former University President Thomas LeBlanc abruptly ended with his retirement announcement in September, Wrighton began his interim term in January, working with officials to reposition the University’s struggling medical enterprise, build GW’s financial aid resources, restructure IT and recruit new officials to the University.
Little more than a month into the job, Wrighton was quickly met with multiple moments of controversy for administrative decisions that generated criticism from the GW community.
In early February, Wrighton expressed concern about posters on campus criticizing the Chinese government’s handling of COVID restrictions and its human rights abuses against Uyghur people, ultimately deciding to remove them. But as the incident attracted national attention, Wrighton called his reaction a mistake and vocalized his support of members of the GW community advocating against “all forms of discrimination, marginalization and oppression.”
Within a week later, Wrighton told the University community in an email that an IT program had tracked students, faculty and staff members’ movement across campus in fall 2021 without their knowledge. Wrighton said the program ended that December, and he learned of the project shortly after taking office in January.
The Board of Trustees voted to abandon the nearly century-old Colonials moniker in June following a two-year review of the name launched in response to years of pressure from student leaders and organizations to discontinue the moniker because of its correlation with colonialism, slavery and racial discrimination. Officials expect to choose a replacement for the Colonials moniker by the 2023-24 academic year.
COVID policies soften as year progresses
Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
GW’s COVID policies have softened since students returned to campus in January, a pattern that has mirrored the District’s transition away from daily COVID updates and required indoor masking.
The University’s COVID policies continued to loosen throughout the year, leaving behind mandates and requirements that have been enforced since 2020.
GW’s indoor mask mandate wavered in April when officials lifted the rule across campus with the exception of University health care facilities before reverting back to the pandemic-era requirement a week later following a sharp uptick in the campus positivity rate. Officials later removed the mask mandate in most campus settings in September but continued to require masking in some spaces like classrooms, health care facilities and GW-owned transportation.
The University ended its asymptomatic testing requirement in July after requiring community members to take biweekly tests during the last academic year.
In August, officials discontinued COVID isolation housing for campus residents who tested positive for the virus after lodging infected students in extra residential space, including the Yours Truly hotel, earlier during the pandemic. As students returned to campus in the fall, campus residents with roommates infected with COVID turned to hotel reservations, spare couches and mattresses in friends’ rooms to avoid additional exposure to the virus.
Roe v. Wade reversal sparks student outcry
Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor
Students and local residents piled in front of the Supreme Court to protest the monumental decision to remove federal abortion protections in June.
After the Supreme Court’s majority draft opinion to overturn Roe v. Wade was leaked in May, threatening the removal of federal abortion protections and calling reproductive rights across the country into question, student organizations mobilized abortion rights advocacy efforts through letter-writing, phone-banking, social media activism and canvassing campaigns. Questions arose in the District concerning what the future of abortion access and protections would look like in a city that lacks statehood or self-governance authority.
An online petition calling on GW Law to remove Supreme Court Associate Justice Clarence Thomas from his position lecturing a Constitutional Law Seminar in the wake of his vote to overturn Roe v. Wade garnered more than 11,000 signatures in late June. Officials rejected the demands for his removal, citing the University’s role in debate as an “essential” part of GW’s mission.
But in an email sent to students registered for the seminar in late July, Thomas’ co-lecturer announced that Thomas would not teach the course in the fall semester.
Student Association leaders struggle over executive power
Rachel Schwartz | Assistant Photo Editor
The Student Association’s former executive chief of staff filed a complaint against SA President Christian Zidouemba in Student Court, contesting the legitimacy of his presidency in August.
After former Student Association Vice President Kate Carpenter – widely presumed to be in the running for the presidency – stepped out of the race for the SA’s highest position, citing incidents of cyberbullying, a record-low turnout of students elected then-senior Christian Zidouemba out of a field of three candidates to lead GW’s student government. For the vice presidency, junior Yan Xu won the position by a razor-thin margin of nine votes.
Zidouemba’s victory marked the final outcome he had been chasing through three consecutive bids for the position, but his leadership was thrown into controversy in July when the SA’s executive cabinet unanimously voted to remove him, deeming him unfit to carry out his duties as president. A day later, SA leaders announced Zidouemba would retain his position after Xu and Communications Director Aiza Saeed withdrew their votes for removal.
At least seven members of the SA’s executive branch resigned following Xu and Saeed’s statement, including Chief of Staff Cordelia Scales and Legislator General Dylan Basescu.
Thurston Hall reopens as dining revamp stalls
Chuckie Copeland | Photographer
Officials plan to open a new dining hall in the Shenkman Hall basement this spring, which will follow Thurston Hall’s dining facility as part of their revamped dining system.
Foggy Bottom’s real estate landscape changed in 2022, with the reopening of Thurston Hall as GW’s most modern residence hall to date and the closure of District House to Foggy Bottom residents as a revamped dining system readied to launch.
Over the summer, officials delayed the debut of GW’s Foggy Bottom-based series of all-you-can-eat dining halls as part of the University’s new unlimited dining system, pushing their openings back from the start of the fall semester because of supply chain issues. In the same announcement, officials said they scrubbed plans to upgrade District House as a dining hall, instead pivoting to a new slate of GWorld vendors operated by food service company Chartwells to replace restaurants like Chick-fil-A and Kin’s Sushi.
Thurston Hall – which had been under renovations since 2020 – reopened as a freshman residence hall, with modern amenities like wider elevators, increased common spaces, a central courtyard and a dining hall that opened in October.
This article appeared in the  December 30, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Lily Speredelozzi | Assistant Photo Editor
Music acts as a unifying force in uncertain times, helping us through heartbreak and cheering us on when we succeed. 
2022 was a monumental year for the music industry – with live performances and tours back in full force for the first time since the pandemic, adored artists making long-awaited comebacks, rising stars emerging onto the scene and TikTok continuing to influence musicians’ success, we’ve seen it all.
Music acts as a unifying force in uncertain times, helping us through heartbreak and cheering us on when we succeed. This year, these 22 songs and artists made an impact on us as the soundtrack to our best and worst times.
Here are The Hatchet’s top 22 songs we played on repeat in 2022:
“About You” – The 1975
Pop rock band The 1975 served up a soft, nostalgia-inducing track for fans off their newest album “Being Funny in a Foreign Language” this year. The piece – which the band described as a musical continuation of their 2013 hit, “Robbers” – features gorgeous vocals from Carly Holt, the wife of lead guitarist Adam Hann, and evokes a sound reminiscent of early 2010s indie pop.
“Colorado” – Reneé Rapp
Television actress and Broadway star Reneé Rapp dropped her first EP last month titled “Everything to Everyone,” ranging from heart-wrenching ballads to upbeat pop tracks. With impeccable lyricism, an addictive chorus and stunning vocals, “Colorado” stands out from the pack. The song touches upon moments of self-doubt and self-discovery through lines like “Who am I kidding, I’m addicted to the chip on my shoulder.”
“MESS U MADE” – MICHELLE
Indie-pop band MICHELLE masterfully adds elements of soul and R&B to this melodic piece, featuring full, passionate vocals from the group’s four singers. The song looks at the breaking point in a relationship through memories and lyrics like “I’m done feeling worthless,” while numerous angelic belts shine through during the chorus.
“Ojitos Lindos” – Bad Bunny and Bomba Estéreo 
This pick off of Bad Bunny’s album of the summer, “Un Verano Sin Ti” offers a somewhat mellow yet rhythmic sound with light trumpet that leaves room for the artists’ voices to shine. Colombian pop band Bomba Estéreo pairs exceptionally with Bad Bunny’s soothing voice. Singer Li Saumet’s light, falsetto vocals in this piece are undoubtedly the highlight of the album.
“You’re On Your Own, Kid” – Taylor Swift
“You’re On Your Own, Kid” has earned its place among Taylor Swift’s infamous, emotional “Track Fives.” A standout track on Taylor’s 10th studio album “Midnights,” the wistful yet uplifting ballad is especially poignant for anyone going through a major life change: “Everything you lose is a step you take / So make the friendship bracelets, take the moment and taste it / You’ve got no reason to be afraid.”
“Burning Up Slow” – Cautious Clay
GW alumnus and R&B artist Cautious Clay tells an all-too-relatable tale of continuing a relationship with a partner even though you know it’s sure to gradually turn sour. The painful lyrics contrast with an upbeat, almost cheery instrumental, and Cautious Clay’s soothing vocals layer exquisitely to create a short but addictive sound that will make you queue this song on repeat.
“Strawberry Wine” – Noah Kahan
Folk-infused pop artist Noah Kahan’s “Stick Season” was a fall anthem, evoking feelings of resentment towards the changing of the seasons and times. The more summery “Strawberry Wine” comes on the same album and features a mix of lyrics reminiscing about youthful nights spent drinking strawberry wine and a love that has passed. The last two minutes of the wistful song consist of a calm blend of instrumental guitar and soft whistling.
“wait in the truck” – HARDY feat. Lainey Wilson
Continuing the country genre’s rich history of murder ballads the likes of The Chicks’ “Goodbye Earl,” HARDY and Lainey Wilson tell the story of a man who picks up a bruised hitchhiker and kills the hitchhiker’s abuser. The duo build off each other’s vocals as the song explores ruthless vigilantism.
“The Run (Urban Legends)” – Michael Abels
As part of the haunting score for Jordan Peele’s thriller film “NOPE,” this track underpins the most exciting movie scene of 2022, the movie’s climactic chase with a UFO. Drawing from the horn-heavy anthems of classic Western film scores, Michael Abels builds a crescendo that can raise anyone’s heartbeat, regardless of whether they’re watching the bone-chilling flick.
“Difficult” – Gracie Abrams
Gracie Abrams may be new to the music scene, but her distinctly personal lyrics place her among acclaimed songwriters like Phoebe Bridgers and Lizzy McAlpine. The introspective single “Difficult”  delves into themes of growing up and self-loathing – “I’ve been drinking / And staying up too late reliving bad decisions / I really think sometimes there’s something that I’m missing.”
“Count Me Out” – Kendrick Lamar
Kendrick Lamar’s long-awaited fifth studio album “Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers” features plenty of highlights, but “Count Me Out” is in a league of its own. Kendrick’s mastery of lyricism and line delivery reminds listeners why he’s the greatest rapper alive. The song challenges Kendrick’s critics to count him out while recollecting the adversity he overcame before ending with gratitude about the outcome of his life’s journey.
“Don’t Rain on My Parade” – New Broadway Cast of “Funny Girl”
For fans of the hit musical comedy series “Glee,” the newly released Broadway cast recording of “Funny Girl” featuring Lea Michele is reminiscent of perhaps the most famous of her hundreds of solos on the series. Her record-breaking revival of the 1964 musical has dominated the theater world in 2022, and with the new cast recording, fans around the world can hear her powerhouse vocals return to Broadway.
“F2F” – SZA
SZA is known for her sad girl anthems above all else. So listeners were shocked to find the angsty, early 2000s-inspired pop rock track “F2F” sandwiched in the middle of her latest 23-track album “SOS.” A SZA song is always sure to produce a good cry, but now fans can scream along to her invigorating lyrics with the bitterness necessary for any breakup album.
“Want Want” – Maggie Rogers
“Want Want” is Maggie Rogers’ energetic celebration of sex and pleasure. In the second single from her sophomore album “Surrender,” roaring instrumentals and powerful vocals give way to an outpouring of lust for a bandmate. With electrifying, passionate outbursts like “might die if you can’t live just to taste it,” the track urges listeners to not shy away from physical desires and to embrace sensuality.
“Belize” – Danger Mouse and Black Thought feat. MF DOOM
“Belize” is a classic rap track featuring a posthumous verse from the late rapper MF DOOM, who died in 2020. The song accentuates DOOM’s dizzying lyrical style, a fitting way to honor him after his death.
“Holy Tonight” – Goth Babe
Indie artist Goth Babe composed the album “Iceland” for the short film “Creation Theory,” which explores the concept of creation through the lenses of surfing, snowboarding and music. The album’s second track “Holy Tonight” is a repetitive, beat-heavy song that expresses relatable sentiments of longing with the catchy chorus “I wanna find what I’m looking for.”
“CUFF IT” – Beyoncé
After a six-year break from releasing solo studio albums, Beyoncé delivered an instant classic upon her return to the music scene. Although the ballroom-inspired, 16-track “RENAISSANCE” is the definition of a true “no skips” album as its own collective experience, “CUFF IT” is an absolute standout with a catchy hook and impeccable production.
“Bad Habit” – Steve Lacy
Steve Lacy’s record-breaking track “Bad Habit” took social media by storm in June, trending across platforms for its catchy beat and relatable lyrics about regret in romantic relationships. The song almost resembles two tracks put together, slowing down around the two-minute mark from the upbeat chorus of “I wish I knew you wanted me” to the more mellow “You’ll miss me, don’t beg me, babe.”
“American Teenager” – Ethel Cain
In “American Teenager,” Ethel Cain reflects on her deeply religious Baptist upbringing and the dangers of putting your faith in the ephemeral experiences of American life. Cain’s debut album “Preacher’s Daughter” dwells on the dangers of patriotism – “The neighbor’s brother came home in a box / But he wanted to go so maybe it was his fault / Another red heart taken by the American dream.”
“Buddy’s Rendezvous” – Lana Del Rey and Father John Misty
In her cover of this jazzy ballad, Lana Del Rey recounts the story of a man recently released from prison who gives his daughter some life advice. The first 20 seconds of the song are enough to make it a 2022 favorite with a soulful, melancholic saxophone and piano opening. Sung from the father’s perspective, the male character reflects on his mistakes with the other “losers and old-timers” over a soft, orchestral sound.
“Kody Blu 31” – JID
JID’s “Kody Blu 31” is a letter to the family of one of his late childhood friends, encouraging them to push through hardship with inspirational lines like “When the world feels enormous on your back and on your arms.” Between JID’s solemn and melancholic verses about pushing through trauma and haunting vocals from Ari Lennox to close out the song, “Kody Blu 31” was the best hip-hop song of 2022.
“Beg For You” – Charli XCX Feat. Rina Sawayama
Charli XCX and Rina Sawayama collaborated to put a reminiscent, Eurodance spin on the 2008 dance hit “Cry For You” by September. The song was the third single from Charli’s album CRASH, her high-voltage finish to a five-album record deal signed at 16. The catchy chorus, electronic production and addictive lyrics about yearning for romance give the track a gentle yet invigorating sound perfect for any party playlist.
This article appeared in the  December 30, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

