Media Credit: Michelle Lin | Photographer 
The Elliott School of International Affairs hosted the hybrid event in the Linder Family Commons.
A national leader in refugee resettlement called for reform to the U.S. refugee system Wednesday.
Krish O’Mara Vignarajah, the president and chief executive officer of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services and former policy director for former First Lady Michelle Obama, spoke about the politicization of refugees and the inefficiency within the American refugee settlement system. The Elliott School of International Affairs hosted the hybrid event in the Linder Family Commons as part of its “What’s Next in Foreign Affairs” Dean’s Speaker Series, which Elliott School Dean Alyssa Ayres moderated.
Vignarajah said the Sri Lankan Civil War forced her to immigrate to the United States at 9 months old, which motivated her to work in refugee aid as an adult.
“For me, it was about appreciating my good fortune and figuring out how I could pay it forward,” Vignarajah said.
Vignarajah said LIRS – one of the nine refugee resettlement agencies nationwide that partners with the State Department – is the largest faith-based, non-profit in the country dedicated to immigration and refugee issues like helping refugees find employment in their newfound homes. She said her organization provided legal services to refugees in response to refugee crises, like the surge of unaccompanied minor arriving to the U.S.-Mexico border and resettlement of Afghan allies and their families after the fall of Kabul last August.
“Many of them were experiencing the trauma of having close relatives who were still in harm’s way in Afghanistan,” she said. “And that was where it was critical for us to just plug them into as many kinds of resources, offer them legal services.”
She said former President Donald Trump politicized refugee caps and temporarily shuttered the existing refugee accommodation infrastructure, like the closure of refugee resettlement offices.
“The Trump administration had a study that was ultimately suppressed, but then leaked that showed that when you take into account the resources that refugees receive, there is a net positive of $63 billion that go to the local and state and federal coffers,” Vignarajah said. “So I think some of it is just highlighting this data that exists.”
She said the lack of political initiative or willpower to reform the inefficient refugee admission system can be blamed on political disputes, but she said she met with members of Congress who admit the immigration and refugee system sorely needs repairs.
Vignarajah said she believes climate refugees, who are forced to flee their homes because of climate change, will be the greatest challenge for organizations like hers in the future.
“We know that climate and the crisis will be the top driver of migration in the 21st century,” she said. “And when you look at the numbers, they could overwhelm the system by 2050. We could have 200 million migrants who are fleeing slow or sudden-onset disasters, and it’s something that hits close to home because obviously, the Americans are experiencing this ourselves.”
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Each year, graduating editors are given 30 final column inches – “30” was historically used to signify the end of a story – to reflect on their time at The Hatchet, published in the final issues of the year.
I have always sought out the adventure in life.
I’m like the typical passenger you see arriving at an airport: excited to explore something new, but a bit stressed amid the chaos.
For my first assignment at The Hatchet, I interviewed a student serving as a local elected official about an upcoming crosswalk installation on H Street.
I had no journalism experience and missed reporter training, but my editor encouraged me to co-byline the story with her and coached me through how to conduct an interview. So, I thought to myself, “How complicated could a crosswalk be?”
After we sat down, the local official rolled out blueprints detailing every technical specification. Suddenly, my list of prepared questions was moot. I had no idea what to ask.
Wanting to do well, I spent hours afterward combing through the design to make sense of it. Eventually, I thought I had understood the full story.
But by time the piece ran, becoming my first byline, my editor had reworked most of my writing. My lengthy prose detailing every design aspect was reduced to just a few sentences.
Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
The published story included a hypervigilant student body advocating to the University. Students influencing government, even on hyperlocal issues. Administrators who wanted to provide a positive student experience but also worried about costs.
That’s complicated for a crosswalk.
I clearly had a lot to learn. As an endlessly curious person, I was intrigued. My editor encouraged me to take another piece. Soon enough, another. Then, another.
As I would see time and time again at The Hatchet, even the most pedestrian topics can lead to some interesting stories. To see it, you just had to make sense of the chaos.
I eventually started to get the hang of my initial beat, and my editors encouraged me near the end of my freshman year to switch gears to the finance section.
I didn’t want to start from scratch, but intrigued once again, I reluctantly agreed to try it out. I took my first assignment – a story about GW’s hiring of an outside consultant to lead a review of the University president.
It seemed like another blip in never-ending chaos.
I made more than my fair share of mistakes along the way, but slowly, the finance beat became the lens through which I understood GW.
The more I learned, the more I saw GW’s challenges rooted in its setup as a nonprofit corporation. GW pursues educational and research missions. The constraint becomes the bottom line.
With this in mind, we renamed the finance beat as the administration beat. Over the next few years, I found telling that story to be quite the adventure.
If nothing else, those challenges exposed severe mistrust between GW’s constituencies. And, just like the crosswalk, there was a lot to take in at each small step.
Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
But from all that chaos, what has stood out to me as the bigger story during these past four years is not a change in president, but instead a unified recognition of this highly damaging conflict by all parties.
For my last assignment at The Hatchet, I listened as faculty endorsed a new public commitment that aims to eliminate this mistrust. Trustees are slated to approve these shared governance principles next month, the product of months of behind-the-scenes collaboration.
I’m confident GW is now headed on the path to preeminence it has sought to achieve because of it.
But for me, exploring this story didn’t just become the adventure that took up most of my time at college – it became a home in which I was lucky enough to work alongside some of the most hardworking and thoughtful people I’ve ever met.
I know they will continue telling that story, wherever the chaos may lead.
Now, it’s time to explore something new.
To those who shared this adventure with me:
Alec: It has been quite the journey, and I’m not sure where to begin ­– roommates, The Hatchet, classes or everything else in between. I don’t know how you aren’t sick of me yet, but I’m glad you became one of the constants during these crazy four years. Your friendship will be one of things I treasure most from GW.
The administrators who get it: We send countless requests, and GW is a private institution, so officials can decline to comment when they so choose. A few have always stood out to me for their consistent transparency and recognition of the importance of independent student journalism. Thank you for always taking the time to talk with us and answer our questions: Brian Blake, Cissy Petty, James Tate, Jay Goff, Loretta Early and Rachel Brown.
Crystal: You arrived at GW the same month I joined staff, and here we are both leaving the same month. In between, you were The Hatchet’s biggest advocate and went above and beyond to help us build relationships with administrators. It made our stories more thorough, and it made GW more transparent. Thank you.
Dani: Thanks for assigning me that crosswalk story. I had no idea what I was doing, but you encouraged me from the onset and were a big part of what made me realize the opportunities that exist at The Hatchet. It’s what made me want to join staff.
Lizzie: My fellow apartment price investigator. You always brought so much compassion and care in each story to get it right, and the work you put out day after day shows it. I miss the days we would collectively groan over the latest twists in GW news, but I know you’re now off doing bigger and better things!
Ilena: I hope we can swap jobs again for a day down the road. You wrote some of the most thoughtful and insightful stories and I was always in awe. Our long days in the townhouse on Fridays were brightened by your positivity, but I will still never understand ballet.
Parth: You were always the smartest person in the room. Despite not studying journalism, you pointed out the holes in our reporting and challenged us to look a layer deeper. You got involved with nearly every section and it left its mark – current staff who have never even met you seem to know who you are, and I think that speaks for itself.
Meredith: I still can’t believe you got that Hatchet tattoo. But even more so that we still didn’t win the competition. You taught me the ropes of a beat I didn’t understand and was reluctant to take, but little did I know how rewarding that encouragement would turn out to be.
Sarah: Serving as editor in chief brings on a lot of pressure, and you always took each day with grace and compassion. When I thought I was going to have to step away from staff at one point, you found a way to make it work with my schedule. I wouldn’t be at The Hatchet writing this if you hadn’t.
Lia: We’ve come a long way since sitting in metro section meetings our freshman year. If nothing else, we learned that signatory was a more elusive title than editor in chief. You led us in the right direction in so many tough decisions this year, and this paper is in a better place because of it. It will be weird to not talk about The Hatchet every day and tackle the latest crisis with you, but it’s a well-deserved break after all you’ve had to deal with.
Jared: I’d say it was fun being MEs together, but I think that doesn’t do justice to the roles our jobs often morphed into: flood responders, tech support, copy, business and even Engage liaisons. You care about The Hatchet as an institution more than anyone else I know. No detail is too small – you always take the care and time to make every piece of content we publish the best it can possibly be. It’s a dedication I have always admired, and I know you will bring that commitment to whatever you do next.
Jarrod: The Hatchet’s success relies on a strong SNE, and you rose to the occasion. More recently when you ran for editor in chief, you made it clear that no challenge we face at The Hatchet is too elusive to tackle. I hope you continue the Harry Potter advocacy each Sunday night. I’m excited to see all you accomplish next year, and I look forward to reading each week.
Isha: You also didn’t originally want the administration beat, but I hope you’ve come to appreciate the constant twists and turns as I did. For the record, I do truly hope you create the weather and wildlife beats, and I hope the first story is about the alpacas. In all seriousness though, you have a lot of bold ideas for the paper, and I know it will serve The Hatchet well next year.
Zach: To some extent it doesn’t feel like you’re going anywhere because I still follow you on Twitter. You are one of the most dedicated people on this paper, and I worry for the day you fall down the townhouse stairs chasing a fire truck. Don’t lose that drive.
Nick: Covering GW leads to a lot of tough calls, and you always helped steer us in the right direction to make our coverage thorough. You’re such a talented reporter and editor, and I know you’ll do a great job as SNE next year.
Lauren: The GW student body is a unique bunch, and no one is more dedicated to following its marvels. You shine positivity into everything that you do, and I know The Hatchet is in good hands with you as MD. Enjoy your student government retirement!
Grace Hromin: I’m sure you’re breathing a sigh of relief now that you don’t have to respond to my constant badgering with crazy ideas that often don’t make sense. But you always found a way to make the impractical possible and found new ways to tell stories through photo. You’re incredibly talented, and I can’t wait to see what you do next.
Jaden: I will miss your constant questioning of stories, whether it be about a curly apostrophe or an entire section. It was always a comfort to know you were one of the last sets of eyes on everything we published, and I know you’ll continue to hone your unyielding copy talent in Volume 119.
Team Design: As my one-hit-wonder on InDesign showed, we couldn’t put out the paper each week without you. Grace Miller: Remember the suitcase transport technique the next time things move online. Say hi to David for me. Isabella: I can’t wait to see what creative ideas you come up with as you take the helm of the section in the fall. Just don’t use the basketball font again. Nicholas: You constantly amaze me with your creative ideas and new ways to bring data to life. I can’t wait to see what you come up with next.
Hannah: I wasn’t surprised when I picked up a copy of The Post with your byline on A-1 not too long after you left. You’re such a talented writer and always have a way to make the point that no one else sees. I know I’ll be seeing many more of your bylines for years to come.
Mom, Dad and Jeremy: You have always been my biggest support and sources of encouragement. Pursuing journalism makes me the odd one out in the family, but it seems that you, too, have become closer to political and news junkies over these past few years. Thank you for making all of this possible.
Ally, Carrie and Savita: You are finally free from The Hatchet. Thanks for putting up with my constant rants about this University and the sudden breaking news that at times made me change plans last minute. Looking forward to joking about it all one day on the yacht.
Derek, Noah and Sam: You deserve to be thanked just for how many times I’ve droned on about The Hatchet despite you not actually being at GW. But a lot has happened these past few years, and I’m even more grateful for your friendship and support as it all kept coming.
Onto the next adventure.
-30-
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor 
Each year, graduating editors are given 30 final column inches – “30” was historically used to signify the end of a story – to reflect on their time at The Hatchet, published in the final issues of the year.
I never knew how to take a good photo.
Of course, I knew how to shoot a camera on automatic and take something on my phone, but I never knew how to genuinely take a good photo on a digital camera manually. It never was a passion of mine. 
I decided to join The Hatchet on a whim after I saw an Instagram story about signing up. I had never taken any interest in photography or journalism before. I only wanted to get involved in a student org and I owned a camera, so it seemed like a logical decision. 
My first assignment was uneventful. I took a photo of Fulbright Hall because I wanted something simple. For the first few months, I never opted to take a photo of any person, fearing that I would inevitably make them look bad. It took me a while to build my confidence up enough to the point that I could even attend an event, which is where I found the Student Association. 
Those meetings became my niche, and I started to attend every single one I could. As a photographer, it was good practice, but it also made me feel so much more connected to the GW community as a student. I finally understood my school and knew what was actually happening to students and the policies that affected me. 
From there, I just wanted to learn more about GW and photography. 
I started to gain skills by just taking as many assignments as I could. The more I took, the more I felt involved and the more I wanted to continue on, and I gained so much more as a result. Naturally, when a staff position opened up I jumped at the opportunity, even though it would mean being an editor during the virtual year. 
I regretted it almost instantly. 
A week in, I wanted to quit. For a year, I ran around my house to find some new background to take a nice setup for my laptop. It made me not want to continue photographing for The Hatchet because it started to become unenjoyable. But I learned a lot. 
Taking the more boring assignments pays off in big ways. I got better as a photographer for one, but I also learned so much from just sitting in on hourslong meetings and speaker events I would not have opted to attend. I continued to understand more about how the University works, and it made campus not seem so far away. 
This past year has pushed me in a way I never thought imaginable. I have hundreds of published photos, an opportunity I would not have had elsewhere, and I found a great sense of accomplishment and community along the way. 
The pride I now have in my work is unmatched. I never liked my early photos and never could have imagined that I would take any of the more important photos we publish. Yet, one of my last assignments was taking a photo of President Wrighton and his dog, Spike, and that’s pretty cool. 
One of the first things I was told when I joined The Hatchet was that you will get out of it as much as you put into it. I now understand why. I put a lot of my college experience into this paper and I got out a new hobby and skill, a better understanding of journalism and a great community on campus. I will always be grateful for all I have learned and will forever look back with such fondness despite the many early Sunday mornings and the constantly hectic schedule. 
Of course, I would not have been able to do any of this without the truly wonderful and talented people who are on staff. From past editors to current, the sense of knowledge and joy you get to experience from working closely with a group of like-minded individuals makes all of the late nights and boring events worth it. 
So, to all the people who helped me strive to be my best on this paper, thank you. 
Grace: Oh Grace Miller, where do I begin. You are such a fun person to be around and I am so happy that I now get to call you my friend. You always make late nights in the townhouse so much more enjoyable by getting into silly antics with me. From creating hats to climbing into suitcases or hearing about your wild yet somehow fitting opinions on fruit personas, I have been so glad to have you be my basement buddy all year long. Your dedication to design and the paper is so inspiring and I am always in awe of your many talents. I know that you will excel in whatever you do in life because you have such a beautiful, kind, passionate soul. Thank you for putting up with me all year and listening to all of my life drama. I will miss you dearly next year as you are off in London and I cant wait to see you in the Spring. Long live the Grace-ment.
Danielle: I am so glad that I have met you. You bring constant smiles to my life whether it’s hearing your stories or just editing near you. It has been such a joy to see you become the amazing editor that you are. From being so unsure of all the steps in the beginning to now being so on it that I do not even have to text you; I am so proud of your growth. You are such a beautiful and kind person and I am constantly amazed by your photography skills and the care you put into every assignment. I am so grateful to call you my friend and I will always cherish the time I got to spend with you on assignments and outside of the townhouse. Thank you for all you have done and I can not wait to see what you do personally with your work and with the featured section next year. 
Lia: You are truly such a wonderful EIC, leader and person. It is by no means an easy job and you continuously helped carry this paper to its best week after week. You have such a profound sense of motivation and optimism that makes people want to continue on and push forward, which is something so important in a student paper. Seeing you continuously maintain a positive attitude even when things look bleak makes me and many others want to continue to strive for our very best, and that has been a huge reason we have been so successful all year. Your sarcasm is so top tier that I may never fully understand when you are joking, but I am so glad to have gotten to know you more. I cannot thank you enough for always being there to support me and the photo team and am so excited to see and follow all that you achieve. 
Zach S: It’s strange to think you were one of the first people I meet at GW and it took us four years to actually know each other, but I am glad we got the opportunity. You are such a talented individual and I will forever be in awe of how much care and the time you put into this paper. Your knowledge of this school is something no one else will ever have and it’s so impressive. I do not know what I would have done with your help this year because you somehow can get anything done no matter how unreasonable or outlandish the request. From the coding to keeping the basement amused with your superb stalking skills, you helped make this paper something special. I can’t wait to follow your career after graduation. Hopefully now whenever you text me I will not be in panic mode. 
Jared: One of the first people I had to work closely with when I joined and yet I only ever talked to you through text for a year. You somehow put up with me as your photo editor, despite all my dumb questions, but I appreciated you always being on top of everything and never leaving me out to struggle on Sundays. You care so deeply about this paper in every section and through every tradition, no matter how small. Every week you come in with a smile and help everyone with all the questions they throw at you with ease. Thank you for re-writing all of my many passive sentences. You are an invaluable member of the paper not only because you are such a talented journalist, but you are the true Hatchet Historian. I can’t wait to read what you write in the future.  
Jarrod: From seeing you just start out as a metro editor to becoming the EIC for the next volume is so exciting. Despite the stress of your job, you somehow always maintain a positive attitude every week. You also always manage to make everyone smile on Sundays with your love of pretzels and out-of-context one-liners. You care so much about each story you work on and edit that it’s easy to see you will do a fantastic job next year. The passion and dedication you have are truly a testament to what a wonderful journalist you will become and I cannot wait to see what you do with the next volume.
Team Photo: From both Volumes 117 and 118, the photo team being made up of such amazing women has been a constant inspiration. I am so thankful to have worked with all of you. Auden: You are simply an incredible soul and I cannot wait to see what you do with the section next year! You stepped up at a time when we needed you and within two months you agreed to step into such a larger role, and I am so happy you did. I am so proud of the editor you have become and I wish you luck! Camille and Sydney: You are both such amazing photographers and I thoroughly enjoy being able to see both of you work on a consistent basis. I can’t wait to follow your careers and look at some of the amazing projects you will both inevitably be a part of. Sophia Y: I have relied on you so much when it comes to taking photos, and always being able and willing to help has been such a relief. It was so great to see your growth. Lillian and Arielle: I miss you both dearly and cannot thank you enough for all of the encouragement and help you have given me throughout my years working for you. 
Jaden: I am so glad that I have gotten to know you this year. Week after week, you consistently maintain a positive attitude even when you have every reason to not. You have one of the more difficult and nitpicky jobs and you still somehow manage it all. Your care and passion for commas, dashes, curly quotes and game ~stanzas~ are something I may never understand but it’s something truly fun to hear. Thank you for the many food runs and enduring an extra block of walking with the rats to get Grace and me home. Your passionate rants and humor make being stuck in the basement from midafternoon till early morning more enjoyable. 
Isabella: It has been such a joy getting to know you this past year. Your dedication, patience and design talent are simply amazing. You also have such a detail-oriented job and yet you do it with such ease and contentment, even on nights when you could have left hours ago. Being able to suffer with you through all the late nights and the many CVS runs is always a joy and I am so glad I get to call you a friend. Thank you for putting up with all of my life drama. I am so excited to see the work you produce next year as design editor! 
Nick A: You are so incredibly talented. The care you put into your graphics and your attention to detail is truly outstanding. You are such a great friend and you always are able to keep me level-headed in the basement most nights. Your rants are unmatched and I will miss being able to see you every week, but I am so excited for you and cannot wait to see all of your beautiful designs in the future. 
Lauren: Whenever I see you, you are always smiling, even when you have every reason to not be. I am constantly amazed by your dedication and consistency to this paper. Your section is extremely difficult and you handle it amazingly. Your knowledge of this school’s government is something to be proud of. It’s not easy to understand and even though I have been to countless meetings, I still don’t think I’d be able to fully get it without you explaining it to me. I am so happy that we happened to sit next to each other in Math and Politics and so glad I got to suffer alongside you most Monday nights. I hope you get to relax a bit more next year because you deserve it!
Isha: Admin queen. Your knowledge of this school is truly something special. You always manage to write every story with such clarity, despite it being a confusing and hectic beat. It’s a testament to how much passion you have behind all of your reporting and what a talented journalist you are. Those fruit videos really got me through that one day, and I am so glad that I have gotten to know you through the paper and wish you all the best in years to come. I have no doubt that you will do a truly wonderful job as managing editor next year, and I hope you get to fully become the weatherman you strive to be. 
Nick P and Zach B: Having the opportunity to get to know you both more these last few weeks has been such a joy. You both bring so much positivity wherever you go and your journalism skills are phenomenal. The dedication you have to your current positions and the care you put into your reporting clearly show how well you will both do next year. I cannot wait to see what you bring to the news section next year as co-SNEs. I hope you have fun with it!
Amanda and Thais: Video queens! Your section is so small and you two carry it like champs. Your videos are always so amazing and despite your workload, you two are always so happy to be editing and capturing footage. I hope you are able to fully expand the section next year to all you dream of it to be. 
Anna and Sidney: It has been so amazing to get to know both of you this past year through The Hatchet and class! You are both so talented and such fun people to be around and I am so glad to now call you both friends.
Rachel, Jordyn and Krishna: It was so great to see you all grow as photographers throughout the year. I know you will all do great things next year and I wish you all the best. 
My friends and family: Thank you for putting up with me and my busy schedule. You have all heard the “Sorry, I can’t. I have Hatchet” line way too many times, and yet even if I have to kick you out of the kitchen or reschedule on you last minute, you all have always been more than willing to comply in my work. I am truly grateful for it.
-30-
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

My anthropology professor often encourages small group discussions during my 100-person lecture, but instead of talking during these breaks, many of my classmates sit staring at their laptops or phones. I’ll scan the room and see the tops of heads looking down at their screens instead of faces, and sometimes I too fall into this habit of silence. While keeping to ourselves is not bothering anybody, it can overlook one of the most crucial parts of college – the formation of new relationships with others – whether those last a minute or a lifetime.
In the rare circumstance that I would briefly chat with other students about class material or miscellaneous topics, I felt better about myself and my mood improved. Taking a few minutes to talk with a stranger creates comfort amid the hustle of college life and even fostered many of my friendships in various classes. Students should interact with one another more in classes, residence halls and student organization meetings to unite our campus.
This semester in my comparative politics class of about 40 students, we were given the choice between a group and individual project. Although I was more interested in the focus of the group research assignment on either COVID-19 or climate change responses, I immediately prepared to complete the individual project because I didn’t know many students in my class and never considered contacting students I hadn’t met. Reaching out felt daunting because my class didn’t typically talk before or after class time. Why would they want to work with a stranger? I feared rejection from students I had never met and was planning to sacrifice my own interest in a project to account for a disappointing social expectation.
But as of a few weeks ago, I was still interested in the group project and felt more motivated to work on it. Maybe it was the fact that we were five weeks from the semester’s end or I couldn’t wait to research COVID-19 or climate change, but for a moment, I stopped fearing this idea of social rejection. I let my classmates know via GroupMe that I’d love to form a group with anyone interested, and shortly after, I was in a group with three classmates whom I had never met before.
While the disconnect between my classmates may seem minor, it helped me realize that I, along with other students, should make a stronger effort to meet and get to know my peers in the classroom. Meeting new people in classes and student organizations makes me happier and more comfortable at GW. People often refrain from speaking to their classmates due to the impression that students are uninterested in socializing. New Student Orientation is far past, and randomly reaching out to others feels less socially acceptable. Wearing masks indoors because of the pandemic makes socialization even more difficult. It can be intimidating to initiate friendships through conversation instead of smiling. But small conversations are the only way to show one another we’re interested in connecting.
Our generation is also wrapped up in daily social media usage, which can hinder social interactions and increase anxiety with more in-person interaction. I often rely on my phone to shield a feeling of vulnerability around people I’ve never met. When I see students in my classes and meetings on their phones during times of expected socialization, I assume they might be doing the same. Family care specialists have found that being accustomed to talking with others electronically can make it more difficult to communicate in person. The pandemic has exacerbated this issue – many teenagers, like myself, have increased their screen time during the past two years with reduced in-person contact with one another.
GW is the largest university in D.C. with an undergraduate student population of about 12,000 students and nearly 16,000 graduate students. With such a large campus community, fostering unity is vital. 
While we can achieve unity through support for our sports teams or attendance at exciting University events, we can also facilitate camaraderie daily in our classrooms. Students can meet others through conversation in classes, residence halls and student organization meetings. Talking to new people beyond a roommate or preexisting friend can help ease anxiety. Additionally, spending less time looking down at your phone in social situations, which is something I also need to work on, can show others that you’re interested in socializing. Make eye contact with your peers and find common interests to lessen any initial nerves. Greet the person sitting next to you, compliment their outfit or crack a joke. 
The student body at GW has the potential for more unity through stronger relationships with one other. At a city campus full of independent-minded students, it can be easy to feel alone or overwhelmed, even when many other students feel the same. Talking with more students outside of your typical friend group can ramp up school spirit and break down the traditional barrier between strangers. Although we’ve faced challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and social media use, we have the capability to make the GW community a little friendlier and more unified. Talk to a stranger in a class whether through a compliment or a casual greeting. Your interaction can brighten someone’s day.
Mia Adams, a freshman majoring in political science, is an opinions writer.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor 
International students who enrolled at a U.S. college or university before March 9, 2020 can take online-only courses and remain in compliance with their visa requirements through the next academic year. 
Federal officials extended a pandemic-era policy that allows international students to take online and hybrid courses at American colleges and universities through the 2022-23 academic year on Monday.
Before U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement implemented the rule in March 2020, international students could only enroll in one online course and count the class toward full-time student credit. But this will be the third academic year ICE has allowed international students to take more than one online or hybrid course after continuing the policy in April 2022.
International students who enrolled at a United States college or university before March 9, 2020 can take online-only courses and remain in compliance with their visa requirements.
“This guidance enables schools and students to engage in distance learning in excess of regulatory limits due to the continuing public health concerns created by COVID-19,”  federal officials said in a release.
ICE officials also said international students will be able to stay in the U.S. if classes move online due to rising COVID-19 cases, as long as the courses began with in-person instruction.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

While marijuana enthusiasts across the country come down from the high of their annual holiday of April 20, buying and selling marijuana for recreational use remains illegal in the District. As some states move ahead with legalizing the sale of non-medical cannabis, the future of marijuana in D.C. is in a legal tug of war between local and federal authorities. Congressional oversight of the District’s pot policies has done more harm than good, and it’s time for D.C. to control this budding industry as it sees fit.
After a ballot initiative to legalize marijuana passed in 2014, Congress placed a provision known as the “Harris Rider” on budget legislation to prevent D.C. from using federal funds to “enact” any law, rule or regulation to further legalize or decriminalize recreational marijuana. This federal oversight hinges on the language of the rider, and its lack of clarity has complicated the status of legal medical marijuana and fueled a vast gray market of so-called “gifting” stores. As D.C. continues to push for its sovereignty, removing a single amendment from congressional budget legislation can break this impasse to an open, legal marijuana market and allow the District to enact and enforce its own popularly-mandated laws.
Nearly 70 percent of D.C. voters supported Initiative 71, the 2014 measure to allow residents older than 21 to possess up to two ounces of marijuana, smoke on private property, cultivate their own cannabis plants and possess pot-related paraphernalia. But that victory was short-lived when House Republicans amended a $1.1 trillion spending bill in December that year to prohibit the District from using its federal funding to effectively decriminalize or legalize marijuana. Because the text of the amendment stops D.C. from “enacting” new legislation and executing existing legislation, the city’s already “enacted” medical marijuana program and Initiative 71 became law in February 2015. Yet the possibility of any future legislation looks grim. 
Activists and organizers who rallied support for the ballot initiative noted that the proposed amendment’s timing soon after the city’s opposing vote was suspicious. “They’re allowing the overturning of an election,” Adam Eidinger, a chair of a pro-marijuana group supporting Initiative 71 at the time, told WAMU. The anti-legalization crowd weren’t just sore losers. They exposed the District’s democratic process as a sham in a paternalistic power grab by the federal government.
The situation the District now finds itself in mirrors prohibition a century ago – since personal possession and consumption remain legal, an array of companies have risen to fill that demand. The ability of medical cannabis patients to self certify their need and the expansion of the city’s application system for medical marijuana mean that medical marijuana dispensaries de facto sell cannabis for recreational use. While such dispensaries retain an air of legality, marijuana “gifting” stores, which sell customers products like T-shirts and drug paraphernalia with one ounce “gifts” of marijuana, skirt the edge of the law. 
The line between medical and recreational marijuana in the District is increasingly blurry. And as more and more private companies enter this highly profitable, unregulated industry, these clever, albeit illicit, operators are undercutting the city’s legal, tightly regulated medical marijuana dispensaries. But addressing the District’s gray market also means confronting the legacy of the war on drugs and its racist outcomes – many of the gifting stores that could form the future backbone of D.C.’s recreational cannabis industry are Black- or locally owned. 
Foreclosing on the possibility of legal, recreational marijuana has only furthered the development and increased the profits of such gifting stores. A D.C. Council meeting last month underscores just how difficult regulating the District’s gray market has become. The Council narrowly rejected an emergency bill meant to crack down on these “gifting” shops. The bill would have allowed the District to close these stores for 96 hours and impose $30,000 fines on vendors and their landlords. Despite a creative reading of Initiative 71 that allows them to operate, these businesses clearly have a commercial component to them.
At present, the District is in an unworkable regulatory scheme where possessing recreational marijuana is perfectly legal but buying it is ethically dubious if not an actual crime. Mayor Muriel Bowser’s repeated attempts to legalize recreational marijuana require removing the Harris Rider from this year’s congressional budget, but that’s unlikely. President Joe Biden included the rider in his $5.3 trillion budget proposal for 2023, and it’s doubtful the narrowly Democratic-controlled Congress will remove it without his support. And if the nominally pro-D.C. Democratic Party can’t deliver for the District, it’s even less likely that Republicans will remove the rider should they sweep the House and Senate this November.
Legalizing recreational cannabis will come with difficulties of its own. For all its benefits, critics are understandably concerned about increased rates of driving under the influence and the potential for children to readily access an adult-oriented product. That’s why regulating D.C.’s marijuana is so important – the Harris Rider is a noxious abuse of power, and one that reeks of contempt for the District’s voters and their decisions. Congress has dropped a problem into D.C.’s lap, and the city can’t solve it while the Harris Rider remains in the budget.
It’s high time that Congress lifts its heavy hand off the internal affairs of the District. Initiative 71 determined what D.C. – not Congress – wanted, and the result was a resounding yes in favor of legalization. Members of Congress don’t need to personally support marijuana legalization, but they ought to let the city decide for itself.
Ethan Benn, a sophomore majoring in journalism and mass communication, is an opinions columnist.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Elissa Detellis I Staff Photographer

You could share this lusciously creamy and light dish with a friend, but after one bite you won’t want to.
With beautiful cherry blossom-themed decorations, exquisite cocktails and sweet and savory bites, Residents Café and Bar is the ultimate spring brunch spot.
Situated on 18th Street in Dupont Circle, Residents is about a mile walk from campus and is also easily accessible by bus. With dinner and brunch menus featuring shareable spreads, curated dishes and an atmosphere reminiscent of a beachside café, this D.C. spot is sure to be popular this summer, so make your reservations now.
The restaurant’s managing partners’ immigration to D.C. from various countries, including Lebanon and Serbia, inspired the name of the restaurant where they hope their patrons become “residents of Residents,” who visit regularly and feel at home. The restaurant’s menu, curated by a chef from Kenya, features a diverse mix of Mediterranean flavors and ingredients from around the world, including African spices, European delicacies and American foods trends.
After my visit, you can count me in as a resident of Residents, now one of my new personal favorite D.C. dining spots because of the natural atmosphere filled with cherry blossoms and their fusion of unexpected global flavors with classic American dishes. Walk in and you’ll find a spread of pink and green velvet chairs and couches, marble tables and artificial seasonal plants – a scene fit for my Pinterest dreams. Artificial cherry blossoms overhang the seating with various patterned rugs and pitchers filled with baby’s-breath blossoms complementing the aesthetic. The space is furnished with a variety of seating options including regular and high-top tables, couches and counter seating across two floors of indoor dining, a bar and a sidewalk seating area.
I popped in to Residents looking for an afternoon snack, so the zucchini fritters ($9) quickly made my shortlist, but I had to satisfy my sweet tooth – the Basque cheesecake ($11) was my final pick. Basque is lighter than a New York style cheesecake because of the heavy cream in the batter, and the slice should have a slight wobble in the center when taken out of the oven. While it lacks the crust that a typical cheesecake would have, Basque cheesecake includes a slightly burnt, deep gold caramelized top that adds a subtle nutty flavor.
The cheesecake came positioned on its side on a large, white and gray ceramic plate where the plating of the dish could really shine. The chef had drizzled the cake with bright orange passion fruit coulis – French for a thin sauce made from fruits or vegetables. A crumble made of panko and ras el hanout, a spicy and warm north African spice mixture often used in marinades and soups, was sprinkled across the dish. The spice and crunch added a needed element to the creaminess of the cheesecake. You could share the dish with a friend, but after one bite you won’t want to.
The cheesecake was lusciously creamy and very light, but the top was slightly bitter for my taste, burnt past the point of a deep golden. The passion fruit added a wonderful freshness and tanginess that balanced the richness of the cheesecake.
I also tried the 0% jalapeño ($15) which is made with lemon, pineapple, green pepper and Seedlip Grove 42, a nonalcoholic spirit. The drink had an exquisite green color with the ingredients combining to create a refreshing beverage with just a hint of heat from the peppers. The slight tanginess of the lemon and pineapple paired well with the passion fruit flavors of the cheesecake and helped to cut through any feelings of heaviness. This drink perfectly hit the spot, but during my next visit I will definitely opt for the popular espresso martini ($17), which is well known for its innovative use of ghee – a clarified butter.
Make your way over to Residents Café and Bar to get those cute brunch pics and soak up the atmosphere while you sip on a refreshing cocktail and enjoy a fresh and varied meal.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Jordyn Bailer | Photographer
Graduate pitcher Sierra Lange tossed her second complete game of the series Tuesday and helped score a pair of runs for the Colonials from the dish. 
Softball notched another series victory Tuesday, picking up two wins in a three-game homestand against George Mason this past week.
The Colonials (23-12) split a doubleheader Saturday after a postponed game Friday to open the series, winning the first game 2–1 before dropping the second to the Patriots (17-22) in a 4–3 extra-innings bout. Graduate pitcher Sierra Lange secured both wins on the mound for GW through lockdown performances that carried the Colonials through the series.
Head Coach Chrissy Schoonmaker said late-inning action and Lange’s pitching pushed GW to its pair of victories. She said Lange stifled the George Mason offense with spin on her pitches during the three-game series where she totaled 16 strikeouts across 17.2 innings.
“I thought we had great execution in the late innings of game one and thought in game two we just got out-executed a little bit,” Schoonmaker said. “We had some moments where we can continue to step up, but we were in a position to win.”
GW continues to lead the Atlantic 10 standings with a .867 winning percentage and a 13-2 record in the conference.
Lange pitched the entire first game and the last 3.2 innings of the second game, and graduate student right fielder Maddie Dwyer started the second game, pitching 4.1 innings.
Game One
The dominance from Lange started with a complete game in the 2–1 Colonials victory, where she collected her 17th win on the season and her ninth in conference matchups. She fanned seven George Mason batters, letting up one run on four hits and two walks.
The series opener was a pitcher’s duel with both teams scoreless until the bottom of the sixth when Dwyer hustled out an infield single that scored graduate left fielder Olivia Vinyard. Sophomore designated hitter Maddie Spell would add to the tally later in the inning with a sacrifice fly that brought in graduate shortstop Hannah Eslick to bring the lead to 2–0.
The Patriots would score their first and only run in the top of the seventh inning off a single from junior designated hitter Maddie Myers, but the late-inning push was too little too late to overcome the Colonial’s defense.
Despite George Mason’s quiet offensive showing, graduate pitcher Cheyenne Van Pelt kept the game close for the Patriots, keeping the Colonials to two hits and allowing four walks.
Schoonmaker said Lange effectively mixed her pitches in an “outstanding” performance that held the Patriots to one run.
“I thought she mixed pitches well, she mixed spins and she competes on the mound – she’s a competitor on the mound,” Schoonmaker said.
Game Two
The Colonials’ bats started to heat up later in the day Saturday, but a George Mason game-winning home run in extra innings capped off a dramatic 4–3 loss for GW.
Junior centerfielder Darbie Stancil kicked off the Colonials’ offensive push with a double that scored Spell to put GW on the board. The Colonials would score again in the fourth inning off RBI singles from Eslick and junior catcher Valentina Perrone.
The Patriots closed GW’s lead in the fourth inning when an RBI double and an error at second base each allowed a pair of runs to score. A sacrifice fly to right field in the fifth inning knotted the score at three.
Dwyer lasted 4.1 innings in her tenth start on the mound for the Colonials, giving up two earned runs on five hits while striking out four and walking three. Lange pitched the final 3.2 innings, giving up one run on one hit while striking out three and walking none.
After heading into extra innings deadlocked at 3–3, junior utility player Haley Taormina hit a solo home run that put the Patriots on top. The Colonials could not respond at the bottom of the eighth, which marked their 12th loss of the season.
Eslick said the team could not produce in the late innings of the second game but was ready to “bounce back” to win the series.
“Obviously it sucks losing,” she said. “We’d much rather lose now than lose in the tournament, so just going to take this in, feel this feeling and know we don’t want to feel it again.”
Game Three
The Colonials finished up the series with a 5–1 win over the Patriots on Tuesday, which improved GW’s A-10 record to 13–2 with three weekends left in conference play. Lange logged another standout performance, tossing her second complete game of the series and adding an RBI and a run to the box score for the Colonials.
The Colonials’ bats first came to life in a two-run first inning. Lange reached first on an infield single before stealing two bases and scoring on a sacrifice fly from sophomore utility player Alexa Williams. Graduate student utility player Alessandra Ponce followed with her fourth homer of the season, giving GW a two-run lead.
A George Mason error at the bottom of the fourth allowed Greco to hit first base, and Perrone knocked in the run on a sacrifice fly to capitalize on the defensive miscue. Junior utility player Maggie Greco hit a leadoff double to the left-field corner before scoring on a Lange sacrifice fly to extend the lead to 5–0 in the sixth inning.
The Patriots put a run on the board in the final inning of play following a pair of doubles but couldn’t muster much more against Lange’s six strikeouts and groundouts that stifled the George Mason offense for much of the game.
Lange, Williams and Ponce combined to hit 5-for-7 with three RBIs, two runs and three walks.
GW heads to Rhode Island this weekend to continue its A-10 slate. The first game is set for noon Saturday.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Krishna Rajpara I Photographer
Take a walk through D.C. to celebrate Earth Day and learn about sustainable practices and do-it-yourself crafts at this environmentally friendly arts event. 
Updated: April 22, 2022 at 10:17 a.m.
As classes come to an end, venture out into the city to appreciate local gardens, celebrate Earth Day and support local businesses and artists before leaving for summer break.
Take a breath of fresh air at community garden fest Friday, muse at an Earth Day-inspired arts festival Saturday and support international and local filmmakers at Filmfest D.C. Sunday.
Friday 
Garden Fest
Get outside and smell the scent of fresh herbs and seasonal flowers at Garden Fest to celebrate the reopening of the Peace Gardens, which first opened to the public this October and will remain open through the summer. The space was founded to prevent gun violence in D.C., where locals could engage in recreation and community services. The gardens are split into three locations located just blocks away from each other in Southwest D.C. Participants are welcome to add new plants of their own to each of the sites at Garden Fest, which will feature food, live music, outdoor games and mural painting to usher in a new season of flora. Enjoy the spring weather and activate your green thumb at this garden festival.
Family Enhancement Center. 203 N St. SW. 
Southwest Business Improvement District. 420 4th St. SW. 4 to 6 p.m. Free. Find more information here. 
Saturday 
Earth Day on the Arts Walk
If you’re looking to celebrate Earth Day and spend some more time outdoors, take a walk through D.C. while learning about sustainable practices and do-it-yourself crafts at this environmentally friendly arts event. The celebration is hosted by Brookland Arts Walk – a promenade of 27 different art studios near Catholic University – which will showcase local creatives and businesses that employ practices like upcycling, recycling, mending, thrifting and small batch and zero-waste production. Vendors will sell items like vintage and repurposed goods, vegan soaps, handmade pottery and art featuring local neighborhoods. If you’re looking to do some shopping for eco-friendly alternatives to fast fashion and mass produced goods, be sure to take a stroll through this Earth Day art walk.
Brookland Arts Walk. 716 Monroe St. NE. Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Find more information here.
Sunday 
Filmfest D.C.
Watch a new film at the Embassy of France or at any of four other theaters throughout the city or stream from the comfort of your own home as Filmfest D.C . gets underway. The festival, one of the longest-running cultural events in the city, will feature 65 films from 35 countries, including movie premieres, comedies, dramas, social justice documentaries and new films by Washington filmmakers. If you can’t join in the Filmfest activities this weekend, the festival lasts for 11 days until May 1. This Sunday, take your pick between 12 movie offerings held at The Wharf and Landmark’s E Street Cinema. Check out “Happening,” a French movie about abortion rights, “Rabiye Kurnaz vs. George W. Bush,” a Germany movie about the War on Terror, and “The Right to Happiness,” an Italian film about a used bookstore.
Landmark’s E Street Cinema. 555 11th St. NW. The Wharf. 960 Wharf Street, SW. Showtimes from 2 to 7:30 p.m. General admission tickets are $13, and a 10-ticket Director’s Pass is $100. Ticket information can be found here, and information about showings can be found here.
This post has been updated to correct the following:
The Hatchet incorrectly reported that Darius Baxter founded the Peace Gardens. The gardens were founded in a partnership between Southwest Business Improvement District and GOODProjects – a Southwest D.C.-based nonprofit combatting poverty. The Hatchet also reported that Garden Fest will take place at SWBID’s address on 4th Street SW. The Peace Gardens are advertising the event’s location to be at the Family Enhancement Center on N Street SW. We regret these errors.
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor 
Researchers involved with the project said organic foods are a viable alternative for shoppers who want to avoid meat from animals treated with antibiotics. 
Milken Institute School of Public Health researchers found earlier this month that some beef products labeled as “raised without antibiotics” may contain cattle that have received antibiotics in their feedlots prior to processing.
As part of the study, published April 7 in “Science”, the researchers tested urine samples from 699 cattle in more than 30 RWA certified feedyards to test the integrity of RWA-labeled beef, according to the study. Researchers found that 42 percent of feedyards included in the study had at least one animal test positive for antibiotics, representing 15 percent of the cattle processed with an RWA label at the facilities during the time of the study.
Lance Price, a co-author of the study and a co-director of the Antibiotic Resistance Action Center at GW, said reducing the use of antibiotics in animal production – the purpose of the RWA label – is a major step toward ending the overuse of antibiotics.
“As soon as I saw the data, I was kind of shocked, just at the number of animals that were coming up positive for antibiotics in this absolute program, this program that says there’s absolutely no antibiotics being used,” he said.
Price said antibiotics can cause faster and more overall growth in cattle, providing a financial incentive for feedyards to lie about the presence of antibiotics in their cattle. He said since the Department of Agriculture doesn’t enforce verification procedures, cheating has become very easy for feedyards.
He said companies only need to sign an affidavit saying they’ve raised their animals without antibiotics to receive the label from the USDA, but there is no guarantee that producers won’t cheat the system.
Price said pressure from consumers who reach out to retailers to share their support for RWA animals can motivate companies to make a change. He said organic foods are a viable alternative for shoppers who want to avoid meat from animals treated with antibiotics.
“I’ve probably spent more than $10,000 on meat products labeled with raised without antibiotics over the last 15 years,” Price said. “And so, it’s a label that I’ve told people to use, and I’ve used myself because I thought the USDA was verifying it.”
Randall Singer, a professor in the Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences at the University of Minnesota, said animals can be exposed to antibiotics through water and feed, which makes it difficult for animals to be completely free from antibiotic residue. He said the results of the study do not guarantee that cattle labeled as RWA are purposefully being treated with antibiotics but may have been unintentionally exposed.
“There can be low levels of exposure, not related to the use of an antibiotic, just by drinking the water,” he said.
Singer said consumers are largely opposed to antibiotic use in animals because of their concerns that humans could develop an antimicrobial resistance from eating meat, which might cause modern medicine to be less effective in fighting off illness in humans.
“Where I can help make change is by improving how we use antibiotics and animals and trying to minimize the amount of antimicrobial resistance that might be moving from animals to people,” Singer said.
He said when animals who would normally not receive antibiotics get sick, they often still need to be treated with antibiotics. He said the process of sorting animals treated with antibiotics from others without provides an opportunity for human error that results in a mixing of cattle with varying RWA statuses.
He said ranchers are often faced with a dilemma in wanting the monetary incentive to earn the RWA label by avoiding providing their cattle with antibiotics, but also want to treat a sick animal to protect its well-being.
“I am not going to come to say this is a clear indication of cheating – I would hope that these are just honest mistakes, which can happen when you look at the volume of animals that we move around,” Singer said. “But it does highlight that need to make sure you have in place a system for moving those animals out of your RWA production stream and putting them back into a conventional stream.”
This article appeared in the  April 21, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
