Media Credit: File Photo by Sophia Goedert
Officials pronounced the unidentified man dead upon arriving on the scene, and said he appears to have suffered several new and old "trauma injuries."
Metropolitan Police Department officers are investigating the death of an unknown man in front of the Kennedy Center after a report of a shooting Friday morning.
MPD Chief Robert Contee said officers responded to reports of a shooting at the 2700 block of F Street NW, after a Kennedy Center parking garage employee called authorities a little before 7:30 a.m. Contee said officials pronounced the unidentified man dead upon arriving on the scene and said he appears to have suffered several new and old “trauma injuries.”
Contee said officials are “uncertain” how or when the man arrived at the Kennedy Center or received his injuries. He said it appears the man walked to the parking garage entrance before his death, but that the area where his body was located doesn’t appear to be where the crime occurred.
“We don’t have much information right now,” Contee said. “He’s an adult male, appears to be an adult male, and members of the Metropolitan Police Department are asking for the public’s help in this case.”
Contee said MPD is reviewing video cameras for footage to piece together the events and asked for individuals who saw anything “out of the ordinary” on Rock Creek Parkway by the Kennedy Center early this morning to contact authorities, especially if passersby saw the man exiting a vehicle.
Officials closed southbound traffic down Rock Creek Parkway after arriving on the scene and reopened the street to vehicles at about 2:30 p.m. Officer Hugh Carew, the public information officer for the case, said the incident  “remains under investigation” in a phone call at about 4:30 p.m.
This article appeared in the  November 3, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
