Amid national conversations about how to shore up American democracy, one smaller, less acute way of making U.S. elections more democratic is being considered by the D.C. Council this year: ranked-choice voting. With D.C. races often being decided by narrow pluralities, this new voting method would make elections more democratic by bringing more voices into the fold – that’s why the D.C. Council should pass this legislation.
Right now, candidates for office win elections in the District by garnering a plurality of votes cast – as is the case with the overwhelming majority of elections at all levels in the United States. This works fine in elections where there are only two main candidates, but in an essentially one-party city like D.C. where Democratic candidates usually win overwhelmingly, this system shuts out actual electoral competition that could arise. Candidates should not have free rides to victory, and meaningful competition at the ballot box is healthy for democracy and encourages more faithful representation of voters. The D.C. government needs to move away from this system and adopt a ranked-choice format in its place.
Ranked-choice voting – often abbreviated as RCV, and sometimes called instant-runoff voting – requires voters to list a certain number of candidates in order of preference, instead of picking just one. When all the votes are cast, people’s first choices are tallied up. If one candidate gets ranked number one by an absolute majority of voters – as in, 50% plus one – then that candidate wins outright.
But if no candidate wins an outright majority, then the candidate who had the fewest people rank them first gets eliminated. Election workers – or, more likely, a computer program – then take the pool of voters who voted for that candidate and disperse their second choices among the candidates who are left. This process repeats itself until eventually one candidate has a majority of votes.
In the abstract, there are incredible benefits to asking voters to rank candidates. In general election races that include more candidates than just one Democrat and one Republican – like the most recent D.C. mayoral race, which included Democratic incumbent Muriel Bowser and two left-wing challengers – it can give nontraditional candidates a better shot of being elected. Even if minor candidates do not win the election, major candidates will have at least needed to appeal to minor candidates’ base of support in the hopes of being those voters’ number-two pick. In theory, this means that a ranked-choice voting system is more likely to produce a winner that is acceptable to more people than the current system because it takes into account a broader scope of people’s preferences. Essentially, even if a voter’s first choice doesn’t win, at least there’s a solid chance their second-favorite candidate will have gotten the nod.
To take a brief trip deep into the weeds, ranked-choice voting can make it more likely that the election is won by the candidate who would beat every other candidate in a head-to-head race – also known as the Condorcet winner.
The current method by which elections are run – where voters pick one candidate and whoever gets the most votes wins, referred to as first-past-the-post – is certainly more straightforward, but it has key downsides. In a race with many candidates, which often happens in primaries, one candidate could get a few votes more than the runner-up and win, even if an overwhelming majority of voters did not vote for that candidate.
A recent election for D.C. Council in Ward 2 – which includes Foggy Bottom – is a perfect real-world example of this flaw. The special election to replace scandal-prone former Ward 2 council member Jack Evans featured seven candidates. Brooke Pinto won with 43 percent—–which is a healthy margin, but even still, a strong majority of voters cast their ballots for someone other than the candidate who won. This is undemocratic.
This could have been avoided if the special election had featured ranked-choice voting. Pinto could have still won – considering her margin over the runner-up was around 20 points, the electorate does not seem to hate her, and she may well have won once everyone’s list of choices was tallied. Her margin of victory suggests that plenty of Ward 2 voters probably would have ranked her as their second or third choice, if not their first. Even if the outcome is the same, ranked-choice voting would make certain that it was the most faithful representation of the wishes of the electorate.
Right now, there is legislation before the D.C. Council that would enact ranked-choice voting for the 2024 general elections in the District. The bill’s chief architect, At-large Council member Cristina Henderson, is an Independent who eked out a narrow plurality win over a massive field of candidates. To illustrate how drastic this is: 85% of voters chose a candidate other than Henderson, and she won anyway. Her bill is designed to put a stop to the kind of narrow victories that leave vast majorities of voters without the representation they voted for.
The past 14 months in American politics has been dominated by discussions of how to make elections fairer and more legitimate in the eyes of voters. Passing this bill and enacting ranked-choice voting would be a small step that would make elections in D.C. more democratic.
Andrew Sugrue, a senior majoring in political communication and political science, is the opinions editor. 
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Photo Illustration by Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor
Allow yourself to make mistakes as you work toward meeting your New Year's resolutions this year.
The new year comes with the opportunity for self improvement, but be prepared to avoid common resolution mistakes if you want to truly reach your goals.
The common cycle of returning to unfulfilled resolutions each new year points to weak spots in the way people tend to formulate and tackle these annual goals. To help set you up for success in reaching your New Year’s resolutions, we’ve compiled some ideas that address some of the pitfalls you may have faced before.
Avoid extreme resolutions
While the clean slate that New Year’s provides can be incredibly motivating, attempting to enact extreme changes to your lifestyle without preparation can set you up to not meet your goals. According to an American Psychological Association article about moving from goal setting to goal flourishing, simply being motivated “to change, often observed as stating intentions through goals, doesn’t necessarily ensure nor predict successful change.”
The probable risk of failing “a high and specific goal can damage self-related factors like affect, self-esteem, and motivation,” according to a study about the consequences of goal failure published in the Frontiers in Psychology Journal.
The all-or-nothing mindset often associated with extreme goal setting can be detrimental to the resolutions you are so motivated to accomplish. Unfortunately, the punch of motivation that the new year packs tends to make people set largely unrealistic goals like quitting something cold turkey after prolonged use, jumping right into a very strict diet with no preparation or committing to reading a book a week when you don’t read much in the first place.
When you lack preparation and leave yourself no room for error, you should expect not only failure of that goal but lack of motivation to tackle future goals, according to the study published in the Frontiers in Psychology Journal.
You may already be ten days into your resolutions, but take a step back and think about their viability in your lifestyle. It’s not too late to scale back on the expectations you set for yourself, and you shouldn’t consider doing so giving up or shying away from your goals. Assess how motivated you still feel if you started Jan. 1, or take some time to relax some of the guidelines you set for yourself if you haven’t started yet.
Allow room for mistakes
No one is perfect, not even the best new version of yourself you hope to become this year. Think about any major goal you’ve reached or achievements you’ve earned so far in life and you’ll be hard pressed not to remember road bumps you encountered along the way. Making New Year’s resolutions without the expectation of failures in the process is not the most effective way to reach your goals.
According to a Psychology Today article by Gabriel Young, a professor of psychology at Pacific Oak College in San Jose, California, anticipating your own human error in moments of low motivation or willpower is crucial to keeping resolutions. You’re more likely to be able to avoid the feeling that your resolution is “broken,” and that you have failed completely.
Young cites the psychological term “Abstinence Violation Effect,” which he explains is the tendency for people in recovery to go into complete relapse when they fail to abstain from whatever is they are trying to quit. This relapse mirrors what happens to people after failing any extreme goal.
Instead, Young said “a healthy goal will anticipate failures and prevent them from derailing the resolution.”
Consider setting intentions instead of resolutions
You don’t have to believe in manifestation, which is the idea that aspirational thoughts can become your reality, to reap the benefits of setting intentions.
This alternative to resolutions often takes the form of a statement of desire rather than a rule meant to prevent yourself from engaging in certain behaviors. According to an article by Diana Raab, a transpersonal psychology expert, published in Psychology Today, you can think of intentions as “a positive call to action about something you want to do, rather than something you don’t want to do but feel that you ‘should.’”
The idea is that setting positive intentions can give “direction” to your life based on true desires and be continuously motivating factors for actively and passively altering your behavior on a daily basis, according to Raab. One way you might reap the benefits of setting intentions is a change in your attitudes toward and perception of obstacles in your life.
Intentions can be broad – phrases like “I will be more self-aware,” and “I will make healthy choices for my body and mind,” or more specific like “I will find a satisfying job,” and “I will become financially independent” are good intentions to start with.
Seek personalized accountability
You’ve probably heard of or tried having an accountability partner for New Year’s resolutions, but you might not have thought about what kind of accountability works best for you.
One way to decide the type of accountability that will work best for you in your resolutions or intentions is to reflect on what type of criticism is most effective for you in academics, the workplace and in relationships. This could be a self-reflective criticism, a formulaic critical evaluation by a peer or mentor, feedback you get from the recipients of your work, open one-on-one conversations about improvement or, for some people, a harshly critical check-in.
If you can understand what type of criticism has previously been useful to your success, you can seek out accountability from friends or family in that same form as a more effective way to help keep you on track. Without clear expectations of the type of accountability you will receive, how you want your success to be measured or what form you expect feedback in, accountability could be a recipe for conflict with those you seek it from.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Raphael Kellner | Photographer
The University's enrollment in U-Pass will let students explore the D.C. area for the $100-per-semester rate.
Now that students have access to unlimited Metro rides, get out of Foggy Bottom and make the most of your U-Pass card.
The U-Pass program, which is given to full-time students for a flat rate of $100 per semester, is the perfect opportunity to get off campus for no extra fee. We’ve rounded up some of the best cultural outings to put your new card to good use.
Red Line
Take a 30-minute ride on the Red Line to the Bethesda station for a day filled with shopping and a show. Take a five-minute walk from the Metro station and browse through Bethesda Row, an outdoor shopping area with both local small boutiques and clothing chains like Anthropologie and The North Face. After shopping, you can give your feet a break while sitting down for a play at Round House Theater, recognized by the Washington Post as “the current meteor in DC theatre.” In January and February, you can catch  Nine Night or TikTok (a Period Piece).
For an evening of entertainment, the Grosvenor-Strathmore station is just a five-minute walk from The Music Center at Strathmore. The large and ornate concert hall hosts orchestras, comics and dance groups. In addition to the Music Center, the Strathmore also is home to The Mansion, which hosts free artistic exhibitions as well as an afternoon tea experience. The Strathmore’s full campus spans 16 acres and is ideal for nature walks or photoshoots.
Silver Line
Whether you’re an outer space buff or just trying to tick all of the Smithsonian museums off your list, the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center is a fun spot to visit to view planes and space shuttles alike. The center is an extension of the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum and can be accessed by taking the silver line to the Wiehle-Reston East station and then taking the Fairfax Connector Bus. At the Udvar-Hazy Center, you can see the Space Shuttle Discovery, Amelia Earhart’s LockheedVega 5B, an Air France Concorde and other historical planes, shuttles and objects.
Orange Line
You may know this Korean grocery store chain because of the memoir Crying in H Mart by Michelle Zauner, or because you grew up going to one near you. Regardless, a visit to H Mart is just a ride to the Dunn Lorring-Merrifield station away. For ideas of what to put on your shopping list, you can check out some employee favorites or even a chef’s guide to shopping there.
For a peaceful retreat in the stillness of winter or a foliage-filled landscape view in the spring and summer, the aquatic environment of The Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens national park site accessible by Deanwood station is worth a visit. The gardens are located in D.C. just south of the Maryland border. The park site is free to enter and is open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. most days of the year, making it an ideal spot for a morning run along its quarter mile boardwalk loop or a lunchtime picnic with friends.
Blue Line
For a full day outing to Six Flags Maryland, you can take the Silver or Blue Lines to Largo Town Center and then continue via bus for a 20-minute ride to Six Flags. The amusement park has a couple dozen rides, including a water park. The park also features themed areas, shows and bites to eat as you walk around. One-day tickets to the Six Flags park are $24.99 each but other membership deals are available.
Yellow Line
The National Inventors Hall of Fame takes visitors through famous technologies and their innovators throughout American history. The museum is free to enter and just a 13-minute walk from the Eisenhower Avenue station. Notable exhibits include a section on the impact of intellectual property, an exhibit that simulates a football stadium, and interactive kiosks to test your knowledge on trademarks and patents.
The Pentagon City station, which is accessible by both the Yellow and Blue lines, leads directly into the Fashion Centre at Pentagon City. The mall contains four levels and more than 150 stores and restaurants, with a dining pavilion in the center. There, you can pick up a new accessory at Kate Spade, relive your childhood hobby at Lego or pick up a sweet bite at Häagen-Dazs.
Green Line
Maybe you’re an aircraft buff or maybe you just want an escape from the city. Either way, take a trip to the College Park station to visit the College Park Aviation Museum. The museum, which has a $5 ticket fee, is one of the world’s oldest continuously operating airports founded in 1909 when Wilbur Wright came to give instructions on the first military aviators, according to the website. The museum showcases 10 aircrafts in chronological order of the year they were made with the oldest being the 1910 Wright Model B Reproduction and youngest being the 1946 Ercoupe 415D.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Officials said their preparation for isolation-in-place serves as part of “several contingency plans” for the University's COVID-19 response.
Officials are prepared to implement an “isolation-in-place strategy” on campus if the number of positive COVID-19 cases exceeds isolation housing capacity, they announced in an email to residential students and families Thursday.
The email states the University reserved 250 beds at a nearby hotel to house students who must be “temporarily relocated” because of COVID-19 isolation during the spring semester. Administrators said they expect a “large number” of students returning from winter break to test positive for COVID-19, and they plan to ensure these students have access to medical care, course materials and dining resources while they isolate.
The email did not include additional information about how officials would implement and enforce their isolation-in-place guidelines.
“We believe that the combination of our vaccine and booster mandates, routine testing and indoor mask requirement will help keep our community members protected from severe illness or hospitalization resulting from COVID-19,” the email reads.
GW’s isolation housing is now five times larger than its capacity during the fall semester because of the new hotel space, according to the email. The email states that officials’ preparation for isolation-in-place serves as part of “several contingency plans” for the University’s COVID-19 response.
Last week, 526 GW community members tested positive for COVID-19, according to GW’s COVID-19 dashboard.
The University’s medical advisory team will continue to monitor the District’s COVID-19 rates and make additional recommendations if necessary, according to the email.
As students head back to Foggy Bottom for a spring semester beginning online, read the latest on Omicron’s impact at GW.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Arielle Bader
After the 2021 gymnastics season was shortened because of the pandemic, GW’s squad is looking at the coming season with fresh eyes.
Gymnastics is set to return to competition next weekend at the annual Lindsey Ferris Invitational after finishing the 2021 season in fourth place at the East Atlantic Gymnastics League Championships.
This year, the Colonials were picked fifth in the EAGL preseason poll based on the ranking predictions of the eight EAGL affiliated head coaches. GW set a season-best team score of 195.800 boosted by team scores of 48.850 on vault, 48.875 on bars, 48.850 on beam and a season-high 49.225 on floor at last year’s competition.
Prior to last year’s EAGL meet, the squad had scored above 195.00 in each of their last two meets in the 2021 season after being picked to finish third in the EAGL preseason poll.
Head Coach Margie Foster-Cunningham said the team has been preparing for the season by focusing on their execution, including “strong handstands on bars and sticking all landings and dismounts.” She said these details will prove vital as the team looks to earn major points for postseason qualification.
“I’m very excited for the 2022 season, this team is eager to get out and compete,” head coach Margie Foster-Cunningham said in an email. “We had an abbreviated year last year because of COVID-19 and we’re planning to take advantage of every opportunity we have. Our motto this season is ‘We Commit…We Conquer.’”
She also said the program will look to put the best team out on the floor possible despite the challenge of “uncertainty” in the current climate.
“The team that can last the longest this year will have success,” Foster-Cunningham said. “We have been focusing on not only our physical endurance but our mental endurance. This is a strong group of young women that I have a lot of confidence in.”
GW will host this year’s EAGL conference championship March 19. Foster-Cunningham said they are looking forward to vying for a championship win and a postseason qualification to the NCAA championship.
The Colonials return with 11 letter winners and six new gymnasts for the 2022 season. Among them is sophomore gymnast Kendall Whitman, who was named 2021 EAGL Champion on the conference floor while also earning the accolade of Rookie of the Week twice in her first season.
Whitman finished in a three-way tie for first overall on floor with her 9.900 performance at the EAGL conference championship last year. She said the added depth in the freshmen class will take the squad further this year and said she is excited to get back on the floor with her teammates and show everyone what they’ve been working on.
“This season we are hoping to have a lot more opportunities to compete than we did last year, to be able to show all the hard work we have been putting in everyday,” Whitman said in an email. “With these opportunities, I expect us to bring higher scores and a lot more energy to each competition.”
Last season, senior gymnast Deja Chambliss finished in a three-way tie for second overall at the EAGL conference with a score of 9.850 on vault and earned a trip to the Salt Lake City NCAA Regionals as an individual where she scored a 9.825. Chambliss joins senior Olivia Zona to co-captain the team this season.
“My expectation for the upcoming season is the post-season of course,” Chambliss said in an email. “We have such a great team that will take us far this year. I’m most excited to have fans in the stands on Smith again. We’ve missed the cheering fans, it wasn’t the same without them last year.”
Chambliss said the team has been working on mental toughness and stamina to hold a better focus over details without letting nerves and angst set by the competition get the best of them.
“I expect this season to be a lot longer than last season. In addition, I think we will walk away from this season with our heads held high because we made use of every opportunity and treated it as if it could be our last,” Chambliss said. “This year, we are leaving it all on the floor.”
The Colonials will open the 2022 season at the Smith Center with the annual Linsey Ferris Invitational Jan. 16 at 1 p.m.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

President Joe Biden made a promise on the 2020 campaign trail to cancel at least $10,000 in education debt per borrower, which would provide relief for the 43 million Americans who have taken out federal loans. But Biden has yet to fulfill his campaign promise.
The payment deadline for education loans has been extended five times during the entire pandemic and three times during the Biden administration alone. The president extended the payment deadline for education loans yet again late last month, this time extending the pause through May 1.
Biden’s continuous delays only prolong the problem millions of Americans are facing and stops short of implementing a long-term solution to make higher education more affordable.
Biden should stay true to his word and unilaterally cancel at least $10,000 in education debt per borrower via an executive order. Every college student deserves an equal opportunity to an affordable education and not be held back by financial constraints.
GW families are no strangers to student debt – 35 percent of GW undergraduate students take out federal or private loans, costing each of them a yearly average of about $6,500 in federal education loans.
The University’s tuition cost students almost $60,000 this academic year. Reducing each person’s education loans would ease the financial burden of current and former GW students and help make the sky-high tuition a bit more manageable for those who need the most help.
White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said that there will be a “smooth transition into repayment” when the payment deadline is reached during a press briefing on Dec. 10. But restarting education loans will be anything but smooth for millions of Americans.
A November survey from the Student Debt Crisis Center found that 89 percent of fully employed loan borrowers described themselves as not being financially secure enough to restart loan repayments by the former deadline of Feb. 1. Just as startling, 21 percent of respondents said they will never be financially secure enough to make any payments again. These figures are significant, as 43 million Americans have unpaid education loans.
The impact of the pandemic is obvious and has only worsened many people’s financial statuses. Before the pandemic hit, 25 percent of fully employed loan borrower respondents described themselves as financially poor or very poor. Now 45 percent describe themselves the same way.
The recent rise of the Omicron variant brings economic uncertainty with it and makes education loan relief all the more necessary. While we can hope for Omicron to subside by the repayment resumption deadline in May, we should also prepare for continued challenges in facing the pandemic.
It falls on the Biden administration to anticipate these economic and political challenges and to provide a safety net for education loan borrowers in dire financial straits. The pandemic has been difficult enough for Americans struggling to make ends meet, and the Biden administration can ease the financial burden of millions by canceling thousands of dollars in education debt with the stroke of a pen.
The rising cost of college tuition over the past few decades is coupled with a rising number of Americans filing for education loans. While the crippling cost of higher education existed before COVID-19, the pandemic has caused these loans to burden Americans even more.
Race is also a huge factor in people’s ability to pay education loans. Black Americans have about seven times less wealth than white Americans. In addition, Black borrowers owe an average of $25,000 more in loans than white borrowers.
A June report from the Roosevelt Institute found that canceling $50,000 of education debt per borrower would lead to a 40 percent increase in Black wealth. Canceling education debt would help close America’s racial wealth gap and improve millions of Black Americans’ lives.
GW has a role in alleviating students’ financial burdens, too. GW has recently been attempting to collect donations to distribute Pell grants to students in need of financial help. But experts in higher education said in October that the award increase would likely only make tuition slightly more affordable for Pell-eligible students. GW has an obligation to pursue more effective ways of reducing its tuition and making college more affordable for its students.
The debate on this issue is ongoing. But the catastrophe that will result for millions when the payment deadline resumes is not up for debate. Considering this, and considering how unlikely it is that Congress will act on the education loan crisis, Biden must take matters into his own hands.
This action would be beneficial for current college students and alumni, including at GW. Canceling education debt would make a significant difference for many GW families struggling to afford the high tuition or pay off loans.
It is a pragmatic move and a moral imperative for Biden to use his presidential authority for the betterment of Americans struggling to make ends meet. Biden has already canceled $11.5 billion in education debt – more than any other president – making debt cancellation for each borrower a natural extension of his administration’s current policies.
Rather than helplessly hoping that Congress will pass a bill accomplishing this, Biden should use his executive authority to build on his administration’s progress. Lifting the burden of education debt off the backs of millions is crucial in providing people with security during turbulent times and ensuring that everyone has an equal opportunity to achieve an affordable and valuable education, both at GW and across the country.
Evan Wolf, a freshman majoring in political communication, is an opinions writer. 
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Auden Yurman | Assistant Photo Editor
Head Coach Jamion Christian said the team’s 26-day “COVID pause” was not to blame for the Colonials' struggles in their A-10 opener.
Despite heading into the conference schedule with a two-game win streak, men’s basketball opened Atlantic 10 play with a loss to Dayton Saturday afternoon.
The 83-58 Colonials loss (4-9, 0-1 A-10) was the first game since their Dec. 13 win over Radford due to pandemic-induced disruptions within the program. The Flyers (9-6, 1-1 A-10) had come off a narrow loss to VCU last Wednesday night but redeemed themselves in their play against GW.
The Colonials came out flat against a Dayton team that has racked up impressive wins against Miami, Belmont, Virginia Tech and most notably No. 6 Kansas.
“I thought we would come out with a lot more fire and grit,” Head Coach Jamion Christian said. “I was disappointed to see some of the early season things that kind of plagued us a bit today, but a lot of credit goes to a good Dayton team.”
Sophomore guard Joe Bamisile starred once more for the Colonials with a career-high 25 points along with six rebounds, four steals and three assists. But the rest of his teammates struggled to score as only four Colonials made it on the scoresheet.
Christian said Bamisile has been an asset to the team as he works to build the program and is receptive to his coaching style.
“He’s willing to take coaching at the highest level,” Christian said. “After every game he almost demands that we watch the entire game with him so he can grade what he’s doing and what he can do better.”
Freshman guard Brayon Freeman also showed out, scoring a career-high 17 points to go along with five assists, two steals and a rebound. Freeman showed off his three-point shooting ability, going 5-of-9 from behind the arc to nearly match his six total three pointers for the season prior to the game.
Christian said Freeman has been “one of the few guys” that can play with any combination of players on the roster because of his “dominant style of play.”
“He’s just consistently become a bright spot as he’s learned how to practice and what you need to do on a day-to-day basis,” Christian said. “He always brings that competitive spirit and competitive fire. It’s been great to have a guy that you can trust in and believe in every day you step out there on the floor that’s gonna go and attack.”
Despite some offensive production, GW had no answer on the defensive side for Dayton down low, with the Flyers scoring 56 points in the paint compared to just 22 for the Colonials. Freshman forward DaRon Holmes II gave GW issues all afternoon, scoring 12 points on 6-of-8 shooting to go along with seven rebounds and two blocks.
The Colonials’ big men struggled on both ends of the floor, and in the second half Christian opted to play junior forward Qwanzi Samuels on the floor instead of junior forward Hunter Dean and sophomore center Noel Brown. Samuels finished with 18 minutes of playtime compared to Dean and Brown’s combined minutes of 12.
Christian said he was “disappointed” the team wasn’t able to execute a game plan that “gave Dayton trouble.”
“We’re one of the best defensive teams in the league so far in the early part of the year,” Christian said. “We lead with our defense. We’re not a great offensive team at this point in the year, we haven’t been but we have been a very elite defensive team, in terms of how we’ve been able to defend the three, how we’ve been able to defend at the rim. Really the only thing we’ve been trying to correct is our rebounding.”
Currently, GW is ranked 161st in the country in adjusted defensive efficiency this season according to TeamRankings.com.
Junior guard James Bishop had a relatively quiet performance, finishing with 12 points, all of which came in the second half. Bishop was 0-of-5 from the field and 0-of-5 from deep at halftime. He found some rhythm in the second half, going 5-of-11 from the field, though it was not enough to give the Colonials a win.
“I thought he had really good looks,” Christian said. “I didn’t think he forced his shot tonight. He would have had a great night tonight, I think he finished with 12, if he makes two or three more threes that feels like a pretty good night. It’s more timeliness. We need those guys to make plays for us at the right time.”
The Flyers brought out a full court press early in the game to prevent GW from shedding a near month’s worth of rust, and it proved effective. At halftime, the Colonials had committed more turnovers than they had made baskets.
Freeman and Bamisile were the only players who could produce anything offensively, combining for 21 of the Colonials’ 23 points in the opening stanza.
On the other end of the floor, freshman guard Malachi Smith dominated, scoring all 13 of his points in the first half while also racking up six assists, six rebounds and three steals. Dayton went into the break with a 38-23 lead.
Smith was one of five Flyers to finish with double-digit points, along with Holmes, sophomore forward Toumani Camara, redshirt junior guard Elijah Weaver and redshirt freshman forward Mustapha Amzil. Dayton had more players score in double digits than GW had scorers on the day.
The highlight of the second half for the Colonials was a Freeman steal that led to a fast break dunk for Bamisile to cut the deficit to 48-35 with 14 minutes remaining. But as the game progressed further into the second half, a losing result became inevitable as the Flyers went on a 14-0 scoring run.
In an arena devoid of students and fans due to COVID-19 protocols, Freeman encouraged his teammates as they closed out the game down 21 points. “Let’s just hoop,” he said after a turnover from one of his teammates with two minutes left.
Despite the break from competitive play as a result of the postponements, Christian said the 26-day COVID pause was not the reason for the team’s performance Saturday.
“I do not think the lay off is a thing,” Christian said. “I think when you’re going to come out and play a good team, you’ve got to step up and you’ve got to play at the level of force that’s required for the game. We did not do that today. We will do that moving forward.”
The Colonials will look to rebound on the road against VCU Tuesday night. Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Sabrina Godin | Senior Staff Photographer
The women’s team has fared better than the men’s so far, but both lost their opening games in A-10 play.
Men’s and women’s basketball dropped their A-10 openers after enduring inconsistent play during the month of December.
The men’s team (4-9, 0-1 A-10) split the first two weeks of December, losing their first two games to Boston and Charlotte before picking up wins against Coppin State and Radford. But following their two game win streak, men’s basketball suffered four straight postponements due to COVID-19 concerns, beginning with their final nonconference matchup against Maryland Eastern Shore Dec. 22.
After 26 days without playing a competitive game, the Colonials took on the Flyers Jan. 8 for their first game of Atlantic 10 play.
Only four Colonials scored in the 83-58 Colonial loss. Among them were sophomore guard Joe Bamisile and freshman guard Brayon Freeman, who led the team with 25 points and 17 points respectively.
The Colonials have shot at an average of .411 compared to their opponents’ .433 and have struggled to get to the free throw line as well, averaging 9.4 free throws per game compared to their opponents’ 13.8. Last season, the Colonials had three wins through 13 games and had to endure 10 postponements, effecting their rhythm and consistency throughout the year.
Similar to the men’s squad, the women’s team (7-7, 0-1 A-10) also won two of their last five nonconference games before suffering a narrow 66-63 loss against Richmond Jan. 5 to kick off the A-10 slate. The Spiders came into the Smith Center on a six game win streak, picking up their seventh straight game against the Colonials and second conference win of the season.
Graduate student forward Ty Moore led the team with 16 points and nine rebounds. Junior guards Nya Lok and Essence Brown also reached double digits, earning with 11 and 10 points respectively.
On the other side of the court, senior guard Kate Klimkiewicz racked up a game-high 20 points, amassing four 3-point buckets in the process. Four Spiders in total reached double figures, despite the Colonial defense holding the Richmond offense to under 80 points for the first time in six games.
GW jumped out in front behind a 16-3 run to take a brief lead as the first half wound down, before preseason pick All A-10 Team performer Klimkiewicz brought the Spiders level again at 29-29 as both teams headed into the locker room.
The Colonials kept themselves in the game throughout the second half, tying the game up four times, but were never able to develop a lead themselves.
GW pulled within one point with 49 seconds left to play off a layup from redshirt junior forward Mayowa Taiwo and she tied the game up at the free throw line with 16 seconds left after snagging a crucial rebound on defense.
But the Colonials’ efforts were ultimately in vain, as Klimkiewicz stepped up with a buzzer-beater three to claim the victory and leave GW to walk home empty handed.
Though the Colonials have been outshot by their opponents .386 to .347, GW has consistently leaned on their defense all season. Their opponents have given up 235 turnovers this season, allowing the Colonials to score an average of 15.1 points off turnovers per game compared to their opponents’ 11.5.
Despite the early conference loss, GW has shown marked improvement since last season. Through 14 games last season, the Colonials had an overall record of 4-11 with only one conference victory.
The women’s team will look to earn their first win of conference play at home against Rhode Island Wednesday at 7 p.m. Meanwhile, the men’s team will hit the road to duel VCU Tuesday in the hopes of earning their first win at 7 p.m.
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Hatchet File Photo
Since March, officials have transferred the symptomatic testing center from Shenkman Hall to Lerner to the Colonial Health Center before Monday’s move back to Lerner.
Officials said they will move the symptomatic COVID-19 testing center from the Colonial Health Center to the group fitness rooms in the Lerner Health and Wellness Center Monday.
GW community members should enter the site through Varsity Place on 23rd Street, according to the email from the University Friday. The email states asymptomatic testing will continue to operate at the medical trailer on H Street.
The relocation comes as the symptomatic testing center’s latest move of many during the past year. Since March, officials have transferred the site from Shenkman Hall to Lerner to the CHC before the most recent move back to Lerner.
Symptomatic testing is available Monday through Thursday from 6:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Fridays from 12:30 to 4 p.m., according to the email.
Stay up to date on GW, D.C. news related to the virus. READ MORE
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Photo Illustration by Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor 
As students head back to Foggy Bottom for a spring semester that will begin online, read the latest on Omicron’s impact at GW.
All in-person activities have resumed after an online start to the spring semester to curb the highly contagious Omicron variant’s spread.
The Omicron variant brought COVID-19 cases to record levels in D.C., but cases are now falling sharply after a peak last month. Officials opted to move classes online for one week, but in-person classes quickly resumed.
GW’s COVID-19 positivity rate had generally remained below 1 percent throughout the fall semester except for brief upticks, but cases spiked in the final days before winter break as Omicron began spreading in D.C. and on campus.
To reduce transmission, officials are requiring students to receive a booster shot of the COVID-19 vaccine and undergo testing once every 15 days. Students with religious or medical exemptions to the vaccine requirement will test once a week.
Many indoor public venues in D.C., including restaurants and bars, have begun requiring proof of vaccination under a new citywide mandate.
As in-person activities resume, here’s the latest on Omicron’s impact:
Latest COVID-19 Data: Thursday, Feb. 3
Daily Tests: 1,001
Daily Positive Cases: 10
Seven-Day Positivity Rate: 1.01 percent
Source: GW COVID-19 Testing Dashboard
Jan. 31, 2022 at 1:12 a.m.
Inside GW’s COVID-19 testing lab
Nestled on the first floor of the Science and Engineering Hall, GW’s public health lab translates community members’ bi-weekly COVID-19 nasal swabs to online test results, generally in the span of 24 to 36 hours.
Working behind the scenes, a dozen technical staff members conduct, process and report up to 3,000 tests on a daily basis. The Hatchet met with the faculty spearheading the lab’s operations and took a tour of the space to see the workings of the system at the center of the University’s COVID-19 response.
From the H Street testing trailer to your Colonial Health Center portal, read how GW’s public health apparatus processes your COVID-19 test.
-Ishani Chettri

Jan. 31, 2022 at 1:12 a.m.
Student Lerner employees went without work while waiting for facility to reopen
Student employees at the Lerner Health and Wellness Center spent the month waiting for their cash flows to return at the sole campus facility that remained closed in Foggy Bottom throughout the month.
Lerner will reopen Monday, capping off a three-week-long stretch when student employees were unable to complete their usual shifts at the gym and questioned the future of their in-person work. Student employees could participate in virtual customer service-related training and in-person cleaning sessions to earn money during the closure, but availability was limited.
Before students returned to campus for the spring semester, officials originally announced that Lerner would reopen Feb. 1 as part of their plan to slow the spread of the Omicron variant.
Sophomore Claudia Blázquez, who works at Lerner as part of her Federal Work Study award, said she has felt concerned about not being able to work as she uses some of the money she earns to pay her tuition. She said GW should have communicated the announcement that Lerner would open on Jan. 31 instead of Feb. 1 earlier than just a few days before the change.
“I think the University could do a bit of a better job communicating with student employees,” she said. “But I think the staff at Lerner have done a really good job with talking to us, so it’s nice to have at least somebody communicate with us.”
-Caitlin Kitson
Jan. 31, 2022 at 1:12 a.m.
Officials record small uptick in Panhel recruitment numbers
Spring sorority recruitment participation remained at its lowest level in recent years during the Panhellenic Association’s second year of virtual recruitment.
About 275 students participated in formal recruitment, and 222 accepted bids this year – totals that are less than half of the recruitment numbers recorded in 2018, which preceded a multi-year decline heading into the pandemic. Panhel’s total participation and accepted bids increased by less than 3 percent from last year, as sorority recruitment numbers for the first year back to in-person classes have stayed around the pandemic levels of the last couple years.
Panhel and chapter leaders said they plan to host events and partnerships with other organizations like Students Against Sexual Assault. Chapters moved their recruitment agendas online in January after the University announced that in-person operations for sororities were canceled for the start of the spring semester.
-Abby Kennedy
Jan. 31, 2022 at 1:12 a.m.
Students continue community service efforts virtually amid disrupted campus operations
Junior Dilshad Dinshaw, the director of Creative Movement with Balance, peers into her computer sitting on the floor of the dance studio in the District House basement every Friday waiting for her class of local elementary school students to log on for their weekly dance lessons.
“It definitely has been more challenging during COVID-19 to run the organization,” she said in an email. “Trying to keep in contact with elementary students, parents and staff became extremely difficult without any in-person interaction. Students struggled to pay attention to the class over Zoom, and it was harder to attract as many GW Balance members to help teach the classes.”
Dinshaw is one of half a dozen students who said they have struggled to stay connected to the District community through volunteer work this year after much of their previous work relied on in-person interactions and face-to-face connections. Members of GW service organizations said they are still attempting to complete in-person service opportunities but have shifted to a hybrid method of volunteering this year in an attempt to continue to serve the District community.
-Abby Kennedy and Lauren Grauer
Jan. 27, 2022 at 2:25 p.m.
In-person gatherings to resume beginning next week as cases decline
All in-person activities will resume beginning Monday as GW’s COVID-19 caseload continues to decline, officials announced Thursday.
Athletic events will open to ticketed fans beginning Sunday, and campus facilities with public access will reopen to the public on Monday, officials said in an email. Classes had resumed in person earlier this month after officials moved the first week of the semester online, but administrators had held off on removing further restrictions amid a continued high number of coronavirus cases driven by the Omicron variant.
“We are able to take this action thanks to the collective efforts of our community members to keep one another healthy and safe,” officials said.
The Lerner Health and Wellness Center and the West Hall Fitness Center will also reopen Monday, and library study rooms will no longer be restricted to one occupant, the email states.
The loosened restrictions will allow fans to attend Sunday’s men’s basketball game against Fordham, which begins at noon. Club and intramural sports will also resume Sunday.
-Nicholas Pasion
Jan. 27, 2022 at 1:07 p.m.
D.C. extends indoor mask mandate, public health emergency
Mayor Muriel Bowser announced Wednesday she is extending D.C.’s indoor mask mandate until the end of February.
The mandate, reinstated in December as cases began to surge with the spread of the Omicron variant, was set to expire next week, but Bowser said D.C.’s falling but still high caseload has necessitated the extension. Earlier this month, the District started to require proof of vaccination for entry to certain indoor venues, like restaurants, bars and gyms.
Bowser also extended the public health emergency – which would have expired Wednesday – until Feb. 15 to mitigate staffing shortages and other concerns at hospitals as they address a surge of patients. Although the number of cases has decreased since December, the order states hospitals are still under “stress” from the number of people seeking COVID-19 tests, treatment and ventilators.
-Lauren Sforza
Jan. 24, 2022 at 7:33 p.m.
Thousands protest COVID-19 mandates at National Mall
Thousands of protesters descended on the National Mall for a rally opposing COVID-19 vaccination and mask mandates Sunday.
Demonstrators marched from the Washington Monument to the Lincoln Memorial, where they heard speeches from prominent vaccination skeptics, including Robert F. Kennedy Jr., a conspiracy theorist and the son of former U.S. attorney general Robert Kennedy. Organizers hoped as many as 20,000 people would come to the rally, but only a few thousand turned out at the event, according to The Washington Post.
Protesters carried signs reading “No Vaccine Mandates” and “My Body, My Choice” while yelling “lock him up” in reference to President Joe Biden and his Chief Medical Adviser Anthony Fauci. Some demonstrators said they feared their employers would fire or discipline them if they admitted to attending the rally or not receiving the COVID-19 vaccine.
“Every time you comply, you get weaker,” Kennedy said. “The hill that you’re going to die on is the hill that you’re on right now.”
-Daniel Patrick Galgano and Faith Wardwell
Jan. 24, 2022 at 2:56 a.m.
Isolation housing tops GW’s added spring COVID expenses, officials say
Officials have spent millions on pandemic-related costs over the past nearly two years, but with the Omicron variant elevating GW’s caseload, administrators now face an added expense of isolation housing for infected students.
Administrators expanded GW’s isolation housing this semester to the Yours Truly Hotel, where infected students isolate for 10 days at GW’s expense. A University spokesperson declined to provide the cost of the 250 hotel beds officials have reserved through Feb. 26, but Jared Abramson, the vice president for financial planning and operations, said the added cost is considerably smaller than the budget impact if students had not returned to campus this semester.
“The incremental expenses this year are far less material compared to the impact of not having a residential student experience early in the pandemic,” he said in an email.
When classes remained online last academic year, the associated loss in housing revenue helped drive a $180 million annual revenue shortfall that led to a swath of budget cuts, like layoffs and a temporary suspension of employee retirement contributions. Financial projections had estimated GW would lose $100 million in housing revenue alone as a result of online operations. GW eventually broke even last year after implementing the financial mitigation.
-Erika Filter
Jan. 24, 2022 at 2:55 a.m.
What’s New Buff and Blue: Music Venues Sustain Omicron Surge
On this week’s episode “What’s New Buff and Blue”, podcast host Ethan Valliath speaks with Jordan Grobe, the communications coordinator for the 9:30 Club, about the importance of independent music venues to D.C. life and how they persevered through the pandemic.

-Ethan Valliath
Jan. 24, 2022 at 2:55 a.m.
Supply chain shortages inflate prices, drain inventories at local restaurants
On-campus restaurants are facing product and labor shortages as the Omicron variant upsets the world’s supply chain, sending the costs of some items soaring.
A half dozen restaurant managers said labor shortages in the supply chain are minimizing menu item availability, inflating prices and limiting ingredient inventory. They said the shortages are the latest speed bump in what has been a difficult two years for restaurants since the start of the pandemic.
Jeremy Pollok, the managing partner of Tonic and a GW alumnus, said obtaining biodegradable straws, beers and signature menu items – like crab and chicken wings – has become more difficult and taken more time because of supply chain issues. He said even if items are easily accessible, Tonic has struggled to make sales at the same reasonable prices because of inflation.
“Certain beers we haven’t gotten in months, so it’s a little bit all over the place,” Pollok said in an interview. “Some things you just can’t get, and some things are just so expensive that you have to choose not to.”
Pollok said steeper costs have forced the restaurant to decide between increasing and maintaining prices on many items, which could dramatically cut margins into their profit during a challenging time for restaurants facing staff and item shortages.
-Aiden Orr
Jan. 24, 2022 at 2:55 a.m.
Inside the four-star hotel housing students with COVID-19

A four-star hotel is housing isolated students infected with COVID-19 this semester as part of GW’s latest investment in pandemic mitigation measures.
Yours Truly, a hotel located north of Washington Circle, has taken in between 15 and 25 students each day since the start of the semester, holding some of the more than 1,000 students who have tested positive for the virus this year, University spokesperson Crystal Nosal said. Students said despite hotel rooms with TVs, private elevators and queen-sized beds, $30 daily dining charges and logistical issues have hampered their stays in the hotel.
GW’s move to reserve 250 beds in the hotel until Feb. 26 is one of the University’s largest new investments as officials fight to contain the Omicron variant and keep classes in person.
“As spring 2022 approached, we were seeing that the Omicron variant was fast-spreading,” Nosal said in an email. “Planning for all scenarios, we increased our on-campus isolation capabilities, and we engaged in a contract with Yours Truly Hotel to provide extra capacity and flexibility.”
Students living in isolation at the hotel shared mixed reactions toward GW’s handling of their move-in and isolation process, with experiences ranging from anxiety-inducing to simple and easy.
-Zachary Blackburn
Weekly COVID-19 Data: Jan. 24-30
Tests: 9,814
Positive Cases: 157
Positivity Rate: 1.60 percent
Jan. 20, 2022 at 12:36 a.m.
Hall of Fame initiation postponed
The Hall of Fame Induction ceremony was postponed due to the current Omicron spike in D.C., the Athletic Department announced Monday
Athletic director Tanya Vogel said in a release that the department is still looking for a possible future date to host the induction ceremony and will update participants as the details are set. She said the department had considered an online event but had “quickly ruled it out” as officials thought it was unbefitting for the celebration.
“Unfortunately, however, we are going to have to delay when we celebrate this class in person, she said. “On account of the record caseloads and hot spot that Washington, D.C. has become – and with safety, both physical and emotional, top of mind – it has been decided that it is not prudent to host an in-person induction on February 4th.”
Associate Athletics Director Brian Sereno said this year’s Hall of Famers have been supportive of the University’s decision.
-Nuria Diaz
Jan. 19, 2022 at 1:33 a.m.
Free N95 masks available at COVID-19 test centers, 15 campus locations
Free N95 masks are now available to all students, faculty and staff across campus, officials announced in an email Friday.
GW community members can pick up their N95 masks at the University’s COVID-19 testing centers and 15 other spots campus like the University Student Center, Gelman Library, District House and the Smith Center. Officials said they encourage everyone to wear N95 masks, which will protect them from aerosol transmission of the coronavirus, especially while indoors.
Other campus locations with available N95 masks include the Milken Institute School of Public Health, the School of Media and Public Affairs, the Science and Engineering, Lerner and Ross halls, the Graduate School of Education and Human Development and the Elliott School of International Affairs, according to GW’s website. Students can also pick up masks at the GW Police Department’s Community Policing Center, the Key Depot, the Mount Vernon Campus Academic Building and on GW’s shuttles.
-Michelle Vassilev
Jan. 18, 2022 at 3:06 a.m.
Wrighton spends first days in office holding introductory meetings, focusing on pandemic
Interim University President Mark Wrighton, who moved into the F Street House Friday as GW’s third president to reside on campus, said he starts his morning at 4:45 a.m. – part of his new daily routine on the Foggy Bottom Campus.
After exercising, Wrighton said his workday starts at 8 a.m. with daily pandemic-related meetings with GW’s Medical Advisory Group, which has decided on major moves like the University’s return to in-person classes Tuesday.
“I’m really very proud of the work that so many people are doing to assure that we are safe and healthy,” Wrighton said in his first interview as president.
Wrighton said last week’s remote instruction had gone “very well,” but with in-person social events and other gatherings still restricted through at least Jan. 31, he is “anxious” for the normal college experience to resume.
“The good news is that the positivity rate right now seems to be on the decline in the D.C. environment, and our own testing program is really top notch,” he said, pointing to his recent negative test result from GW’s in-house lab.
-Isha Trivedi and Zach Schonfeld
Jan. 18, 2022 at 3:05 a.m.
Rise of Omicron variant creates obstacles for D.C. Restaurant Week
As the city faces a surge in COVID-19 cases and staff and supply shortages threaten local businesses, some local restaurants remain hopeful that Restaurant Week discounts will boost their sales.
This year’s D.C. Restaurant Week, which runs from Jan. 17 to Jan. 23, happens to coincide with the implementation of a vaccine-card mandate, a regulation some restaurants said they wish had come sooner. Amid numerous permanent restaurant closures, still more than 200 restaurants are expected to participate in the city-wide food event while adapting to the mandate.
Some restaurants have felt the strain of the rising spread of the Omicron variant and closed their services prior to Restaurant Week to prepare for the busy upcoming events. Bresca, a modern French restaurant near Logan Circle, closed for two weeks at the start of January to prepare to welcome an influx of customers during Restaurant Week.
-Clara Duhon and Rhyma Asim
Jan. 18, 2022 at 3:05 a.m.
Students delay campus return over concerns of COVID-19 transmission, shutdowns
Concerns over catching COVID-19 and speculation that GW would ultimately send students home led some students to delay their return to campus.
Many campus residents returned during the weekend of Jan. 8 and 9, when they waited for rapid COVID-19 test results on the third floor of the University Student Center – which filled with about 90 students at a time – and quarantined until receiving two negative COVID-19 test results. Some students decided to tune into the first week of classes from home to avert potential infection and avoid the crowds in case officials decided to clear community members from a campus with cases at an all-time high.
Anika Sharma, a freshman majoring in public health, said she delayed her drive from Virginia to campus until GW resumed in-person classes because she was concerned officials would shut down campus during the first week of the semester. She said she was worried about contracting the coronavirus from the large number of students traveling back to campus and exposing family members after returning home to isolate.
“​Why would I risk myself, and then in the case that we get shut down, why would I bring my germs home, and my parents are high risk,” she said. “I live with my grandfather, so why would I do that?”
-Abby Kennedy and Leo Kehagias
Jan. 18, 2022 at 3:05 a.m.
What to do if you test positive for COVID-19
There’s an overwhelming flurry of information on the internet about what to do if you test positive for COVID-19 – we’ve got you covered with everything you need to know if you end up contracting the virus.
GW has put out a specific set of guidelines on how to manage your diagnosis, but finding and keeping track of all of this information can be challenging. To help you out, I’ve compiled the University’s guidance on what to do once you’ve tested positive for COVID-19, along with some of my own advice having contracted the virus over winter break.
-Molly Kaiser
Jan. 18, 2022 at 3:05 a.m.
Faculty brace for high COVID-19 caseload as students return to classrooms
Although officials expect high rates of COVID-19 infections this spring following record-high caseloads at GW earlier this month, faculty said the University’s guidelines will protect community members as in-person classes resume this week.
Professors said they will offer “reasonable accommodations,” like increased hybrid class discussions and recorded lectures for students who contract COVID-19 in the spring as the University braces for a surge in positive cases. Officials have repeatedly said they expect a “large number” of students to test positive for COVID-19 because of the highly contagious Omicron variant, but more than half a dozen professors said they feel safe and prepared to return to in-person instruction because of the GW’s layered COVID-19 mitigation approach.
Interim University President Mark Wrighton said in an interview last week that no community members had severe illness from COVID-19 at the time, and officials were only aware of one community member who had been hospitalized during the fall. The individual was discharged after three days, he said.
–Nicholas Pasion and Sophia Goedert
Weekly COVID-19 Data: Jan. 17-23
Tests: 9,008
Positive Cases: 238
Positivity Rate: 2.64 percent
Jan. 12, 2022 at 11:54 p.m.
NCAA revises COVID-19 guidance for winter sports
The NCAA updated its COVID-19 guidelines for winter sports, the association announced in a release Friday.
The NCAA COVID-19 Medical Advisory Group updated its definition of “fully vaccinated” to include both doses of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, or one dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, in addition to the required booster for each shot, or if an individual has tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 90 days. NCAA officials included the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s recent recommendation of a five-day quarantine period with five additional days of masking around others for anyone who tests positive but doesn’t experience symptoms.
–Nuria Diaz
Jan. 12, 2022 at 2:07 p.m.
Officials reassert plans to return to in-person classes next week
The University affirmed its plans to resume in-person learning next week as COVID-19 cases in D.C. remain high and the spring semester gets underway.
Officials said in an email to the GW community Wednesday that in-person classes will resume on Tuesday, research and lab spaces will be able to return to full operations and University employees should return to their normal schedules from before the virtual period. GW will distribute N95 masks on campus to provide community members access to more effective masks, and officials are “strongly” encouraging members to wear N95 or KN95 masks or double-mask, the email states.
“Our Medical Advisory Group continues to monitor the rates of COVID-19 transmission on our campuses and locally, and we will provide any updates to you,” the email states.
In-person social gatherings will remain virtual or postponed, campus facilities like the University Student Center will be closed to the public and library access will be limited to students, faculty and staff. Athletic events will continue to be held without ticketed fans, and the Lerner Health and Wellness Center and West Hall Fitness Center will be closed.
Officials said they plan to resume in-person activities in a “phased approach” starting Feb. 1.
–Isha Trivedi
Jan. 11, 2022 at 10:02 p.m.
Bowser reinstates public health emergency
Mayor Muriel Bowser reinstated a public health emergency in the District Tuesday, allowing hospitals to better manage an influx in COVID-19 patients in light of recent staffing shortages.
The public health emergency lasts until Jan. 26 and allows hospitals to use out-of-state medical licenses and increase available staff. Bowser’s order is the city’s latest move to mitigate the effects of the Omicron variant’s rapid spread, which has continued to accelerate and limit public activity in D.C.
Bowser relaunched the city’s indoor mask mandate last month, and the District will start requiring proof of vaccination for entry to restaurants, bars, gyms and entertainment venues Saturday.
“By declaring a public health emergency, the District and our healthcare partners can continue to respond expeditiously and safely to COVID-19 and its ongoing and changing impacts,” Bowser’s order reads.
–Zachary Blackburn
Weekly COVID-19 Data: Jan. 10-16
Tests: 11,665
Positive Cases: 569
Positivity Rate: 4.88 percent
Jan. 10, 2022 at 1:14 a.m.
GW prepared for ‘isolation-in-place’ strategy under heightened COVID-19 anticipation
Officials are prepared to implement an “isolation-in-place strategy” on campus if the number of positive COVID-19 cases exceeds isolation housing capacity, they announced in an email to residential students and families Thursday.
The email states the University reserved 250 beds at a nearby hotel to house students who must be “temporarily relocated” because of COVID-19 isolation during the spring semester. Administrators said they expect a “large number” of students returning from winter break to test positive for COVID-19, and they plan to ensure these students have access to medical care, course materials and dining resources while they isolate.
GW’s isolation housing is now five times larger than its capacity during the fall semester because of the new hotel space.
“We believe that the combination of our vaccine and booster mandates, routine testing and indoor mask requirement will help keep our community members protected from severe illness or hospitalization resulting from COVID-19,” the email reads.
–Nicholas Pasion
Jan. 8, 2022 at 6:20 p.m.
GW tightens spring residence hall guest policy as campus residents return
The University will restrict on-campus students from visiting other residence halls at the start of the spring semester, officials announced in an email Friday.
Students may only visit rooms in their own residence halls with a limit of one guest per room, but officials will adjust the policy in line with recommendations from its medical advisory team monitoring the pandemic, according to the email from Campus Living and Residential Education staff.
Officials said they encourage residents to return home to isolate for 10 days if they receive positive results from their arrival COVID-19 test at the student center, but students can also move into isolation housing on campus.
–Lauren Sforza
Weekly COVID-19 Data: Jan. 3-9
Tests: 6,931
Positive Cases: 690
Positivity Rate: 9.96 percent
Jan. 7, 2022 at 10:02 a.m.
Spring sorority recruitment turns virtual amid surge in COVID-19 cases
Spring sorority recruitment is taking place online this month as COVID-19 cases continue to rise across the District.
Brian Joyce, the director of Fraternity and Sorority Life, said in an email that officials consulted with leaders from the Panhellenic Association and “other stakeholders” to move recruitment activities online in hopes of limiting COVID-19 transmission among GW community members.
“The Fraternity and Sorority Life office will continue to prioritize the health and safety of all of our community members by following the guidance of GW, our state and local officials and health professionals,” he said in the email. “We will continue conversations with chapter and association leaders to advise best practices on safety protocols, and we will encourage flexibility in our spring plans.”
–Abby Kennedy
Jan. 6, 2022 at 6:43 p.m.
GW to keep 10-day isolation period despite shortened CDC guidance
Officials will not shorten COVID-19 isolation and quarantine protocols for community members who test positive even as the CDC shortened its recommended quarantine period last month.
Officials said in an email sent to the GW community Tuesday that they will not change GW’s current 10-day isolation period if a community member tests positive for COVID-19. The CDC announced last month that people who test positive for COVID-19 but have no symptoms only need to isolate for five days instead of the previous recommendation of 10 days.
“Our Medical Advisory Group continues to monitor the rates of COVID-19 transmission in the D.C. region,” the email states. “At this time, we do not anticipate any changes to the guidance provided to you prior to winter break.”
–Lauren Sforza
This article appeared in the  January 10, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
