On this episode of Getting to the Bottom of It, host Sejal Govindarao speaks with PJ Johnson, the president of College Democrats, and Jacoby Sypher, the College Republicans’ freshman representative. They debate recent news surrounding voting rights legislation, the filibuster and the roots of the United States’ brewing culture war at large.

 This podcast was hosted and produced by Sejal Govindarao. Music is produced by Aulx Studio
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Sabrina Godin | Senior Staff Photographer
The Colonials kept the game tight through the first quarter, but Massachusetts starting pulling away by the second quarter. 
Women’s basketball lost their fourth consecutive game Saturday afternoon against Massachusetts.
The Minutewomen (15-4, 3-2 A-10) were in control for much of the game and emerged victorious 68-41 for their first-ever win at the Smith Center. The Colonials (7-10, 0-4 A-10) struggled offensively throughout the game, shooting only 16-of-61 from the field and just 5-of-29 from behind the arc, an area of the court in which they’ve struggled all season.
“I think we beat ourselves in this game,” graduate student guard Kyara Frames said. “We just discussed – I don’t think this team is 30 points better than us. They’re definitely a solid team, but I think that there’s a lot of things that we could’ve fixed as a team that would’ve kept us in this game a lot longer.”
The Colonials have slowly been returning to full health recently after a rash of injuries and COVID-19 sidelined key starters. Frames returned to the lineup Sunday after she missed the team’s last two games due to COVID-19. Unfortunately, the rust showed for the Albany transfer, who went 2-of-11 from the field and 2-of-8 from deep.
“I didn’t have a great night tonight offensively or defensively, but I’m just happy to play basketball,” Frames said. “A lot of kids don’t have the opportunity to step on the floor, or when they get sick – because I had COVID, I was out for that – they don’t get to return to play. So honestly, I’m just grateful to be back on the floor and play with my teammates.”
Redshirt junior forward Mayowa Taiwo played well on defense despite the team’s struggles, racking up 13 rebounds while nabbing three steals as well.
On the other side of the court, the Minutewomen got back on track after losing consecutive games to Dayton and Rhode Island. Graduate student forward Sam Breen scored 20 points and notched 13 rebounds, two assists, one steal and one block to earn her 12th double-double of the season and 27th since the start of the 2020 season, per Nathan Strauss of WMUA 91.9 FM.
The only player with more double-doubles over that period is Aliyah Boston of South Carolina, who is projected to be the first overall pick in the 2023 WNBA Draft.
“She’s great close to the basket,” Head Coach Caroline McCombs said. “And then you obviously have to be out to the 3-point line. You can’t let her take contested threes. And then she puts the ball on the floor, and you have to guard her. So it’s a tough matchup, she’s one of the best scorers in the league.”
Reigning A-10 Player of the Week and junior guard Sydney Taylor also chipped in an efficient 17 points of her own on 5-of-8 shooting, while nabbing five rebounds and an assist. Sophomore guard Ber’Nyah Mayo capped the stat sheet with 6 points, five rebounds, three assists and three steals.
Massachusetts shot 45.3 percent from the field and 46.7 percent from 3-point range and finished at 50 percent or above from the field in every quarter except the third. Meanwhile, GW finished 26.2 percent from the field and 17.2 percent from beyond the arc.
The Colonials kept it tight to start the game, only trailing 17-14 at the end of the first quarter. GW played strong defense, forcing six turnovers and racking up four steals. Junior guard Sheslanie Laureano gave the Colonials a 4-point lead, their largest of the game, with 3:02 left following a turnover by Massachusetts.
But the Colonials began to crumble in the second quarter, going scoreless for 5:53 of gametime, allowing the Minutewomen to jump out to a 21-14 lead. Massachusetts scored 22 points in the second quarter, compared to GW’s four, two of which came off free throws.
The Minutewomen, who were 11-0 when leading at halftime coming into the game, led 39-18 at halftime and never looked back.
“I thought we had a decent first quarter, but we had too many turnovers,” McCombs said. “And then after that we couldn’t put the ball in the basket and then gave up 22 points in that second quarter, and it kind of got out of hand.”
Both teams struggled offensively in the third quarter, with Massachusetts shooting 3-of-14 and GW shooting 5-of-22 from the field. But Massachusetts still held a commanding 50-30 lead by the end of the quarter.
The fourth quarter proved to be more of the same, as the Minutewomen outscored the Colonials 18-11 in the final stanza. The Minutewomen got out to a 64-33 lead, their largest of the day, with 3:52 remaining in the game before the Colonials trimmed the deficit slightly to end the game lagging behind 68-41.
“Unfortunately, we were all off today,” McCombs said. “On offense, we couldn’t really put the ball in the basket and then they were able to obviously beat their average tonight so we’re just going to get back to being who we are.”
A notable absence for the Colonials the past few games has been graduate student forward Ty Moore, who has played in 17 games this year, starting 11 of them while averaging 7.8 points and 8.2 rebounds per game. Moore came to Foggy Bottom as a transfer from Troy this offseason, while also spending time at Trinity Valley Community College earlier in her career.
McCombs said Moore remains ineligible to play moving forward due to health and safety protocols.
GW will look to snap their losing streak against Davidson at home Wednesday night at 7 p.m.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Photo Illustration by Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
To make it through a cold and occasionally snowy winter, try out one of these warm drinks to keep you toasty through the season. 
Whip up a batch of warm cocktails and cozy up with friends to beat the frigid winter weather.
It’s the time of year to part with your ice-cold cocktails and embrace the chilly days with one of these balmy brews. From a sweet and indulgent peppermint hot chocolate to a playful spin on a classic hot toddy, these drinks will have you counting down to cocktail hour.
“Original Irish Coffee” by Food Network
Yields one serving
1 cup freshly brewed hot coffee
1 tablespoon brown sugar
3 tablespoons Irish whiskey
To top: heavy cream, slightly whipped
Rinse a mug with hot tap water to warm it up. Add hot coffee into the pre-heated mug, and then mix in brown sugar until dissolved. Stir in the whiskey, and top with a lining of heavy cream by pouring the cream over the back of a spoon. Be sure to serve warm.
“Peppermint Hot Chocolate” by delish
Yields one serving
½ tablespoon Peppermint Schnapps
1 tablespoon Godiva Chocolate Liqueur
1 cup hot chocolate
Optional garnish: crushed peppermint candy, whipped cream
Warm your peppermint schnapps, chocolate liqueur and hot chocolate in a saucepan on low heat to the temperature of your liking. Serve with a whipped cream topping and optional peppermint candy garnish.
“Honey-Bourbon Toddy” by Bon Appétit
Yields two servings
For apple bourbon:
1 750-ml bottle of bourbon
4 fuji apples, sliced
4 cinnamon sticks
For drink:
6 tablespoons apple bourbon
2 tablespoons honey
1 cup hot water
2 (3x ½ inch) strips lemon peel
2 cinnamon sticks
To add a fruity twist to your drink, make apple bourbon in batches by combining a 750-ml bottle of bourbon with four sliced fuji apples and four cinnamon sticks in a pitcher. Leave covered in the fridge to chill for at least three days before straining. Opt for store-bought bourbon if you’re in a time crunch. Stir honey into hot water in a measuring cup until it dissolves. Divide your bourbon of choice and hot water into two mugs. Garnish with a twist of lemon twist and cinnamon sticks.
“Vanilla Chai Tea White Russian” by Half Baked Harvest
Yields one serving and enough syrup to make six 
4 chai tea bags
⅓ cup honey
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
¼ cup vodka
3 tablespoons Kahlua
2-4 tablespoon chai syrup
2-4 tablespoons heavy cream
Optional garnish: cinnamon sticks and star anise
To make the chai syrup, boil one cup of water then remove from heat. Steep chai tea bags for 15 minutes. Remove the tea bags, then add honey. Put back on the heat, and bring to a boil before adding vanilla. Once the mixture is cooled and you are ready to assemble your drink, fill up a glass with ice. Add the Kahlua, vodka and chai syrup to taste then lightly stir. Add heavy cream or dairy-free substitute, and finish by topping the drink with star anise and cinnamon.
“Classic Mulled Wine” by Cookie and Kate
Yields five servings
2 small or 1 large orange
1 bottle of Merlot, Zinfandel or Garnacha wine
¼ cup brandy
1-2 tablespoons maple syrup or honey, to taste
2 whole cinnamon sticks
3 star anise
4 whole cloves
Optional garnishes: fresh whole cranberries (about ¼ cup), cinnamon sticks, additional orange rounds or half moons
To start, cut half of the orange into rounds and juice the remaining fruit. Add orange rounds, and juice into a medium, heavy-bottomed pot. Pour the wine and brandy into the pot, and add the cinnamon sticks, star anise and cloves. Add one tablespoon of sweetener now, and save the remaining. Stir together, and heat on medium heat until slightly steaming. Immediately reduce to low heat. Taste and add remaining sweetener if needed. Optionally garnish and serve warm.
“Hot Buttered Rum” by The Spruce Eats
Yields one serving
2 teaspoons brown sugar, packed
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
1 splash pure vanilla extract
1 dash ground cinnamon
1 dash ground nutmeg
1 dash ground allspice
¼ cup dark rum
½ cup hot water
Optional garnish: cinnamon stick
Muddle together sugar, butter, vanilla extract and spices in the bottom of a mug. Pour in rum and hot water. Mix until the muddled mixture is dissolved. Garnish with a cinnamon stick and enjoy.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Nadia Primer | Photographer 
Officials have spent millions on pandemic-related expenses, including the creation of an in-house testing lab. 
Updated: Jan. 24, 2021 at 10:58 a.m.
Officials have spent millions on pandemic-related costs over the past nearly two years, but with the Omicron variant elevating GW’s caseload, administrators now face an added expense of isolation housing for infected students.
Administrators expanded GW’s isolation housing this semester to the Yours Truly Hotel, where infected students isolate for 10 days at GW’s expense. A University spokesperson declined to provide the cost of the 250 hotel beds officials have reserved through Feb. 26, but Jared Abramson, the vice president for financial planning and operations, said the added cost is considerably smaller than the budget impact if students had not returned to campus this semester.
“The incremental expenses this year are far less material compared to the impact of not having a residential student experience early in the pandemic,” he said in an email.
When classes remained online last academic year, the associated loss in housing revenue helped drive a $180 million annual revenue shortfall that led to a swath of budget cuts, like layoffs and a temporary suspension of employee retirement contributions. Financial projections had estimated GW would lose $100 million in housing revenue alone as a result of online operations. GW eventually broke even last year after implementing the financial mitigation.
Abramson said students occupied 7 percent of residence hall space at the start of the 2020-21 academic year, when officials limited on-campus housing opportunities under strict COVID-19 guidelines.
GW later gradually increased its residential population throughout the academic year, housing roughly 500 students in fall 2020 before tripling the residential population to roughly 1,500 students the following semester. Students who tested positive for COVID-19 at the time isolated in vacant residence hall rooms and sometimes shared living units with their roommates who were not infected with the virus.
But with students now back on campus and filling 99.8 percent of housing space at the start of this academic year, officials have resorted this semester to using the hotel space for isolation housing as COVID-19 cases fall from a record high earlier this month. University spokesperson Crystal Nosal said a daily average of roughly 15 to 25 students have entered or exited isolation housing in Yours Truly this semester after five students entered isolation on average each day in the fall.
“The additional hotel rooms are new costs as well as the incremental costs related to the make-up commencement ceremony that was held in the fall on the national mall,” Abramson said.
Even with a comeback in housing revenues this year, Abramson said a continued drop in international student enrollment and COVID-19 testing costs have persisted as “major impacts” on GW’s finances.
GW’s international student enrollment fell by 7.5 percent this fall compared to the previous year, with international students often paying more for college in the United States than domestic students.
Officials have administered roughly 370,000 COVID-19 tests through GW’s in-house lab, with vaccinated students required to test every 15 days to maintain campus access. The testing costs are part of continued pandemic expenses that totaled $17.9 million last fiscal year and were projected to cost $8.4 million this fiscal year, according to the Faculty Senate’s fiscal planning and budget committee.
The expenses’ impact on GW’s budget has been softened by millions in federal aid allocated as part of three pandemic relief packages. Officials used all of the first funding round to provide grants to students but opted to direct a total of $21.6 million from the final two rounds to offset the pandemic-related expenses.
Experts in public health, finance and higher education said the added pandemic-related costs this semester is justified to maintain an on-campus student population.
Daniele Paserman, a professor of economics at Boston University, said among universities’ new expenses this semester include spending on personal protective equipment, like the two free N95 masks per person that the University is providing to the student body.
“As we learn more about the pandemic and sort of more of the population is vaccinated, I think that university administrators are reevaluating the cost and benefits of shutting down things entirely versus taking some calculated risks and trying to keep the community going on as is,” he said.
Paserman said universities can justify the level of risk they take in returning to in-person operations because of the less severe symptoms that people experience when infected with the Omicron variant.
“So unless there is an escalation of the severity of the disease, I think that what most universities will do is to basically try to stay on the course and maintain in-person instruction, and that should sort of minimize the financial hit,” he said.
Pamela Eddy, a professor of higher education at The College of William and Mary, said universities are concerned that a decrease in campus tours because of pandemic-related restrictions will lower enrollment and tuition revenue. GW has paused on-campus tours until at least Jan. 31.
She said many higher education leaders are looking at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s projection of when Omicron will reach its peak to determine when to transition to fully in-person operations.
“The early data show that the symptoms are not as severe for the vaccinated, so the recovery time should be quicker,” she said. “Showing care for students will ultimately build a more committed alumni base, so thinking long-term is important too.”
Sherry Glied, a professor of public service and the dean of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, said in light of the recent spike in COVID-19 cases and the spread of the Omicron variant, universities are mainly facing “logistical problems” like giving students isolation space and meals during isolation periods.
But she said officials would likely prefer housing students on campus instead of keeping them home, where they would pose a greater risk of spreading the coronavirus to parents or other family members 50 years or older.
“I think it’s just a terrible idea to send young people home to their elderly parents,” she said. “I think it’s just asking for a public health nightmare.”
Abigail Turner, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at The Ohio State University, said university leaders may spend more this semester to secure isolation housing, clean public spaces and perform contact tracing in light of increased COVID-19 cases recently.
“The big thing about Omicron that is different is the sheer number of cases compared to previous waves,” she said. “So if there are set costs to each positive case, the university is going to end up spending more with Omicron than they would have with waves driven by other variants.”
This post has been updated to correct the following:
The Hatchet misspelled Glied’s last name. The correct spelling is now reflected. We regret this error.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
The task force is expected to distribute a survey to faculty, staff and trustees based on feedback from the town halls. 
Faculty called for increased opportunities to collaborate with the Board of Trustees and increased transparency at a series of virtual town halls last week convened as part of officials’ push to strengthen shared governance.
A task force of faculty, administrators and trustees spearheading the initiative organized the town halls to gather feedback from professors, which they will use to develop recommendations on how to improve shared governance that are expected to be considered by the trustees in May. The initiative comes after faculty repeatedly voiced concerns over violations of shared governance principles in recent decision-making, with hundreds having cited the concerns in their calls for former University President Thomas LeBlanc’s resignation leading up to the end of his tenure.
Board Chair Grace Speights announced GW’s plans in September to improve shared governance through the task force, which will also make its recommendations based on a soon-to-be-launched survey.
Ann Franke, a former tenured general counsel for the American Association of University Professors, and David Maxwell, a senior consultant and fellow with the Association of Governing Boards, facilitated the town halls.
“Your feedback on these questions will be instrumental in helping us shape the work of the task force going forward,” Maxwell said to faculty at the first town hall.
Officials outlined the same four questions at each of the town halls, asking how faculty recommend administrators and trustees shape shared governance. Professors spent the meetings responding to the questions on how collaboration, decision-making, information-sharing and faculty expertise can influence shared governance, University initiatives and strategic planning.
Interim University President Mark Wrighton attended the meetings, which took place from Tuesday through Thursday, and thanked faculty for providing their input and committing to improving shared governance.
“This shared governance task force is a very important undertaking, and I know that we can make some important progress in a short space of time of several months,” he said at Tuesday’s meeting.
The task force is comprised of trustees, faculty and administrators, each with four members.
Interim Provost Chris Bracey, one of the task force’s co-chairs, Senior Vice Provost Terry Murphy, Columbian College of Arts and Science Dean Paul Wahlbeck and Interim Deputy General Counsel Richard Weitzner make up the administration membership on the task force.
The faculty on the task force include Christine Pintz, a professor of nursing, and Shaista Khilji, a task force co-chair and professor of human and organizational learning and international affairs. Joe Cordes, a professor of economics and public policy and public administration, and Arthur Wilson, the chair of the Faculty Senate’s executive committee and an associate professor of finance, also represent faculty on the task force.
Trustees Amr ElSawy, a task force co-chair, Mark Chichester, Madeleine Jacobs and Todd Klein also serve as members.
Faculty said at the town halls that they want to develop an easier way to communicate with the Board to help strengthen shared governance. They said trustees should sit in on senate committee meetings and host faculty dinners to get a better understanding of professors’ priorities.
Forrest Maltzman, a professor of political science and a former provost, said officials should encourage input from the GW community when developing the University’s priorities to establish shared governance. He said because GW’s physical space as an urban campus is so limited, any decisions about the use of campus space would reflect the University’s priorities that the faculty should help develop.
“Ultimately I think these decisions do get made by the Board, but I would hope that the Board would not want to be making those decisions without having a recommendation from the faculty through the administration to the Board,” Maltzman said at Tuesday’s town hall.
Maltzman said shared governance at GW has historically worked “pretty well,” recalling when officials made changes to the Faculty Code in 2019, but administrators’ collaboration with community members began to decay when officials started to present University-wide decisions to the Board before the faculty.
“I think it was with the best of intentions that occurred, but what happened was the administration found that going to the faculty was very cumbersome, and it does take some time and it does take some effort,” he said. “The Board wanted to support the administration as well they should, and so we ended up in a model where decisions started at the Board and were never shared with the faculty, and that caused a lot, a lot of turmoil there.”
Eric Grynaviski, a faculty senator and associate professor of political science and international affairs, said shared governance has weakened over the years partly because the Board may not always see the long-term implications that budgetary decisions may have on the day-to-day lives of GW employees.
“It’s important to make sure that we incorporate all of the perspectives and the people who make the decisions appreciate all of the problems or opportunities that may be created by changes which may not seem important from the perspective of where they’re set,” Grynaviski said.
He said administrators should serve as a liaison for faculty and trustees and communicate the Board and faculty’s priorities to each other.
“It’s trying to form a consensus between members of the community including the Board and the faculty so that we appreciate the common challenges we face and also helps make sure that people are involved in participating in the solution so that everybody is rowing in the same direction, rather than rowing in different directions,” Grynaviski said.
Ellen Kurtzman, a professor of nursing, said last Wednesday that administrators’ constant communication about the COVID-19 pandemic has been “stellar,” but officials don’t consult faculty senators on decisions they make before they are released to the public.
“A lot of that information sharing occurs after decisions have already been made, rather than in consultation with the faculty representatives,” she said.
Jennifer Brinkerhoff, a professor of international affairs, international business, public policy and public administration, said last Wednesday administrators should consult faculty with relevant experience in University-wide initiatives through methods like surveys. She said using faculty members’ expertise is a sign of “respect,” and administrators should consider the range of knowledge and faculty’s willingness to volunteer.
“I think there are specific tasks for which we are highly qualified as a collective, and that expertise should be tapped under those circumstances, especially,” she said.
Brinkerhoff said officials should incorporate shared governance into their long-term strategic planning initiatives. She said the University’s collaboration with faculty to develop a “shared understanding” of issues like lower enrollment levels will determine shared governance reforms.
“We all are aware that higher education is facing some really critical junctures in terms of enrollments, and we’re going to have some tough decisions in the future,” she said.
Erika Filter contributed reporting. 
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Elissa Detellis | Staff Photographer
Kura Sushi is just one local iteration of kaiten-sushi restaurants that have sprouted throughout the world in the past 60 years. 
Interactive Asian restaurants like Chinese hot pot or Korean barbecue may be new to the American lexicon, but these cuisines have histories dating back thousands of years.
From do-it-yourself dining experiences like Japanese shabu-shabu to efficient conveyor-belt sushi, you may be wondering where you can try these traditional dishes around the DMV. We researched some of the best spots to find these culturally steeped establishments around D.C. and what you can expect while there.
Here is a brief history of each cuisine and where you can taste it yourself:
Chinese hot pot
Although there are similar cuisines in other Asian countries, China is typically regarded as the home of hot pot. The Chinese word for hot pot – huǒguō – directly translates to “fire pot.”
A traditional hot pot meal involves a large bowl of broth that comes in a variety of flavors, like spicy Sichuan or ginger and scallion, that is placed in the center of the table and heated by induction or flame. Using chopsticks, diners submerge various ingredients into the boiling broth to quickly cook before dipping in a sauce and eating.
Ingredients submerged in the broth can vary greatly, including vegetables like onions, mushrooms or bok choy, thinly sliced meats like beef, pork or lamb, and noodles.
Diners can make their own concoction of dipping sauces from ingredients provided by the restaurant like soy sauce, sesame oil, vinegar and crushed chilis.
It’s commonly believed that this traditional way of cooking came from Mongol warriors who camped outside and ate dinner circled around a pot over the fire, which was helpful to keep warm and get everyone fed. Today, the tradition is carried on as quality time to sit with friends or family and share food while eating slowly.
You don’t have to travel far from Foggy Bottom to try authentic hot pot. Hot Pot City, located in Rockville, Md., serves Chongqing style hot pot known for its spicy Sichuan pepper broth. Supreme Hot Pot in Arlington also offers a full menu of traditional hot pot items, and Urban Hot Pot just opened a new location in Merrifield, Va.
Japanese shabu-shabu
Shabu-shabu is the Japanese take on Chinese hot pot. Similar to hot pot, shabu-shabu is served with beef and vegetables cooked in a dashi broth at the table. The meal also comes with its own set of dipping sauces and rice on the side.
The name ‘shabu-shabu’ translates to the onomatopoeic words ‘swish-swish.’
This style of hot pot arrived late to Japan in 1946 just after World War II. The backstory stands that a Japanese doctor was sent to Beijing as an army surgeon during the war where he tried Mongolian hot pot. He later lived in Kyoto where he introduced the dish to a chef at one of his favorite restaurants.
To try shabu-shabu near campus, head to Shabu Plus located in Adams Morgan. The restaurant describes its food as an “updated version of traditional Japanese Hot Pot with top grade meats, organic poultry and sustainable seafood.” If you’re willing to make the trek to Annandale, Va., Omy Hot Pot & Bar also serves Shabu-Shabu-style hot pot in a cozy and relaxed atmosphere. Gyu Shige offers a variety of hot pot dishes in addition to a full sushi menu in Merrifield, Va.
Korean BBQ
Korean barbecue is another trendy Asian cuisine that has entered American popular culture, but its origins can be traced back to the Maek, a nomadic group of people from Central Asia as early as 37 B.C.
The group relied on pre-seasoned meats that they carried with them while they traveled, developing a faster food prep technique that was novel to most of Northeast Asia.
Korean barbecue is made up of two important elements: banchan, which means “side dishes” like kimchi or seasoned cucumbers, and grilled meats like chicken, pork or beef. You cook the meat yourself over a small grill in the center of the table, turning, flipping and cutting it into bite-sized pieces.
One Korean barbecue classic is bulgogi, meaning “fire meat,” made from thinly sliced beef marinated in a sweet and savory sauce.
Luckily, the D.C. area has plenty of spots to try this dining experience. Head to Iron Age in Columbia Heights for the full DIY Korean barbecue experience. Or venture a little further to one of Honey Pig BBQ’s locations in Annandale, Va. or Rockville, Md. For a more lively dining experience, Gogi Yogi in Shaw offers all-you-can-eat barbecue and fun drinks like soju slushies.
Conveyor-belt sushi
Conveyor-belt sushi, or kaiten-sushi, is a worldwide phenomenon that you’ll enjoy for its efficiency and entertaining style.
The history of conveyor-belt sushi began in 1947 when Osaka restaurateur, Yoshiaki Shiraishi, visited an Asahi beer factory and observed the bottles floating across the filling floor on a conveyor belt. Shiraishi spent years refining his own conveyor, and in 1958, he opened Mawaru Genroku, the world’s first kaiten-sushi restaurant.
At most kaiten-sushi restaurants, customers can place individual orders with the sushi chef or via a tablet. Your food then arrives to you on the conveyor-belt, and the tab is calculated by an automatic count of your plates once you finish and place them in a dish slot at your table. Some chains even use RFID tags embedded in each plate and electronic wands to add up the bill.
Kura Sushi in Chinatown offers the full experience. At Kura Sushi, guests can choose to either order specific sushi plates through a table tablet or pick up any of the sushi plates that are continuously revolving around the conveyor belt.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Camille DeSanto | Assistant Photo Editor
The FUTURES exhibit at the Smithsonian Arts and Industries Building features immersive art installations, interactive activities and inventions showcasing both historical discoveries and objects of the future.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Danielle Towers | Assistant Photo Editor 
Officials have provided scholarships to student leaders in certain groups like the SA, WRGW and band. 
The Student Association’s president and vice president received scholarships for the academic year that surpassed compensation totals provided to student leaders at several of GW’s peer universities.
The Office of Financial Assistance awarded SA President Brandon Hill and SA Vice President Kate Carpenter each $11,250 for the current academic year – the first time in GW’s history the two roles received equal amounts, University spokesperson Crystal Nosal said in an email. She said the SA vice president received $7,500, while the SA president received $15,000 during the previous five years.
“The University provides awards to recognize and honor the time, energy and passion that student leaders dedicate to specific roles in order to make meaningful contributions to the greater GW community,” Nosal said in an email. “Providing a student leader award also makes these roles accessible to a greater number of students.”
Student leader scholarships are given to students involved with certain student organizations, like WRGW and the Cherry Tree Yearbook, according to GW’s website.
SA Vice President Kate Carpenter said her scholarship funding allows her to focus on college life without having to work long hours at her on-campus job as a tour guide, where she works two to three hours a week on minimum wage.
“These programs are integral for student leaders,” Carpenter said. “And because it makes it to where any student can run regardless of socioeconomic status, and I think it really just makes it more equitable, these positions, which is something that’s so important because truly, like I said, these positions do take a lot of time.”
SA President Brandon Hill said while the scholarship he receives is “designed” to help student leaders bypass financial barriers, like needing a second job, the program can be “wildly ineffective” and “misunderstood” in the eyes of students who assume otherwise. He said the money does not help him financially because the school cut his financial aid, so he ended up receiving the same amount of money as the previous year, when he served as the SA’s vice president before becoming interim president last January.
“Then when I became EVP and president, I still received that exact same amount in financial aid but only because the University lowered my amount of financial aid and replaced the amount they lowered it by with the Student Leadership Award,” Hill said.
Three of GW’s 12 peer schools, which are comparable to GW in terms of endowment, tuition costs and programs, offer smaller amounts of financial compensation to student leaders than GW.
New York and Syracuse universities each award their student government presidents $5,000 per academic year, about 44 percent of what GW’s top SA leaders receive. Northeastern University typically allocates $1,000 to $2,000 to the president and other student government leaders per year depending on financial need.
Anthony Cruz, the president’s council vice chair of New York University’s student government assembly, said in an email that the three Student Government Assembly vice chairs each receive $1,000 each semester. He said six other SGA leaders receive semesterly stipends of $500, including a chief of staff and directors of finance, diversity, elections, communications and operations.
David Bruen, the student body president of Syracuse’s Student Association, said that the president, vice president and comptroller of the university’s student association each receive stipends of $5,000 for the full academic year.
“We are expected to conduct a regular review of our stipend with the goal of expanding it by the end of the session,” Bruen said in an email. “My administration is also looking to restructure the annual operating budget to include more stipends for other leaders by the end of the year.”
Casey Buttke, the student body president of Northeastern’s Student Government Association, said the association funds $1,000 to $2,000 in stipends for the number of leadership members who need financial aid.
In the District, Catholic University’s Student Association president and vice president do not receive any compensation from their school for their roles, their Student Association president said.
Media relations and student government organizations at GW’s other peer schools – Georgetown, Boston, Tufts, Tulane and Wake Forest universities and the universities of Miami, Pittsburgh, Rochester and Southern California – did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Kyle Anderson | Photographer 
Preparations for the demolition, like asbestos removal, plumbing and gas inspections, are in progress. 
Updated: Jan. 24, 2022 at 10:45 p.m.
If you’ve walked down 22nd Street, you’ve probably seen the yellow-hued brick building that’s been nestled behind Gelman Library for more than 100 years, housing women’s residence halls and naval research throughout its time in Foggy Bottom.
But the now-vacant Staughton Hall will be demolished later this year as part of GW’s 15-year-old plans to develop the site.
Officials said they applied for a permit to demolish Staughton Hall and turn the area into green space in July before the D.C. Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs approved the application in August, but there is no specific timeline for the site’s redevelopment. A University spokesperson said officials are removing asbestos from the building as they prepare for demolition.
Some local community members have raised concerns about the University’s decision to destroy old buildings on campus because of their century-long presence in Foggy Bottom. The spokesperson said GW has met with community members to discuss the plans to demolish the building and its redevelopment but did not share any more details about the nature of the meetings.
“While a timeline has not been developed for a new building, Staughton Hall has been vacant for many years, and the site is well suited for additional green space until the redevelopment occurs,” the spokesperson said in an email.
DCRA’s website shows that preparations for the demolition, like asbestos removal, plumbing and gas inspections, are in progress.
Frank Leone, a co-chair of the Foggy Bottom Association’s project that has documented the history of buildings in the neighborhood, wrote a blog post in November exploring the building’s history as GW’s second women’s residence hall and the home of a U.S. Navy research center during the Cold War. Leone said while the FBA has not announced official opposition to the destruction of Staughton, the demolition is representative of a larger issue with the University’s development plans, which has destroyed buildings that the FBA deems historic.
The association criticized the University’s decision to tear down the former Nashman Center for Civic Engagement and Public Service building, also known as the Waggaman House, last year leading up to its demolition in October. Leone said members of the association were disappointed the University tore down the building without photographing or documenting the structure and its history.
GW designated six buildings – Fulbright, JBKO, Madison and Munson halls, the Medical Faculty Associates facility and Building J Down, which houses a dance studio under the Corcoran School of Arts and Design – as historically significant in 2010 as part of the 2007 Foggy Bottom Campus Plan, which set the course for GW’s construction and demolition plans.
“The bigger concern is GW has a lot of historic buildings, and under the campus plan they agreed to preserve an area that would be a historic district,” Leone said. “And they also agreed to preserve certain buildings, but then they were not limited in terms of demolition of other buildings.”
Leone said officials should release reports on buildings before their demolition, with information including their previous owners. He said the University should work with a historical preservation company to photograph and record the building’s history before it is destroyed.
John George, the president of the association, issued a letter to the Foggy Bottom and West End Advisory Neighborhood Commission last March urging commissioners to consider preserving the Waggaman House after efforts to lobby the University were unsuccessful.
“When I have raised these issues with GW before, the response has been, ‘Well we don’t have money for that,’ which is frankly kind of silly,” Leone said. “If they’ve got money to demolish a building, they certainly have enough money to document its history and take a look at it as they proceed.”
Leone said he wishes the University spent more time talking to students about the campus history or taking action like placing more plaques detailing the history of buildings in Foggy Bottom. He said officials authorized him access to the Waggaman House before it was demolished to document the design and status of the building with pictures.
“I appreciated them letting us in, but it would have been nice if they had a policy as to how they are going to treat their older buildings that may not qualify as historical landmarks but say a lot about the history of the University and the history of the community,” he said.
Zachary Blackburn contributed reporting.
The post has been updated to correct the following:
The Hatchet incorrectly reported that the University designated the GW Deli building as historically significant. The University made the designation for Building J Down, which neighbors GW Deli. We regret this error.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Grace Hromin | Senior Photo Editor
Tonic’s managing partner said they took crab off the menu after the price from suppliers more than tripled. 
On-campus restaurants are facing product and labor shortages as the Omicron variant upsets the world’s supply chain, sending the costs of some items soaring.
A half dozen restaurant managers said labor shortages in the supply chain are minimizing menu item availability, inflating prices and limiting ingredient inventory. They said the shortages are the latest speed bump in what has been a difficult two years for restaurants since the start of the pandemic.
Jeremy Pollok, the managing partner of Tonic and a GW alumnus, said obtaining biodegradable straws, beers and signature menu items – like crab and chicken wings – has become more difficult and taken more time because of supply chain issues. He said even if items are easily accessible, Tonic has struggled to make sales at the same reasonable prices because of inflation.
“Certain beers we haven’t gotten in months, so it’s a little bit all over the place,” Pollok said in an interview. “Some things you just can’t get, and some things are just so expensive that you have to choose not to.”
Pollok said steeper costs have forced the restaurant to decide between increasing and maintaining prices on many items, which could dramatically cut margins into their profit during a challenging time for restaurants facing staff and item shortages. Experts have said weather and COVID-19 related labor shortages are to blame for shortfalls in grocery availability in D.C. and across the country.
“You try to avoid passing that on as much as you can to the guest, but sometimes you just have to raise the prices on certain things,” Pollok said.
He said most customers are understanding of the shortages and often don’t mind choosing other items from the menu. He said the supply chain problems could begin to slightly ease once the United States passes the peak of cases caused by the Omicron variant, which public health experts expect to arrive in the next four to six weeks.
“But I said that in 2020,” he said. “So in a way, it’s a little freeing because there’s not a damn thing you can do about it except manage it on a day-to-day basis, or week-to-week, or month-to-month.”
Luis Reyes, the general manager of Roti Modern Mediterranean, noticed the start of product shortages in June and July and said the vendor for the restaurant’s supplies is responsible for periodic unavailability of menu items. Reyes said Roti is facing an unusual shortage of protein that the restaurant uses in vegan meals, which are central to its menu and popular among students.
“Since that one has a lot of labor and raw materials combined, most of the time it will be one of the ones that when it’s out, it’s out,” Reyes said. “And it will take sometimes a couple of weeks – sometimes a month – to get it back.”
Reyes said as Roti loses customers because some menu items are unavailable, he struggles telling customers that the restaurant is out of stock of the meal they want. He said even the smallest recurring drop in patronage can be a significant loss for the business.
“If you take into consideration if we lose five to six customers a week, that hurts,” he said. “Imagine how we will be at a month, at six months, at a year from now, so the impact is not only on the small business, it will be long term.”
Md Abdul Bhuiyan, the owner and manager of Flavors of India, said his restaurant started experiencing supply and ingredient shortages six months ago, and he doesn’t envision an end in sight. He said the effects of inflation have also severely affected the restaurant’s business.
“It’s not only a shortage – the price is going up,” he said. “They are up, some of the items, 40 to 50 percent.”
Bhuiyan said workers have quit their jobs at record rates recently, which has caused many of the supply chain issues and lowered staffing. He said his complaints are not directly aimed at the government or local workers, but he wants laborers to return to work despite the end of pandemic-era government stimulus.
“No matter if you get money or not, you have to come back for work,” he said. “That’s the main thing.”
Kostas Loi, the district manager of GRK Fresh Greek in District House, said the labor shortage has made it difficult to find enough workers to adequately staff the restaurant. Loi said the University’s pandemic mitigation measures, like remote classes during the first week of the semester and GW’s grab-and-go dining policy, have financially hamstrung his business and reduced the number of potential customers.
“Keeping the door closed to the public, that affects me too,” Loi said. “Business-wise, compared with before COVID, I’m down maybe 70 to 80 percent.”
Faith Wardwell contributed reporting.
This article appeared in the  January 24, 2022 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
It was devastating to find out that being who I am meant I couldn’t experience studying abroad to the fullest extent.
“Ted Lasso”’s faith in human nature drew fans into the show, and its lighthearted nature and British flair will be missed.
Officials announced draft use of force guidelines and updated training requirements for armed officers in preparation for arming some GW Police Department officers this fall. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress
