Media Credit: Hatchet File Photo 
The release states that GW and chef José Andrés, pictured here in 2020, partnered to launch the institute, which will educate future leaders on “food system solution delivery."
Officials announced the creation of a new research institute to improve global food sustainability, security and distribution in partnership with “world-renowned” chef and former Commencement keynote speaker José Andrés in a release Tuesday.
The release states that the Global Food Institute will research national and international food policies and technology, direct “critical conversations” about the societal effects of food intake and educate future leaders on “food system solution delivery.” Andrés – a chef for the José Andrés Group, which operates more than 30 restaurants, and the founder of World Central Kitchen, a non-profit organization that distributes food to communities in crisis – provided initial funding for the project and will guide the institute using “policy, innovation and humanity” as “pillars” for research, according to the release.
Andrés, who delivered a keynote address at University Commencement in 2014, said the global food system is currently experiencing a “crisis” related to systemic inequities, “rampant” hunger and poverty, climate change and deteriorating public health and nutrition.
“The Global Food Institute will reshape how we think about food, break down barriers across industries, politics, and nations, and inspire and empower the next generation to develop systemic solutions that reshape the food system,” Andrés said.
The institute will focus on hiring an executive director and filling other leadership, staff and faculty positions, finding a location for operations and searching for community partners in the “coming months,” according to the release.
Philanthropy and partnerships with individuals, organizations, foundations and companies will fund the institute, according to the release. The release states that Nelson A. and Michele M. Carbonell Family Foundation, a private independent foundation, will fund the executive director position and The Rockefeller Foundation, a private organization that funds medical research and arts, will also donate to the institute.
“We are incredibly honored by—and grateful for—the generous support from these visionary donors that share our aspirations to solve these seemingly intractable challenges,” Donna Arbide, the vice president for development and alumni relations, said.
The release states that the University’s location, experience working with both government and independent entities and focus on education across disciplines positions the institute to “drive” progress in food distribution. Interim University President Mark Wrighton said the institute aligns with the University’s commitment to accelerating the “positive impact” that interdisciplinary education has on solving global issues.
“We are thrilled to establish in partnership with José Andrés the Global Food Institute—a center that will create new knowledge and shape national and international progress on food system issues,” Wrighton said.
This article appeared in the  May 25, 2023 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
The Hatchet’s photographers captured the scene at Commencement.
Eight D.C. Council members signed a letter last week calling on GW Hospital officials to allow a “fair and free” union election among nurses. 
The University’s moniker process has gone full circle — after years of discussion and debate, we’re back where we started. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: File Photo by Arielle Bader | Assistant Photo Editor
The letter, signed by D.C. Council members, states that the council expects GW Hospital officials to adhere to federal laws and refrain from intimidation, coercion and retaliation against nurses seeking to join or form the union.
D.C. Council members signed a letter last week calling on GW Hospital officials to allow nurses to hold a union vote.
Eight council members and D.C. Council Chair Phil Mendelson signed a letter to GW Hospital CEO Kimberly D. Russo May 16 that states the council learned of the District of Columbia Nursing Association’s ongoing unionization effort among hospital nurses and the union’s filing of unfair labor practice complaints, including one that claims hospital management fired registered nurse Angelo Estrellas for union involvement. The letter calls for Estrellas’ immediate reinstatement and requests officials allow nurses to hold a “fair and free” union vote and refrain from illegal conduct that may dissuade nurses from unionizing.
DCNA refiled unfair labor practice complaints in two cases last month, alleging the hospital – a subsidiary of Universal Health Services – removed pro-union signage and held meetings dissuading nurses from unionizing, and contesting the hospital’s “unfair dismissal” of Estrellas. DCNA claimed in a March release that management terminated Estrellas because of his involvement in organizing a union at the hospital and Edward Smith, DCNA’ s executive director, said earlier this month that the hospital contested Estrellas’ unemployment benefits after his removal, which the union appealed.
The letter and labor practice complaints come after 750 GW Hospital registered nurses filed a union election petition in March for increased negotiating power in hospital policy decisions like nurse-to-patient ratios.
“Given its history of refusing to recognize labor unions in its facilities throughout the United States, we do not expect UHS to voluntarily recognize DNCA as the exclusive representative of GWUH RNs, but we do expect that you adhere to federal laws and do not intimidate, coerce or retaliate against nurses who are seeking to form or join the union,” the letter reads.
Multiple unionization efforts at other UHS-owned facilities have failed, like those at medical centers in Pennsylvania, California and Nevada.
GW Hospital did not immediately return a request for comment regarding whether officials received the letter.
Ward 2 Council member Brooke Pinto, who represents the area encompassing Foggy Bottom, signed the letter and did not immediately return a request for comment. Ward 3 Council member Matt Frumin, who signed the letter and represents the area including the Mount Vernon Campus, did not immediately return a request for comment.
This article appeared in the  May 25, 2023 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
The Hatchet’s photographers captured the scene at Commencement.
Officials announced Tuesday that GW and chef José Andrés are partnering to launch a new research institute that will improve “food system solution delivery.”
The University’s moniker process has gone full circle — after years of discussion and debate, we’re back where we started. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

Media Credit: Lily Speredelozzi | Assistant Photo Editor
The Board of Trustees voted to retire the Colonials moniker in June following years of pressure from student activists who said the moniker glorified the legacy of colonialism, slavery and racial discrimination.
The Revolutionaries have arrived at Foggy Bottom.
Revolutionaries will replace GW’s outgoing Colonials moniker, officials announced in a Wednesday afternoon release.
Officials said the Revolutionaries will become the University moniker beginning in the 2023-24 academic year and represent all of GW’s athletics teams and branding. The announcement follows a year-long assessment of feedback from students, faculty, staff and alumni through online engagement forms, private focus groups and ranking activities for community members to weigh in on various moniker options.
The release states that “George,” who currently represents the University at athletic and community events by sporting a George Washington head and a colonial suit, will remain GW’s mascot.
“This is an exciting day for the George Washington University Revolutionaries,” interim University President Mark Wrighton said in the release. “I am very grateful for the active engagement of our community throughout the development of the new moniker. This process was truly driven by our students, faculty, staff and alumni, and the result is a moniker that broadly reflects our community—and our distinguished and distinguishable GW spirit.”
GW alumnus and Meet the Press host Chuck Todd introduced the moniker in a post published to Facebook and Instagram. The release states community members ranked Revolutionaries as the top-ranked option during every round of moniker selection feedback.
The Board of Trustees voted to retire the Colonials moniker in June following years of pressure from student activists who said the moniker glorified the legacy of colonialism, slavery and racial discrimination. The Board formed a task force to evaluate the naming of GW’s moniker and buildings in fall 2019, which approved a set of guidelines that required officials to consider students, employees or alumni opinions for name changes across campus in June 2020.
Officials selected the Revolutionaries from a list of four finalists released in March that also included Ambassadors, Sentinels and Blue Fog. Community members rated the four options from March to April based on “hype videos” that display each potential moniker on-campus branding and athletic uniforms in the second phase of “Moniker Madness.”
Officials said the Revolutionaries moniker represents the GW community because they are unafraid to “break boundaries” and “change the game.” The release states the GW Revolutionaries go beyond what’s “conventional” to focus on shifting mindsets and creating a new future for the community and the world.
“Over the coming weeks and months, GW will develop the visual identity for the Revolutionaries moniker and begin the process of bringing it to life on athletic uniforms, campus signage and merchandise,” the release states.
David Silverman, a professor of history, said in April that Revolutionaries is the most appropriate moniker finalist because of George Washington’s leadership of the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War.
“Revolutionaries both speaks to George Washington’s legacy and is something that the University can slogan the hell out of,” Silverman said. “They’ll say, ‘Have a revolutionary experience at George Washington University, revolutionize your career, revolutionize your lives.’”
Officials launched an online engagement form in August in partnership with Sullivan, a New York-based branding firm, to collect community members’ thoughts on the next University moniker.
The first phase of “Moniker Madness,” a two-phase community engagement initiative for moniker feedback, allowed community members to rank 10 moniker options in an online survey between February and March and during an activity during a men’s basketball game where attendees could choose to wave a pennant with their favorite moniker option on it.
Officials curated the list of 10 moniker options after select students participated in six private focus groups in February where they delivered feedback on 15 moniker options in partnership with Chicago-based marketing firm Yes& Lipman Hearne.
In November, officials declined to comment on the cost of changing the moniker. Experts in higher education marketing and branding said officials will need to update new merchandise and campus facilities renovations to transition to the new moniker.
The Colonials moniker had lost visibility on campus about three years prior to its official retirement, including renaming freshmen orientation from Colonial Inauguration to New Student Orientation in 2019.
This article appeared in the  May 25, 2023 issue of the Hatchet.
The Hatchet has disabled comments on our website. Learn more.
The Hatchet’s photographers captured the scene at Commencement.
Officials announced Tuesday that GW and chef José Andrés are partnering to launch a new research institute that will improve “food system solution delivery.”
Eight D.C. Council members signed a letter last week calling on GW Hospital officials to allow a “fair and free” union election among nurses. 

Copyright © 2023 Hatchet Publications, Inc. • Proudly Powered by WordPress

