Nabil Shenouda
Contributor
I don’t have much experience with plays, but Soulpepper’s current production of Arthur Miller’s classic Death of a Salesman resonated with me in both its story and performance, especially as someone who has toiled in real estate sales myself.
Soulpepper’s small venue and simple set and costumes make it clear the company doesn’t have the same budget as other big names in theatre. But what their production lacks in special effects and intricate set design, it makes up for in content, creativity and chemistry.
For those who, like me, are unfamiliar with Arthur Miller’s classic, the play is about an overworked salesman, Willy Loman, who places too much pressure on himself and his children to achieve great things. His problem is that the great things are always measured monetarily, and achieving them always rests on a hope and a prayer. In the end, he commits suicide in the faith that his son, who, ironically, realizes what is truly valuable, will do something great with the insurance money.
Soulpepper’s production featured a huge range of interactions between the play’s characters, especially Biff and Willy Loman. Through flashbacks and fast-forwards, we see these two characters in loving embraces, at each others’ throats, and crying in each others’ arms, all within minutes. These transitions were seamless and easy to follow, and the relationship between characters in each scene was as believable as in the next. Soulpepper’s being a family business probably lends itself to that level of chemistry.
Even though it was written over 60 years ago, today’s evolving professional world is the perfect context for Death of a Salesman. Its themes reflects the increasing need for workers to “sell themselves” to employers and the individual and familial pressure that ensues. Death of a Salesman explores this pressure through the salesman, but we can all say we have experienced something similar, either through work, school or a combination of both.
The play also critiques the ambitions of parents who place too much pressure on their children to be great people. Willy Loman has the best intentions at heart when he encourages his sons, but doesn’t realize he is encouraging the pursuit of an unrealistic goal. Willy’s son Biff admits “I’m a nobody,” rebelling against this in a way that resonates with many people’s experiences.
Through a combination of its universal themes and brilliant performance, Soulpepper’s production of Death of a Salesman feels anything but dated, especially in a world where everyone feels like a “nobody” sometimes.
Death of a Salesman is being performed at the Young Centre for the Performing Arts in the Distillery District until November 20.
 


Great production. I’ve seen a few Soulpepper shows in the past (all of them great) and they don’t always have small sets. I think the idea with this one was to make the house as claustrophobic as possible while leaving room for the flashback scenes.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
(Photos and interviews by Brittany Goldfield-Rodrigues and Brandon Lorenzetti)
Christiana Ofori-Boateng – Second year, health and society
“[Shirley] shouldn’t have been fired because there was a warning at the doors. you got warned before you entered.”
Photos and interviews by Brittany Goldfield-Rodrigues and Brandon Lorenzetti)
James Francis – First year, psychology
“It’s dirty bingo. you’re going to a place to get offended and then you get offended and then you [complain]?”
Photos and interviews by Brittany Goldfield-Rodrigues and Brandon Lorenzetti)
Shozab Parbal – Second year, public administration and justice studies
“Nobody should bring their parents to dirty bingo. It just seems wrong to bring parents.”
Photos and interviews by Brittany Goldfield-Rodrigues and Brandon Lorenzetti
 


Shirley has been doing this for years, there are warnings on the ad’s and before the show. it should be the undergrounds responsibility to make sure their clientele are ready for the obscenity of Shirley who was TRUELY their best event. I’ve attended every bingo in my 3.5 years at york (and regrettably one of the frosh week ones with out Shirley) and am sad that the student center management has decided to deal with the situation they way they have.
I completely agree with everything Shirley did to handle the situation, and I don’t think she should have to apologize for anything. Everyone I have talked to that I brought to Dirty Bingo, saw what happened and feel that she handled things perfectly and the Underground needs to grow the fuck up and realize that we are not a bunch of little children that need to be babysat. If you don’t want to hear that sort of thing, DON’T GO!!! Its as simple as that. Everyone that I go with and have ever gone with in our 4 years here are refusing to attend any Dirty Bingo event that is not hosted by Shirley.
Also, the last time they removed her the person they had take over made the winners make sounds like they were having an orgasm in order to get their prize….that is just disgusting, Shirley handles the event sooo much better and we won’t go see anyone else. She may make fun of you and call you dirty names, but it is all in good fun and she never insults one person, its a free for all on anyone and everyone.
Oh, and in regards to the XXX Hypnotist show, I have been to 1 of them and I won’t go to another. They are extremely disgusting, he has the people stripping and humping each other and other degrading things on stage and its just not fun to watch at all.
Bring Shirley back….and I think this time…the Underground needs to apologize for acting like babies. Really…we are university students…we hear worse crap in the music we listen to.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Lexee Hoene
Editorial Intern
 
(Alexandra Birukova)
 
York University’s administration is hoping mobile and online technology is going to help make York University the number one choice for prospective students.
According to YFile, York’s recruitment and admissions have released a new iPhone application called “YorkU Social Connect.”
A free app for the iPhone available for download from iTunes, Social Connect is used to keep students up-to-date on current information from the YU blog.
The “YorkU Social Connect” application provides recent news, including the York U newsletter, Twitter feed and York’s Flickr stream.
“We’ve been able to tap into the talents of our current students and the whole communications team within recruitment to really change the way we do business,” Donna Cope, recruitment’s director of print and e-media communications, told YFile Nov. 22.
With files from YFile
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
(Pippin Lee)
Starting on Nov. 23, roughly 90 percent of Tim Hortons restaurants will begin accepting debit, excluding kiosks. No longer will you have to search for pocket change to buy that 8:30 morning coffee.
With files from the Toronto Star
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Yuni Kim
Assistant News Editor

(Pippin Lee)

Following the recent walkouts by staff members from the Student Centre, the student hub that gives space to student clubs and activities, three more employees have followed suit and walked away from their positions.
Excalibur reported Nov. 17 that after York University’s Student Centre’s (YUSC) marketing and events manager Saqueeb Rajan was fired Nov. 12, two of Saq’s employees quit their jobs as a sign of protest against Rajan’s firing.
Since then, both graphic designers for the Student Centre, Keith McLean and Kate Hudson, and the programming and events co-ordinator, Sanqeetha Ravi, have quit.
“I can’t stop staff from quitting,” Scott Jarvis, executive director of the Student Centre, wrote in an email. “The work will be taken on by other staff. We rehire each semester anyway, and December is not really a busy month for us.”
Chris Eccleston, who walked out of his position together with co-worker Sagi Mamalider, wrote in an email that one of the reasons he quit was due to team morale dropping dramatically as soon as Jarvis was hired.
“He never seemed to want to get involved in what [the promotional team] was doing, and a lot of our ideas were being shot down,” he said. “I don’t remember him even trying to get to know our promo team on a personal level when he was first hired.”
Jarvis, however, refuted these arguments, claiming his working relationships with current and former staff members have been great.
“That’s not true,” he wrote to Excalibur regarding the allegations. “Staff morale is great.”
Mamalider, who quit Nov. 15, said in an email, “what was once a wonderful workplace where ideas were shared and developed with support became a micromanaged environment where you were asked to take on a task only to be told that the decision was made to go a different direction weeks after having put in effort into that specific task.”
“The daily motivation I came in with to the Student Centre two years ago had disappeared,” he said.
TIMELINE
Nov. 12 – Saqueeb Rajan fired
Events manager fired as a result of an in-camera meeting between Scott Jarvis and the York Student Centre board
Nov. 15 – Walk-outs begin
Two members of the events and marketing team quit over Saq’s firing
Nov. 17– Walk-outs continue
Three more student employees in the marketing department quit
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Antonella Cangelosi
Staff Writer
York University president Mamdouh Shoukri and Rabbi Aaron Hoch, who accused Shoukri of supporting anti-Semitism, are currently in the process of setting up a meeting to discuss Hoch’s allegations.
Hoch is a local rabbi who forwarded an email to 700 of his contacts expressing his concerns about George Galloway’s speech at York’s Keele campus on Nov. 16 and encouraging people to protest against Galloway’s presence at York, according to a Nov. 16 National Post article.
In his email, Rabbi Hoch said “Mr. Shoukri has again showed his amazing tolerance for anti-Semitism and lack of vigilance regarding the feeling of safety for Jewish students on campus.”
Commenting on the nature of the upcoming meeting, Alex Bilyk, director of York’s media relations, said “during the meeting we will welcome Rabbi Hoch’s clarification that he did not mean that the president was an anti-Semite.”
In light of the upcoming meeting, Rabbi Hoch declined to comment about what he hoped this meeting would accomplish.
Hoch’s concerns stemmed from the fact that Galloway was forbidden from entering Canada in 2008 after allegedly making monetary donations to the Palestinian Hamas-run government, a group the Canadian government identifies as a terrorist organization.
According to Hoch, the meeting will take place some time in early December.
According to the National Post, York wanted an apology from Hoch, but instead of issuing an apology, Hoch forwarded a copy of his original email, York University’s response, and his response to the university to all of his original contacts.
With files from the National Post
Rabi Aaron Hoch encouraged his community members to protest. (Pippin Lee)
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Raymond Kwan
Senior Staff
Allegations of misspent student funds and broken by-laws surfaced against York’s student union in the wake of last week’s visit from former British politician and anti-war activist George Galloway.
Former British MP Galloway spoke on invitation from the York Federation of Students (YFS) to a sold-out crowd of 500 students in Accolade East building about the war in Afghanistan and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict after having been previously banned from entering Canada by the federal government.
Gregory Kay, Schulich School of Business director for the YFS, alleges that, in hosting Galloway, the YFS broke the organization’s by-laws because the executives did not receive approval from the group’s board of directors, and thereby acted on their own without authorization.
Krisna Saravanamuttu, president of the YFS, explained his actions were well within the union’s mandate and maintains that no rules were broken.
“To be completely frank, the executive committee is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the student’s union. We report all of our activities at monthly [BoD] meetings through well-documented and well-developed board reports,” said Saravanamuttu.
“In addition, I would respectfully say that that’s an asinine-type logic. If we were to follow that logic, that means I wouldn’t be able to respond to an email or pick up a phone call until our monthly board meeting,” he argued.
Alex Bilyk, York’s director of media relations, confirmed the YFS hired five Toronto police officers at a cost of approximately $3,500 while York provided five of its own security officers for $2,400, a total of $5,900.
Saravanamuttu said he could not comment on the security costs because they have not yet been finalized.
According to Bilyk, in addition to the five officers already provided, Toronto police 31 division made their own assessment and decided to send an additional 15 officers for the event.
Toronto Police Constable Trish Mills, 31 division community relations officer, was not available for comment at the time of the publication.
Kay argued the YFS should never have spent any money in bringing in such a controversial figure to the campus.
“I think the YFS was founded to promote unity and they’re clearly not accomplishing that goal,” said Kay. “They knew this would be very divisive.”
“These aren’t the average views of the York population and for […] the YFS to advance their own political agenda through bringing in George Galloway appals the mainstream student body and is a huge misappropriation of student funds,” he added.
Saravanamuttu maintains that aside from the money spent on security, no student funds were spent to host the event.
“I think Kay may be unaware of or simply choosing to ignore the fact that the YFS made no financial contribution to have Mr. Galloway speak at York University,” said Saravanamuttu.
He also stated the money made from selling tickets for the event were donated to the Canadian Peace Alliance for their upcoming anti-war convention in March.
George Galloway spoke at York Nov. 16. (Oleg Makaed)
 


YFS just loves pursuing their own political agendas to cause division on campus.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Karlene Ooto-Stubbs
The Martlet (University of Victoria)
VICTORIA (CUP) – When Cory Dohlen entered the first year of his primary education practicum, he was shocked that there were five other men in his class of 29 – not because there were so few men, but because there were so many women.
Dohlen’s feeling has seemingly become the norm in universities worldwide. The increasing trend of girls outnumbering boys in post-secondary institutions is not abnormal.
Female enrolment in Canada has been steadily increasing over the years, sitting at 58 percent in 2008-2009 according to Statistics Canada.
This trend is escalated by an increasing number of males dropping out of universities worldwide. Tony Eder, a director for the University of Victoria’s Institutional Planning and Analysis, explains the exact number is difficult to track because there is no way of concluding whether it is a leave of absence or a more permanent decision.
Jamie Cassels, vice-president academic at the University of Victoria, believes there’s no answer for this phenomenon.
“For almost 22 years, it’s been like that: a female population that is at about 60 percent versus 40 percent for males. And it varies. It’s interesting that it’s not getting worse. The question for me is, is it even a problem? If it is a problem, are there barriers and problems at the university level or is it happening somewhere else?”
One theory suggests the gap between males and females begins in elementary school due to the fact that the vast majority of elementary teachers are female, and the mentoring position teachers have at such a young age.
“If you look at the [gender divide] of teachers in secondary schools, it’s roughly 50-50,” explained Cassels, whereas in elementary schools, males make up approximately 20 percent of the teaching staff nationwide.
In Dohlen’s primary education program, only 20 of the 140 students were male.
Cassels believes social values and milieus are what influence children to attend university.
“The most important determinant of whether or not a student goes to university is based on what is talked about around the dining room table – essentially, social values,” he said. The second most important, according to Cassels, is the students’ second home – school.
“Those images of what you’re going to do, most of the literature shows, gets fixed in your head in late elementary and middle schools. By the time you’re in high school, you pretty well know what pathway you’re on. So if gendered messages are happening in elementary school, that’s where it’s most likely to be influential,” said Cassels.
Some experts suggest that the solution to this gap is bringing in more male teachers. Based on his own personal experience, Dohlen agrees.
“Sometimes, in the courses I had to take for the program, the instructor would refer to the teacher as ‘she,’ as in ‘this is what she would be doing in the classroom,’” he said. “So the program’s a little more biased that way, because it caters to the majority.”
Jo-Anne Lee, a women’s studies professor, doesn’t believe bringing more males into the education system will change the gender gap.
“Why is education considered a female occupation? We have to address the gender bias in education, which reflects the gender bias in society at large,” Lee explained. “Looking after young kids is seen to be an essential female nature. I think we need to look at popular culture and the messages of popular culture and masculinity.”
Lee explained that while these constructions of gender are at play in our society, the gender of elementary teachers doesn’t matter.
“So what if we put men in primary education? They will become feminized in elementary school — they’re not seen to be ‘real guys’ because ‘real guys’ don’t do that. There’s a culture of masculinity in our culture that tells boys that it’s okay to be jocks, but men today are rewarded for their brawn and not their brain power, at least in high school.”
Lee further emphasizes the gender gap is not the biggest problem facing universities and society as a whole, noting that in Canada, women are still paid less than men for the same job, which she says is a prominent issue in the education system.
Affirmative action programs are a common solution to the gender gap found in universities. To combat the concern, the University of Victoria’s engineering program has a student recruitment program where attracting women is at the top of the agenda. Cassels is clear that this does not include “preferential admission policies or categories” for women, but rather encouragement to enter the engineering department.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Recruitment Manager
The York Lanes Health Clinic, run by Appletree Medical Centre, recently fired the clinic’s last practicing chiropractor, Amy Lavigne, who said she was given no logical reason for her dismissal.
“[Clinic administration] said that [chiropractors] were diverting resources from patients, and that the health care patients are suffering,” said Lavigne.
Appletree is a private medical corporation that took over management of the York Lanes clinic on March 1, 2010. According to a Feb. 10 Excalibur article, the management takeover came after the old management was unable to reach an agreement with York University Development Corporation (YUDC).
Lavigne said she is looking to open up her own chiropractor practice at York but she is running into some difficulties.
“Would I like to stay in York Lanes? Of course. But now that Appletree has the exclusive rights to chiropractor work, they won’t give it to me,” she said, adding she intends to move somewhere close to campus.
Excalibur tried to reach Shafiq Bhanji, Appletree clinic’s executive director, for comment multiple times but Bhanji did not reply as of the date of publication.
Dr. Jantinder Dhillon, former manager of the York Lanes clinic and previously an employee with Appletree Medical Group at their York Lanes clinic, said he was not surprised with Appletree’s actions.
“All the comprehensive services that we have set up, not everything makes money but students need it. And for [Appletree] it’s all about money,” said Dhillon.
Yusuf Mohammed, vice-president of equity of the York Federation of Students, noted the thought it was strange the Appletree Clinic was cutting all of its chiropractors.
“I think it’s pretty weird that they want to cut the chiropractors from the clinic when they provide an essential service to students. I think they should shift their focus towards student needs and not streamlining their budget and saving costs,” he said.
Katie Howard, Lavigne’s patient and a York student, expressed her frustration towards Appletree.
“I haven’t seen any benefit come from Appletree clinic. In fact I don’t go [there] if I have a medical issue – I will wait and go to my family doctor at home. But a lot of people don’t have this option,” noted Howard, adding Appletree’s defence is rooted in their claim chiropractic services are available elsewhere.
“This chiropractor [Lavigne] has a great York student clientele based on the fact that she is in a great student location, and York is just allowing them to come in and shove her out like she’s nothing when she serves their students,” said Howard.
Alex Bilyk, director of media relations at York, said he is no position to comment on Appletree because it’s a private business.
When asked how students can address their frustrations toward Appletree’s actions, Mohammed said he believes students need to speak and mobilize in order to voice their concerns.
“[Students] can more than likely bring this up to Rob Tiffin, [York’s vice president students], and while Appletree is part of the YUDC, at the same time York administration and the YUDC have a working relationship where they can sit down and discuss these things,” said Mohammed.
(Pippin Lee)
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
