Glen Polstvin
Contributor
The Oct. 23 robbery, which occurred around 10 p.m., took place on Library Lane near the Health, Nursing and Environmental Studies (HNES) building. The spot is a security risk due to poor lighting, according to a student-conducted safety audit released Oct. 3.
The safety audit, completed by students in the faculty of environmental studies, highlighted the areas around the HNES building that lack adequate security measures to protect students.
The audit suggested the university improve the building’s security prevention measures by installing more appropriate lighting, as well as by defining pathways, fixing broken lights and installing emergency phones outside the building.
Angela Clasadonte, a third-year political science student, agreed with the audit, noting there is not enough lighting in some campus areas.
“I think there should be more lighting. It is very dark at night on campus and I think we need more security at night in places that are not well lit.”
The female student who was robbed at the HNES building was walking with a friend while two male suspects allegedly snatched her purse and fled. Police are looking for two black males, both wearing black clothing and aged 17 to 18 years old.
Tinku Chowdary, a first-year business and society major, is concerned about walking around campus at night and is worried that York security isn’t prepared for the winter. “A lot of people have classes until 10 p.m. and at winter, it gets dark early, so [York] should increase security during wintertime,” said Chowdary.
The most recent incident occurred on Oct. 24 while a male student was walking near the Williams Small Centre and two males grabbed his cell phone and fleed the scene.
According to Toronto police, two suspects were located and later arrested and charged, but police will not release the suspects’ names. Police found a replica handgun on them.
According to York security, another student was allegedly assaulted and robbed by three male suspects Oct. 19. The incident occurred around 8 p.m. on the lower floor of York’s Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) building. A York female community member was sitting on the bench by herself, with her Blackberry cell phone placed beside her. The three males allegedly shoved her, took her Blackberry and ran. Police are still looking for the suspects.
The victim described the males as black and wearing black jackets and baseball caps.
A male student was robbed of his cellphone Oct. 22 while he was waiting for the VIVA bus on the station near the Ontario Archives building. According to York security, the suspect is described as male, six-foot-two, approximately 20 to 25 years of age and wearing black sweatpants.
Toronto police and York security are still determining whether there are any connections between these incidents.
York security has advised students to be more aware of their surroundings and vigilant of people when talking on their cell phone or walking in isolated campus areas.
The Toronto police are looking for male suspects in relation to all the robberies that have occurred.
Please contact York Security Services at 416-736-5333, or Toronto police, Division 31 at 416-808-3100, if you have any information on these robberies.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Cassandra Chin
CONTRIBUTOR
The Ontario New Democratic Party counted York University among the several Ontario universities allegedly spending public funds – almost $500,000 worth on York’s part – on lobbyists, hired private-sector advocates paid to sway provincial government policy.
According to York, however, that money was not spent on lobbying the government, but on consulting firms to help secure assets and information for future York projects.
In an Oct. 5 press release from the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS), the Freedom of Information request filed by the Ontario New Democratic Party (NDP) showed York spends more funds on private lobbying groups than any other university in the province.
According to a statement released by York Oct. 6, the university had contracts with three companies registered as lobby groups – the Counsel Public Af- fairs (CPA), the Devon Group and EcoNexus – but hired them as consultants, not lobbyists.
Alex Bilyk, York’s director of media relations, said York hired these firms as consultants because York didn’t have the resources or staff to head these projects.
Krisna Saravanamuttu, president of the York Federation of Students (YFS), said of the money spent on consultants that, since the CUPE 3903 strike, which shut down the university during the 2008-2009 academic year for almost three months, “York has been crying poor.”
“Where in the world did York find almost $500,000 to fund these lobby groups, when really lobbying is the job of the senior administrators and a properly composed Board of Governors?” he said.
Bilyk said that the university has a budget to hire consultants and that York did not go over that budget.
“Perhaps Saravanamuttu has not read [York’s Oct. 6] statement and maybe he does not understand how the university works,” said Bilyk.
According to York, from Jan- uary to June 2010 The Devon Group provided strategic coun- sel and guidance for additional venues for the upcoming Pan Am Games 2015, which resulted in the letter of intent York offered event organizers regarding the university’s willingness to host some of the activities.
The statement further explains that from February 2008 to January 2009, the university worked with the CPA in looking at potentially establishing a medical school at York. Bilyk said CPA helped York put together a business plan for the York medical school.
The York statement also said that CPA assisted with labour relations during that time.
York hired EcoNexus from 2008 to 2010 to focus on creating a research project on climate change and environmental research. The York statement also said that project lead Karan Kraft Sloan is a registered federal lobbyist; however, in this instance, she was not lobbying the government.


 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Brittany Goldfield-Rodriguez
EDITORIAL INTERN
Glenn Ulrich remembers when Jordan Hanley generously gave his number four Georgina Ice hockey jersey, which he wore for several years, to his little brother when he joined the team, due to a lack of jerseys.
“That is just the kind of a guy he was – very generous,” said Ulrich.
Ulrich, president of the Georgina Ice hockey club, said that Hanley’s parents, teammates and the whole community is in “utter shock” over the death of the 23-year-old York student. Hanley, a fourth-year kinesiology student and a passionate hockey player for the past four years, died Oct. 11.
Ulrich said that after Hanley died, his family decided to keep him on life support to preserve his body, so that his organs could be donated to the Trillium Foundation.
“Jordan was the type of guy who would come up to you from across the room and say ‘hi,’” he said.
Hanley was also involved with his church in Keswick. Ulrich describes Hanley as an “extremely giving” person who was heavily involved in his community. The funeral took place on Oct.
15 and, according to Ulrich, more than 500 people came out to say final goodbyes to Hanley.
“It was a very moving and emotional day for everyone. Keswick’s community really came together for Jordan,” he said.
Everyone at the funeral was wearing green ribbons to symbolize their support for organ dona- tion to the Trillium Foundation, Ulrich added.
“It’s a big loss for our community of 18,000 people. Everybody knows each other and feels the pain of loss.”

COURTESY OF GLENN ULRICH

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Lexee Hoene
EDITORIAL INTERN
A recent York University study shows that individuals who cannot recognize faces can make up for it by an enhanced sense of voice recognition.
Prosopagnosia, otherwise known as face blindness, is a rare disorder where one loses the ability to visually recognize faces.
The study, published in Neuropsychologia, suggested that human brains distinguish between people and objects in two disassociated parts of the brain.
Jennifer Steeves, an associate professor of psychology at York, lead the study; she’s one of many researchers working at the Sherman Health Science Research Centre, which opened at the Keele campus Sept. 14.
Researchers completed a series of experiments that looked into the recognition level of faces, voices, sounds and objects, and compared individuals diagnosed with prosopagnosia against those without.
Before conducting this experiment, subjects were shown 110 images of female faces that had no visible differences or characteristics. The individuals were also provided with an auditory clip where a 20-second passage was spoken in English.
Following this exercise, the subjects were questioned on the visual and auditory-only models, both separately and in conjunction.
Although people diagnosed with prosopagnosia relied upon the auditory clip to recognize faces, this did not apply to recognizing objects. The study suggested that the human brain uses two separate neurological areas when identifying  people and objects.
With files from YFile
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexandra Posadzki
CUP ONTARIO BUREAU CHIEF
TORONTO (CUP) – Two Ontario universities are teetering on the edge of a strike, with faculty unions at both schools voted overwhelmingly in favour of walking off the job.
On Oct. 1, the Faculty Association at the University of Western Ontario in London, Ont. voted 87 percent in favour of a strike, Helen Connell, the associate vice-president of communications for the university, confirmed. The union represents more than 1,400 full and part-time faculty members at Western.
James Compton, president of University of Western Ontario Faculty Assocation, said the key issue for faculty is a series of proposals put forth by the university that centralizes administrative control over yearly faculty reviews and make them subject to performance management techniques that are counter to scholarly practices.
These proposals would have a centralized board overseeing faculty reviews, rather than the reviews being considered individually within each discipline. Tenured professors who receive a bad review in one area, for instance, could be disciplined or even dismissed.
“This would weaken the role of peer evaluation and collegial self-government,” said Compton. He adds that the proposal would weaken the tenure system, which is a major support of academic freedom.
“Professors that have precarious employment are going to be less likely to speak out and do research and teaching on controversial topics than they would otherwise,” noted Compton.
“And that is bad for the university, it’s bad for students, it’s bad for classrooms, it’s bad for the broader community, because that is the ma- jor public good that’s produced by the university. It’s what separates universities from high school.”
Western also faces the prospect of a staff strike after the union, representing close to 1,200 administrative and technical staff, voted 95 percent in favour of a strike on Oct. 5 and 6, said Deborah Novakowski, the union president.
Novakowski said the staff union’s chief concern is job security.
Meanwhile, professors at Carleton University in Ottawa voted 88.5 percent for a strike mandate on Oct. 4 and 5, the union’s website asserts.
Jason MacDonald, director of communications at Carleton, said the university does not believe that the union has the right to strike in this round of bargaining, however.
MacDonald said that according to the current collective agreement, the union should have filed their intent to reserve the right to strike three months before their contract expired, something they didn’t do.
In the event that an agreement cannot be reached, the parties should proceed to binding arbitration, said MacDonald.
Neither Western nor Carleton would divulge whether or not classes would be cancelled in the event of a strike, which has left many students anxious.
Nicole Lippay, a fourth-year English student at Western, is scared that a strike might prevent her from graduating.
“I’ve worked so hard to get this far,” said Lippay. “And now at the last possible minute they’re going to go on strike?”
Lippay rents a room in a house in downtown London. If a strike does occur, she will have to continue to pay for that room–even if she wants to go home to Uxbridge, Ont. to work. She will also have to scramble to find somewhere to stay if the semester gets extended, as her lease is up at the end of April.
Lippay is concerned that a condensed semester would sacrifice the quality of education that she will receive; however, she also sympathizes with the faculty’s issues around academic freedom.
“Most of the professors I’ve had are very passionate about what they talk about. They talk very freely about what’s concerning them, and they make an effort for students to get involved in the discussion,” said Lippay.
Negotiations at both universities are ongoing. Connell said that Wester has several negotiation dates set, including Nov. 1 and 2, when both sides will meet with the provincial mediator who has been appointed to assist them in reaching a settlement.
“I believe there’s a lot of good will on both sides to reach an agreement,” said Connell.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Antonella Cangelosi
Contibutor
York student Zina Rakhamilova feels the reason students are stuck waiting for access to the public computers may be because of the new Scott Library renovations, unveiled to the York community Oct. 20.
“I need computers, especially in-between breaks,” said Rakhamilova, a second-year psychology student.
“Before, when we had all the computers here, it was a lot easier [for students].”
According to Mark Robertson, an associate university librarian, the old computers from the second floor have been relocated temporarily to the fourth and fifth floors of Scott Library, as 120 new computers will be set up in separate sections all around the second floor to replace the 100 old ones.
Robertson said that to increase student workspace the layout of the second floor has been widely expanded.
“There will be a possibility of additional renovation that would add even more seats and computers to the library,” he said.
According to Robertson, this particular project is still pending due to lack of funding.
Dale Findlay, a first-year student in the second entry-nursing program, said that she does not feel she was informed about the new changes.
“I’m not too sure what they are doing with the renovations,” said Findlay. “I haven’t really been informed of anything, but hopefully they will be able to expand the study area to make it more suitable for students to study.”
Aisha Mohamoud, a first-year health studies, likes the renovations.
“[Students] have a lot of space to study with groups of people, they have space to eat, space to chill, sit down,” she said.
“I think it’s a good idea. I liked it when I came in.”
According to Robertson, the library is planning to place signs on the second floor to keep students informed about the changes.




New renovations at the library have students looking for computers. (Pippin Lee)






 


Unbelievable! What was the cost exactly? Whoever approved that should be fired! Oh wait, that’s not going to happen. There are about 8 to 10 LCD screens, all with the same info. Meanwhile, some kid is struggling to pay tuition.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Yuni Kim
Assistant News Editor
Two weeks after York history prof. David Noble mailed a letter to the university’s president, Mamdouh Shoukri, about York’s policies on student club activities, he received an official response from the administration, as well as several unsolicited press releases from on and off campus Jewish groups.
Noble, whose original letter to Shoukri alleged the Hillel@York Jewish student group serves as, “in effect, an agent of a foreign government,” said he was “dismayed” after having gone over the content of the response letter.
“It is the right of any community member to express his or her view within the law and without fear of intimidation or harassment,” wrote Rob Tiffin, vice-president students at York, in a letter to Noble dated Oct. 21. “This extends to the members of a student organization such as Hillel.”
Noble, who is on sabbatical this academic year, is not satisfied with the response. “They’re not answering the question,” he said.
“It’s much more than disappointment. I’m dismayed.”
“[York] is continuing to endorse Hillel’s acting as a de facto agent of a foreign government,” Noble added.
“The significance of Tiffin’s letter is that the university has now moved from a tacit endorsement […] that any state that wants to establish themselves using a student organi- zation as a lobbying agency is now officially sanctioned. That’s what that letter means.”
Tiffin’s letter noted that, according to Presidential Regulation 4, a “student organization” is defined as a group of students who voluntarily congregate with common interest, and may include “organizations formed for purposes of carrying forward a particular activity, cause or project” and not necessarily associated with an academic discipline.
Brandon Crandall, president of Hillel@ York, insisted his club does not work for any governmental organization and is in full compliance with university rules and regulations.
“We’ve been on campus as the primary voice for Jewish life and for non-Jewish students who are interested in Judaism and Jewish culture,” he said. “We hold no political alliances with any parties […] we firmly deny being agents of a foreign government.”
Noble’s take on Hillel@York’s activities was apparently inspired by a Facebook group called “Israel Affairs – Hillel @ York,” moderated by Jennifer Cogan Diamond, who, according to the Hillel of Greater Toronto website, is the Israel Affairs Program Associate for the Toronto organization.
Noble attached a screen capture of the group’s front page to his initial letter. The group’s description begins, “We are the advocates for Israel on York campus.”
When asked about the “Israel Affairs” Facebook group, Crandall explained that the group is indeed involved with Hillel@York, but that their support for Israel is historically rooted in the Jewish faith.
Meanwhile, several Jewish and Israeli groups both on and off campus expressed disdain for Noble’s interpretation of Hillel@York’s activities. Sammy Katz, managing director of the Canadian Network for Israel Affairs and former president of Hasbara at York, felt that Noble was unjustified in condemning Hillel as serving as an agent of a foreign government. “Supporting Israel on campus does not mean that you are acting on behalf of a foreign government,” Katz said in an Oct. 20 press release.
“Rather, students and organizations that support Israel on campus are supporting democracy, human rights, equality and peace.” Aaron Rosenberg, president of B’nai Brith OnCampus York, felt that Noble’s claims were isolating Jewish student groups on campus.
“Numerous groups and a large number of students at York University […] stand behind the democratic Jewish State of Israel,” said Rosenberg in a statement made to Excalibur.
“[Noble] continues to make a mockery of this university’s claimed policies of inclusion. Should this be tolerated at our proudly multicultural university?”
Noble is still pursuing a defamation lawsuit he filed in 2006 against Hillel of Great- er Toronto, as well as several other Jewish groups and the York University Foundation, for $19 million in relation to press releases they’d issued about a pamphlet he’d distributed in 2004.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Yuni Kim
Assistant News Editor
 
(Excalibur Archives//Pippin Lee)
 
Minutes after poll booths were closed and ballots counted Oct. 25, Rob Ford was declared the next mayor of Toronto.
Some Torontonians were torn between the two main mayoral candidates, Rob Ford and George Smitherman, but a number of stu- dents, like Jacob Wylde, knew exactly for whom they were voting.
“I voted for Rob Ford because he knows what’s wrong with this city,” said the third-year kinesiology student. “He knows how to fix the city’s [debt] problem. Toronto is in an amazing amount of debt, and no one else who was running talked about it.”
Some remained unsure of who should get their vote until the last minute. When asked before the election, third-year English major Janette Parucha said for her the decision would come down to either Smitherman or Pantalone.
“I’m leaning away from Rob Ford,” she said. “I’ve heard bad things about Ford, but I’m not sure who I’m going to vote for.”
While many students were torn between the three candidates, others expressed disinterest in the municipal elections.
“I don’t really have a reason for why I’m not voting,” said Em- manuelle Bakos, a first-year sociology student. “I’m just not really involved in political aspects of things, so I don’t really know much about what is going on.”
Vanessa Hunt, vice-president of campus life for the York Fed- eration of Students (YFS), said the student union did not endorse any particular candidate, instead opting to educate the student body about the mayoral candidates.
“We provided students with information about issues that we feel relate to students […] related to public transit, sustainability and housing,” she said, encouraging students to be informed about candidates before casting their ballot.
“From what I’ve seen and heard, students are very involved at the municipal level,” said Hunt. “It’s about making sure that you’re informed so that when you go to the polls to make a decision, you really know who you’re voting for instead of just voting for a candidate because you’ve heard of them.”
YFS president Krisna Saravan- amuttu was optimistic about the changes Toronto may see under Ford over the next four years.
“I hope that Rob Ford will maintain the great things about Toronto,” he said. “We hope that […] he will work towards an in- clusive environment for everyone in the city.”
With files from Lexee Hoene and Brittany Goldfield-Rodriguez
 


ask yourselves the question
why did the biggest bofoon and ridicule on city councill for the last 5 years get the most votes of any politician in canada…  EVER.
Krisna is not optimistic. He called Ford “a racist and homophobic mayor”.
http://twitpic.com/30hryp

 York University Community Newspaper 
Mike Sholars
FEATURES AND OPINIONS EDITOR
Once upon a time, the downtrodden and hardworking students of York University had a library.
The library was called Scott, and although it was old and was cursed with a terrible paint job, it was good to the students, and they were good to it.
One day, a magical renovation committee came upon more money than most of the students would ever make in their entire lives, and decided to use it to transform Scott into something new, exciting and focus-group tested.
They toiled – or rather, dozens of unionized workers toiled – for months until a new appendage emerged from Scott; it wasn’t a useful or vital appendage, but it was there all the same.
They dubbed this new area the “Learning Commons” and immediately began planning for the next stage of its development, with a projected finish date of 2012 or 2013, depending on funding.
The Learning Commons @ Scott Library exists at the exact intersection between a mistake and a post-modern mess. It was designed by a group of people that must sincerely believe that the Apple Store, a bright, chairless room, is the height of architectural majesty, and that scrolling red LED displays are the future of information technology.
The computer room has been scrapped; in its place you’ll find a pleasantly lit area containing five booths sitting about eight people each, a random smattering of chairs and a couple of truly confusing arrow-shaped table-chair things.
The arrow forms a circle, and in the middle is a single plastic chair. York U has gone avant-garde, and it has no room for plebeians who cannot understand its newly acquired taste.
Aside from getting rid of the easy-to-access computer room that easily housed the better part of 100 desktops and replacing it with a series of tiny coffee booths, what else has happened in the library?
The Learning Commons included expanded renovations into previously inaccessible parts of the library, with additional seating in rooms with names like “The Salon” and “The Collaboratory.” Coll– wait! You mean, it’s like a laboratory, in which you collaborate? Brilliant! Give these people a million dollars! That already happened? Well played, Scott Library. Well played.
I understand the motivation behind the renovations; our dear university is starting to show its age, and kids don’t like studying in outdated, “unhip” areas. Personally speaking, I refuse to write an essay if I’m not in a limo driven by supermodels.
Public relations is a huge part of attracting new students to any post-secondary institution, and I have no doubt a few ethnically diverse press photos of students laughing and studying in The Salon will help sway student interest.
They wanted to make something new and shiny, and they succeeded. The greatest triumph of the Learning Commons, however, is how it now perfectly reflects the York University experience as a whole.
They took a straightforward, easy-to-comprehend area and turned it into a labyrinth – a convoluted waste of money and resources.
If that doesn’t scream York, I don’t know what does.
(Natalie Livshitz)
 


Right on Mike!!
I laugh everytime I see that space. What a complete joke. More quiet study rooms might have been nice! This is a library, not a lounge. Welcome to York, leave your common sense on the way in.
Living that awful architectural desecration right now over here at UBC in Vancouver where the Old Main Library was gutted to make this look like something high end casual Oxford. What happens? Now I have students bellowing on phones and playing with facebook because the old serious space has been gutted for something I consider the lowest common denominator where students can hang out and say they were at the library . We get to call ours the Barber Learning Commons. I used the old library for many years and this is a gutting  of  the beautiful thing once known as a library architecturally, spiritually and intellectually.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Re: “Pro-life students arrested at Carleton,” News, Oct. 20, 2010
What does freedom of speech sound like to you? The abortion debate is definitely one of the most emotionally charged debates that exist, but there’s apparently nowhere for people to hear and learn about the issues surrounding it anymore.
It is frankly unacceptable that several pro-life, tuition-paying students at Carleton University were arrested because they refused to take their protest signs into a closed classroom.
These students have the right to a peaceful protest. A protest, by definition, is an expression or declaration of an opposing view. Protesting in a closed classroom isn’t really a protest, now is it?
University campuses are paid for mainly by the government, and by student tuition. Thus, the campus belongs in part to the students and the government. It seems funny that government-given rights seem to be the ones getting trumped by an administration that is not part of either group.
As students, we are challenged to think outside the box, develop our own opinions and listen to those of others, no matter how ridiculous they may sound to us. Heaven forbid we put this into practice and actually try to spread a message to a broader audience or show our disapproval with something going on around us.
The fact is, the abortion debate is rarely ever mentioned inside classrooms today. As many of my previous university professors have said, they just don’t want to get into something as emotionally charged as that.
If we can’t talk about it in the classroom, and we can’t talk about it out of the classroom, where can we talk about it?
Erin Stewart

Re: “Pro-life students arrested at Car- leton,” News, Oct. 20, 2010
I am appalled to hear pro-life students were arrested at Carleton University Oct. 4, 2010 after attempting to put up a pro-life display on campus. What is this saying to a generation of students who are supposedly in an environment where education and learning are embraced? Pro-life groups on university campuses all over the country are constantly being silenced while groups of the opposite view are openly embraced. Universities should be allowing an atmosphere where students can freely debate those issues that can be hard to face. Why reject all ideas that are different than those of a popular view?
Just because a view isn’t widely supported in certain arenas, doesn’t mean that it should be swept under the carpet. Canada was built on equality and freedoms. Most take things like freedom of expression and freedom of speech for granted until they are put in a position like these students were. For the sake of this nation, we need to take a stand against this type of injustice.
Rachel Barrett

Re: “YFS Schulich director accused of harassment,” News, Oct. 20, 2010
As a student from the Schulich School of Business, I would like to commend Gregory Kay for his efforts to try to represent our faculty, which is already underrepresented at our university, at the Canadian Federation of Students annual general meeting. I read in the article that Kay tried to apply to attend the meeting and was refused by another member. This makes me question Jeremy Salter’s comments on the lack of tension between him and Kay, especially since there was controversy surrounding the disqualification of Kay and other members during last year’s election process.
In addition to the concerns surrounding Kay’s case, I find it strange YFS board members are not permitted to share information discussed in meetings with non-members. I agree that this demonstrates a lack of transparency in our university’s student union, which is supposed to be working to represent us. I do hope that this issue gets resolved and Kay’s name is cleared, as I have always known him to be an excellent representative who does his best to serve the constituents he represents.
Alicia Gutierrez
Re: “York prof questions Hillel’s advocacy,” News, Oct. 20, 2010
As a Jewish student at York University, I am offended and insulted by prof. David Noble’s remarks against a Jewish student group at York. By attacking and isolating the Jewish student group, Noble is making a campus that’s already toxic and unwelcoming for Jewish students a more poisonous environment.
Being a Jewish student in Canada means many things to me. It means broadening my horizons and gaining knowledge. It does not mean feeling ostracized by students and faculty. It does not mean professors using the classroom as a podium to reveal their personal political leanings. It does not mean Jewish students hiding their religion, ideas and opinions for fear their professor will grade them lower.
It is the responsibility of the administration and faculty to ensure students feel safe, something they have failed to do. York is perceived as unfriendly because of the actions of people like prof. Noble.
Marlee Mozeson
Re: “York prof questions Hillel’s advocacy,” News, Oct. 20, 2010
As a Jewish student in York University’s community, I am offended by prof. David Noble’s remarks against a Jewish student group at York. In particular, I disagree with his calling on president Shoukri to end York’s support of Hillel due to the club’s advocacy on behalf of the state of Israel. Comments such as these, especially from the university’s so-called “noble” and “elite,” have no place in any university, and more importantly, incite intolerance and hatred, which is all too common at York University.
Nobility is not something received at birth, it is a virtue earned through the tolerance and respect of others. Prof. Noble, your name may spell it, but you are an individual who is far from noble.
Avi Benchetrit
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
