Hufsa Tahir
Contributor
The monument memorializing the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre may no longer be visible in the Student Centre, but plans to create a replica are in progress after concerns that the originally planned plaque would not do the statue justice.
Cheuk Kwan of the Toronto Association for Democracy in China (TADC) is currently in talks with the Student Centre’s executive director Scott Jarvis about the possibility of mounting a bronze structure at York to replace the Goddess of Democracy statue.
The original papier mâché statue, which was donated by the TADC and had been a Student Centre fixture since 1992, was taken down due to maltreatment and damage that led to the presence of fruit flies and mould, Jarvis said to Excalibur.
Fine arts professor Bruce Parsons, who oversaw the team of students and Chinese artists that constructed the original statue, explains that while a commemorative bronze plaque was mounted in the Student Centre, it was insignificant on its own.
Parsons expressed his desire to create a more impressive structure either within the Student Centre — to stand roughly eight feet tall and enclosed in a glass case for protection — or behind the Student Centre building near Central Square, which would allow “more room for creativity.”
Parsons met with Jarvis on August 26 to discuss his designs, saying Jarvis was very receptive to them.
Kwan is very pleased at how smoothly talks are proceeding.
“I’m quite happy with the process right now, and I think we’re moving in the right direction,” he says. “They’re open to the idea of a replacement […] Parsons and I are looking at a 3D model tonight.”
One of the goals is to display the monument in a location where students and community members will be able to see and learn of the significance of the commemorative piece.
“People don’t see the importance of the statue, and we want them to see it,” Kwan says.
Future meetings regarding the final decision are in place.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
News Department
The contract between CUPE Local 3903 and York is due to expire August 31, and both parties — through neither has commented about the current state of negotiations — are expressing optimism about forthcoming meetings.
“We hope to meet with the employer about negotiations very soon,” says CUPE 3903 communications officer Claire Major, noting that negotiations were still in preparation.
York president Mamdouh Shoukri is also confident that talks will be carried out in good faith.
“I’m not aware of the details of the negotiation at this stage, but I’m hopeful that things will go well,” says Shoukri. “One of the most important initiatives that we have undertaken — and this has nothing to do with CUPE, per se — is what we called the ‘Better Workshop Initiative’. I want to understand better the underlying issues that have caused labour relation issues in the past.”
New rounds of negotiations and consultations will be taking place throughout the coming weeks.
A failure to come to an agreement regarding bargaining and negotiations in November 2008 resulted in classes being cancelled and campus shutting down for the duration. Only after Ontario premier Dalton McGuinty’s government passed back-to-work legislation did the 85-day strike come to an end.
With files from Lingsha Hu
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Samantha Osaduke
Contributor
York has decided not to renew Pepsi’s campus-wide contract, due to end August 31.
Pepsi will no longer hold a monopoly over York’s beverage options. PIPPIN LEE
While York’s director of food services Anthony Barbisan said the $7.5-million contract has provided York with funding to run student organizations and provide stadium upgrades, there is no desire on the university’s part to pursue another exclusive contract.
“We have no appetite to pursue another agreement,” confirms Barbisan. “We’ve chosen not to pursue it based on community feedback […] the campus retailers will be in charge of their own beverage supply.”
Up until the contract expiration date, on-campus merchants were not allowed to sell beverages competing with brands owned by Pepsi.
Iced tea sold on campus had to be Lipton Brisk; water, Aquafina; energy drinks, Gatorade.
This leaves the fate of the numerous vending machines across campus in question.
“I’m not sure what will be happening to them, but the food vendors won’t be affected [by the contract ending],” says York Federation of Students (YFS) president Vanessa Hunt. “The benefit to students will be that they will have the option of more than one brand of beverages on campus. Students will be able to choose what kind of drink they like, whether it’s Coca-Cola, Pepsi, or a fairly traded brand.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Olessia Lapina 
Contributor
Textbook expenses are an unavoidable reality for students at the start of each semester.
Choosing new and used textbooks still seems to be the status quo. PIPPIN LEE
However, according to York bookstore director Steven Glassman, the textbook rental program “hasn’t grown as fast as we would have liked” since its initial launch at the beginning of the 2010–2011 winter semester.
Despite the rental option — which can potentially save students up to 75 per cent on textbook costs — Glassman states that the lack of immediate accessibility may be the reason for the slow growth.
“Rented books have to be shipped, which has delays,” he says. “It would be much more satisfying if rental books were physically available in the store.”
He confirmed the bookstore is working to have rental copies immediately available on premises to further expand the program.
As of now, rentals can be accessed through the York bookstore’s website where, once an order is placed, the textbooks will be shipped to the specified address. According to Glassman, there have been no complaints from students who do use the program.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Tamara Khandaker
Contributor
A date for a preliminary hearing has been set for the man charged with the murder of a York student in what is now known as the “webcam death”.
According to Toronto police, the Crown is due to present its evidence against 29-year-old Brian Dickson January 30, 2012. It will be determined at that time whether the provided evidence is substantial enough to proceed to trial.
When questioned on the status of his client, Dickson’s lawyer Robert Nuttall replies that “nobody likes to be locked up on a first-degree murder charge.”

Dickson — who once attended York and was part of the McLaughlin College Council — was charged in connection with the death of international student Qian ‘Necole’ Liu in April.
Liu was found dead in her basement apartment home in the Village with no signs of trauma or sexual assault, despite being unclothed from the waist down.
Liu’s parents collected her remains following the autopsy and funeral service.
Dickson made a brief appearance in court August 16. He is due in court again October 26.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
New measures at York will allow on-campus security officers to carry handcuffs and collapsible batons as part of their equipment.
PHOTO BY PIPPIN LEE
These recent changes have stemmed from a Metropolitan Action Committee on Violence Against Women and Children (METRAC) report that was released in March 2010, detailing measures the university can take to make the campus safer.
“We will be providing information on the implementation of the METRAC report,” says President Shoukri, who adds that there has been a 30 per cent increase in security on campus as well as increased campus lighting fixtures.
This is only one of many initiatives the university is taking, following several on- and off-campus assaults and a student death during the summer months.
Shoukri says York intends to give updates on the status of the METRAC report through a goal-oriented community letter, and that security officers around campus should be carrying their new equipment as of early 2012.
Vanessa Hunt, president of the York Federation of Students (YFS), calls this new initiative a “good middle ground”.
“We’ve seen that non-intervention from security officers doesn’t work,” says Hunt. “This option is good since the security officers must be equipped with a certain amount of material to do their job.”
Nevertheless, Hunt’s concern also lies with preserving students’ rights.
“What we don’t want is students beaten with batons, like at a peaceful protest,” she says, explaining the YFS has been meeting with the university to discuss how students’ rights will be protected under this new security measure.
Shoukri, however, explains all officers will receive extensive training.
“We take this very seriously and they have to be trained appropriately,” says Shoukri, explaining that the reason for the 2012 delay itself is due to the time needed to train the officers. “This is about enhancing the ability of security to do their job and that involves providing them with ability to do their job. This training is essential so that staff don’t go wild.”
Shoukri admits that despite speculations the goSAFE program would be scaled back, the program will continue to remain on campus and may even evolve further as safety measures are put in place.
“I know I have heard about how the university is held liable with goSAFE, but I am committed that this service will continue to exist and will be expanded,” he says. “Legalities aside, our number one issue is the safety and security of our campus.”
Shoukri also says further safety efforts are under way in the Village.
“I’m counting a lot on the Town and Gown Committee that we created, which involves representatives of the municipal government and the university staff,” he said. “We want to put pressure on the city to make sure they’re implementing their bylaws.”
Read More: What do students have to say about this issue?
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mike Sholars
Editor-in-Chief
As of September 12, the Michaelangelo’s food stand located in the Fine Arts Building will reopen as a Starbucks.
The stand closed for good at the end of April, marking the end of a business that had operated in that same location for over 20 years.
The Fine Arts Building will see more lattes and less lasagna. PIPPIN LEE
Anthony Barbisan, director of food services, says the decision was based on the results of surveys conducted over the past two years to gauge student interest for new food opportunities on campus.
Although the Fine Arts location is under new ownership, the main Michaelangelo’s cafeteria in the basement of Atkinson is still going strong.
Atillio Perrone, who has co-owned both locations with business partner Miguel Arce since 1999, says he was surprised to receive the closure notice late last April. He says he was under the impression the location was on track for a contract extension and possible renovations.
Due to significantly lower amounts of foot traffic, the Michaelangelo’s Fine Arts stand usually shuts down every summer.
“All of a sudden, they said ‘the Dean wants the Starbucks there, and that’s all there is to it,’” Perrone says. He cites a string of possible reasons for the delays, such as the 2008 strike. “They’ve been putting off my contract renewal for three years.”
Barbisan confirms Perrone and Arce were notified late April. He notes such a time frame is standard for establishments that close during the summer.
Petal Foods, the corporation that oversees Michaelangelo’s, will remain in their Atkinson location until the end of the 2011–2012 school year, confirms Barbisan. At that point, “an open proposal bidding for the location” will take place, he says.
“We’ll be consulting with the community [on this matter],” says Barbisan on the process of potentially choosing a replacement establishment for the location.
He says that, alongside everyone else, Arce and Perrone would be welcome to bid for the new contract for the Atkinson space.
Now with just one property to concentrate on, Perrone and Arce are exploring new ways to bring business to their Atkinson location. Perrone discussed plans from hosting Frosh Week events to hosting dances and pub nights.
They are optimistic that they are offering something hard to come by on campus: real Italian food.
“Where else can you get that?” asks Perrone. “We feel that we’ve been treated unfairly. It’s like we’ve had our legs taken out from under us.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
Though students are beginning to settle on and off campus for the new school year, the university is seeing a decline in student residence applications, raising questions of further potential residence closures.
Stong Residence. PIPPIN LEE
“It’s clear that residence applications are dropping, so the number of students living in residence is decreasing heavily,” says vp students Rob Tiffin. “Which is, of course, what happened with Founders [residence].”
After the closure of Founders residence last year, the university commissioned a report dealing with housing at York. This report will be available to the public mid-September.
With the construction of the York subway stop, he explains, students would have even more housing options available to them on and off campus.
“[Our next step] is a consultation process that will review the demand of housing at York and housing in general from every angle possible,” says Rob Castle, senior advisor to the vp finance and administration at York.
He elaborates that a consultation process must occur before any decisions are made regarding residence closure.
Castle confirmed no residences will close this year.
“The rumors that residences will be closing is really just a case of bad broken telephone,” Castle says.
Winters Residence. PIPPIN LEE
President Shoukri also confirmed that the university was not considering any residence closures.
“Just to be clear here, this rumour is totally unfounded.” he says. “I don’t know where this rumour is coming from. That said […] I’m concerned with the long-term interest of the university. Residence is very important, and […] we need to create an environment that will keep the students here.” He explains that he has asked finance and administration to complete a long-term review of residences at York.
Nevertheless, assistant director of residence life Ian Crookshank, who reviews residence life at York, admits residence closure “might be something [the university] is considering.”
“The complex one area residences [like Stong and Winters] have a high deferred maintenance cost,” says Crookshank, referring to the high costs associated with keeping the residences open.
However, he cites the importance of residence buildings in student experience and student life.
“If the university does close residences it will have a huge impact […] students receive a network of friends and support from residence dons and co-ordinators,” says Crookshank.
Various housing options will continue to become available to students as the subway construction continues, says Chris Wong of the York University Development Corporation (YUDC).
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Compiled by News Department
York’s new shuttle buses—implemented as part of a safety initiative for students living in the off-campus Village residential area—will be available in the fall semester.

The shuttle buses, which carry up to 60 passengers per shuttle, leave Vari Hall and take a 20-minute express route or an east and west route that serves 11 designated stops and two additional request-only stops in the Village. The east and west routes will depart every half-hour, and the express will depart every 15 minutes with the last departure from Vari Hall being at 1:40 a.m.
Through the east and west routes will not operate during holidays and weekends, the shuttle will still be running during these times. To further enforce the York’s new safety initiative, bus drivers will wait for students to enter their houses upon request.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Leslie Armstrong
Arts Editor
From August 25-28, Toronto played host to volunteer performers from around the world specializing in fire, insects and chalk this weekend, all in the name of Epilepsy Toronto. One in a hundred Canadians will experience epilepsy at some point in their life, so the support is becoming ever crucial. With that in mind, Torontonians got the chance to guiltlessly watch as all kinds of street performers put their lives at risk (so long as they pitched in a donation).
Scotiabank’s 12th annual BuskerFest was more than just entertainment this year; this time around it was more aesthetically pleasing and thoughtfully artistic than ever. Here’s a compilation of interesting performances.
Close Acts, XL Insects. LESLIE ARMSTRONG
Children crying, teens pointing and laughing, and adults snapping their digital SLRs at the whole scene. The XL Insects, a roaming performance act originating in the Netherlands with the Close Acts theater company, swarmed the streets in front of the Flat Iron building, terrorizing and fascinating with their silver bug eyes and their brightly coloured red and blue bodies. They screeched and dipped their menacing pincers into the sea of people who were just trying to cross the street to use the washroom facilities. Think Cloverfield — but substitute pesky flies in place of gigantic spiders.
Pyromancer. LESLIE ARMSTRONG
We all have a pyromaniac friend out there, but Pyromancer is what happens when that friend gets a little out of hand. Also from the Netherlands, our subject hopped around the stage in a majestic gold cloak, muttering unintelligibly in Dutch, and projecting flames from his mouth. He kept the flame alive by spitting what seemed to be straight vodka (hopefully not lighter fluid) into his fires. The show was finishing, and just as we were about to label him a nutcase, he charmed us by blowing fire-kisses to the crowd.
 
 
 
Chalky. LESLIE ARMSTRONG
Not so flashy and overbearing like many of the other performances, our very own Canadian from Ottawa, Chalky, sat on the sidewalk, reproducing famous historic portraits using nothing but chalk (you guessed it). The result is a smooth, well-blended depiction of the real thing, and all from a man who looks like he could be one of the spectators, clad modestly in cargo shorts and a t-shirt. Chalky’s art will stand the test of time, but unfortunately, not the test of rain showers and pigeon droppings.
Kate Mior. LESLIE ARMSTRONG
Toronto-based installation artist Kate Mior may not do back flips and somersaults mid-air, but avid photographers did just that to get a shot of this world-famous mime. With her perfect ringlets and satin dress, she mimed a wind-up doll, complete with the continuously revolving golden knob on her back. Even with her masterful, calculated movements, she was just as captivating while stock-still. Talk about sitting pretty.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
