Max Greenwood
Contributor
On a laptop with recording software, all it takes is a couple hours to craft a beat or two. Lay down some vocals, post it to YouTube, then sit back and wait for a record deal. Congratulations! You’ve just followed in the footsteps of a new generation that is eager to bring music to the public by themselves, forgoing outside help.
The do-it-yourself (DIY) movement in music is growing quickly. Traditional record sales may be dropping, but instrument sales have been skyrocketing more than ever.
We can now post our creative endeavours on the Internet and share them with our friends with one click. In today’s social media frenzy, it can be hard to stand out, so the need to establish credibility comes into play.
Mike “Greener” Greenwood, left, and Mike “Kraz” Krasnowski, right, make up The Moorelands Project. LESLIE ARMSTRONG
I caught up with Mike “Greener” Greenwood and Mike “Kraz” Krasnowski, the members of The Moorelands Project, to talk about music and their band. They are vets of the DIY scene, having logged years of collective experience in many environments. Both pursued music in school. Kraz attended Durham College, and Greener went to Carleton University, going on to study right here at Seneca@York.
The Moorelands Project is a band that “prides itself on being completely produced in-house.” The duo writes, records, and mixes everything from a home studio, while maintaining professionalism in their music production.
“It’s not what you put out exactly,” says Greener. “It’s how you put it out. Anyone can post an online recording, but it takes that extra step to get it onto iTunes.”
In order to try and be distinctive today, you must try and appeal to many tastes. “Everyone likes everything these days,” says Kraz. “From Rihanna to Tokyo Police Club. You never know what’s going to be big next.”
“DIY music has been growing over the past decade or so,” adds Greener. “Musicians are sometimes fearful of labels. In the ’90s, you had to go to a record company for everything from photos to pressing demos. Now, Google does it for you.”
Promotion and distribution has changed so drastically, it has become easy to make the public aware of you. “It used to be posting flyers wherever the show was. Nobody cared,” says Kraz. “Social media [like Twitter and Facebook] is now there to get your name out. Someone may not know you’re in a band, and then they get an [online] invite and come.”
Of course, it doesn’t hurt to promote yourself the old-fashioned way. When Greener attended Seneca@York for independent music production, he often collaborated with other students and provided music and beats for the radio amongst other things. Greener and other artists even honed their craft with open-mic nights at Blueberry Hill.
The Moorelands Project filmed a music video for their first single, “The Trip”, on Greener’s home street employing friends and family, and it’s on iTunes now.
They also released six songs for free download, with Kraz chipping in, “You buy one, get six free. How often do you see that?”
The music business has definitely changed, but is it dead?
“No way, that’s bull,” exclaims Greener. “It’s just different.”
The business has evolved, and now there is serious money in searching for the next big sensation on the Internet.
‘The Trip’
The track is available on iTunes, with a self-produced music video
The Moorelands Project
Download their self-titled EP at themoorelandsproject.com
A new genre?
– The Moorelands Project considers itself a rock hop and roll band
– Their goal is to transcend genres, appealing to  most radio stations

Check out the Moorelands Project at www.themoorelandsproject.com
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Matthew Fondevilla
Contributor
Two years after labouring on their first album in a bohemian enclave outside Seattle, Washington, Fleet Foxes have a new record. The band continued on their purist path, settling into a creaky, inhospitable wooden cabin nestled in Port Townsend to record and write their latest 12-track album Helplessness Blues.
According to interviews, the studio-household live-in was a tense experience for the band members, who claimed frontman Robin Pecknold was controlling, forcing them to work excessive hours.
The band spent nine months living and writing in the makeshift studio, a result of Pecknold’s perfectionist nature. His band mates tried convincing him that the album was done, but Pecknold insisted that more work was needed.
Fleet Foxes’ first album seemed to express Pecknold’s gratitude to all the people in his life who have helped him on the road to his dream. Blues, however, has another personal ambition that is raw and direct, reflecting Pecknold’s experience of life and music after the release of the previous album.
“Montezuma” starts the album with a refreshing yet familiar sound. With its spacious, open melody and echoing vocals, the song projects a more mature Robin Pecknold comparing his musical growth to people in his life.
Midway through the album, the title track shares Pecknold’s struggle with inner conflicts he has had since the last album’s release. It poses the fairly universal question of whether or not it is worth it to go after what you desire only to isolate yourself from others. In response, he sings: “I was raised up believing I was somehow unique / Like a snowflake, distinct among snowflakes, unique in each way you’d conceive /  And now after some thinking I’d say I’d rather be / A functioning cog in some great machinery serving something beyond me.”
The mid-tempo guitar strumming and Pecknold’s demanding voice reveals his altruistic intent. The band takes the risk again of using oddball instruments not heard in contemporary music like the dulcimer, harp, and zither.
The reminiscent harmonies and imagery-filled verses paint us a picture of Pecknold’s growth in music and his personal life. Returning fans and appreciative newcomers will admire the psychedelic elements and earthy sound.
Combined with the band’s efforts and Pecknold’s persistence, Fleet Foxes reaches new depths that stray from their last album. The concluding track, “Grown Oceans”, reminds us that even with all these personal conflicts, there’s always a place where we can dream that reminds us of what we truly are about: “In that dream I could hardly contain it / All my life I will wait to attain it.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Leslie Armstrong
Arts Editor
“You guys can come closer,” Carmen Townsend says to the polite Toronto crowd gathered at the Horseshoe Tavern, June 2. “We do bite, but you’ll live forever.”
The spunky, mischievous Cape Bretoner sports long red hair and a warm smile—I was waiting for her band to pull out the bagpipes and the fiddle. Instead, she surprised me with a ’90s grunge sound and a Stevie Nicks attitude.
Carmen Townsend’s first studio album as a solo artist, Waitin’ and Seein’, released in late January this year, is noted for its fierce, hard rock sound, but in retrospect the album is equal parts hard and soft. While the lasting impression of the album sees heavy tracks like “Open Sea” and “River Rat”, Townsend compensates with intricate acoustic tracks, like the sugary “Sweet Little Bird” and the introspective “All That Was Left”.
Carmen Townsend played at the Horseshoe Tavern in Toronto on June 2. COMPANY HOUSE RECORDS
But the prime influence in Townsend’s sound is admittedly the long-forgotten grunge era, which took root during the Nirvana invasion of the early ’90s.
“I felt and still feel really blessed to have gone through my teenage years in that time,” Townsend says nostalgically. “All of these bands like Pearl Jam and Soundgarden and Alice in Chains, they would all talk about Tom Waits and Neil Young […] they’d praise him as the godfather of grunge. It opened so many doors.”
Back at home, the signature Maritime Celtic-inspired music scene is still going strong, but it’s tough to survive redundancy in the industry.
“I’ve always been inspired by those traditional musicians—those Celtic musicians are so talented. And it really does take a lot of work to make a career in that kind of music as well. It’s really hard to be original,” she admits.
Townsend’s personal favourite Celtic artist from Cape Breton is Colin Grant. “He’s fantastic— [it’s] really neat stuff that he’s doing,” she indulges. “I wouldn’t necessarily buy a record of that type of music, but to see his live show is amazing, so I would buy his record.”
But in the midst of traditional records of jigs and reels, a pleasure to any ear, is a “massive indie rock scene”.
Growing up in a household of classic rock shaped her sound. “Whenever I remember hearing melody for the first time, it was listening to my mom sing Joni Mitchell songs,” she recalls.
Several people have affectionately compared Waitin’ and Seein’ to the late Jeff Buckley’s album Grace; Townsend affirms the notion. “I’ve been told that I sound like a female Jeff Buckley. That’s an amazing compliment for me.”
For her big sound, Townsend was going to have to leave Cape Breton, moving to Vancouver at the age of 19 and then to Toronto, where she finally went solo. She has since toured in Texas, the UK, and Australia twice, and she even got the chance to tour with Heart in February in Newfoundland.
“It was big, and it was a little scary—just me and an acoustic guitar, and all these people want to hear ‘Barracuda’,” she says humbly. “I used to lip-sync [their] songs into my hairbrush… It was really a dream come true.”
Townsend says the touring has been steadily unsteady.
“It’s hard work, especially with this tour right now. We’re three of us in a Dodge Caravan. [We think,] where are we going to sleep tonight? What are we going to eat? Or, let’s go to the grocery store and put our money together,” she laughs. “It’s wonderful, there are a lot of positive things in it, but you have to have a really good sense of humour.”
Balancing an extra job was never easy. “I used to work both nine to fives, that was the joke in our band,” she continues.
Townsend says that quitting her teacher’s assistant job was very difficult for her. “I was working with this sweet little boy who was autistic and he was just a dream to work with, he really opened my eyes to patience, to everything. It’s brought a lot into my music career I think because I have a different view—the sense of humour, that’s where it comes in.”
Amidst the financial struggle, Townsend remains positive and married to her music career. “I love it,” she says. “And it’s obviously working in my favour because I’m still doing it. It’s just what I do.”
Carmen Townsend and her band are hoping to release a new album in the near future.
Visit carmentownsend.ca for more information. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Leslie Armstrong
Arts Editor
Tori Maas addresses serious themes of doubt and social awkwardness in her art, but you’d never guess based on how pretty it is.
The York grad recently placed her new collection What Now? around the Collaboratory in the Scott Library to remind uptight students to relax. A mixed-media text-based collection, her striking statements mimic the gloomy thought bubbles inside the average young adult’s head.
With bold statements ranging from “I had such great expectations” to “I never know what to say”, her nine-piece collection offers an “inner monologue”. Maas is admittedly shy and awkward in social situations—and she embraces it.
“I’m aware of it,” she says about her bashful nature. “I’m not trying to get over it or say that it shouldn’t be. […] Most people experience those feelings. It’s just something that people don’t really address.”
“All in a Day’s Work” is the sixth installment of What Now?, Maas’ collection. 
But more than just social tactlessness, What Now? addresses the overwhelming post-graduation syndrome.
“It’s sort of born of [the reality that] I’ve graduated and I’ve got a degree in art now, and what do I do. That thought before I leave my academic life and move into my professional life—what’s that in-between? […] [I’m exploring] that little moment of hesitation before I leave being a student and go into becoming a professional person.”
The decision to place the collection in the Scott Library, a place frequented by anxious students, was significant.
“I think that’s a feeling that’s very relevant to most students because there’s always that sort of ‘what’s next’ once I leave here.”
Maas’ pieces follow a pastel colour scheme of soft pinks, greens and yellows; the text is animated and childish; and the patterns are floral and innocent. One has to wonder about the juxtaposition of harsh statements and charming presentation.
“It undermines the severity of the text that I’m using with softer colours, the florals, the nice patterns,” she explains. “Undermining the severity of that message to show that I’m not really taking myself 100 per cent seriously.”
Perhaps as a secondary interpretation, the softness of the collection represents a false self-projection of contentment amidst actual anxiety.
“I think that I’m extending my statement as well that there is sort of a public face that everyone puts on,” offers Maas. “But those feelings and doubts are right below the surface.”
The mixed-media collection pushes the boundaries of typical canvas paintings, using unconventional materials—All in a Day’s Work, the sixth installment of What Now? reveals bus transfers, newspaper clippings, fragments of a map, and bits of fabric.
As for the patterns and use of fabric in her work, Maas says her past studies in textiles, before York, influenced the decision to use those materials. Her dainty, text-based style is also a deliberate aesthetic choice.
“[I] like that bold simplicity that text offers. I’m also very into design and typography. I just like the way the text looks when combined with image.”
Tori Maas’ signature look is evident in her other collections. Misanthropic also features gloomy thought bubbles like “I never want to see you again” in semblance with awkwardness and miscommunication in relationships.
What Now? will remain at the Scott Library until September, but the Second Cup at King Street and Strachan Avenue is currently housing three other pieces from the same collection.
Visit torimaas.com  for information about projects, events and blogs. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
