 
Are you a cartoonist? Do you have a funny picture that you drew on one of your notes in humanities class and you think it’s pretty funny or something? Either way submit your comics to comics@excal.on.ca
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Teresa Yung
Production Manager
Since the Liberals stepped in with a promise of a tuition cut of 30 per cent in the new year, students have been welcoming the change. It’s certainly a start, but it’s still a far cry from what we really need.
With this conditional 30 per cent cut, it is still uncertain how the provincial government plans to pay for it. In addition, it leaves behind one big factor that still hinders marginalized students coming from low-income families: loans and debt.
If we take a look at the current loan repayment system, marginalized students—the ones that need the loans in the first place—graduate needing more time to fully pay back their loans. And when it takes longer, the existing system means that they also end up paying more interest, and in effect, paying more for their education. Our current situation forces students to assume debt-based financial assistance in order to receive a post-secondary education.
In a 2005 report series, the Educational Policy Institute compared student loan burdens and repayment conditions for students in Canada, United States, Australia, Germany, and other countries. Looking to our international counterparts during repayment, students in Germany receive full nominal interest subsidy, meaning they pay no interest on their loans, while Australian students pay the real value on the loan, where the interest is equal to inflation. In the US, the report shows their current interest rate is 3.37 per cent, with students paying the government the cost of borrowing.
When I graduate, I am looking to face a punishing interest rate of prime plus 2.5 per cent, which works out to six per cent, at current market rate. Even though Canadians don’t pay interest while still in school, the report concludes that our situation could be relieved if we imitated our European counterparts in having a single, low-interest rate for the life of the loan, at little or no cost to the treasury.
Another important factor to consider is the length of the repayment period. Canada has the shortest amortization period, sitting at 9.5 years, compared to 15 in the Netherlands, 20 in Germany, 25 in Sweden, and a flexible period from 10 to 25 in the US, which allows students to choose their own repayment period.
Instead of forcing Canadian students to make large monthly payments under high interest rates, we should be given the option of an extended repayment period for those who need it. While it means higher total interest since Canadian student interest rates are not subsidized, the report notes that an extension of payments to 15 years would mean a 25 per cent decrease in monthly payments.
The continual underfunding in Ontario directly affects marginalized and low-income students, leaving them without fair access to a college or university education. Everyone already knows that Ontario students pay the highest tuition in Canada, but did you know that in 1979, the average tuition was $740? Although minimum wage was $3.00, students in that time were able to make enough to pay it off, and more, through a simple summer job.
I wish the same could be said today.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

When I first started this supplement, I wasn’t a big fan of satire.
In class, whenever I would have to read Hunter S. Thompson, he would give me a headache because I didn’t understand why he was writing this way or what the point of it was. And that “modest proposal” by Jonathan Swift? I believed him (he made a very good argument as to why we should eat babies).
I’m proven on a daily basis by my fellow editors that I’m not the best when it comes to making a satirical joke or even getting one of theirs.
So why did I decide to this? At first it was because I knew many people liked satire and it would be popular among the York community. But after delving deeper, I stayed with the idea because I learned that satire was much more than an exaggerated, funny story on a page. It was a story with a point, cleverly written. If we look at A Modest Proposal by Swift or any article by Thompson, they all had points to their stories and truths buried behind all the sarcasm and exaggeration. They brought up important issues that need to be dealt with and the best part is they make you laugh while hitting you with the truth.
Throughout this supplement, you’ll (probably) find yourself laughing quite a bit, but more importantly, you’ll (hopefully) understand the point behind each piece. You’ll see that our food experience at York is shameful, our overcrowding problem at Scott Library is detrimental, and tuition is costing us an arm and a leg. These are all York issues that students can relate to and instead of writing about how these issues are growing in plain writing, we’ve decided to write these issues in a funny, clever way.
So after reading this supplement and understanding York a little bit better, I hope you think about the real issues inside and why they need to be dealt with while enjoying a nice, long laugh. And hey, if you don’t get it, don’t worry. Just give it time (I usually give myself five seconds).
Victoria Alarcon
Features & Opinions Editor
DISCLAIMER: This issue contains works of satire. All names used in this story are invented, except in cases where public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names or events is accidental and coincidental.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Rochelle Braham
Contributor
Aside from having to wait even longer for bus service with the proposed service cuts, TTC commuters may have to dig even deeper into their pockets to match the 10-cent fare increase.
The fare increase, says TTC spokesperson Brad Ross, will be voted on December 14 and will be in effect in 2012.
“The increase would affect tokens and passes, including student and post-secondary student fares,” says Ross.
The 10-cent hike comes after the 25-cent fare increase from January 2010.
Third-year student Leana Plummer does not feel the annual fare hike is fair to commuters.
“Why are they expanding and using resources recklessly if there is a deficit, and ‘The Better Way’ is burning a hole in citizens’ pockets?” she says.
“The TTC has done all it can to balance its budget,” says Ross. “The added 10 cents will give us $30-million in revenue to fully balance the budget.”
Riders must also brace themselves for a longer wait in the cold. Despite the constant cry for increased service, the TTC will be cutting service on 62 routes, including the 60 Steeles West bus.
“The long lineups to get on the 60 and the 196B a lot of the time are unbelievably frustrating,” says fourth-year English major Rachel Cardozo. “Actually, more so than the line, it’s the actual wait time.”
Cardozo says the wait times will occasionally exceed an hour. “Service cuts will only intensify the frustration because service is lacking to begin with.”
Ju Hyu Park has to wait in the route 60 lineup, and is not impressed that the route will be seeing service cuts.
“Especially in rush hour, the line up is so big and usually it’s a 30 minute wait minimum,” she says. “With winter coming, it’ll be even worse. The bus route service is already really inconsistent and now they want to cut service down?”
Ross hopes that the ridership will be understanding of the inconvenience.
He also points out that by 2015, the subway would be extended onto Keele campus.
“We understand that there is a need for more service,” says Ross. “But our subsidy was cut [by] 10 per cent and so savings needed to be found. We did this without cutting routes outright.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
