Yuni Kim 
Assistant News Editor
The Ontario government has come out with a mobile app – the first of its kind – that  allows post-secondary students to track their Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) application processes as well as their loan accumulation.
John Milloy, Ontario’s Minister of Training, Colleges and Universities, said he hopes easier access to keeping track of post-secondary finances will make it more convenient for students.
“It took roughly four months [to develop the app] by the ministry staff,” said Milloy. “Everything nowadays is computer-based, and the app will give students up-to-date information.”
However, Sandy Hudson, chairperson of the Canadian Federation of Students Ontario (CFS-O), said she felt the government’s efforts could have been directed elsewhere, namely, towards affordable and accessible education.
Milloy urged students to view the OSAP app as a single piece of a bigger plan.
“Obviously there is a concern about the financial part of OSAP,” he explained. “Adding a new app […] is one small step. Take a look at the big package. We are listening to students.”
While some remain sceptical about the effectiveness of the OSAP app, others hope it will help them stay on top of government loans and personal finances.
Sobia Subedar, a fourth-year communications major, said she has been using OSAP for two years and has accumulated roughly $10,000 in student debt.
“I would like [the app] too, just to keep track of everything,” she said, adding that a mobile app would help her stay better organized with her finances.
Milloy said the majority of OSAP-reliant students have two main concerns: affordability and accessibility to information.
“All things were done to make life easier for students,” Milloy said of the several recent changes made to OSAP, including the early availability of applications as well as the waiving of interest fees during the six-month grace period after study completion.
“Obviously an app is a way to reach students and young people are the most familiar with technologies and using them.”
 


Fantastic. Students can know their gargantuan debt with the touch of their ipod or ipad. Perhaps Mr. McGuinty might want to consider a more comprehensive approach to provide affordable education.
Despite what students want to believe, the deficit that the McGuinty government is running is going to affect students. With a growing public debt, the costs associated with financing its debt will increase, thus taking a bigger piece of the budget.
Students should take note and demand their government reduce the deficit and the debt in the long run, to provide a more sustainable Ontario for the future.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Recruitment Manager
With the impending closure of Founders College residence, some students are contesting the decision stronger than ever.
York administration confirmed the residence was set to close after the 2011 winter semester due to revenue loss. Some students, however, are vehemently opposed to this decision.
Robert Cerjanec, president of the Founders College Council, sent out an email early last week to the Founders community. The email outlined reasons why the residence should remain open for at least another year.
Cerjanec pointed out doing so would allow students and the York administration to thoroughly study the consulting report – a report which analyzes York’s student housing statistics – which will only be available in the spring.
“It’ll give a better analysis of housing at York and what York can do to boost the amount of people coming into residence,” said Cerjanec.
However, Gary Brewer, v-p of finance and adminstration at York, said the closure of Founders residence is simply to support an “operating efficiency.”
“At this point, the decision to take Founders off the list [of residences] for the upcoming year was based on the decline in applications for the residence at York,” said Brewer, who pointed out that Founders residence is home to the single largest vacancy level in all of York.
Currently, the vacancies in Founders College residence represent a $1.2 million loss in revenue for the university.
Cerjanec responded by stressing the difference between losses in revenue and a net loss.
“A loss in revenue doesn’t mean a net loss to the university,” said Cerjanec. “It just means they’re not getting in as much revenue.”
Cerjanec said the Founders community is planning on holding an open forum on Feb. 9 to discuss the pending closure. The forum will invite York administration to hear the concerns of the Founders community.
He also added that a letter-writing campaign directed towards the York administration is being organized, saying the community is adamant about keeping the residence open after this semester.
“Our [Founders] community is simply not happy with it,” said Cerjanec.
With files from Excalibur archives and Yuni Kim
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Israel Defense Forces (IDF) soldier Sergeant Benjamin Anthony believes war with Iran is certain.
“I firmly believe that the time will probably come when Israel launches a strike on Iran,” said the heavy machine gunner, explaining Israelis are not willing to see Iran become a nuclear power.
“Our actions and deeds have absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with politics, they’re merely the consequence of the universal desire to survive.”
Anthony came to York Jan. 24 as a part of his North American campus tour in support of his pro-Israeli advocacy organization, Our Soldiers Speak. He offered the audience his insights into current Middle-Eastern conflicts.
Personal security escorted Anthony to York’s Stedman Lecture Hall and refused to allow anyone to take his photo.
“I was told specifically to watch out for what would happen at York University,” he said; however, no protesters were in sight during Anthony’s speech on the Keele campus.
He said the goal of his speeches were to share the experiences of an Israeli soldier and proudly share his perspective on the Middle-Eastern conflicts with the rest of North America.
“I know precisely what transpires at the front lines of the battlefield,” he said.
“What I do aim to do, with your permission, is to transport you to the human side of warfare and to describe to you what actually transpires there, away from the gaze of the media. For, of course, the media does not live within the situations I aim to describe,” Anthony added.
He described the terror of warfare to students and the horrific wounds he and fellow soldiers endured during engagements like the 2006 Hezbollah rocket attacks in northern Israel.
He believes being an Israeli soldier is not a choice, but a duty.
“Can anybody believe – really believe – that this is a lifestyle we elect?” he said. “There is no glory to be found, and nobody should believe that there is.”

Compiled by News Department With files from Oxana Tsirelman and the National Post
 


I really wish that a Palestinian citizen be invited to talk about how Israeli soldiers shoot and kill innocent citizens on the street.

 York University Community Newspaper 
With the growing demand of e-readers as a platform for buying textbooks, are you willing to adopt the new technology as a substitute for physical textbooks? 
 
(Pippin Lee)
 
Kulvir Kang
Second Year, Political Science
“They’re expensive. I’d say as a student I wouldn’t really want it because I feel writing on physical paper is much easier to understand and organize than on a tablet.”
(Pippin Lee)
Christine MacDonald
First Year, Religious Studies
“It’s a scary thought to think about replacing textbooks because they’ve been here since the beginning of education.”
(Pippin Lee)
Jennifer MacDonald
Third Year, Visual Arts and Psychology 
“I think it’s probably a good idea in terms of the environmental damage of textbooks, because most people don’t keep their textbooks after using them.”
(Pippin Lee)
Mandeep Singh
Third Year, Law and Society
“With e-readers you are looking at a screen, right? When you have a physical book just in front of you, with no laptop, and put your phone away, then you focus on that.”
Compiled by Pippin Lee


 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A male York community member reported to York security he was sexually assaulted while in a men’s washroom Jan. 19.
According to a Jan. 21 YLife article, around 1:30 pm, the community member was occupying a washroom stall in the basement level of the Curtis Lecture Hall when the unidentified aggressor allegedly reached under the stall divider and touched him.
The community member exited the washroom without any injuries and reported the incident to York security
The incident was not reported to police. Any witnesses are encouraged to contact York Security Services at 416-736-5333.

News Department
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York University was ranked highly by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) for its vegan-friendly meal options on both Keele and Glendon campuses. The school placed seventh among Canadian universities.
According to Anthony Barbisan, director of YU-card and Food Services, Campus Services and Business Operations, York submits its candidacy every year; he said receiving the rank “was a nice surprise.”
Barbisan told Yfile Jan. 21 that York is currently working out details of a new vegan express program, together with Aramark, the university’s caterer.
As of now, York offers 13 locations where students can enjoy vegan food.

News Department, with files from YFile
 


Interesting addition to PETA’s list although I’ve personally noticed a disconnect between being vegan and healthy. York lacks fresh organic food options and it would be too much to ask that come from our local farmers. Although not eating animals could be considered a healthy lifestyle choice, eating french fries hardly cuts it.

 York University Community Newspaper 
United Way at York raised $140,000 toward its total goal of $200,000 this past week, and the charity campaign is entering its final phase.
Yvette Munro, York’s United Way campaign chair, told Ylife Jan. 20 that he is confident the York community will come together and reach the campaign goal.
“The amount raised will go a long way toward helping this city’s most vulnerable citizens,” said Munro.
Those willing to donate can do so by emailing uway@yorku.ca. Alternatively, money can be donated by calling 416-736-2100 ext. 44206.
News Department, with files from YFile
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Has the e-book format been a successful medium among York students?
“It’s still frankly a little confusing for students to figure things out and to make the choices. I wouldn’t call it a ‘big hit’ yet, but it’s growing as the market is growing. In other words, publishers are releasing more and more e-books and it’s growing.”
Steven Glassman, director of the York Bookstore
“It’s increased slightly in the past two years, but not dramatically. There is more of an interest now, especially this year with tablet [computers]. ”
Sasa Nestorovic, York Bookstore senior sales associate
Would you ever use an e-book reader to view course texts? 
“I like having the physical textbook for a lot of the classes because I find myself being able to pay attention more. But if it is a math course, where there are a lot of numbers, I don’t mind having it as an e-book reader. If it involves mainly reading, then I would want to have the physical textbook.”
Krishna Modi, first-year biotechnology student
“As long as [the files] don’t self-destruct. I know in the States there are laws against having products that just stop working so you have to buy a new version. It violates consumer law, so I’m not sure how far this is going to go before it self-destructs.”
Jay Pandya, third-year undeclared student
…
Hot:
Not:
…
Gearpstrol.com
The Indigo Kobo – $128-149
(Wikimedia)
The Amazon Kindle – $139-379
(Wikimedia)
The Sony Reader – $129-299
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York U Go station under renovation
Construction on York University’s Go bus station, located just east of the Keele campus, has started; according to Yfile, the new extension is going to increase passenger comfort.
(Mark Grant)
The new platform will feature a heated shelter, better lighting system and enhanced security. The outside surface of the station will also be updated.
The construction will be completed by summer 2011 and is going to take place mostly between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. The extended platform will accommodate a new 12-car train service.
Road closures
Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) continues construction of the York University Subway station, bringing new road closures to Keele campus.
The future Go station wil feature a 12-train platform. (Mark Grant)
According to the TTC, the two-way lane restrictions on Ian MacDonald Boulevard, Vanier Lane and the Chimneystack Road will begin shortly. To compensate for the rerouting of buses this will force, new shelters and bus bays will be paved and installed.
York Boulevard will also face lane restrictions. TTC traffic personnel will be on-site to facilitate the safe movement of transit and pedestrian traffic.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
