Once a master of dry wit and the voice of a generation, Douglas Coupland has turned to vulgar humour with his new book
Taimour Abbasi
Contributor
As the title suggests, Douglas Coupland and Graham Roumieu’s Highly Inappropriate Tales for Young People is highly inappropriate. These seven tales of ironic incidents and unique characters, based on Coupland’s imaginations, tickle your funny bone, complemented by the hilarious and highly entertaining illustrations by Roumieu, the backbone of the book.
The tales are told in the perspective of various oddball characters. Hans, the weird exchange student, turns out to be Dracula, intent on living green by the end of the tale while charming a cheerleader along the way.
Then there’s Kevin the Hobo Minivan, an immoral, hostile man taught by a zombie teacher fond of cannibalism. Published a day after Halloween, the book has no limits on vulgarity and violence, making you wonder if these kinds of things happen in real life.
Coupland is known for his sharp observations on social conditions of this generation, expressed using wit and deadpan humour. The illustrations suit his style well.
The remarkable thing is that the characters in this world created by Coupland have no sense of guilt or shame. They commit terrible acts with style, like the Barbie doll murdering its owner after having its ponytail chopped off. The tales are filled with violent, psychotic, and neurotic characters that act on whim. But look at it from a different perspective, and you’ll realize that this book is not trying to do anything but twist your mind and make you laugh, or at least smile.
It’s difficult to find meaning in the book. This book is shallow with an inviting title, and even if you are not much of a reader, you will surely enjoy the illustrations. My favourite one depicts Kevin the Hobo Minivan getting fuelled up with vodka in exchange for the electronics stolen from the kids he gave a ride to.
Unlike Coupland’s previous work which was far more substantial and meaningful, these tales lend no morals. It’s a book to be enjoyed, laughed at, disgusted by, and once finished, left to gather dust on a book shelf.
Remember, not all picture books are made for children.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
“Whenever I’m being assaulted or mugged, I know that the culprit is ultimately just as trapped as I am,” says satisfied inmate
Victoria Alarcon
Features & Opinions Editor
After numerous robberies and sexual assaults this year, York president Mamdouh Shoukri has decided to turn York’s Keele campus into Canada’s largest post-secondary institution/maximum security prison.
At a press conference Wednesday morning, Shoukri announced in front of the whole student body that titanium fences and double-occupancy jail cells will become a regular part of the student experience.
“With these new impenetrable fences, students can rest assured when they are being mugged or assaulted that thieves and crooks are doing the time they deserve in jail,” said Shoukri, standing beside a squadron of fully-armed enforcers. “I will stop at nothing to ensure the safety of all students.”
Since the decision was made, students are beginning to see bars being put in classrooms and electric fences surrounding the campus. The university’s financial advisors were pleased to announce that the process of turning York into a prison took less effort than they originally suspected, and that the whole project will come in significantly under budget.
“I definitely do feel like this decision is helping students,” says fourth-year psychology student Lisa King, who will receive a complimentary hoodie from administration  after she survives 10 muggings. “Whenever I’m being assaulted or mugged, I know that the culprit is ultimately just as trapped as I am.”
As for criminals at York, the decision is being widely accepted and they hope York continues to make decisions of this nature. “I actually feel guilty about what I do,” says an anonymous burglar who recently gave King her 10th mugging. “I can’t escape campus, so I’m forced to wander the grounds, reflect on what I’ve done, and start fights at the Underground.”
As for York Security, they will no longer have to answer questions as to why they were not there at the time of the crime, or why they suddenly vanished when a student was in mortal danger.
“I feel like I’m finally doing my job,” says one York security officer as he prepared for his mid-afternoon nap. “I can rest easy knowing that the days of thieves escaping with students’ belongings have come to an end.”
Due to confusion as to when York officially became a prison (some say this week, others say sometime in the mid-1960s), Shoukri’s plan has no official completion date. The next phase involves converting the upcoming TTC station into a receiving dock for new prisoners and visiting friends and family.
Conjugal visits, as always, will be held in the upper floors of Scott Library.
DISCLAIMER: This issue contains works of satire. All names used in this story are invented, except in cases where public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names or events is accidental and coincidental.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Student left Iran to escape homophobic persecution
Alex Wagstaff
Managing Editor
A Seneca student was left with a non-fatal cut to his throat after an alleged homophobic and racist attack at Seneca@York.
The attack happened November 25 around 11 a.m., was witnessed by other students, and was caught on security footage.
The student, identified as 22-year-old “Mojtaba,” said in an interview with Xtra! that he was attacked by a fellow student with whom he shares two classes. He said his alleged attacker called him a “bitch” and a “faggot” and to “leave here and go back to your fucking country.”
Mojtaba says he challenged the man to repeat himself, but that the male instead began to beat him. At some point he cut Mojtaba across the throat, leaving behind a gash. Ink remnants led him to believe he was attacked with a pen.
Mojtaba immigrated to Canada in 2009 from Iran to escape homophobic persecution. He says he did not see a doctor, nor did he go to the hospital.
According to Xtra! magazine, Toronto police arrested a 21-year-old man shortly afterwards and charged him with assault with a weapon.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
