Kate Hudson
Production Manager
I’m pretty new to the game, but even during my first few months of experimentation, Twitter has fundamentally changed the way I read news and interact with my environment. York University is no exception. Twitter has the capacity to connect isolated sub-communities because it is less direct than Facebook and more personalized than blog/RSS feeds, which makes it perfect for York.
Some of us are doing it right — Scott Library (@ScottLibrary) and Steacie Library (@SteacieLibrary), for example, blend informative updates with light humour. YorkU’s official news account (@YorkUnews) has just over 1300 followers.
If there’s one thing we know for sure, it’s that the number of people at York on Twitter is only going to increase. This is my list of people I’d like to see sooner than later:
1. President Shoukri
I know he doesn’t have the time to develop a serious Twitter addiction like the rest of us, but even if it were an update every once in awhile, I’d be happy. Even Stephen Harper is doing it these days. A lot of us would enjoy seeing a personal side of the President’s Office.
2. Judy Sgro
…or any other candidate for York West in the upcoming federal election, for that matter. Student participation in politics was at an all-time low this year during the York Federation of Students (YFS) elections (there essentially weren’t any; the incumbents won by default) so politicians in our riding should be doing everything they possibly can to get the message out.
3. York security
Courtesy of @ladatadesk I’ve been unintentionally getting updates about Los Angeles’s crime, and this has me thinking campus security alerts wouldn’t be such a bad idea. Security has a bulletin on yorku.ca, but that’s so 2005, isn’t it?
4. York lost-and-found
Returning lost items to their owners is nothing new to Twitter — the system is perfect for it. Students have an unfortunate habit of losing things. Unless it’s just me (I’d really like my iPhone back).
5. Rob Tiffin, v-p students
Another member of York admin that I’m curious to hear from.
6. YSDN (York-Sheridan Department of Design)
Maybe I’m a little biased, but the department of design is doing seriously great things. Time to get on Twitter, support your students, and show the rest of York — and, well, the world — what you’re made of. For a design school, Twitter is a must.
7. The Ab
York’s Absinthe Pub is the last student-run pub on campus and an important part of the non-academic side of York life. Even if there isn’t much to share in terms of news, I’m sure someone could contribute a little comic relief.
8. Norio Ota
This Japanese studies professor is leading the way in distance education through video-conferencing, textbook-less teaching and offering course work online for educators and students all over the world. (Check out the ‘Open Learning Environment’ here: http://buna.yorku.ca/japanese/) He understands that technology is essential to the future of teaching and translates his ideas into action. What better way than Twitter to spread some of those ideas around?
9. Vanessa Hunt
Incoming YFS prez for 2011-2012. It’s possible I just had trouble finding her. If she really isn’t on Twitter yet, surely it’s only a matter of time–?
10. The Underground (@UGyork)
Although they are already on Twitter, the Underground hasn’t been active on since Nov. 11. We’d like to stay updated on campus events, concerts, pub nights and contests that the Underground has to offer, so it would be well worth their while to start up again.
This isn’t a comprehensive wish list by any means, just a few people and groups that came to mind. I’m sure you have better ideas, so let me know: @k88hudson. 
 


Absolutely. I think a twitter lost-and-found totally makes sense – as does a campus security twitter. That’s how news gets around quickest now, and bulletins are like… ancient. Plus, who really goes to the yorku.ca website except for nerds like me?

 York University Community Newspaper 
