Christine Forde
Contributor
Do you have time to exercise? Doubtful, with homework, lectures, labs and seminars—plus a part-time job, alongside major projects and essays. And who in their right mind wants to exercise when they barely have a moment to breathe? You are definitely doing yourself a disservice. A big one.
Let’s start with the basics. Physical fitness, according to the Can-Fit-Pro fitness instructor specialist handbook, is defined as “an improved physiological state that leads to improved health and longevity.” It’s broken down into primary components which include: cardiorespiratory capacity, muscular capacity, flexibility and body composition. It sounds very complex but actually, it reaffirms our general knowledge and may shed light on important elements that we never really thought about.
Cardiorespiratory capacity is about our bodies’ intake of oxygen which includes how much we take in, how often we take it in, and how it creates energy. What you need to know is that the more oxygen your body takes in, the more efficiently it will run. The way to improve our oxygen intake is to exercise (think: ability to run across campus or up the stairs to your class without becoming winded).
Muscular capacity includes muscular endurance; strength and power. Improving these will increase your own strength or endurance (think: carting your heavy backpack around all day or picking up your groceries).
Flexibility is defined as the “range of movement that a joint is capable of performing.” But did you know that improving your flexibility can actually decrease your chance of injury (especially during exercise) and improve things like posture?
Lastly, body composition is the ratio of your fat-free mass to your fat-mass. Having more muscle on your body improves your metabolism. When that happens, you burn more fat at rest. There are further benefits: decreased risk of cardiovascular disease, decreased resting heart-rate, and an overall improvement of endurance, strength, and energy. Other components include balance, agility, coordination, power, speed, reaction time, and mental capability.
These components can be improved by a regularly applying these primary things—we decide how we do it.

But Alana John, fourth-year kinesiology major and experienced fitness instructor specialist says, “if we were all exactly the same, there’d be a prescription. But we’re not.”
What she means is that each and every person needs to find exactly what works for him/her. For one person, it might be including a step class four days a week to their already healthy diet. For someone else who works out six days a week, it might be engaging in 30 minutes of cardio and 30 minutes of weight-training, or perhaps cutting alcohol intake and eating more whole foods.
It is an admirable thing to commit to an intensive exercise program but the most important question is: what kind of fitness do you like? Some of us hate exercise. No matter what we do to convince ourselves, we can’t stand the idea of doing something strenuous just because it’s healthy. The key is to find something challenging that you genuinely enjoy to keep you interested. That makes all the difference in the world.
Third-year nursing student Isha Lakhina says brightly, “I love dancing—like Zumba, it’s something you can enjoy.”
Her classmate, Shauwminie Kumarasamy nods, “I’ve heard really good things about hot yoga. A friend of mine did hot yoga, she said she felt amazing and her skin felt great. I’ve always wanted to try it.”
When asked what one needs to in order to be healthy (in all senses), Kumarasamy wisely replied, “Balance.” So while all of the components of physical fitness will improve your health and add years to your life. They will also add quality to your life, creating balance and that is irreplaceable.
According to Can-Fit-Pro, “a sense of optimal wellness is just as important as physical health.” There are four understood areas of wellness: social health, mental health, emotional health, and spiritual health. When we combine all of the components of optimal wellness, we can create balance in our lives and this is something we do have control over.
John says, “[the] best shape I was in was when I was depressed. People forget that exercise is also for your mind and body. You’re too busy to think ‘Oh when I go on the step my butt jiggles’ because you’re using your mind to think about what you’re doing. It’s not just about the aesthetic.”
This brings us to goal-setting. Maybe you want to look like the next Chalene Johnson (creator of Turbo Kick and similar cardio-kickboxing programs) or Michael Phelps (Olympic Games gold-medalist). Those are ambitious goals and if that’s what drives you, then find the fitness program that best suits you and your lifestyle and make it happen.
Even if your goal is achieving better health, gaining more energy, or improving your immune system, as John says, “whatever it is you need to do—yoga fusion, Zumba, or whatever—take that time for yourself. What are your goals? Make the time and chase after it.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alex Hum
Contributor
The link between cannabis and psychosis could be stronger than anticipated. Three youth researchers, accompanied by Catherine Willinsky, manager of national programs and projects for the Schizophrenia Society of Canada, gave a presentation on October 18 in Vanier College about the alleged link.
Among the presentation materials was a series of videos voicing personal experiences of individuals in the research project regarding cannabis use and how it affected living with psychosis.

“I’m not sure if smoking pot is what caused it or if it just brought it out in me,” said one of the interviewers. “But I do know that things started to change after I began using”.
Shannon Uren, one of the presenting researchers testifies: “marijuana really messed with my mind”.  He accounts for all his efforts to stay well and successful: going back to school, keeping a job, maintaining a steady social life.
“When you lose everything including your mind and who you are yourself,” says Uren, “it’s actually really nice just to be able to go to school, and just to be able to […] have a girlfriend and have money and have a house and just […] have a good time.”
Although it is hard to say definitively that smoking marijuana will directly cause onset of psychosis, it is thought that it accelerates the process, worsens symptoms, and in some cases acts as the trigger. In Uren’s experience, for a number of people, “marijuana has brought them over.”
Uren began smoking weed in eighth grade. Two years later, at age 14, he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Andrew Minderlein, also a presenting researcher, was smoking marijuana for four years before his onset of schizoaffective bipolar disorder at age 20. Another individual said in her video testimonial: “I started smoking pot when I was 20. Five years later I was hospitalized and diagnosed with bipolar disorder and psychotic symptoms”.
Scott Billias, the third presenter, used marijuana differently. He smoked for the purpose of self-medication.
“It wasn’t that people smoked weed and then they got sick; they were sick so as a coping mechanism they started smoking weed,” says Billias. “My onset of psychosis was about when I was 12, which is relatively early, and I didn’t start smoking until after that.”
These three men understand the difficulties of psychosis. They have lived through the societal stigma, but now in the program, with proper medication, none of them experience symptoms of psychosis anymore.
This is where the fight against social stigma begins. “There’s a lot of stigma being taken away from certain things. But “everybody knows somebody who has mental illness. […] says Uren Getting the word out is really important in trying to shut that stigma down”.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ann Gill
contributor
Getting caught up in the fast food neon lights because your concentration is fading? Walk away more focused from the lights and keep that healthy diet with the warm embrace of the holistic lifestyle. Many are intimidated by the sound of a holistic diet, assuming the changes are difficult or unachievable on a student budget.
There comes a turning point in your life when it’s obvious a cleansing or a change is needed. Holistic is more than eating a certain number of fruits and vegetables a day—it’s a way of life. It is your own personal road map to eating that goes beyond the food on your plate.
So how can such a diet help you as a student achieve optimal energy and concentration levels?
It’s simple, and it’s realistic. It starts with feeding your brain, which is in permanent communication with the rest of your body.
“The brain is a hungry organ using up to 25 per cent of your calories mainly derived from carbohydrates. Brain cells are not looking for calories, they are looking for nutrients,” says Lise Leela, a registered holistic nutritionist, who is board certified in practical holistic nutrition.
So what are these key nutrients that can help you unleash your potential? It starts with carbohydrates, which are your brain’s fuel. Balancing your glucose (carbs) level is optimal when it comes to tuning your brain. Complex carbohydrates increase the levels of serotonin in your body and decrease cortisol (the stress hormone). Dark leafy green vegetables, whole grain breads and pastas, brown rice, sweet potatoes and beans are all complex carbohydrates.
Trying to stay away from coffee, alcohol, refined sugar, carbonated beverages, and white carbs, are important because they hinder good glucose balance. Another important nutrient is a good B vitamin. Any “B complex” is a stress fighter, improves and stabilizes mood and helps metabolize all those complex carbohydrates. Protein acts as the messenger or carrier in your brain, making it a key nutrient.

Foods rich in good proteins are eggs, wild fish, turkey, beans, and lentils. Omega-3 essential acid protects neurons and is the“brain oil”. Leela recommends a good Omega-3 fish oil supplement, such as NutraSea+D by Ascenta health. It is carried at the Nutrition House store located in York Lanes.
It is also recommended to consume raw nuts and seeds, ground flaxseeds, flaxseed oil, and hemp oil. These types of oils are easy to add to any diet; it can be taken once in the morning, or added to foods you may be already eating.
Antioxidants are another vital part of the holistic diet. Not only do these protect brain cells, but they support the immune system during stressful periods. Midterms call for these fighters. The best source for antioxidants is fresh fruits and vegetables packed with vitamin C. Short on time? Leela recommends a dose of Barlean’s Organic Oils Olive Leaf in the morning and make sure to eat at least one raw vegetable a day.
Another factor in achieving a holistic diet and going through a cleansing process is to maintain a healthy pH balance. To maximize your health and balance your pH level, an alkaline-rich diet is vitally important. The ideal ratio is to consume 75 per cent alkalinizing-forming foods and 25 per cent acid-forming foods daily.
An acidic diet can impair your health in many ways. Antioxidant activity is impaired; vitamins and minerals from food are not absorbed well; sleep patterns are disturbed; colds, infections, headaches, and the flu become more common. While physical and mental energy is depleted, greatly affecting stamina and mood. Colourful fruits and vegetables are among the best alkaline-forming foods (also packed with antioxidants). Foods such as poultry, beef, or white pastas and rice pair well with broccoli for neutralization.
These are the basic principles of a holistic diet, which will give you not only a greater burst of energy but also a balanced physical, emotional, and mental state. Holistic means whole, and a holistic cleansing diet is meant to put every section in your life in balance.
It means experimenting with new sources of protein and lessening meat, dairy, sugar, coffee, alcohol, tobacco, and junk food intake, but it will happen slowly.
Always listen to the feedback your body gives you and avoid making sudden changes. That is the essence of being holistic.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alyssa Dool
Contributor
The York Lions volleyball home opener began with a roar. They took to the court with swagger in every step. From this point on, it was obvious that our lady Lions would claim victory, as they thumped the Western Mustangs 3-1.
The Mustangs were the first on the board, but with major plays by Melissa Humaña-Paredes and Thinesa Sriskandarajah, the Lions were able to take the first set.
York did not let up during the second set, and the crowd was beginning to feel the excitement the players were obviously experiencing. The teams defence picked up, igniting the team even more.
Stephanie Green and Tisha Rouse consistently blocked incoming volleys and spikes throughout the set. Players Brandie Wilkerson and Sheraine Henry were quick on their feet, smashing spikes into the opponent’s face. The set ended with another 25-18 lead and the atmosphere was electrified with the two-set win.
Although the Lions came away with the win, there were some shaky areas during the game.
“I think we got a little too
excited,” says Humaña-Paredes, “and too caught up with everything.”
The Lions’ streak was over with the third set. The players lost focus and their defence wasn’t nearly as dominant as it had been. Rebecca Oxland from the Mustangs was able to bypass the Lions defence easily. The Mustangs trampled the Lions with a 25-18 lead. The opportunity for a Western comeback had been created.
In the fourth set the Lions powered through scoring the first four points in the set and overcoming the resistance of the Mustangs. Sriskandarajah received the serve from the Mustangs and Wilkerson set up the spike for Humaña-Paredes, giving the Lions a 20-9 lead.
The home opener wrapped up with a solid 3-1 lead.
“I think we did an excellent job, we did really awesome,” says Lions setter Tisha Rouse, player of the match. “We really capitalized on everything we were working on in practice.”
What are the next steps for the Lions?
“There’s still a lot of things that we need to work on,” says head coach Nick Tran. “I thought at times our offence was a little disjointed, so that’s something we’ll continue to work on.”
The Lions hoped to carry this momentum into the following day against the Windsor Lancers on October 22.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kristina Vlcek
contributor
“Bloodthirsty” is the only way to describe the atmosphere October 21 at Tait Mackenzie. The reigning OUA silver medalist, the Western Mustangs, had the audacity to try to steal the Lions’ first win. The Lions’ opposition echoed off the walls with screams and shouts.
Right from the beginning the war was even on both sides. The Lions delivered the first blow, starting off with the lead in the first set, thwarting the Mustangs. Attacks hit the nets from both sides, but the Mustangs managed to win the first battle 15-25.
Nikola Sandic of the Lions took the helm, beginning the second set with an impressive kill, while middle Felipe Humaña-Paredes delivered covering fire. Western came right back, with players Matthew Gibson and Phil James sending the ball rocketing to the ground to bring their score up to 16-24. The Mustangs took the second set.
But the Lions battled back and drew Mustang blood, winning the third set 21-17. Humaña-Paredes carried the momentum of the charge, after Karim Khalil brought the Lions within two points.
The Lions saw the light of victory in the fourth set, while the Mustangs just wanted to finish their opponents. Giving up some points with a couple of clumsy plays, the Mustangs gave Lions fans hope. The Lions put up some great blocks, but the Mustangs continued throwing down powerful kills, creating a three point lead. They doubled that lead and finished the set at 19-25, winning the game 3-1.
“I think we just got complacent,” says Western’s Garret May, last year’s OUA rookie of the year. “Congratulations to the York team, they did a great job. They wanted it and played like it. […] I know we can play better; I would not go with good. We are going to take the win but we can definitely improve on for the next game.”
Karim Khalil, York’s captain, stays confident after the loss.
“I think we put up a pretty good fight against Western,” says Khalil. “I am still confident, I am sure everyone else is. I think we’re just getting better. […] We are still trying to figure out the little pieces but everyone can work on themselves to improve the group and we are going to come back a lot more confident tomorrow.”
The York team is young—only Humaña-Paredes and Khalil are fourth years. Fans can start to  expect great things, as they are growing as a team and becoming  much stronger. Their next game is the second of a back-to-back against Windsor at home.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Lewis Chaitov
Staff Writer
I
n an exciting match, the Lions lost their season closer to the playoff-bound Windsor Lancers with a final score of 40 to 15.
The young Lions had a tough start for the first half, battling hard but unable to convert. It was not until the last minute of the first half that the Lions were able to string plays together in succession to score some points. With a one-yard rush from rookie running back sensation Riser Markell, the home team was on the board. Markell had 100 yards rushing on the day with 24 carries, surpassing last week’s feat of 70 rushing yards on 19 carries. After rookie kicker Heneri Dervishi scored the extra point, York went to their locker room down 24 to 7.
The starting quarterback today was sophomore D.J. Frank. Coach Warren Craney decided not to go with the usual Nick Coutu or Dimitar Sevdin, although Coutu did get put into action in the second half, netting 50 yards on three plays.
Although Windsor was dominating the field, York tried to claw their way back into the game. With a set of rouges in the third quarter scored by Dervishi. Dervishi also put three more points on the board with a 14-yard field goal early in the fourth quarter.
Even though defeat was imminent, the York Lions did something nostalgic. Graduating student Dror David, who normally only punts, put the final 3 points for York on the scoreboard with a 37-yard field goal: the last of the game and of his football career.
With the season over, it leaves a moment for reflection.
Head coach Warren Craney says that he never made any promises for a quick fix for our team. But he has started some new bounding methods with the team which is a core element for a winning team.
Before the game today, the graduating class of four was honoured by coach Craney and Jennifer Myers, director of sports and recreation. The coaching staff plan on bringing a winning team to York very soon. Starting next week the coaches will be heading out to some high schools, looking for new talent.


 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Sara McGuire
Contributor
Fans of Canadian musician Leslie Feist have undoubtedly been anticipating more music since the successful release of The Reminder back in 2007. Her new album Metals, released October 4, is a worthy addition to her discography.

The album reintroduces Feist’s pure, haunting vocals and dreamy music. Her new songs, however, assume a darker tone compared to her previous albums. The album was composed in a mountain cabin in California during the rainy month of February, wrote Feist on her official website. The conditions under which the songs were written are reflected in the music and in the progression of the album.
The beginning of the album swells and crashes, full of passion and urgency, then starts to calm like the passing of a storm.  Fans of Feist’s more upbeat and poppy hits like “1234” and “I Feel It All” may be surprised by the dramatic turn that she has taken with her music.  Still, listeners should not be deterred, as the album delivers beautifully in a different way.
The album opens with the passionate “The Bad In Each Other.”  It establishes the subsequent themes of frustration and confusion with love that are woven throughout the album.  That being said, it is more than merely a breakup album. Many of the songs contain moments of deep introspection about the past, as well as contemplation about leaving the life you know behind, and exploring the unknown.
The wistful “Caught A Long Wind” stands out in its soft and thoughtful nature. Listening to Metals is like following along Feist’s train of thought as she reflects on her life so far and the choices she must make in times to come. Her music is moving and at moments very personal.
My only quibble would be that the album drags on somewhat in the second half.  Despite enjoying the musical and lyrical brilliance in her new music, I did find myself missing the simple pleasure that many of her previous songs inspired.  Some would argue that it is not an album to casually breeze through.  Rather, it is one that should be experienced with attention and reflection. Nostalgia aside, Metals holds its own in its sincerity and quiet musing.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Vincent Rahming
Senior staff writer
This October we welcome the latest installment of the Paranormal Activity franchise with feverish excitement. The prequel will satisfy those wondering how it all began.

I will admit, after watching a mini marathon of FX’s American Horror Story, I wondered if viewing Paranormal Activity 3 a few hours later would make me overdose on scary movies. Needless to say, I gave in to peer pressure and got in on the action anyway. Like its predecessors, the film stuck to its roots by using the same found-footage formula. Only this time, the scares are just as sharp, if not sharper than the original, with a bit more character development, eerie conversations, new discoveries, and hair-raising moments (pun intended).
Katie and Kristi, who we were first introduced to in the previous films, remain the core characters. However, we see younger versions of the girls, and learn how a paranormal visitor entered their lives.
The movie is set in the late 80s, as the girls move into a new home with their mother Julie and her boyfriend Dennis. The couple’s curiosity is awakened one night. While they make a sex tape, an earthquake occurs and is captured on film. Upon reviewing the recording the very next day, Dennis notices something else.
Unable to get the unsettling images out of his head, Dennis
invites his friend Randy to review the tape with him to clarify that he’s not hallucinating. The film then goes on to explore a young Kristi’s new found imaginary friend, Toby. It is soon revealed that Toby isn’t what she perceives him to be, and his presence begins to take a startling turn.
For a second, I expected the filmmakers to recycle the same old discoveries, but surprisingly, things just get darker and creepier when Dennis decides to set up a revolving video camera downstairs and in the girls’ bedroom.
Two of the most chilling scenes occur when Katie runs upstairs to her bedroom and literally encounters Toby’s wrath, and when the babysitter is left alone studying downstairs. Studying will never be quite the same.
Normally, it’s fair to think horror franchises don’t know when to quit and story lines become redundant. But screenwriter Christopher B. Landon injects some fresh ideas into Paranormal Activity 3, and the end result works well.
Paranormal Activity 3 came to theatres on October 20. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mike Mannarino
Staff Writer

Rusty knives, demonic
possessions, mindless zombies, axe welding maniacs, and mad scientists make up the classic films worth checking out this Halloween season. After all, what’s Halloween without a good horror flick?
New horror films have the
advantage of new technologies
to make them extra-gruesome and extra-frightening, but to truly understand the horror genre, we must first look back at the films that made it what it is today.
First up is one of the earliest slasher films in American cinematic history: Psycho (1960). This film stars Anthony Perkins as the infamous Norman Bates. He is the owner of the Bates Motel and caretaker of his ill mother.
Alfred Hitchcock’s directorial masterpiece was twisted and vile for the time period, and is still considered one of the greatest horror films of all time. Much like modern directors, Hitchcock utilized technologies available at the time. He could shift the mood of a scene with simple lighting tricks to create suspense and amplify it with a killer score that makes your skin crawl.
It’s hard to believe a film that once scared my grandfather could still have that same effect, half a decade later, on me.
Everybody knows the next film, The Exorcist (1973), but how many people have actually given it the chance to truly gross him or her out?
The film stars Linda Blair as the possessed Regan MacNeil and Max von Sydow as Father Merrin, who is called upon to perform an exorcism. The opening scene draws the viewer in instantly with the slow progression and eerie, dark lighting. From that point, it’s 122 minutes more of stomach-churning, head-turning mayhem.
This film was controversial when it was released due to its religious implications, yet still received critical praise. It is currently one of only two horror films to ever be nominated for best picture at the Oscars.
Something about the total
collapse of civilization intrigues many people, and if that concept speaks to you, take the time to watch Dawn of the Dead (1978). Zombies are more popular now than ever. They appear in many forms on TV shows, in graphic novels, films, and video games. There’s even a zombie survival guide that you can purchase with awesome tips for the zombie apocalypse.
This is George Romero’s first colour zombie flick, and he took advantage with squibs and blood packs. The phrase “shoot ‘em in the head” means nothing if we aren’t seeing zombie brains flying around in much of the film.
The film (which had a popular remake in 2004) follows a group of survivors taking refuge in a nearby mall. The usual close-up camera angles and cheesy 70s music made the killing of zombies extremely enjoyable.
The only advantage the remake has on the original is Ving Rhames’ one-liners. However, Ken Foree does a much better job establishing character as the leader carrying much of the film.
The fourth film worth watching this Halloween season comes with a hidden message: REDRUM. The Shining (1980) features this ominous phrase, and makes my list of all-time creepiest films. Blood-filled elevators, mind manipulation, seclusion, and an axe are the make-up of a film shrouded in mystery.
Director Stanley Kubrick’s mastery of plot twists and suspense puts him on the list of greatest directors of all time, having created such films as 2001: A Space Odyssey and A Clockwork Orange.
The film’s slow progression leads up to a twist that still to this day leaves people puzzled and confounded, a true masterpiece of its time period.
Finally, what would Halloween be without a few laughs? Young Frankenstein (1974) appears to be a horror film on the surface—a black and white film with monsters and mad scientists—but keep in mind that this Mel Brooks directed film stars Gene Wilder and Peter Boyle.
Perhaps the funniest of the escapades of the young Victor Frankenstein (pronounced “Fronkensteen”) is the monster running amok after an impressively choreographed dance routine with his creator.
The film draws on comedy styling of the 70s. It has a timeless charm and although it is not literally a horror film, it deserves a mention on my list.
All these films have a few things in common: they have all stood the test of time and can be considered classic, and they all come from a time period when directors had to think outside the box to create their vision. Reintroduce yourself to the roots of horror films with five classics to put your mind in the mood for malevolent mayhem and murder that goes hand in hand with Halloween.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
New Girl
Tuesdays 9 p.m., CityTV
Hollywood it-girl Zooey Deschanel stars in the new sitcom that is already charming critics and audiences alike. After breaking up with her cheating boyfriend, thirty-something Jess moves in with three guys she found through the internet. Jess finds independence and friendship while living with roommates Nick, Schmidt, and Winston. Lead character Deschanel is receiving praise for showing her comedic chops and sparkling personality through her character.
Co-stars Jake Johnson, Max Greenfield, and Lamorne Morris have great on-screen chemistry. The writing is also very witty and unique, with the show introducing gags such as a “douchebag jar” and the slow-motion chicken dance. Whether you love Zooey or not, New Girl is sure to make you laugh out loud.

Person of Interest
Thursdays 9 p.m., CityTV
Created by Jonathan Nolan (The Dark Knight, Memento) and executive produced by J.J. Abrams, Person of Interest stars Michael Emerson of Lost and follows Finch, a billionaire who created computer surveillance technology that can identify the person involved in a crime that will occur in the future. However, there are limitations, as it only generates the social security number of the person, and gives no clues to the crime such as the location, time, and role of the person. Unable to stop it on his own, Finch hires John Reese, a former CIA agent, to prevent any crimes before they occur.
The show depicts a post-9/11 world, as the machine’s prime purpose, according to Finch, was to prevent another 9/11 from happening. By drawing on how society harbours a paranoia about safety, the show is very relevant for the audience. Nolan and Abrams’ own previous works include psychological aspects, mystery, action, and thrilling suspense, so you can see how much of the themes have carried on to the show.
Once Upon a Time
Sundays 7 p.m., CTV
Lost writers Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz have created a show that is inspired by childhood fairy tales, but with a modern twist. Jennifer Morrison stars as Emma, a bail bonds collector who moves to Storybrooke, Maine, along with Henry, her son whom she gave up for adoption years ago. What Emma doesn’t know is that the residents of Storybrooke are actually fairy tale creatures, cursed into forgetting their true identities, and that she may hold the key to unlocking the curse. Some of the fairy tale characters that are featured on the show include Snow White, Prince Charming, and Rumplestiltskin.
The show will follow Emma and Henry helping the residents of Storybrooke remember who they were before the curse, while looking back on the lives of the fairy tale characters prior to the curse. The show is very unique in terms of writing, with many comparing it to Pushing Daisies and Lost. This may or may not be the fairy tales you grew up with, but this fantasy drama may definitely cast a spell to the audience.
American Horror Story
Premieres October 31 on FX Canada
For those who are getting sick of Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk’s hit show Glee, the duo has created a show that is the total opposite of their current hit. It focuses on the Harmon family, who move from Boston to Los Angeles after a series of incidents, including wife Vivien’s miscarriages and husband Ben’s affair. With their daughter Violet, they try to restore the family unit in their new home, unaware of the house’s haunted past. People frequently visit the Harmon household, each with a horrific past connected to the house.
The psychological elements make it reminiscent of films such as The Shining, Rosemary’s Baby, and The Others; its aim to not scare the audience, but rather to trigger the “what just happened?” factor. Don’t worry, there are no singing teens in the show.

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
