Nicholas Maronese
Editor-in-Chief
A new student group campaign is encouraging York University to divest from companies they think violate international human rights laws, but the administration argue their stake in those companies gives them a voice they can use to change unethical business practice.
A recent report from the Students Against Israeli Apartheid (SAIA), “Holding York University Accountable,” pressed York to withdraw its endowment and pension fund investments and refrain from reinvesting in BAE Systems, Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin, manufacturers of components for Israel’s F-16 Falcon fighter jets; and from Hewlett-Packard, who supply Israel’s military with computers.
SXC.HU
In the report, SAIA says that by investing in companies that manufacture weapons “used to kill and maim Palestinian civilians,” York may be complicit “in the commission of crimes under international law.”
Trudy Pound-Curtis, assistant to the vice-president finance, explained York doesn’t actually choose which particular stocks it invests in, but only selects an investment manager.
“What we do, however, is provide each manager with our mandate,” said Pound-Curtis. “Included in that mandate is that they take into consideration environmental, social and governance factors in their formulas.”
The university’s “best practice” policy on investments, built on advice from major consulting firms, forbids “negative screening” or divesting from particular companies.
“[Mercer Ltd. consulting] believe the best approach to make a difference is through something called ‘active engagement’ where we would have our managers engage with managers in those companies’ behaviours, and we’ve built that into our investment philosophy,” said Pound-Curtis. “If we give up our stock, we have no vote, no say, no anything.”
But SAIA’s Katherine Lapointe thinks the university is using corporate rhetoric to complicate the situation.
“York can, and is indeed under the obligation to, instruct the investment manager to refrain from investing in companies based on defined criteria, including compliance with international law and respect for human rights,” she explained. “York cannot hide behind the fund managers and pretend that there is no problem. It is York’s money, and it is York’s ethical obligation.”
Lapointe said the university’s investment philosophy is inherently flawed.
“As long as our university remains invested in companies that profit from war crimes, it continues to make a mockery of its stated commitments to human rights and social justice,” she said. “‘Active engagement’ is a very
slow and ineffective tool [and it’s] not possible at all when the company’s main business is to manufacture weapons which are, by definition, death machines.”
Omar Dominguez, chair and co-founder of the Coalition of Universities for Responsible Investing, said York is on the right track.
“Issues like military spending are bound to be controversial,” he said. “But if you divest from these companies, it really leaves you out of an opportunity to negotiate with the companies and try to address your concerns.”
Nevertheless, Dominguez appreciated SAIA’s efforts to include students in these discussions.
“We encourage universities to combine the university trustees – who are ultimately responsible for these decisions – with faculty who have expertise on the very issues, to include the views of students, who are some of the beneficiaries, and to include multiple stakeholders,” he said of his coalition’s goals.
Pound-Curtis also pointed out that since they switched investment managers in late February, York is no longer investing in Hewlett-Packard or Northrop Grumman, and that they have not invested in Lockheed Martin since August 2010.
In fact, York is currently invested in only one of SAIA’s four target companies, BAE Systems, via the university’s pension fund.
“We’ve about a million dollars [in BAE Systems] out of our total pension fund, which is $1.4 billion dollars – it’s insignificant,” said Pound-Curtis. “We will have a discussion with our investment manager to ask if they’d considered any of the facts [of SAIA’s report].”
Lapointe emphasized that York has not yet promised not to reinvest in these companies.
“Pound-Curtis has not addressed any of the three demands of our divestment campaign,” she said.
Anne Bayefsky, a political science professor at York University who specializes in international human rights, thinks the campaign is wrongheaded because of its focus on Israel as an apartheid state.
“Israel, like all states, is entitled to the rights of self-defense,” she explained. “Efforts to deny Israel’s right to self-defense are, in fact, the inverse of the declared intention of people concerned with apartheid because it would deny the Jewish people a homeland where they can find protection and security.”
In their report, SAIA compares Israeli policy to apartheid South Africa, citing a study, “Occupation, Colonialism, Apartheid?” by the Human Sciences Research Council of South Africa. But Bayefsky thinks the evidence points in the opposite direction.
“Everyone should be concerned about human rights, but we have to take a good hard look at the facts,” she said. “The evidence clearly indicates that Israel – a country where one-fifth of the population is Arab with full democratic rights and representation at the highest levels of Israeli society – is not an apartheid state.”
To read SAIA’s full report, “Holding York University Accountable,” visit  www.toronto.saia.ca.
With files from Brent Rose and Yuni Kim
 


Am I seeing things, or is there a hideous misuse of the possessive apostrophe in the title?
Hi Harrison! Long time?!
Not a hideous misuse if you pretend that “group’s” is supposed to be followed with “policy”.
Is it just me or does excalibur give wayyyyyyy too little space to any group that stands in solidarity with Palestine in their paper? One and a half sentences from a SAIA spokesperson and half an article of b.s from the admin and blatant lies from a “professor” at York, Who’s obviously working with Hillel.
Is it a prerequisite for editors that they must be in love with Israel? Maronese, in his piece does a bad job hiding his bias and clear attempts to mislead readers. The group in this article is not asking for divestment from companies that they “feel” vioates international law. These findings have been made by experts of International law: academics, UN investigations, Amnesty International, Human rights watch have found Israel’s actions and the bodies that support it are in constant violation of international law.
Excalibur, readers are tired of this open love for apartheid.
I agree, Steve. Just google the professor Anne Bayefsky. She is a pretty outspoken Israel sympathizer. I understand that the writer of the article felt that they were balancing SAIA with this professor, but it’s actually unbalanced.
Using a professor’s (expert’s) comments against a student group’s comments is not leveled. Why not get Dr. Rahnema to comment? After all, he only teaches the most popular course on Israel/Palestine Relations in all of York. Or any other political professor who specializes in Middle East Politics?
The end of this article is atrocious. Bayefsky’s blatant apologetics are just embarrassing and shouldn’t be taken seriously at all. They’re clearly tacked on and they completely divert focus away from rest of the piece.
Also, the most verbose lead in existence
Um… since when is a country democratic when it has already titled itself as a “Jewish State”. The dominating ideology and bias is clear in that alone, and does not in any circumstance create a space for democracy.
I am really glad to see this dialogue at York and online. These are important questions for universities and their communities.
I want to invite you to the 1st national symposium to examine social and environmental issues affecting university investments (June 21, 2011, Victoria, BC).
please visit: http://www.curi.ca

 York University Community Newspaper 
Brent Rose
Managing Editor
If you have ever parked in The Village while you dash off to your three-hour class to avoid having to pay York University’s parking fees, one day you might find a bright yellow ticket slapped to your windshield.
Parking by-laws in the streets around The Village at York neighbourhood south of campus changed recently, from a maximum three hours to one hour between 8 am and 8 pm. According to North York Community Council minutes, the change came after Village residents made numerous complaints about York students abusing the three-hour parking limit.
(Pippin Lee)
The new by-law took almost a year to implement after being adopted in July 2010. Anthony Perruzza, Ward 8 York West councillor, said it takes time for new by-laws to be put into practice. The City doesn’t start putting up signs or enforce new laws until everything is finalized.
When the new signs went up March 24, York University tweeted about the new parking regulations, pleading, “We’re just the messenger!” They also published a YFile article with detailed
information.
The new by-laws have left some York students furious.
It’s Anne’s last year York University, and she had never gotten a ticket parking in The Village – until now.
“It’s fucking ridiculous,” she said after learning about the new bylaw and finding a $30 ticket on her car. “[It’s] obviously against students because they know we have three-hour classes, and one-hour parking is trying to prevent us from what we’ve been doing the whole time.”
Many students returning from class to their cars parked in The Village were surprised to learn about the new time-cap. Most of them park in The Village to avoid parking costs at York.
Councillor Peruzza understands the challenges York students face when parking at Keele campus – students paying for expensive parking at York is nothing new.
“I went to York myself and we used to pay steep parking rates, and that’s why I took up riding my bicycle to York,” said Peruzza.
He urged Toronto’s parking authority to construct an underground parking lot under the hydro corridor near Murray Ross, though the city apparently decided they’d be unable to recuperate their losses or maintain the lot financially.
“We know [parking in The Village is] a problem and I would also like to take some of those cars parking in those neighbourhoods out of the neighbourhoods and into a parking lot […] but so far we’ve been unsuccessful with it.”
Peruzza is still very interested in the idea of a parking lot at Murray Ross and said he is continuing to fight for its construction.
Students that park in The Village couldn’t decide whether they’d be willing to bite the bullet and pay for York parking. Some said they’ll still park in The Village because it’s their last year at York; others said paying the fine would still be cheaper than buying a York parking permit. Some students, however, said they’d have no choice but to park at York because of the new bylaw.
The university is still unsure how a one-hour parking limit in The Village will affect the number of students parking at York in the future, said York spokesperson Wallace Pidgeon.
“We just don’t know,” said Pidgeon.
According to Toronto parking enforcement, they usually patrol an area when they receive a lot of complaints from residents in that community. They won’t usually issue more than a ticket a day on a single car.
With the previous three-hour limit, parking officials used to fine drivers $15. The new by-law also allows people to park for free in The Village from  8 am and 8 pm.
York currently charges $1.50 to $2.50 per half-hour, and $10 to $20 per day for parking.
With files from Amelia Ruthven-Nelson
 


To those of you who read this – you CAN take action. No protests, no petitions, no complaints.
Read, Join and Share. Please!
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Wipe-my-wheel-and-Ill-wipe-yours/193549840681198

 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
York Federation of Students (YFS)  executive director Jeremy Salter and YFS president Krisna Saravanamuttu are at University of Victoria (UVic) campus this week where, according to a Facebook event titled “The Big CFS Debate at UVIC,” Salter was set to engage in a debate regarding the recent referendum as a speaker for the “yes” side – he would be arguing UVic should not break away from the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS).
Gemma Karstens-Smith, Editor-in-Chief for UVic’s student newspaper the Martlet, confirmed there’s a heavy CFS presence on campus at the moment.
UVic’s student union – University of Victoria Students’ Society (UVSS) – chairperson James Coccola noted there are “a lot of people from the ‘yes’ side who have been brought to campus to campaign on this and there’s a lot of resources behind this side.”
Krisna Saravanamuttu (left) and Jeremy Salter (right) were at the UVic campus to argue against the referendum that would defederate UVic from the CFS. (David Foster)
(Pippin Lee)
The UVSS has officially endorsed the “no” side, implying the current board believes it is not in the best interest of students to continue to be
part of the CFS.
Coccola said he was aware there was going to be a number of people flown out to campaign for the CFS during the
referendum.
“It’s happened at every school [that votes to defederate from the CFS] […] it’s quite common, so it doesn’t surprise me at all that Jeremy’s here,” he said.
Coccola also suggested York students should reflect on the fact their student union executive director had flown out to “campaign on the other side of the country, something that arguably doesn’t affect York students.”
“This is a referendum for UVic students. Why would someone from York be able to speak to the issues that UVic students are facing?” questioned Coccola. “Not all issues are the same across the country, despite what people say.”
When asked about whether the YFS covers the expenses for its members to travel to other campuses during a CFS referendum, Saravanamuttu responded via email, “The answer is no.”
Saravanamuttu couldn’t comment on who did, in fact, pay for the trip.
According to UVic student David Foster, there have been attempts for many years to break from the CFS.
“We don’t get a lot of value for our money, and the money could be better used in another way or even just by putting it back in our pockets,” said Foster. “This year we’re using even less of the CFS services than we ever have.”
He explained that UVic students do not use the CFS health plan, website services, and, since they found a company that could produce yearly handbooks at a lower cost than the CFS, even the handbook service has gone unused.
Karstens-Smith added that the referendum has been a long time coming for the university.
The original petition to begin a referendum was circulated by a number of students and began in 2009, but was declared invalid by the CFS because of a counter-petition started by the former UVSS.
According to Coccola, both petitions were submitted to CFS, which used the second petition to deny a referendum, although there was no way to tell which petition was signed first or whether students knew what type of petition they were signing.
The issue was then taken to the Supreme Court of Canada in November, where the judge ruled the petition valid.
Nevertheless, the CFS began claiming the UVSS owed a debt to the CFS from the ’90s to the tune of  $129,000. CFS bylaws state that student unions cannot have a referendum if they owe any outstanding membership fees.
Nevertheless, the court granted and set a date for the referendum on the basis that the debt was released by the CFS two days prior to a court date.
“The judge ruled it prejudicial and said they could not submit the affidavit and that they should’ve done so sooner – they had plenty of time to do so,” said Coccola.
The campaign period for the referendum started March 21 while the voting period started March 29 and ends March 31.
While Excalibur obtained a photo of Saravanamuttu on the UVic campus, Karstens-Smith said that Salter avoided all photos.
“Is he trying to hide the fact he’s here or something? Because we can definitely confirm that he is,” stated Karstens-Smith via e-mail.
Excalibur attempted to reach both Salter and Saravanmuttu by phone, text and email regarding these issues but did not get a comment from them as of publication.
Salter has a very strong tie to the CFS, and received an ‘A’ in a report card-like document accidentally released by CFS-British Columbia about three years ago. The document ranked CFS members based on loyalty, and recommended which members would be well-suited to advocate at universities holding a CFS defederation referendum.
When  Salter was president of Continuing Education Students at Ryerson (CESAR), he helped along the referendum to make CESAR a permanent member of the CFS. He was also the former Northern Ontario Commissioner for CFS-Ontario, while he served as the Lakehead University Student Union president.
 


Jeremy Salter also came to the University of Regina to campaign for the ‘yes’ side last October. We questioned then, how can the Executive Director be gone from work, campaigning in Saskatchewan for three weeks?
Thanks for the coverage, Excalibur! Happy to say that your students will be returning to their home campus shortly, as UVic voted overwhelming to defederate, removing the CFS and their representatives from our campus. Kindest regards from the west coast, from a ‘NO CFS’ side supporter.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Hufsa Tahir
Contributor
TAHIR: Why the name “SlutWalk”? Wouldn’t people find it offensive?
TEEKAH: If folks were to try and bury this story and shove it under the carpet, all that does is replicate and increase the power words like “slut” have. We want to confront this power and change it. By calling it SlutWalk, we are acknowledging his comment – and want to open up dialogue. We can take concepts “slut” points to – women having sex, who should have sex and what kind of women there should be – and completely rework these concepts in the interest of an actual gender-equal world.
TA: What’s the aim of this event?
TE: One of our main aims is to reappropriate the word “slut.” We are also looking for increased transparency, accountability and greater anti-oppression training for police. We are coming to this with a politic that can mean different things for different people who attend the march.
TA: Some might call it an overreaction to blame the entire police force for a reckless comment made by one officer.
TE: When a police officer puts on the uniform of the police force, he is not a lone person. For York and the Toronto police to select this officer to come and speak for “campus safety awareness” events, they are sending him as a rep of the Toronto police. Police officers are the result of police culture and training. Either the culture indirectly supports his point of view, or the training does not do a good enough job to train out of them this ignorance.
TA: How important is SlutWalk Toronto?
TE: We are not doing this event to say, “Fuck the police.” We are looking to have a dialogue with them, to open up real interaction between them and the community they serve. We want to improve their approaches toward minority groups, and make change for the better. This march is one of the steps in that process. We’ve had enough of these cases. It’s time to do something real and tangible about them.
TA: What kind of changes to attitude are you looking for?
TE: It’s easier to blame the victim than to look at the larger picture. Why are we telling women to police their bodies, to stay indoors, to dress in certain ways while men have absolutely none of this “policing” on them? Victim blaming actually works to support the rapist. How can you say that a rapist is ever “justified” in raping? We need to start looking at the larger picture – sexism in different places – and how these sources that spawn things like rape are not being addressed.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Matthew Goulet
Contributor
People all live with viruses, most of them benign; when these harmful tunes infect the brain, the average listener displays no signs of being completely subsumed by unexceptional music. They’re sort of like the sonic version of the human papillomavirus: symptoms don’t always show up, though the results can be deadly.
But creating public awareness for devastating viruses is not my intention – it’s to establish awareness in regard to the rapid spread of bad music (in most cases anything that falls under the umbrella of “mainstream”) and its ultimate destruction of formerly genuine bands.
Instrumental band Scale The Summit at one of their tour stops in Austin, Texas. (Prosthetic Records)
Let’s scale the summit of reason, shall we? To back up my salvo of accusations and labels, I’ve formed an armada of alternatives, a formidable flotilla of funk and folk that will freak your frontal cortex. My smart bomb comes in the form of an unorthodox, independent-minded group of people that helped build up a genre and simultaneously smash it down with complicated chord progression, sporadic melodies and overall awesomeness.
Scale The Summit is out with their latest album, The Collective.
Formed in 2004, Scale the Summit has peaked on many music charts and weathered many attacks from their perch, but they’re far too high up this mountain of musical mastery to notice the petty criticisms from down here. Ass-kissing, you say? Maybe, but the accolades are well deserved.
What sets Scale the Summit apart from other bands in the same metal subgenre is their lack of vocals. ‘Instru-metal’ is their brand of vocal-free metal, and they make up for the vocals elsewhere. The music literally speaks for itself, and lacks nothing in the frontman department.
Even more astounding is how young the band members are. Their average age is just 22, so they’ve many years ahead to develop as a band. If they’re at this level now, imagine their progress in five, 10 or 20 years.
Their stylistic elements are peculiar and wonderful. The music is hard with moments of softness, always maintaining a level of complexity even in simple harmonies. It maintains a happy atmosphere, something metal bands before them have seldom achieved. Songs like “Gallows” should be listened to on headphones while walking down a sunny street. Certain parts of the songs scream uncertainty, while the mood is cemented in the very atmospheric quality of “Colossal,” the opening track of The Collective.
Whereas many bands have to rely on sound editing to get their cohesive, unified quality, Scale the Summit has it on their own. It’s a quality that makes for outstanding live performances: all of the musicians are constantly on the same wavelength.
Taking time to savour The Collective is a transcendental experience of self-reflection, comparable to the effects of psychedelic drugs. Many fans of the band have described their music as a journey, a form of exploration both musically and personally for the individual; drifting into oneself after listening to the entire album is easy. Scale the Summit’s music lends itself to introspection, and that’s why critics have coined the term “adventure metal” to replace the tired old horse that is “progressive metal.” I’m not knocking the “prog,” but change is good.
Everyone’s level of musical knowledge and fondness is different and we listen to music for different reasons. For those unseasoned listeners, your level of critical listening isn’t the same as that of a professional. You may not pick out the minuscule elements of each song, but you don’t need to be an expert to enjoy expertly performed music.
What is bad music? What is good music for that matter? The subjectivity is the attraction to the medium – what’s certain is that The Collective will take you on a musical journey through passages of the mind rarely ever examined, without ever having to leave the comfort of home.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Paul McLaughlin
Contributor (This Magazine)
Nina Arsenault has spent a fortune changing her appearance from male to female. The 37-year-old used to work in the sex trade, but now supports herself as a playwright, performer and motivational speaker to queer youth. Her one-woman show, The Silicone Diaries, recently had a second highly successful run in Toronto, was later performed in Montreal and will open in Vancouver next year.
MCLAUGHLIN: Where did you grow up?
ARSENAULT: In Beamsville, Ontario in the Golden Horseshoe Trailer Park. It was a really tight knit community. My memories of it are just great. But we moved when I was about six to a house in Smithville. It was very difficult to make friends because I was so feminine. Growing up in the trailer park and going to school with those kids, they always knew how girlish I was. With everyone on top of each other you have no choice but to accept people. [Then I moved and] being the new kid it was very, very difficult to make friends. I have been a bit of a lone wolf all my life.
Nina Arsenault, who holds a York graduate degree in theatre, supports herself as performer. (Tony Fong)
M: In The Silicone Diaries you talk about seeing a female mannequin in a store at age five. What was it that affected you that day?
A: I think just the harmony and symmetry of the face spoke to me. I knew that I was a girl inside but I had this boy body. Then, for my visual gaze to rest upon a face that was a sculpture of a woman’s face, I just seized on that as a child. It affected me, the perfection of it.
M: When did you decide to begin plastic surgery?
A: About age 23, but I didn’t have my first procedure until I was 25.
M: What did you have done?
A: At first, just transsexual procedures to feminize myself. It got to a point where I looked as much like a normal woman as I possibly could; however, I still had masculine features. It was really traumatic on a daily basis to see those features. So I made the decision to really push the cosmetic procedures, knowing I would no longer look natural, that I would start to look plastic and artificial.
M: Like a mannequin?
A: Yeah. But I can’t say at the beginning of the journey I was trying to look like a mannequin or a Playboy bunny. I was just trying to be a woman.
M: Did you literally have 60 surgeries?
A: There were actually more. Some were just procedures, like a lip injection.
M: When was the last one?
A: In 2006.
M: How much did they cost?
A: Upwards of $200,000.
M: How did you afford that?
A: I was working in the sex trade and made an incredible amount of money so quickly there.
M: Men like “shemales”?
A: Yeah. In terms of supply and demand, there just aren’t a lot of us, but there’s a lot of interest. The first day I put my escort ad in the paper, I had 250 calls. I don’t think that’s something that’s spoken about that openly amongst otherwise heterosexual men. I could have worked from morning until night if I had wanted to.
M: What was it like working in the trade?
A: It was physically very tough. And I only did oral, no fucking.
M: A lot of transgender women work in the sex business. Why is that?
A: It’s one of the few places you can get work and feel safe. If you’re visibly transgender you’re going to be one of the most disenfranchised and disadvantaged people in culture.
M: You have two graduate degrees, right?
A: I do. But it’s tough to get straight work. You can’t imagine the amount of transphobia out there.
M: How long have you been out of the trade?
A: About three years. I support myself now as a performer.
M: In the play you mention that you have had your testicles removed. But you kept your penis. Why was that, if your goal was to be as close to a woman as possible?
A: I never knew what would happen to me financially so [if I still had my penis] I could always return to the sex business.
M: What has the play done for you?
A: It has been an incredibly healing ritual. I think I wrote it because I had a lot of emotional angst and suffering that I needed to express, that I needed someone to bear witness to. It makes me stronger every time I perform it.
M: Do you feel 100 percent female now or still a bit male?
A: I’ve always known I was a woman but I was socialized as a male. I have some qualities people see as male – I’m an aggressive thinker – but my core is definitely female.
M: Do you feel beautiful enough now?
A: I don’t work on the outside anymore. I concentrate now on inner work.
M: Any more surgeries ahead?
A: No. Not until I start to really visibly age.
This piece is reprinted with the permission of This Magazine. For more articles on Canadian politics, pop culture and the arts, check out  www.this.org.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ronald H. Neal 
Staff Writer
Increasingly, and perhaps not surprisingly, you’ll find doctors and health care professionals turning to the ancient disciplines of meditation to deal with mental health disorders.
Meditation is the most well-known – and certainly one of the most thoroughly studied – forms of medicine practiced by the Tibetan Buddhists for centuries.  Personified by the dignified and solemn Dali Lama for over 25 centuries, meditation has become a method of refining and exploring the inner self, probing and navigating inner space in much the same way we have preferred to examine our outer.
Spending just a few minutes to mediate can help you relive stress that comes from a busy scheduel. (SXC.HU)
“The monks, we believe, are the Olympic athletes of certain kinds of mental training,” said Richard Davidson, a neuroscientist from the University of Wisconsin who, as part of a select group of scientists and scholars, travelled to Dharamsala in 2000 to attempt to dissect problems of distress and human suffering.
He analyzed 150 ordinary brains and compared them to the brain of a monk, and discovered a monk’s brain was simply more active on the left, which represented happiness. “This is tantalizing evidence that these practices may indeed be promoting beneficial changes in the brain,” concluded Davidson.
Zindal Segal, a psychologist at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health who uses meditation to treat patients with mood disorders, finds that though we may never be able to reach the same heights as Buddhists who spend 10,000 hours sitting and meditating by just spending time clearing out minds we may be able to feel better.
“We’re talking about paying attention, we’re talking about returning wherever our minds are to this present moment. These are things that we all have. We don’t have to earn them, we just have to find a way of clearing away the clutter to see that they are already there,” said Dr. Segal.
The key to meditation is to slow the mind down and examine one’s thoughts and thinking processes and connect that to the present moment. “[Meditation is] a way of training yourself to pay attention in the present moment without judgement [as] to what your experience is,” said Dr. Segal in a Globe and Mail article.
The health benefits are still very much debated, but researchers have found that meditation is good for relieving stress, and dropping blood pressure. This form of medicine changes someone’s attitude from sour to positive and can go a long way especially in our busy lives. “Meditation is a set of practices that have been around for more than 2,500 years, whose principal goal is to cultivate these positive human qualities, to promote flourishing and resilience […]” said Davidson.
At first glance this may seem simple, but it has been shown to be just as effective as antidepressants in treating and preventing depression relapse, and this is just the tip of the iceberg.
The next time you are feeling blue, or stressed over exams, you shoulder consider your inner strength before popping a pill.
With files from The Globe and Mail
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kate Hudson
Production Manager
Final exams may drive you to the edge of sanity, but compared to what Norio Ota, director of Japanese studies at York University, went through at his Japanese high school, our academic lives are a cakewalk.
“When I was going through the entrance examinations, it was called ‘the exam from hell,’” said Ota. “I had to work until two to three in the morning every single day because I had to study for ten or twelve subjects at the same time, and then get up 6:30a.m. and go to school.”
He could tell I was shocked. Ota shook his head with a dismissive smile, “I wasn’t exceptional. Many people had to study the same way. We had a saying: If you sleep for four hours, you will fail the entrance exam. You have to sleep only for three. Seriously.”
It’s difficult for me to imagine an educational culture so different from my own.
“Well, many people went through this in Japan at those times. We thought about dying, and all those things, because the pressure was just enormous.”
“It was okay for me because I thought of it as one hurdle I had to overcome.”
Decades later, Ota still works until 2 or 3 am many days of the week, teaches overtime, trains high school teachers across Canada via videoconferencing, and recently helped coordinate a new Japanese language program at Havana University.
His peaceful smile, balanced demeanour and humility gave me the impression of self-awareness, dedication, and a man truly in love with his work.
“I feel appreciated by other people – I think that’s a source of work ethic for me,” said Ota. “It’s not just culturally ingrained. I love what
I do.”
A certain school of Western psychologists, however, might use a different word to describe his behaviour.
Workaholism.
Work·a·ho·lic (n. circa 1968)
The term workaholic has been used informally to refer to white-collar and public service workers who ‘work too hard’ since it was coined in 1968 by American psychologist Wayne Oates.
However, there has been much academic discussion about what the term actually means in a clinical context, and considerable difficulty reaching a consensus.
Some early studies in workaholism looked at workers’ attitudes toward their jobs, while others focused on their behaviour, i.e. the number of hours worked per year. For example, Mosier (1983) defined a workaholic as someone who works more than 50 hours a week regardless of his psychological condition; Cherrington (1980) defined a workaholic as having an “irrational commitment to excessive work”; Machlowitz (1980) focused on the workaholic’s positive enjoyment of work.
Later studies attempted to place workaholics on a spectrum of “work involvement, a feeling of being driven to work, and work enjoyment”, differentiating between workaholics who enjoy their work and those who resent it.
The ‘Japanese Work Ethic’
The Japanese have a reputation for outworking their Western counterparts. But do the numbers support anecdotal evidence like professor Ota’s high school entrance exam experience? Is Japan a nation of workaholics?
At Japan’s economic peak, the numbers indicated a resounding yes. In 1980, Japanese worked an average of 2121 hours a year while Canadians and Americans both worked just over 1800. To put that in perspective, if you took two weeks of vacation, you would have to work about 8.5 hours every day – not including breaks – to meet the Japanese average.
While cultural collectivist attitudes are sometimes cited, Ota explained there is a clear economic explanation for this phenomenon.
“For a long time, until the beginning of the bubble economy, many [Japanese] worked for the same company until they retired. That was the source of loyalty in the company. These people worked really hard because they identified with the company.”
Overworking was such a serious issue that a word, kar?shi, was coined in the late ’80s to describe death or suicide attributed to work-related stress. Kar?shi prompted the Japanese government to begin research initiatives and enact legislation to force workers to take holidays.
Today, the problem is less severe, but over 10,000 continue to die from kar?shi every year – almost as many causalities as the March 11 earthquake crisis this year.
White collar workers and high level executives are among the most vulnerable. Even pre-university students, who are exposed to high levels of stress, are affected by kar?shi; Japanese students have one of the highest suicide rates for their age group in the world.
Bursting the Bubble
Westerners continue to view Japan as a workaholic society, but the trend may be changing.
In 2009, Japanese workers laboured an average of 1714 hours a week – only 15 more than Canadians – and actually less than American workers, who worked 1768.
This statistic forces us to rethink typical stereotypes about cultural pre-dispositions and look at economic factors in defining trends in
overworking.
“After the economic bubble burst, what happened was that Japanese companies started laying off and firing people, so the so-called life-time employment system has collapsed since then.” said Ota. “Many people felt the same way I did: ‘Why should I spend my whole life working for a big corporation?’ A different value orientation was introduced. Not all at once, but gradually.”
While Japanese workaholism may be subsiding, for Canadians, there are no signs the problem is going away. Since workaholics tend to be high-functioning members of society, their problems often go unnoticed.
Bryan Robinson, PhD., author of the best-selling Chained to the Desk, thinks the subject is, at least in some ways, taboo.
“Cultural attitudes towards workaholism have changed very little,” said Robinson. “In a downturn economy, where people are desperate for jobs, they don’t want to talk about working too much.  Plus, with the advent of wireless technology, electronic devices are invading personal time more than ever before.”
A lot of the problem is awareness.
“People still don’t get how damaging work addiction is. It continues to be praised and misunderstood, especially in a time when many people don’t have jobs.”
According to Robinson, university environments are particularly at risk, and desperately need to take action.
“Universities are notorious for enabling work addiction with huge expectations and very few boundaries […] Universities and any workplace at risk for burnout should be encouraging self-care among faculty, not expect multi-tasking, which only activates the stress response, and they should hold seminars on the dangers of overworking and the damage done to marriages and children.”
Robinson found it hard to think of a North American campus he could hold up as a positive example. “I don’t know of any who are doing it right,” he said.
A Positive Outlook
In a very personal moment, I described my own struggle with workaholism to professor Ota. I spend up to 15 or more hours a day working at Excalibur as a designer, a writer and a manager, an ethic that differs little from the way I’ve approached my work since middle school.
Despite all of this negativity, not everyone views intense commitment to work as a bad thing. The key to staying healthy and balanced for an intense worker, he said, is passion and
humility.
“I used to think I worked for self-satisfaction; it was only after an important person in my life died that I realised, actually, my life is not for myself. When you can feel your life is not for yourself, all negative feelings like anger, jealousy, everything disappears. Once you reach that stage, you keep your peace of mind.”
I told him maybe this was true, but my drive to work sometimes took over the rest of my life.
“You are part Japanese, remember,” he laughs, referring to my one-quarter Japanese background. “It’s in your blood!”
Compiled by Chloe Silver and Kate Hudson with files from oecd.com
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
York is changing the way students are affiliated with their colleges.
Under the old regulation, residence students were automatically affiliated with whatever college residence they moved into – if a student lived in Winters College during first year and moved to Vanier residence, their college affiliation would be automatically switched from Winters to Vanier. Even if students submitted a form to maintain their original affiliation, a glitch in the system would prevent the request from being realized.
The university has now fixed that glitch, and students may now successfully choose to remain with their original college after their first year, even if they decide to move residences.
“The bigger issue is after first year, should you still be forced to be affiliated with whatever college you live in or whatever college you choose?” said Founders College Council president Robert Cerjanec. “Under the current system, it almost tells you indirectly that if now you live in Calumet, you should be involved in Calumet. But you don’t have any connection with Calumet. You have a connection [with your original college].”
Vp students Rob Tiffin explained that the student information system would automatically change any college affiliation requests back to the college of residence due to a system pre-programming.
“Even if students could change, or request a change, we discovered it was slipping students back into [the college affiliation of the residence they were living in],” he said.  “We are going to make certain that that doesn’t occur [anymore].”
tudents must go through the registrar’s office to request to change college
affiliation.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
York housing is planning a commuter floor in Tatham Hall at McLaughlin College.
The second floor of the college residence will be converted into a floor for commuter students to rent out for a night during the school year.
“[It will] offer York undergraduate students an overnight accommodation option,” said Debbie Kee, director of housing services. “The rooms will be available for students who plan to stay on campus late to study, or for students who are anticipating bad weather and do not want to commute.”
Kee said that the floor would include 16 single rooms and four double rooms, a total of 24 beds. While she said that the cost to rent the room have not been solidified yet, she estimated that it would probably be around $25 a night including tax.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
