York students talk about their reaction to the recent sexual assaults on campus, the death of Qian Liu, and if they feel safe on campus and in the Village.
Produced by Philip Darlington, Multimedia Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Editor-in-Chief Mike Sholars and Multimedia Editor Phil Darlington discuss campus security.
Featuring an interview with Wallace Pidgeon, Media Relations at York.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mike Sholars
Editor in Chief
In the wake of true tragedy, I sometimes lose track of where I stand.
On April 15, an international student died in the York Village. Her name was Qian Liu, and you probably know her from the news reports that have emerged since her murder. Every media outlet worth mentioning has been on campus lately, interviewing students and trying to answer a simple question: what is wrong with the York community?
The current string of assaults against females in the York community has brought the issue of safety into the general student discourse. Thousands of students call this area home, and our home is no longer safe. Students and the administration alike have devised ways to respond, but for many, change will not come quickly enough.
There is a feeling of unease on campus right now. Once the unthinkable has happened, rational thought becomes a challenge. Every time a newsworthy event hits York in the face, we suddenly become interesting to the public at large. Once the attention subsides, the camera crews pack up and the media leaves the university to its own devices until the next tragedy. Once again, we will be a solitary community of students cut off from the rest of the city.
And Excalibur will be right there with you.
All of us here are students. Many of us live in the Village. Once this moment passes, we won’t abandon you to cover a dance competition at the University of Toronto. We give a damn about the York  community because we’re part of it and we hate feeling useless.
When I first heard about Qian Liu, she was known simply as “a female York University student.” I was sitting in my friend’s basement apartment in the Village, and one question immediately came to mind: how did this happen?
Our reporters found out and passed that knowledge on to you through our website, and now through this issue. That’s what we’re all about here: informing you, letting you know the details behind events that will shape your time at this school.
I certainly can’t get news and entertainment out to a whole campus by myself, and that’s where you come in. Your comments on our website, your quotations in our articles, your willingness to come in and write an article because you know better than we do. To put it simply; this paper cannot run without you.
In the wake of true tragedy – and our campus has seen several in a very short stretch of time – I sometimes lose track of what my purpose is. This time, my purpose is clear: Excalibur stands beside you. We are the voice of the students, and we don’t plan on shutting up any time soon.
I look forward to working with you, York. Let’s write our story, one page at a time.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Compiled by Victoria Alarcon

Zubayer Rifat
Third year, Accounting
“As MPs it’s better to be more old than young because in Parliament, it’s not about their spirit, but their experience. After all, you’re leading a riding.”

Raya Al-Ashi
Second year, Health Management
“I don’t think age is an issue or something that should stop you from being something or doing something. If anything, the generations these days, the younger you are the smarter you are because you’re exposed to everything at a younger age.”

Ethel Quarcoo
Second year, Anthropology
“I think it will push the youth vote. Youths don’t really vote, but if their MPs are their age, maybe they will go vote, and then they can’t complain if it doesn’t go their way. ”

Jonathan De Serres
Fourth year, Environmental Studies
“I think it’s important because youth representation helps get the youth’s opinion across, and also their thoughts on how post-secondary institutions are doing and what issues are going on and what needs to be improved.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Juan Tomas
Contributor 
With his new book slated for release, Chaz Bono’s decision to go through a sex change has become a contentious issue once again.
In an interview with Oprah Winfrey on CelebTV.com, Chaz Bono, the offspring of entertainers Sonny and Cher, stated why he  wished to change his sex. “When I was really little it was very clear to me that I felt like a boy.”
Who defines gender? Pippin Lee
The image shown onscreen of Chaz— then known as Chastity— as a youngster is that of a cute little blonde girl. There is no visual indication of gender ambiguity at that stage, however, as Chaz’s present image is displayed, one can easily see that of an individual of mixed gender messages: the build of a man with the face of a woman.
I empathized with Chaz as he went on to explain, “I literally felt as if my body was betraying me.”
My heart and soul are that of a young man, though my body shows its old age. If I try to run too fast, I trip and fall. If I walk as far as my younger friends do, my flat feet kick in and my brain tells me, “hey, lose the excess weight or else.”
In the case of Chaz, he describes how over the years he manifested into a “curvaceous woman”, which horrified him. Much to his chagrin, coming out as “lesbian” didn’t help. Being transgendered, he concluded, is not the same as being a homosexual female.
Chaz went on to describe the fear he felt after making the decision for a surgical sex change. Questions of insecurity and doubt flooded his mind and he wondered who would love him afterwards. Presently, judgments regarding sexual orientation are made too easily.
We don’t get to pick out our body types when we’re born. Imagine our little souls in some heavenly warehouse of genetic probabilities, being able to select what facial features, intellect and sexuality factors we would be born with. It might be a good idea for a science fiction novel, but it’s not likely to happen any time soon.
In an interview with Oprah, she asks Chaz if the transition has finally made him happy. His response is, “I’m incredibly happy.” If he is happy then we should accept him as he is. He went on to say that everything is much easier for him now and that he is “on the same playing field as everybody else”. If one considers that he is not hurting anyone else, then his happiness must make it all worthwhile. Everyone should have the right to pursue personal happiness within the limits of the law, and fortunately for North Americans they have that right.
However, having said that, I should also caution that Chaz Bono is placing himself in a potentially alienating position. Not everybody is tolerant of people who are different. I have had some experience with being scrutinized by the public in my capacity as both a teacher and musician. It has taught me that people tend to spread innuendo and negative rumours much faster than good news.
As for Chaz Bono, he is definitely in a minority position. It must take a great deal of courage for him face the veritable gauntlet of public criticism.
Happiness is an elusive quality. Some of us have it and some of us don’t. We have only one life to live in this existence, and a lot of the time, many of us are depressed about one thing or another. Chaz’s decision to physically make his body conform to his true gender is his business. Who are we to pass judgment? It takes guts to stand up for one’s right to be happy when it contradicts the staus quo. There is an old proverb about walking in someone else’s shoes. Maybe we could all learn a little lesson in courage from Chaz.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Re: Sports Section
Excalibur» March 30, 2011
I am a second-year student who works with York University Athletics. Whenever I read Excalibur I’m disappointed with the lack of focus on York sports. This is supposed to be a community newspaper, right? Then why does it barely talk about our teams? If I want to read articles about the Leafs or Raptors, I can do that through other newspapers. It saddened me how the year in review for the sports teams was compressed into 1.5 pages.
There is a reason why people believe York has such terrible school spirit. I believe this is strongly correlated to the exposure our school’s teams get (which is very little). It’s embarrassing how few people come out to our football games, which are supposed to be prime university events. Sure football gets coverage in Excalibur, but what about the other sports? The other sports are barely mentioned, and if they are, it’s just a small blurb on the side. It’s clear that only a small percentage of people care about sports on this campus. Maybe you could do a little more to help promote our teams, considering this is a York newspaper.

Hassan Valiji
Re:  “Don’t go to convocation” 
Editorial, March 30, 2011.
As tempted as one is to respond to some Excalibur editorials, I have never given in to that temptation until I read Nicholas Maronese’s “Don’t go to convocation” in last week’s edition. Mr. Maronese admits he has never been to a university convocation. Hopefully he will attend one this year so he knows firsthand what a great experience it is for graduand, their families and the faculty and staff of the university to participate in celebrating the achievements of our graduating class.
Since becoming university secretary in 1988, I estimate that I have been to 75 of York’s convocations: in gyms, in tents, and now in the Rexall Centre. I have the honour of sharing the platform marshall role with the Chair of the senate, so we take turns serving as MC and get to lead the academic procession onto the site. I never fail to get goosebumps and a lump in my throat when I see the expectant faces of the graduands on stage, and the smiles of the families in the audience. Seeing the nervousness and the happiness of each and every one of the students as they cross the stage makes me feel proud to be working at a job that is about something meaningful.
Yes, the ceremony is sometimes too long and the venue too hot and the speeches given by the honorary graduands aren’t always riveting or inspiring (though there have been some wonderful surprises in store from some of them), but convocation is an event that marks a very important milestone in the lives of our students and their families. To see it called “degrading” is a shock and a statement that doesn’t take in to account the experience of what I would suggest is the vast majority of those attending.
So Mr. Maronese, I challenge you to attend your own graduation, to be inspired by the sense of occasion, the pageantry, the hugs and congratulations of your professors, the pride of your family and the pride of everyone else’s family when they hoot and holler as your name is called as you cross the stage, shake hands and head out to the world that awaits. See you there.
Harriet Lewis
Re: “The way cultures see the word ‘obese’”
Health» March 30, 2011
As an African, I found this article not only uninformed and insensitive, but also insulting.
The article hurls generalizations and misconceptions about African views on body image as if they were fact. While it is true that body image is viewed very differently from the way it is in North America, who is to say that different means these are “perils occurring not that far away”?
Not only does the US have the highest obesity rate in the world, it also has some of the biggest body image problems associated with the emphasis on “skinny is sexy”.
Quotations such as “African countries still lag behind” and “widespread poverty across the continent” simply show the author’s obvious bias. Although the “ideal” African body is more curvaceous than the North American stereotype, most African cultures (and in no way do I presume to speak for an entire continent as the author seems to) certainly do not encourage excess weight, let alone “obesity” as the word is carelessly strewn throughout the article. Definitions of obesity itself are widespread and disputed even today in the medical community.
Before we start declaring other cultures as “behind” let’s first re-evaluate our own North American preconceptions about beauty and self-image, and attempt to refrain from saving the Africans from another cultural practice that is bad for them.
Eve Kachaje
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 John Nyman
Senior Staff Writer
When I got home from work on election day and turned on the TV, I flipped my shit.
But unlike many of my friends and fellow students, who spent the days after the election complaining about impending Conservative legislation and other shit Harper did (the website shitharperdid.ca had left-wingers laughing bitterly throughout the campaign), my reaction was that of pure excitement.
Illustration by Keith Mclean
Last decade’s underdog, the Conservatives, finally got their day in the sun. The Liberal Party suffered their most crushing defeat ever. Federal separatism died in Québec. The New Democratic Party (NDP), which has been among the most ridiculed political entities in the country for years, became Canada’s official opposition. What more could you ask for from the indisputable summer blockbuster of Canadian elections?
Armchair commentators who complain about the Conservatives’ free hand in governing the country over the next few years have a point: winning a majority government, or over half the seats in the House of Commons, means that Harper can institute policies that would cut taxes and beef up law enforcement and the armed forces with little to stop him.
But the fact is, through monumental shifts in the number of seats every major party holds, Canada’s political landscape has changed forever. And while it’s the majority government that makes decisions in the short term, it’s the opposition that makes history.
Probably the biggest story of this election is the collapse of the Liberal Party, which finished third for the first time in Canadian history. Their loss is astounding: having won only 34 seats compared to the NDP’s 102, they’ve practically reversed 2008’s distribution of left-wing seats (where 77 Liberal candidates were elected alongside 37 of the NDP’s). Going back just a few more years, the difference is even more tremendous: the Liberals won 135 seats in the 2004 election and 172 in 2000 (their last majority).
Michael Ignatieff himself called the loss “historic”, and it looks like Liberal members and supporters will have to do a lot of rethinking in the coming years.
Almost equally amazing is the incredible success of the NDP, which has now replaced the Liberals as Canada’s official opposition. But while the 65-seat jump of a party that has been bashed for decades— as unnecessary, radical or simply a waste of votes— is invigorating enough, the NDP’s new support base is another story.
Historically, the NDP has drawn their support from Ontario, British Columbia and Manitoba, but now over half of their 102 Members of Parliament hail from Québec. Many of these members, including five McGill students who will surely see a dramatic increase in their salaries, have little experience in politics. The influx of fresh faces could bring dramatic new ideas to NDP policy, but they could also prove disastrous for party leader Jack Layton to manage.
Either way, the NDP is faced with making the jump from being a primarily Anglophone party to a thoroughly bicultural party, requiring them to adapt to the different needs of politics in Québec.
The Québec issue is also at the centre of the third monumental consequence of the 2011 election: the failure of the Bloc Québécois.
For over a decade, the Bloc has held between 38 and 54 seats in Québec. Today, they hold four. Meanwhile, Gilles Duceppe, the party’s longtime leader and a refreshing addition to the last several elections’ official debates, failed to retain his seat and left the party.
With the loss, there is no longer a strong federal party specifically representing Québec’s interests or pushing towards separation. Instead, the NDP is faced with taking on the concerns of Québec voters. There are two sides to the new situation: on one hand, the province’s concerns are now located in a nationally represented opposition party. On the other, their issues fall into the hands of a party with little experience in Québec. The effect on NDP policy and the continuing instability of Québec voters remain to be seen.
While it’s far beyond my expertise to predict the future of Canadian politics, it’s clear to me that big changes are in the works. Aside from these power shifts in the country’s major parties, this election saw other changes such as an increase in voter turnout (albeit a slight one) and the election of a record number of female MPs including the Green Party’s first representative, party leader Elizabeth May.
Even more significant for me, though, is my hope for a real change in the political attitude of Canadians following one of the most boring decades in Canadian political history. I worked as a poll clerk on election day and was surprised by the results at my poll: votes were split almost evenly between the three major parties, and even the Green Party candidate received some support. The experience gave me hope that politics can still be important to Canadians.
I think my polling station’s deputy returning officer, who has been involved in politics for decades, summarized it best: “It shows people are thinking.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Compiled by Ernest Reid
1 Bin Laden news broke on Twitter before television
Researchers have pinpointed exactly when the news of Osama bin Laden’s death broke and how it spread. At 10:24 p.m., a full hour before Obama’s address on May 2, Donald Rumsfeld’s former chief-of-staff Keith Urbahn leaked with the tweet, “So I’m told by a reputable person they have killed Osama Bin Laden. Hot damn.” The news went viral once New York Times reporter Brian Stelter retweeted the message at 10:25 p.m. to his 50,000 followers, many of whom are in the US media. From 10:45 p.m. to 2:20 a.m., users tweeted an average of 3,440 messages per second, peaking at 5,100 messages per second at 11 p.m., just as the news would be airing for most Americans.
With files from blogs.reuters and Wired

2 Bin Laden’s lack of technology gave him away
Wary of electronic surveillance, bin Laden avoided all communications technology; no Internet, no landlines, no cellphones. However, it was the lack of mass communications that attracted the interest of American intelligence. Analysts at the National Security Agency found it odd that a luxury mansion lacked any Internet or phone connections. For the world’s most wanted man, eschewing the world of electronic communication was less of a camouflage and more of a target.
With files from WSJ: All Things Digital and Scientific American

3 Abbottabad compound recreated in online shooter map
Less than a week after the news broke, an amateur game developer transformed bin Laden’s Pakistani compound into a map for Counter-Strike: Source. The map, “fy_abbottabad”, pits terrorists against counter-terrorists in first-person combat. The creator, “Fletch”, unaffiliated with the game’s developer Valve Corporation, defends his project. “I can see how people would think it is in bad taste,” he says, “but […] if that’s your opinion you may as well protest the whole game (as well as many others).” Counter-Strike: Source is the second most popular game on Valve’s online gaming service Steam.
With files from bits.blogs.nytimes.com

 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ernest Reid
Science & Technology Editor
If you went to the Toronto Comics Arts Festival on May 7 and 8, you might have missed the Mini Maker Faire at the Evergreen Brickworks in the Don Valley. Here’s a slice of what was at the DIY science and technology festival:
Ryerson student Ashley Lewis explains her “Obama Board”. Mun Chau
Student Talent
Ashley Lewis, a third-year student at Ryerson, displayed her “Obama Board,” a reprogrammed electric keyboard. Instead of musical notes, each key was remapped to produce Barack Obama’s voice; pressing different keys produced different words from his inauguration speech.
Students from the Critical Making lab from University of Toronto’s Faculty of Information also displayed their interactive projects. Wearable computing was a major theme of the research. One display, “Soundstreaming”, brings online live-streaming into real life. Users wear devices that transmit “identity songs” to others for listening, and vice versa.
 
Different Hacker Communities All in One Place
Hacking communities and “makerspaces” from around North America came together for the weekend, meeting face-to-face and exchanging ideas. In attendance were Foulab from Montréal, Québec; Buffalo Lab from Buffalo, New York and Think|Haus from Hamilton, Ontario,  among others. Each makerspace explained to visitors why all consumers should tinker with technology in the same  way children play with toys.
Families Trying to Keep Up with Their Children
Many families attended the Faire on Mother’s Day weekend and it was fascinating seeing young children interact with one-of-a-kind DIY toys. However, not everything was hands-on for them. Normand Fullum makes wooden telescopes using 18th century techniques, at a cost of thousands of dollars each. He seemed understandably protective of his delicate instrument art pieces.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
