 Nicholas Maronese
Editor-in-Chief
Approximately 1500 people gathered for “SlutWalk Toronto,” a march from Queen’s Park to Toronto police headquarters on College St., the afternoon of April 3, 2011. SlutWalk, which protested a remark made by a Toronto police officer at York University’s Osgoode Hall Law School in January, was put together by community activist Heather Jarvis and York alumna Sonya Barnett, with support from Alyssa Teekah of Feminist Action @ YorkU. “We were hoping for a few hundred people, marching on 31 division [Toronto police unit for York University],” said Teekah. “But this is just incredible.” The event took about six weeks to prepare, and was born in part out a comment left by Barnett on the original Excalibur article.
(John Tavares)
(Nicholas Maronese)
(Nicholas Maronese)
(Nicholas Maronese)
Related articles:
Don’t dress like a slut: Toronto cop
Cop’s ‘slut’ comment draws backlash from guerilla activists
 


Some people have too much free time on their hands.
Big help, big help. And surpleative news of course.
You’re right; there’s absolutely no other reason that a thoughtful person might decide to take a stand against victim-blaming and rape culture.
Personally, I think everyone should have lots of free time to walk around without fear of rape, or fear of committing rape.
What I meant by “fear of committing rape” because apparently “sluts” are everywhere and how in the world are men (it’s usually men who commit rape) expected to control themselves? It can happen anytime, and anywhere, the urge to rape! I’m pretty sure the rapes in war zones are inflicted with the same “slut-shame” logic, as are rapes in prison, and also when  children are abused, etc etc.  They should have been another ethnicity, not lived in that country, held in another cell-block, maybe not worn their pigtails that day or pet the puppy dog.  Then they wouldn’t have been attacked.
This isn’t taking a stand against victim blaming and rape culture. “Alias” hit it spot on, this is a waste of time.
I’m sorry, I just don’t see how parading down the street half naked in a solidarity march will somehow serve to decrease rape or put an end to “blame the victim” culture. I also do not understand why the statements of one cop somehow reflect the sentiments of all cops.
How about some useful solutions: self defense classes, carry around pepper spray, avoid certain neighbourhoods, travel in groups. We need to be real here and in reality, this march, while it makes for nice eye candy, doesn’t accomplish anything.
I am a very old fashioned guy and rapists and women beaters disgust me. That however, does not take away from the fact that this is a useless demonstration, and even worse, I think it’s a cry for attention by what looks to be a bunch of angry at the world feminists who are not even your prototypical rape victim.
Having said all that, I’m proud to live in a country where women can run around the streets half naked and we only question the motive and not the slutiness itself. Just don’t get upset when you catch me staring at your cleavage.
Oh Berd,
You are exactly why women need to stand up and be loud about what it’s like to be a woman in a male dominated world… you simply have NO IDEA.
You perpetuate the myth that blaming the victim is okay – rather than women taking self-defense classes and carrying around pepper spray and traveling in packs to ward off YOU beasts of the male persuasion, why don’t you guys just stop victimizing us!
What we wear or don’t wear doesn’t matter – you still think you have the RIGHT to leer and stare and cat-call and touch and grope… Im sorry you’re so weak minded and feebly-hormoned that you CAN’T HELP YOURSELF from staring at a woman’s cleavage…
THANK GOODNESS not all men are like you!  Some men actually have respect for women as more than objects for your viewing pleasure… we are grandmothers, mothers, daughters, sisters, nieces and MORE – we’re NOT your “eye candy”.  kma
Weeeee, what a quick and easy soluniot.
@Berd
Lol!
Omg why they angry at rape? Like they should just be quiet and nice about rape and like just stfu it’s so unattractive to be angry.  I’m an Old Fashioned guy too.
Also, This Comment thread needs pics of “prototypical rape victims.”   Can I tell by their glowing red eyes in the dark?
@ Don’t rape its just common sense
Thank you for cleverly twisting my words.
I never said don’t be angry at rape. Go ahead be angry to your hearts content.
All I said was, most of the hate seems to be directed at this cop who made both a harmless and rational statement.
But go ahead, keep getting your panties bunched up about it.
Thanks for your introduction on Iris ChangI have a doubt that why a gonernmevt can leave her Capital so easily with out take care of her people living in it?

 York University Community Newspaper 
