The great fight north does not lack enthuiastic fans, and they may very well heal our economy
Jatinder Dhoot
Contributor
We’ve known for decades that Canadians love hockey, but it’s only recently become clear that we’re also obsessed with Mixed Martial Arts.
This year was a monumental one for the UFC in Canada, as the organization made their debut in what has been dubbed by UFC president Dana White as the “Mecca of Mixed Martial Arts”—Toronto. For years, fans in Ontario were starving for their chance to watch the UFC live, and they showed that passion at the box office, as 55,000 plus MMA fanatics jammed into the Rogers Centre in April to watch UFC 129. With such a landmark live attendance and an estimated $40-million economic impact on the city, it’s no surprise the organization returns on December 10 at the Air Canada Centre for UFC 140.
The UFC machine is not slowing down, and you can expect more of their shows to work their way across the nation in 2012. Montréal and Vancouver have already hosted the UFC on multiple occasions, but expect MMA hotbeds such as Calgary and Edmonton to be added to the list of dates on the league’s calendar. Additionally, smaller UFC events for live broadcast television are anticipated to make their way to major Ontario cities such as Ottawa, London, and Hamilton. The positive impact on the economy comes from tourism from cities within Canada, as well as travellers from the United States.
Canadians have been noted by UFC execs and fighters to be avid travellers to watch UFC events worldwide. I myself have needed to keep my passport up-to-date as I have journeyed to Atlantic City, Detroit, Columbus, and San Jose to watch various MMA shows. Events in Toronto and neighbouring Ontario cities would not only draw tourists in, but also keep residents spending more at home, support local business, and have a strong ripple effect in the domestic economy
Despite what some believers say, it will not lead to the degradation of society. MMA shows have the same fans you see at other sporting events. Some are rowdy, some are tame, some lay in between the extremes. It was not UFC fans rioting in Vancouver in June after the city hosted a UFC event during the same time the Canucks were making their Stanley Cup final run. Ironically, before the event, the Vancouver chief of police expressed concerns that the UFC fans would get out of control.
The headlining bout on December 10 features light-heavyweight champion Jon Jones against Lyoto Machida. Also on the card, London native Mark Hominick takes on Korean featherweight Chan Sung Jung for a chance to once again contend for the UFC title. The Brazilian Nogueira brothers,
Antonio Rodrigo and Antonio Rogerio, respectively compete against Frank Mir and Tito Ortiz in heavyweight and light-heavyweight tilts. In total seven out of the 12 fights on the card will involve Canadian fighters., Canada is now surorusbgky  dominating the fight cards. The future of UFC is in our true north strong and free, and I eagerly await what comes next.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Citing health concerns, only “pure-blooded” wizards and witches, or “exceptional half-bloods” will be allowed to donate
Leslie Armstrong
Arts Editor
As of January 2012, Canadian Blood Services at York will no longer be accepting donors of “muggle” (non-magical) descent, announced the head of Canadian Blood Services and chief warlock of the Crescent Moon Guild, Arsenius Sanguine, at a press conference last week.
He commented that this measure will be put into place in favour of “pure-blooded” individuals, thus weeding out “mudbloods”.
“We can’t accept dirty blood anymore,” said Sanguine, when asked to explain why the measure was taken. “This is for the good of Vol— for the good of humanity.”
When asked to explain further, he covered the top half of his face with the hood of his cloak and refused to answer any more questions. Sanguine later admitted after some thought that half-bloods were the only exception to the eligibility restriction.
Toronto Public Health warned that the number of donors is only going to go down if Sanguine’s plan of action follows through, criticizing that numbers were low enough to begin with. Recently, the Canadian Blood Services released the statistic that only three per cent of the eligible population donates blood, and has made extensive public service announcements to encourage blood donations.
Sanguine’s solution for drawing in “the right sort” is to invite eligible donors to the tables with pumpkin juice and chocolate frogs.
If this plan doesn’t draw in enough donors, he said he’s willing to pay the extra cost of butterbeer and pumpkin pasties.
Canadian Blood Services maintains that the ban is for the safety of the general populace, and only applies to potential donors who have been muggles after 1977.
One of Sanguine’s more controversial proposals for attracting eligible donors was to station wizards around the donor tables performing “dark arts” on innocent bystanders.
“I, for one, am not opposed to implementing so-called ‘unforgivable curses’ for the greater good,” said Sanguine at the press conference. “I’m sure the Cruciatus Curse will draw some attention.” Sanguine’s proposal was opposed on the grounds of human rights violations.
Sanguine did, however, issue a warning to vampire students across Canada. Vampire students at the Keele campus are asked to avoid the Bear Pit in Central Square on their way to class.
DISCLAIMER: This issue contains works of satire. All names used in this story are invented, except in cases where public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names or events is accidental and coincidental.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Eight things to get done during December
Hufsa Tahir
Staff Writer
1 Get a seasonal job. Christmas may be the season of giving, but gifts don’t come cheap (neither does liquor). Many retail stores hire over the holiday season. If you have the time to spare, why not pick up some spare dough?
2 Straighten out your banking. You might be surprised by the number of cheques you’ve forgotten to cash in. Get your OSAP documents in order, and budget for holiday spending. Set a limit, and stick with it.
3 If you’re in your final year at York, remember to apply to graduate in June 2012 on the York Convocation website. You don’t really want to stick around longer than you have to, do you? While you’re at it, practice your blue steel face and check out graduation photo dates.
4 You’re going to have a lot more spare time than you usually have, so bring out those course outlines and work out what is due and when. Starting on your longer readings isn’t a bad idea, either.
5 Plan for future heavy-duty essays that need secondary sources. Fast forward a few months: you know you’re going to be scrambling to find proper resources for your soon-to-be-due essays. Check out books relevant to your essay topic from the library over winter break and make notes. (Unfortunately, Wikipedia still isn’t an acceptable source).
6 Check up on your health. Before you stuff yourself with three helpings of Grandma’s turducken with a side of gravy and wash it down with canned cranberry sauce, go for a check-up. Between the holiday bustle and the rush back to school, remember to take care of your health!
7 Finalize grad school applications, and prepare for your LSATs and MCATs if you have them (Seriously, you’ve figured out how forks work at York. Move on to spoons).
8 Do some early Christmas shopping. It’ll minimize your chances of being trampled under the feet of panicky hordes at Walmart. No one wants to make front page for being flattened by a mob the day before Christmas.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
