Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
Students from all over the Greater Toronto Area, including those from York, made their way to city hall September 26 to oppose proposed cuts to vital city services.
Sandy Hudson, chair of the Canadian Federation of Students Ontario (CFS-O), says students from colleges and universities across the GTA have been organizing to make sure their voices will be heard.
“[These are] all sorts of services that students in this city need in order to continue their studies, to get to school, and to make sure that they’re able to do well,” says Hudson.
She points out the biggest concerns for students include cuts to childcare, libraries, bike lanes, and the TTC.
However, city councillor for Ward 17 Cesar Palacio insists that this is not about cutting services.
“It’s about improving and maintaining the level of service,” he says. “The difference is between having the essential services and all other services that would be nice to have—the ones we cannot afford. City council is simply trying to find what services are essential to Torontonians and to find efficiencies.”
Alastair Woods, vp campaigns and advocacy for the York Federation of Students (YFS), agrees city service cuts—especially to transit and bike lanes—will have a huge impact on students.
“We have a lot of students who travel from all ends of the city,” he says. “Any cuts to the TTC—whether it be in routes or whether it be in the number of times [buses] come or whether it be in the actual infrastructure—will end up hurting students in the end.”
Fourth-year York student Sean Dimnik depends on his bicycle to get around the city. The notion of less bike lanes worries him.
“It would limit my mobility,” he says. “My primary resource is my bike in terms of transportation.”
Woods also addresses the concerns of students who rely on childcare.
“I think the common misconception is that students are 18 or 19 years old and don’t always have kids to take care of,” he says, “but that’s not entirely true.”
Tanya McFayden, vp gender issues for the Graduate Students Association, has a child in the Lee Wiggins Childcare Centre at York.
“I know many people in my life with children who end up putting them in childcare they don’t feel comfortable with,” she says. “They put them into unlicensed daycares and into home daycares simply because they need a spot and they have to work.”
If she didn’t have a spot, says McFayden, she would not be able to pursue her graduate studies.
Hudson says the massive outcry from residents across the city has resulted in city council delaying some service cuts, such as those to public libraries.
“[People] here today are demonstrating for two reasons: one is a bit of a celebration because it looks like some of the cuts that were on the table […] before have been delayed or will be, at the very least.”
However, Palacio believes there won’t be any radical changes.
“[In reality], there won’t be any closures to city libraries in Toronto […] and the city is still going to provide daycare services,” he explains. “What we’re asking is simply for the province to subsidize the additional funding that we need to provide the 2000 additional spaces [to daycare].”
“The main thing is that we’re in a crisis right now, and we have a chronic financial problem and deficit of $470 million dollars,” Palacio points out. “In the last administration, nothing was done. But this administration has taken the fortitude to stand up to the challenge and get a review of city financing.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Tamara Khandaker
Staff Writer
As the memories of Frosh Week 2011 fade away, groups of students participating in a campus walking tour have the chance to learn about the “unofficial” side of York.
DisOrientation 2011, a week-long series of events organized by the Ontario Public Interest Research Group (OPIRG) and their allied organizations, attempts to introduce students to the political history of York. The event, which serves as an alternative to traditional orientation, centres around issues of social and environmental justice.
The Radical Walking Tour, the first event, took students on a walk through campus, focusing on places of political significance at York.
“We start off by looking at the governing structure and how York is managed,” says tour guide Imran Kaderdina. York’s mission statement “speaks of having a community that values freedom, social justice, and accessible education, but those are not always upheld by the university through its actions.”
Kaderdina also explains where many of York’s building names came from.
“The buildings are often named the way they are because of donations, which come with strings [attached] that many students don’t know about,” he says.
Participants ranged from students to faculty to community members.
“It’s a pretty diverse group,” says Aruna Boodram, volunteer and programming coordinator at OPIRG York. “I’d say it’s for people who want to learn more about the issues happening around their community and around the world.”
Viola Huang immersed herself in DisOrientation activities all week—including the walking tour and a screening of Slingshot Hip Hop, a film presented by the Toronto Palestine Film Festival—and hopes other students will show more interest in politics.
“I can understand this indifference to a certain degree when I think of all the busy schedules students have here,” says Huang. “I think it is pivotal for students themselves to get engaged in politics, to know what’s going on, and to educate themselves.”
Kaderdina also believes it is important for students to be engaged in campus politics.
“I think it’s impossible for students to stay politically neutral,” says Kaderdina. “If the students aren’t engaging with the university, they are essentially supporting the status quo.”
DisOrientation events—which include workshops, film screenings, and a free concert—are being held every day until October 1.
Forthcoming are a workshop on the decriminalization of sex work, a discussion on Canadian immigration, and a workshop on alternative media.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Hufsa Tahir 
Staff Writer
Almost a month after it was taken down by York management for “health and sanitary reasons” a new Goddess of Democracy statue may soon see the light of day.
The York University Student Centre (YUSC) has allocated a spot for the new statue—which commemorates the 1989 Tiananmen Square Massacre in China—near the Treats Coffee Emporium located in the Student Centre.
Design plans are currently being developed by Bruce Parsons, fine arts professor at York.
“I’m working on six or seven drawings right now,” Parsons reveals. Once done, he says, the Toronto Association for Democracy in China (TADC) will decide on the best one before a design plan is reviewed and approved by the Student Centre.
The height of the statue, Parsons adds, will depend on cost. Bronze, the preferred material, costs more than alternatives like aluminum. Though there are cheaper and quicker alternatives, he feels they will not be a creative, long-lasting solution.
Cheuk Kwan of the TADC is hoping a bronze statue will be approved.
“The Goddess of Democracy is the most symbolic icon of the Tiananmen Massacre,” he says. “Thus, it must be both prominent and identical to the original, both conditions laid down by the TADC to emphasize the statue’s historical significance. It can’t just be any art piece [or] abstract statue of remembrance.”
Parsons estimates construction may take up to six months.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jeson Khan
Contributor
If there is anything to remember about the Nas concert at York, it’s that Nas never disappoints—and when he does, he makes up for it.
Nas was initially a no-show due to illness at the Yorkfest concert scheduled for September 21. This was not much of a surprise to some York students.
“I was actually expecting him not to come,” says first-year biochemistry student Ali Khan. “This man is a legend. He is like the walking Jesus of New York, and [if he doesn’t] show up in Toronto and specifically at York University […] you can expect that.”
Regardless, Khan and other students went to the concert on Wednesday to see other artists, including Shawn Desman and Danny Fernandes.
When it was announced that Nas would be unable to perform, many students began to leave, recalls Zuha Vance, first-year biomedical student.
“The organizers informed us that Nas wasn’t coming, and everyone left,” she says. “Like ‘screw that’ […] it [was] raining.”
The following day, Nas tweeted “#Yorku sorry about yesterday, I was ill. BUT Fri 23 Sept I will def be there at #Rexall @yorkfest2011 @YFSlocal68” informing followers of his intention to hold a “Redemption” concert.
Despite the initial fall-through, the York Federation of Students (YFS), which organized the concert event, was determined to get Nas to perform at York.
“We had to make sure those students got to see Nas,” explains Monirul Pathan, vp campus life. “Within roughly 13 hours, we did a lot of concert class talks, and making sure the word went out
[…] we had to manage space, security, and venue. It was quite hectic.”
Almost 3,000 people attended the make-up concert.
As student Khan puts it, the concert itself was “insane”.
“He is a legend; you got a legend.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Samantha Osaduke
Staff Writer
Despite being over 20 kilometres apart, York and Ryerson University have entered into a partnership this fall to exchange grad school students for select studies.
The Reciprocal Interdisciplinary Studies Opportunity will allow York’s Osgoode Hall Law School students to take courses at the Yeates School of Graduate Studies at Ryerson, and vice-versa.
The exchange—which will combine York’s legal expertise and Ryerson’s applied education—will be launching this fall semester. A limited number of students each semester will be allowed to enrol in courses at the host university, but will pay tuition to their home university.
Though the courses are complementary, Ronda Bessner, assistant dean of the JD Program at Osgoode, encourages students to take advantage of the opportunity and the expertise of the partner university.
“A maximum of five students [from each institution] each semester from Osgoode and from Ryerson-Yeates will be permitted to enrol in designated courses,” she notes.
Selected students will be allowed to register for up to one full year or two half-year courses from a list and will get transfer credits based on a “pass” or “fail” on their transcript.
Osgoode students are impressed by the new exchange and commend the positive addition.
“Given that a law degree is so transferable, it definitely makes sense to give students access to some other areas of study that are likely to have some crossover with law,” says first-year law student Laura Fraser.
However, she doesn’t think commuting downtown is practical for her.
“I can’t see myself enrolling in Ryerson courses just because of the proximity issue, “ Fraser says. “Being at York all day, I don’t know how feasible it would be to commute all the way downtown for a single credit.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Catch up on what’s going on this month in just 90 seconds!
Read by Editor-in-Chief Mike Scholars
Produced by Multimedia Editor Philip Darlington
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
This is what we do at Excalibur – an insider look into Excalibur’s weekly operation.
Featuring all editors at Excalibur Publications
Produced by Phil Darlington, Multimedia Editor


 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Multimedia Editor Philip Darlington recalls his experience at Cirque du Soleil’s TOTEM, an aerial acrobatics show that illustrates the story of the birth and evolution of the world.
Produced by Philip Darlington, Multimedia Editor


 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
The Canadian Federation of Students Ontario (CFS-O) released a report card last week grading each party based on promises and platforms, giving the New Democrat Party (NDP) the highest grade of B+ overall. The NDP took top marks for its promises on tuition fees, student debt, funding, and research.
The Liberal party, however, maintains that the attractive planks of the NDP platform have not been properly accounted for.
According to a media release sent out on September 26, the Liberals state that “according to the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS), the NDP have promised that, if elected, they will raise the per-student funding to more than the national average. That’s a $1-billion promise. Every year. But in the costing document the NDP released yesterday, there wasn’t a single penny set aside to back up that promise.”

Chairperson for the CFS-O Sandy Husdon, however, points out that all parties have made unfounded promises, and that this doesn’t change the NDP’s grade on the report.
“What the NDP stated to us when they made that promise was that, if elected, they would talk to each of the institutions about what kind of funding shortfall they have and what kind of funding they need and to develop a framework to get that money to the institutions,” she says.
Overall, Hudson says the goal of the CFS-O report cards are to “boil down […] what the crux of these parties really are.”
“We think it’s really important for students to know how the election will be affecting them, and what kinds of things can and might change as a result of the election.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
