Nicholas Maronese
Editor-in-Chief
(Nicholas Maronese)
Taking a walk through the 2011 Canadian International Auto Show? You may want to slap a brace over your chin — unless, of course, you prefer picking your jaw up off the floor every few minutes.
While this year’s Auto Show was admittedly not as big or impressive as previous years’ exhibitions, it is still a ton of fun, with hundreds of hot new cars for the auto buffs, some classics that you’ll stare at for hours and some outright oddities that’ll intrigue just about anyone. Here’re five of the coolest things I saw at the show.
1. Dancing electric car-loving polar bears (Nissan) [above]
It takes some logic to explain what, exactly, the bear is there for (car with no emissions equals no melting ice caps — equals happy polar bear?) but whatever the reason, he sure grabbed the media’s attention at the Nissan Leaf booth. It’s not every day you see a ten-foot mammalian predator hug a hatchback, I suppose.
(Nicholas Maronese)
2. Three-seat 750-horsepower Canadian-made supercars  (HTT Plethore LC-750, in the Concorsa Exotica)
I’m really digging the new Quebec-made HTT Plethore, which’ll be coming out next year. It’s got a three-seat layout with the driver centered in front of the passengers (the scissor doors don’t make it that much easier to get in). If this $495,000 Corvette-powered version doesn’t please, HTT president Sebastien Forest notes there’s a 1,300-horsepower model in the future.
You’ll find the car in the new Concorsa Exotica supercar exhibition on the 100 level of the North MTCC — it’s parked across from the vintage Lamborghini Miura and down the way a little, by the Aston Martin Rapide.
(Nicholas Maronese)
3. 1886 Benz Motorwagen three-wheelers — that work (Mercedes-Benz)
Okay, fine, it’s a replica, but the 1-hp tiller-controlled Motorwagen — recreated to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the automobile, as designed by Carl Benz — is still pretty neat. I’m thinking of taking up Mercedes Canada president Marcus Breitschwerdt’s offer to take me on a test drive — at a whopping 8.8 miles an hour. (“Where we’re going, we don’t need they didn’t have roads!”)
(Nicholas Maronese)
4. Growling V-8 Chevrolets and Pontiacs (Icons: Camaro and Firebird)
The Shelby exhibit last year blew me away, but these vintage and new Chevys aren’t hard on the eyes, either. The spotlight marque this year is General Motor’s Mustang-fighter, the iconic Camaro and Firebird. Examples include the legendary KITT Knight Rider Trans Am; a replica of Burt Reynold’s Pontiac from Smokey and the Bandit; and replicas of the new and old Camaros from the recent Transformers movie franchise.
Call me a car nerd, but I’ll skip those attention whores and go drool over the (also flashy) 1969 Camaro Indy Pace Car, thank you. Mmm, orange stripes never looked so good.
(Nicholas Maronese)
5. Unboring press conferences (now with 400 percent more auto enthusiasts!)
This is really just a peeve of mine: after four years of attending the show’s media days, you sort of begin to memorize the basic script each manufacturer’s executive reads off at their respective press conference podiums. (Unfortunately, they haven’t — a lot of them seemed to use teleprompter-style screens.) Honda started off like that, but then mixed it up by introducing us to four Civic assembly plant workers, including welder Jamie (pictured) who shared his story of what it’s like to work on, drive and tinker with Hondas — no script required. Why don’t more manufacturers just let auto enthusiasts, y’know, enthuse?
The Canadian International Auto Show runs February 18 through 27 in the Metro Toronto Convention Centre near Union Station. For more information, check out www.autoshow.ca
 


I really wish there were more arciltes like this on the web.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ronald H. Neal  
Staff Writer
There’s nothing like controversy when it comes to trade season with the Maple Leafs.
It’s almost impossible to avoid, and impossible to stop, and with these last few days, for fans, it has definitely stepped up to the plate. 
It all started when Maple Leafs general manager Brian Burke announced he was sending defenceman Francois Beauchemin back to the Anaheim Ducks in a trade for Joffrey Lupul, defenceman Jake Gardiner and a conditional 2013 entry draft fourth-round pick. Some turned their heads in anger, but most understood his decision.
And who can disagree?
For one, Beauchemin was expendable. As the roster stood, we already had one too many players like him (i.e stay-at-home defencemen who rarely, if ever, put the puck in the net). When you consider players like Schenn and Komisarek and the stable of very young and eager defencmen in waiting, we could afford to part with Beauchemin. Many people probably adored him personally, but people can get over that.
But this trade was also a steal because we got some great players in return.
In Joffrey Lupul we get a former first round draft pick with a lot to prove. He is anxious to win and is hungry for success after being drafted seventh overall in 2002 with little to show for it. Despite his lack of early success, he is an undeniable threat that’ll give beleaguered coach Wilson a few more options up front.
  Before Lupol, we had a problem: one solid and consistent offensive line, anchored by unsung Kulemin and Grabovski, and nowhere to put Phil Kessel. Now we have two serious threats to opposing teams and a more balanced roster. It was a calculated risk with little downside, and for Lupol alone it was worth it.
  The other upside, of course, is the draft pick and prospect Jake Gardiner. Given the often-publicised sentiment Brian Burke is in the player development business, one could almost be excused for thinking these assets were the real steal in the trade. In today’s National Hockey League (NHL), a draft pick is as good a currency as any, and Gardiner is expected to be top four one day. 
  Overall, the first trade picks were something everyone could agree on, but then Monday came and it was a different story.
  In an apparent attempt to outdo even himself, Burke followed up what many considered a dumb move by trading key off-season acquisition Kris Versteeg to the Philadelphia Flyers for a first and third-round pick in this year’s draft. 
  This trade has sadly been met with mixed results. Many believe Versteeg is an integral part of our team moving forward, and at only 24 and having just come off a Stanley Cup run with the Chicago Blackhawks, it was easy to see why. Unlike the last deal, which seemed to be in line with team policy and a step towards the playoffs, this trade seemed to signal the team’s demise and betray the thoughts of a general manager who doesn’t believe. Philadelphia’s first place positioning means our picks will be on the low end, and that does not help.
  Despite early criticism, though, this is yet another brilliant move, and here’s why.
  Admittedly, I liked Versteeg and had even committed to him being in the Blue and White for some time. Despite the emotional attachment, though, one cannot escape the fact that he wasn’t working in Toronto. 
  Despite his age, potential and early success, Versteeg never managed to find a home beyond the third line, and could never seem to capture the stride that saw him hoist the Cup last spring. Burke recognized this and made a move when Versteeg’s value would arguably never be any higher as a Maple Leaf. 
  Burke essentially called a mulligan on a decision he made last summer. Take solace in the fact the man has a plan and is not afraid to correct even his own mistakes. 
  Despite a season of strife on the ice, this is a step forward for the Maple Leafs. Rest easy, Leafs Nation – we are still in good hands.  
 


Nice blog!  I like your analysis of fansaty categories in addition to the players themselves.  I also appreciate the bits of humor that you sprinkle across your posts.I’m writing a fansaty hockey blog too now that I just started the other day and I’d love to exchange feedback with someone!  If you’d like to check out each other’s site every now and then, I think that would be a cool idea.

 York University Community Newspaper 
The Excalibur opinions section welcomes typed, double-spaced letters (no longer than 300 words). All submissions must be accompanied by the writer’s name, major, year and telephone number/email address. Submissions longer than 300 words will be sent back to be shortened. All submissions will be edited for clarity, spelling and grammatical errors. All editing is up to the discretion of the editor.
Materials deemed libelous or discriminatory by Excalibur will not be printed. All opinions expressed in the opinions section are those of their authors and are not necessarily those of the Excalibur staff, editorial board or Board of Publishers.
Send submissions to our office at 420 Student Centre, fax to 416-736-5841 or email to letters@excal.on.ca. Please embed submissions in the body of the email.
“Most troubling”
opinions» jan.12, 2011
Grossly offensive Paul Izdebski
I find it grossly offensive and seriously misleading that my letter carried with it a “familiar stench.”
Adir Dishy is the president of an organization at York that no doubt has a budget larger than most clubs at York; again I bring to the stage the example of being able to afford a large ad in the Excalibur in defence, and in attack of another who protested against Hasbara at York.
Dishy suggests that I am no doubt anti-Semitic as a Polish person, and I find these accusations racist. According to Dishy, only Polish people use terms like “rich Jews” and speak of their de facto control of the media.
He did not take the time to address the questions I raised in my letter and merely played the only card he is familiar with: accusations of a “familiar stench” and anti-Semitism.
I stand by my observations that Hasbara is over-represented, and this is directly related to their funding by not only the university but – as suggested by the late professor David Noble – by the State of Israel also.
Prof. Noble would roll over in his grave after reading your response, Mr. Dishy.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Lishai Peel
Contributor 



Tell me a truth
My friend, just tell me a truth
To kill the oblivion economy
To set ablaze
The voices of the unspoken
Just bleed your words
Like fireflies to moonlight
Into the parched cracks of my soul
 
I’ve been waiting for your truth
Like daybreak waiting for horizon’s mercy
And the moon…
We all wait for the moon to rise
Just to hold on to a sure thing
A constant
Light
Traveling 25,000 miles
To your ready retina
But I am waiting on a truth
From zero distance
 
Not afraid to touch you
With the sheer force of my silence
Not afraid to collapse
Into whatever truth you choose to share
Please write your ink on my road map veins
Place your echo into my mason jar heart
 
I’m tired of sleeping with death
Time eater, night dreamer
I’m tired of being numb to your possibility
Moon dancer, star chaser
 
I’m waiting on a truth
More real than anything I can ever give words to
So lend me your truth
That it may be weaved into the fabrics
Of something so unstable
It will shape shift our moon rock hearts
Into once again believing




 



 York University Community Newspaper 
