How carpe diem led Alex Braff to the world-renowned film festival with his short film Framed 
Justin Li
Contributor
For Alex Braff, an East Asian studies and philosophy double major in second year, applying his academic disciplines has helped him accomplish something most filmmakers only dream of: getting his film screened at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival.
Braff’s 10-minute short film Framed documents the strain and labour that writer’s block can have on relationships and the ability to create new material. Although it may sound like a fusion of Spike Jonze’s Adaptation with Federico Fellini’s 8½, Braff is quick to point out that, although depicted from a writer’s perspective, the film is more about “creative block” in general, something that “everyone can relate to.”
For Braff, creative block is a universal concept. Whether at home or at school, writing screenplays or writing essays, the process of formulating thoughts into tangible results is an everyday struggle, and in the enterprise to overcome, we often alienate those around us.
“When you sit down with your notebook, it’s just you and your notebook,” says Braff. “There’s nothing else in the world except those two things. And when you’re absorbed into your world, it’s very difficult to bring someone else in and to see anything other than what’s in your focus.”
Braff insists that his philosophy background has helped him see and approach the film differently.
“In a lot of cases, a person only sees things one way,” says Braff. “Philosophy allows you to think outside the box and see different viewpoints.” Because he was taught to look at things differently and from varying perspectives, Braff describes how he can add fresh, creative, and unconventional insight. The result, he says, is a more nuanced and layered film.
In the making of Framed, however, Braff had a very different story to tell. He says the film was a byproduct of his mantra for seizing the day and the begetting of a beautiful friendship with the film’s director, John Virtue.
“The only reason this film was my project and the director’s, is because I’ve known the director for a long time and we’re good friends,” Braff explains. Virtue sent him a copy of the script while he was in Japan at the time, and he instantly liked it. Braff replied by saying the pair could turn the script into something meaningful.
In way of offering advice for budding filmmakers, Braff says that if a friend comes up to you with a good idea for a movie, give them five to 10 minutes.
“If someone approaches you with a great idea, don’t say you’re too busy for it. Take a moment and look at it,” suggests Braff. “Framed all started because a friend sent me a document that he had written out of fun.”
To Braff, having fun is what life, and university, is all about. University, he says, should be about meeting people with great ideas and adding your own creativity on top of that. If he wasn’t at York, Braff admits, the process of making a film would never have crossed his mind.
Braff says networking is the most important thing.
“At the end of the day, it’s who you know and how you know them,” he says. “Six degrees of separation ends up working for you.”
His personal convictions and hard work have paid off, culminating in a confirmation email from the Cannes Film Festival that booked him, his director, and their film, a ticket to France.
“It was the best day of my life,” Braff says.
But just because he has booked a ticket to Cannes, it doesn’t mean Braff will be taking a break from his producing duties. Along with his upcoming exams, his schedule is full.
He and Virtue are currently in the process of securing venues to screen their film with at the TIFF Lightbox—and on campus—before they embark for Cannes.
On top of that, Braff sees Cannes as a great opportunity to generate interest for the film and to connect with possible distributors, producers, and other eminent members of the film industry. When asked whether or not he thinks Framed will win any awards, Braff says that producing the film was an achievement in and of itself.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Purniya Awan

Staff Writer
@excalweb
According to calendars created by the Mayans (an advanced Mesoamerican civilization that existed from 2000 BCE until their destruction by the Spanish in 1697 CE), the end of humanity will come December 21, 2012 when some catastrophe is predicted to demolish the world. Many theorize that the end of the world will come from astronomical events, from a “killer” solar flare to a huge asteroid.
Others, like Young, however, theorize that the end of humanity may just come from a nuclear war.
Young started preparing for Doomsday after the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962, even after peace was maintained. His thoughts on surviving things like nuclear war stayed with him throughout his childhood and even now.
“I wrote a short story when I was 12 about my age group in school withstanding the Soviet invasion,” says Young who has read about hundreds of wars and deadly disasters. “So things like that were on my mind as I grew up.”
Young is not alone though. The preparation-centric fiction he writes and publishes on the internet has a readership of well over 10,000 and the number of people who have started preparing seems to be increasing as days go by.
“There are thousands upon thousands of other people doing their best to get ready for anything from a loss of a job, to medical emergencies, all the way up to Doomsday,” says Young.
The amount of people preparing for the end has grown big enough that there is a network dedicated to helping them known as the American Preppers Network (APN).
The network defines these “preppers” as a group of people who have started preparing for Doomsday, or TEOTWAWKI—The End of the World as We Know It. There are “preppers” in the United States and in parts of Canada, Australia, and Italy, according to Tom Martin, founder and chief visionary officer of the APN
The network already has over seven thousand “likes” on their Facebook page and has gained the attention of organizations like the BBC and Popular Mechanics.
The way Young and Martin both see it is that the world right now is not very sustainable, whether you look at it from a financial point of view or an environmental one. The radical weather patterns and the frequent occurrences of natural disasters around the world indicate to them that something big is going to happen which will either destroy the world or change the world that we know today.
Which is why Young says that it’s important to be prepared for not only “Doomsday,” but for accidents and disasters which can occur at any time.
While Young does not believe the popular Mayan prophecies about the world ending by the end of this year, he does however, believe that several natural cycles are reaching either peaks or lows, depending on the type of cycle, with the sunspot cycle one of the key ones, indicating that some bad natural disasters will occur.
When asked what kind of advice Young has for university students, he suggested that we forget about preparing for “Doomsday” for the moment and make preparations for basic human needs first.
Martin’s advice reflected the views of Young: “Students need to learn how to budget and manage their finances since things like credit cards and loans will not be useful when a disaster strikes. Students should learn how to make their own meals and make sure they have enough food stocked up for at least three months.”
Some preppers may follow the Mayan calendar, but they all have one common goal: to be prepared on a daily basis just in case they are faced with a natural disaster of some sort.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Matthew Danton
Contributor
The streets are decrepit in Aida, a Palestinian refugee camp located just two kilometres north of Bethlehem. There are crumbling walls, piles of rubble, and garbage surrounding them all. The men and women who live in these poor conditions are victims of prejudice. This is where Tyler Koverko, a York law student, finds himself with a pit in his stomach.
Koverko, a second-year criminal law student at Osgoode, had a lot of interest in the conflict between Israel and Palestine, but he had no genuine understanding of the situation before visiting Bethlehem.
However, last summer, he was awarded $5,000 to plan a trip to Jerusalem where he saw firsthand what the long-standing conflict looks like.
Koverko left for Jerusalem having no partiality for either side. He considered himself an interested third party. With a general understanding, he wanted to better comprehend the conflict and also experience what everyday life was like. Being stationed primarily in Israel, he decided to go out and see what waited for him. That was when he saw Aida.
Aida was established in 1950, and holds over 4,000 refugees. It is just one of 19 refugee camps in the West Bank. There are 62 Palestinian refugee camps across Jordan, Syria, Gaza Strip, West Bank, and Lebanon. These camps house more than four million refugees that were displaced as a result of the Arab-Israeli War of 1948.
These people were either forced out of their homes or chose to leave the country.
Koverko was able to see much more than what is reported in the North American media. Even though he began this trip with an open mind towards both sides, biases were unavoidable. However, seeing firsthand a decrepit Palestinian refugee camp and victims of suicide bombings, Koverko felt these biases “beaten out of him,” leaving behind the difficulty to find a “human side” of the issue.
These people were not characters in a movie; they have to continue to live this way everyday. Koverko was surprised to discover that not just the camp’s leaders, but also the children spoke fluent English. Not only did they speak English, most of them were fairly sophisticated and bright—welcoming him wholeheartedly. He saw “human beings with souls behind all the political madness.” It became clear how irresponsible it is to generalize an entire group of people that are caught up in politics that expand far beyond their power.
A major surprise for him was the amicability of Jerusalem.
This trip was very important for Koverko, but he does not want you to simply take his word for it.
“This experience was awesome, unforgettable, a slap in the face and it opened up a major world conflict to me,” he says. These same opportunities are available to all students who wish to take advantage of them. “I learned immediately that you can’t understand why people believe so strongly in the cause, until you know the history.”
Jerusalem was “a life changing experience,” for Koverko.
“Whatever I thought was immediately transformed through personal experience,” he says.
Koverko says he left Canada with little bias towards either the Israelis or Palestinians and came back with even less. It was no longer “this group or this group,” but simply people caught up in defending their rights and beliefs that they hold so sacred.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
