Blogging and social media have positive psychological impacts, study finds
Samantha Osaduke
Staff writer
 @excalweb
 
 
New research says blogging may have psychological benefits for teenagers suffering from social anxiety or low self-esteem.
The paper, “The Therapeutic Value of Adolescents’ Blogging About Social–Emotional Diffculties” by Israeli researchers Dr. Boniel-Nissim and Dr. Barak,  says writing a blog about social and emotional difficulties, having the blog open to responses, and interacting with readers leads to the biggest psychological improvement.
Blogging, the study says, is beneficial to teens and young adults in dealing with emotions. Contrary to cyberbullying fears, the blogosphere provides teens “with a safe area for self-exposure.” Blogging can “improve self-image, increase self-confidence, and gather friends.”
The study says blogging is considered ideal for anyone who is stressed, depressed, and anxious.
Psychologists have recommended writing in the past as a method of emotional venting and problem solving. Writing, the authors of the study say, “influences the emotional state, as well as the social behavior of the writer.”
But blogging is different from writing in a journal. “Online writing enables free expression, easy rereading and editing, and convenient communication with others,” the study goes on to say.
Bloggers are in control of the interpersonal conversation online. Teenagers can modify their thoughts and decide if they would like their blog to be open to other peoples’ posts. The interpersonal sharing with others helps teens reduce their social stress.
“The virtual environment gives [teens] a feeling of privacy and a sense of protection from exposure[…]or physical contact,” the study says, “which might be threatening in face-to-face encounters.” Bloggers can hide personal information from family and friends, but can engage in conversations with strangers who can give them advice.
Generally, teens are confident sharing their feelings online due to the anonymity and invisibility of the internet. Instead of seeing others’ reactions by sharing their problems publicly, they can focus on the content.  Because of this, blogging is a bigger release for teenagers.
In the study, a total of 161 teens participated, with 124 girls and 37 boys. They were asked to rate themselves by their level of self-esteem, peer relationship, and interpersonal activities. During the study, experts evaluated “the participants’ social–emotional condition” by reading their blog posts.
In total, participants were rated on 30 posts. The first and second group posted messages in their blogs on “their thoughts and feelings concerning their social circumstances and interpersonal relationships.” The first group opened their blog to others, the second did not. The third and fourth groups wrote “about any subject they wished.” The third group opened their blog to the public where the fourth group did not. To balance the study, a fifth group served as a control by writing entries in their personal diaries.
Unlike diarists, the study shows that, “online writers describe their writing process as a dynamic dialogue.”
Blogs and social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter combine public and private worlds. Writers can construct identities online. By constructing their own identity, teens can manage the intimate details they choose to share or withhold from others.
Bloggers, the researchers imply, are in control even if their situation is spiralling out of control-—a comforting thought whenever a blog is updated.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
ingredients
3 1/2 cups peeled and diced potatoes
1/3 cup diced celery
1/3 cup finely chopped onion
3/4 cup diced cooked ham
3 1/4 cups water
2 tablespoons chicken bouillon granules
1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon ground white or black pepper, or
to taste
5 tablespoons butter
5 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 cups milk
preparation
Mix the onions, celery, potatoes, water, and ham in a stockpot. Boil all for about 10 to 15 minutes, and cook the potatoes over medium heat until they are mild. Add salt and pepper to the chicken and stir the stock. Melt butter over medium-low heat in a separate saucepan.
Put the flour on heat and stir it for about a minute continuously until it is thick. Until all of the milk is added, slowly stir the dish to prevent crumbs. Until thick, continue stirring for about four to five minutes over medium-low heat until thick. Cook until heated, while stirring the mixture into the stockpot. Serve right away!
nutritional facts
Calories: 195
Cholesterol: 30 mg
Total fat: 10.5 g
Compiled by Yalda Sarwar
 
Nutritional information from Allrecipes.com
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The work of four illustrators visits the Zacks Gallery at Stong College with Fat Lines: A Drawing Exhibition 
Sarah Ciantar
Contributor
 

Fat Lines: A Drawing Exhibition showcases the work of four illustrators. John Janas, Ron Maloku, Alex Curci, and Mike Mclnroy present a shared ability to use the media of illustration, animation, and drawing to create powerful, interesting, and ultimately effective works. The exhibition, currently running at the Samuel J. Zacks Gallery, presents works with an expressive, attention-grabbing style.
Co-director of the gallery, Stas Guzar, explains that what interested him in hosting this exhibition was to bring recognition to up-and-coming artists.
“I feel as though drawing and illustration don’t get the attention they deserve, and can get lost amongst the other mediums,” Guzar explains. To him, each artist’s work is special in its own way.
Comic-book-style pieces are among the works Guzar focused on for the show. He was drawn to the works of Curci because of his ability to use this style and present, as Guzar describes it, “a duality in the image of technology and raw organics.” Located along the western wall, his ink and watercolour work presents many abstract concepts and depicts futuristic technologies.
The works of Janas, located along the southern wall, consist of pop-cultural icons in watercolour and comic book visual narratives. The calm colour scheme in contrast with the vibrancy of the bold black lines appeal to the viewer.
Mclnroy’s work further adds to the show’s atmosphere with his cartoon style and effective use of bold black ink. He presents interesting and humorous subjects in his works, including a modern-day take on the Three Little Pigs.
Presented along the northern wall are captivating images produced with India ink in an expressionistic style. The works of Maloku are powerful because of the unsettling feeling they create within the viewer.
“I particularly like the raw emotion these images create,” comments Guzar. “I find them effective in creating this raw emotion as a result of the loose stylistic essence Maloku used to produce them.” These works are powerful and appealing as a result of the grotesque images which captivate and intrigue the viewer.
Guzar describes the exhibition as “more conceptual than visual.” The works as a whole are effective because they are relatable on a universal level. This show allowed for a spotlight to be put on works that are bold and intriguing.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
 @jackieperlin
 
There will be some major changes to York’s administration come June 2012.
Rob Tiffin, vp students, will be stepping down from his position to take “an early retirement,” he said in an email dated January 24.
“A lot of people are sad,” says Rheza Evangelista, executive assistant to Tiffin.
Tiffin has been at York for about ten years, and was appointed to his current position in 2005. He began his post at York in the position as assistant vp enrolment management, coming to the job with about 30 years of experience on post-secondary education administration. He has served in a number of senior positions at the University of Western Ontario and at Brock University in addition to York.
Tiffin had been reappointed to vp students in July 2010, and was expected to sit in the position for five years.
“I leave knowing that we have a team that will play a pivotal role in supporting our students and the achievement of new goals,” wrote Tiffin.
According to Tiffin, the search for his successor will be undertaken shortly.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
 
 
 
Are you a cartoonist? Do you have a funny picture that you drew on one of your notes in humanities class and you think it’s pretty funny or something? Either way submit your comics to comics@excal.on.ca
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
