A female York student was sexually assaulted yesterday afternoon near the GO Bus stop at Accolade East, according to a York Security Services bulletin.
The attack occurred on December 5 when a man approached a female student from behind and touched her inappropriately, the bulletin says.
Det.-Sgt. Al Coulter of 31 Division says this incident was reported to the university, but not to Toronto police. The victim’s name and age are still unknown to police as well as a clear description of the suspect.
Coulter became aware of the sexual assault when he asked York security for information to help solve other York University sexual assault investigations.
“It’s a very private matter and if she doesn’t want to come forward that’s her prerogative,” says Coulter. Respecting the victim’s wishes, Toronto police will not be making this case public.
Within the same security bulletin, the university warned students of an increased number of  robberies reported in the Village and the broader community.
Toronto police are finalizing the details of these robberies and will publish a press release to the public soon, says Coulter. He could not confirm the exact number of robberies reported in the Village and surrounding area.
A number of robberies occurred near Finch Avenue and Sentinel Road, Coulter says.
“We’re trying to let the student population know that we’re doing everything we can.”
By Melissa Sundardas, News Editor 
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
No arrests or charges for students behind prank, says 31 Division police
Toronto police say the abduction reported at York University on Wednesday was just a prank.
On Thursday afternoon, three male York students turned themselves in to the York Security Services headquarters, where Toronto Police officers were also present, and reported that the “abduction” was just a prank they were pulling on a friend, says Det.-Sgt. Al Coulter of 31 Division.
“I don’t think they intended any harm to anyone,” says Coulter. “It was a prank picking up a friend.”
Police were initially called to York’s Keele campus December 5 at 5 p.m. after a witness reported seeing a person being forced into a van near the Fine Arts building. Toronto Police issued news releases on December 6 at 11 a.m. and 12:50 p.m., requesting the public’s assistance in the investigation of a possible abduction.
No arrests or charges have been made in this case, Coulter says.
The first witness who reported the incident was not involved in the prank.
Joanne Rider of York media says the university is “extremely thankful” that an abduction did not occur.
“That said, we must note the serious concern that this incident needlessly caused to members of the York community and the significant resources that were expended to investigate and communicate the situation,” she says.
By Melissa Sundardas, News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
After investigating the alleged abduction, police tweet that updated news release will be released
Toronto Police say there was no abduction at York University Wednesday afternoon.
On December 6 at 11 a.m. and 12:50 p.m., Toronto Police issued news releases asking for the public’s assistance in the investigation of a possible abduction said to have occurred on York’s Keele campus December 5 at 5 p.m.
At 2:28 pm Toronto police tweeted, “Officers have determined that the alleged abduction at York University did not occur. News release to follow.”
Police initially reported that two white men forced a person into an older brown GMC Safari van near the Fine Arts Building, after receiving an unknown trouble call at the university just before 5 p.m. on December 5.
The “victim” was reportedly wearing a winter jacket, jeans and white runners, police said. It was unknown whether the person was a student or male or female.
Earlier, Const. Tonyo Vella told Excalibur, “We don’t know if this was a prank or a real incident but we are taking this seriously.”
The Toronto Star reported that police said there were probably many witnesses since the incident occurred in “broad daylight near a busy intersection during exam time.”
None of these probable witnesses were quoted or mentioned in the first two press releases from police. Police had asked for witnesses to come forward during the investigation.
The van’s driver was described by police as white, five-foot-seven to five-foot-eight with brown curly hair, blue jeans and a white/black jacket. The passenger was described as white and shorter than the driver.
In a security bulletin, York University  said they met with Toronto Police 31 Division to review “campus safety strategies.” York also says it has increased security patrols focusing on evening exam hours and additional Toronto Police officers are on campus.
By Ernest Reid, Executive Editor (Online)
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
