Music @ Midday sees new renditions of old classics
Emilia Vieni
Contributor
Music @ Midday, a regular event hosted by York’s music department, once again showcased York student talent in the Martin Family Lounge on October 2.
The audience was delighted by performances from Anthony Grozdev and Mehdi Rezania, and the piano, bass, and drums ensemble, Tom Said Soul.
Tom Said Soul set the tone for the show, opening with Thomas Francis on piano, Alex St. Kitts on bass, and Jeremy Morgan on drums, starting things off with a bang by covering a beloved Feist tune, featuring vocals from Alessia Lorio.
Beatles fans in the audience listened in awe as the trio covered “Norwegian Wood” with an interesting jazz twist.
 The band finished with a Blackstreet cover, featuring lead vocals from Owen “‘O’Sound” Lee.
As the funky ensemble wrapped up, classical pianist Anthony Grozdev took the stage.
Grozdev skillfully performed pieces from Chopin and Scriabin, receiving a very loud round of applause at the end of his performance.
The showcase ended with a performance by Medhi Rezania, who added some foreign flavour to the show, playing an instrument called a “santur,” essentially a Persian take on the dulcimer, shaped like a trapezoid and played using small, weightless hammers.
Rezania performed two pieces entitled, “How Long Can You Wait” and “Dance Persian Garden,” visibly becoming immersed and focused in his music as his performance progressed.
Rezania has been playing the santur for over 21 years, and started when he was 13 years old after finding a tape in his father’s archive.
“My main goal as a musician is to become familiar with all kinds of musical styles, from contemporary to modern,” he says. “I do not want to focus on just one, and I think that is why playing the santur has captured my interest for so long.”
As Rezani completed his act to a very positive reception from the audience, Music @ Midday came to a close.
“I am really glad that us music students could finally receive some spotlight,” says an audience member. “Sometimes I feel like we get overlooked a little bit too much.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
