Damian Mangat
Staff writer
She could blame her name, her first name. Eke.
No one in residence pronounced it properly, neither did the modern professors who bothered with attendance. Her surname was not worth claiming, another Singh. There were Singhs from all over the continent, from the Tamils in Singapore, to the Hindus in Sri Lanka, to the Buddhists in Bengal. The northern Punjabis affixed it to every boy child. Though her ancestry blended all three, Eke disliked her Northern mother’s long ropey plaits and her Southern father’s oily complexion. Thankfully, her only Indian features were the olive skin, bluish lips, and downy sideburns. She could be anybody. Italian? Persian? Native American? Despite the parrot nose, pronounced lower jaw, and pouchy eyes, she felt as multi-textured as her thoughts. But it was her name, her first name, that shunned her.
What parents would name a girl Eke, meaning “matchless” and “alone?” Did it also mean insignificant? The philomancers, necromancers, and astrologers in her parents’ village, who mapped out her destiny on the Vedic birth chart, must have misread the stars and constellations when they picked her name. And because of that rash cosmic fortunetelling, her parents had grimly determined to marry her off as young as possible like the generations preceding her, in some laughable ceremony of fire, water, wind, and earth. But there was no time to sneer at cultural norms when her parents booked Air India tickets and scrutinized snapshots of pimply boys readying immigration documents. That was why she had run away to university and locked herself up in any residence that would accept her.
Room 204B, a cramped boxy space on the second floor of the co-ed dormitory, was meant to manifest freedom—away from the Masourri silk curtains, the elephant brocaded bedspread, and the brass statues of winged monkeys. Yes, she had disowned the baby pink walls along with the matchmaker’s photographs.
From the small window bitten into the wall above her desk, she could see the grey campus, cold and dark with the metaphysical confusion of February. Students in twos and threes shuffled under the weight of their backpacks. Grad students paced the steps to the Student Centre, shivering, puffing Belmont Lights, reddening and slashed by the cyclone of dust tailing the wind. Through the smudged windows of the coffee shop across the walkway, she could make out steam rising from porcelain cups cradled between brightly-coloured finger nails, upended laptops, a couple reaching across a grimy table to peck at the crumbs on their lover’s hands. She had never felt so alone.
The campus was only a 45-minute drive from her parents’ residence, but for her, it was an exodus. She would find friends (she had not been allowed before), she would meet a boy (she had been too frightened to dial their cell numbers before), she would become a woman (she had not been permitted to shave her legs before). Someone, anyone, would single her out, recognize the truth behind her name, break through her solitary confinement, and hold her hand for the first time.
Her pen slipped between her stubby fingers, bounced off her thigh, and bled ink into her stockinged feet. The control top pantyhose bit into her stomach as she bent to retrieve it. The university logo was already half worn off.  Light drifted in beneath the doorjamb stuccoed by sneakered feet. The usual Thursday night stampede of first-year students sent tremors along the floorboards. They howled, they hollered, they roared with jokes she could not understand. Boys chased screeching girls up and down the hall. Beer bottles clinked together.
She heard a rustling outside her. She felt her eyelids quiver and thought of her namesake Aunty Eenakshi, meaning “with eyes of a deer.”
“Should we invite Elka or whatever her name is?”
“No, she never goes anywhere.”
“Besides, she smells kinda funny.”
“Did you notice in English lecture…?”
Eke chewed her biro. More letters of the university logo came away between her teeth. The nib bore into her wide, gaped gums. The bearish, podgy hands, which she always hid in her pockets, slammed the books shut.
“English,” she thought wistfully. She felt a movement in her chest, as though a trapped animal had been disturbed. She glanced at the clock that hummed and buzzed and jerked the hours apart.
She blinked, and darkness fell like a second. She felt her pulse quicken as she plumped her thighs onto the chair and shifted forward until she was nose to nose with the glass. She breathed hot onto her fist and wiped the window in circular motions. Her loneliness vibrated within the walls and door frame and loped ceiling that refracted the jumpy music invading the halls with beats of hip hop. Her pupils dilated as she focused in on the third storey, fourth window from the left of the English literature department—his office. Her breathing eased. She waited for the light to flicker on and for Professor Simpson’s silhouette to frame the iridescent back splash. He would, she knew, tug at his collar, roll up his checkered shirt sleeves, remove his spectacles, polish them on his alpaca vest, and place them anew on the bridge of his nose.
During her vigils over the semester, she had memorized his patterns like a diligent Indian wife (which she would never be)—his regal procession to the podium, his measured inventory of the first three rows, his eloquent voice that boomed into her tape recorder. Discreetly, she began to chew at her stubby nails, emotion welling, rolling upon his intonation and the stimulation of his poetic discourse.
“He won the Nobel Prize for literature in ‘71,” lectured Professor Simpson. “And Neruda, in his Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, captures the significance of Dante’s Tuscan poetry. Despair and passionate love are motifs in my writing. As a Chilean half-breed myself, perhaps I share the ebullience of this illustrious poet.” He cleared his throat.
“I do not love you as if you were sal-rose, or topaz, or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off,” he recited. “I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul.”
At six o’clock, Professor Simpson—Jack Simpson—took possession of his office on the third story of the English Literature Department. Upon unlocking, locking, and double-checking the door, he fumbled for the gooseneck desk lamp. He took off his spectacles and wiped them on his faded Harvard tie. He checked his vintage Waltham pocket watch, a decent copy from Chinatown. In 25 minutes he would swallow a glass of Aberlour Scotch from the bottle secured in the torn lining of his briefcase.
His arthritic joints cracked as he eased into his chair. He slid a Saint Luis Rey Rothchilde cigar ($2.12 at the on-campus Korean convenience store) out of its cellophane glove and fit it into the corner of his wrinkled mouth, smoothed a wisp of white hair across his balding scalp, and whistled through his nostrils. Mozart, Beethoven, Bach—all the music a doctor of English literature should know. Wind burst from his body. His stomach rumbled. He began to contemplate roast beef and then Neruda.
Eke gazed at him night after night. Last week, when Professor Simpson scrawled “GOOD” across her essay, she was determined to approach him.
Joining the line-up around the podium, she searched frantically for something clever to say. The line jerked forward. She inhaled, and inhaled, and inhaled, hoping for a whiff of his scent. Musk, oak, sandalwood, leather, milky darjeeling, and maybe scotch emanated from his tie. As her turn approached, she wobbled on her ballerina slippers, as dizzy as though she were standing at the top of the forty steps leading down into the lecture hall. Turning on her heels, she stumbled towards the exit sign and rushed through the double doors into the smack of wind.
But this night, a week later, something inside her felt different. The clock read 8:24. In another 36 minutes, Professor Simpson would adjust his tie, smooth down his tweed blazer, and stroll out to the taxi stand. Tonight she needed him to stay longer. The thought of the small room with its small desk and its small bed and her big thoughts propelled her from her chair. She dropped onto her knees, tearing a gap in her stockings, and reached under the bed for her poetry journal.
“Jack” had inspired them all. Sure, some students made fun of him, “the old bag,” “he looks like a bobble head,” “if his belly gets any bigger he’s going to topple off the podium.” And every time, with private vengeance, she narrowed her eyes and “accidentally” bumped shoulders with the offender while exiting the lecture.
With her notebook of love poems tucked under her arm, she dashed through the double doors—different ones this time leading in, not out—and raced up the steps, double quick, her fingers barely making contact with the rail. Within five minutes, she stood outside his door. The lamplight wafted outwards into the empty corridor. She ground her teeth with determination.
“Jack,” she practiced, and this time, the word tasted solid.
Her hand on the door knob, she paused for a break in the rhythm of his hum, and prayed to the deities that she might recognize the tune. Surely he would be impressed if she started with: “Jack, I heard you humming Beethoven’s fifth concerto.” She imagined his surprise. His pink eyelids would quiver, he would lift his chin, and he would gesture to the chair closest to him. She would seat herself demurely, lean foreword, and pass him the notebook. Their hands would come in contact, and finally she would experience the sensation of his skin, dry and flaky certainly, but also soft and pliable. And while he was reading “My love is the dark” and “Loneliness unbound” and “Cupid’s neglect,” she would inconspicuously hitch up her skirt to reveal the heavy but luxuriously strong and youthful thighs that were the only self-respecting part of her body.
Knock, knock. She aimed her fist at the centre of the wooden frame, knowing he was slightly deaf in one ear. The humming stopped. He cleared his throat. Silence. She knocked again. She could hear the chair shifting under his weight, then a groan, then a sort of internal rumbling.
The door opened and the light shattered the dim silence of the hallway. His eyes crinkled as he tried to adjust from light to dark, looking over the brown girl’s head as was his habit with his students.
“Jack…” her voice had lost its power again, reduced to a whisper, deafened by the creaking floorboards and the rattling of water pipes from the adjacent men’s room. “Mr. Simpson…”
“Oh…” he growled under his breath. He could not recognize the chubby brown girl that stood in his doorway. He cleared his throat, a deep rumbling sound, and the girl seemed to shrink and lose twenty pounds right before his very eyes. She spoke.
“I was wondering if you’d, umm, well, I thought you might, after today, with Neruda and everything, how inspiring your lecture was, well maybe, you could look at some I wrote, I mean poems…” She trailed off mid-sentence because of the way his eyes, even disoriented behind his spectacles, began to narrow. He thumbed at his tie. She had never noticed how threadbare it was, how the crimson had faded. She had never noticed how spidery red veins broke out on the ridge of his nose. His nostrils flared open, little white hairs trembling with each inhalation. The smell of mothballs, his pockmarked skin, his bushy eyebrows—she noticed them all. She hesitated, the notebook hovering there between them.
“Do I know you, girl?” he said.
She grinned foolishly for the first time all semester. A sudden lightness overcame her. She spun around smoothly on her ballerina slippers, caked with mud and snow, and strutted back down the hall from where she had come. She reached for the banister but then drew back. She no longer needed its support. As she burst upon it, the cold night air seemed less formidable. Her thighs prickled under her stockinged hose, but for once she did not care. She did not think to hide her podgy hands in her pocket but swung them military style. She began to whistle a sharp, high tune that was not Bach, Beethoven, or Mozart.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kezia-Danielle Weerasooriya
Contributor

Cozy contentment seeps through the night as cars slosh along the slick streets. Mom sits at the dining room table with a phone pressed to one of her large ears. She runs through a list of birthday guests, talking loudly in her overexcited Filipino way. The warm wind flutters the blinds and the smell of cassava cake drifts under my nose. The TV blares from the living room. My eight-year-old sister Naomi—Ate, meaning big sister in Tagalog—makes arts and crafts upstairs. I play with my sister Jillian, who will turn three tomorrow, May 20. I will turn seven in October.
Together, we created a game we call “Rocketship.” I lie on my back with my arms and legs in the air, bent at strange angles, like a dead beetle. Jill clambers onto my shins, pressing her feet against mine and holding my hands for balance. Her long, thick hair tickles my arms. Her small hands are squishy and her brown eyes are bright.
“One, two, three!” I say, and catapult her off of me onto the green and white linoleum. She lands clumsily on her bum.
“Again!” Jill beams, her teeny teeth gleaming. She climbs onto the launch pad and prepares for blast off. I count.
“It should be backwards,” she says matter-of-factly.
“Yeah, okay. But that means you should be backwards, too,” I say. This time I hold her feet and she holds mine. “Ready? Three, two, one!”
This repeats for a while, but then Mom’s patience runs out. She slams her hand over the receiver and turns to us, her sleek black hair flying.
“Kezia! Es-stop making noise! I am on da pone! Go up stair!”
“Okay Mommy. Cuddle time for-a-miiiiNUTE!” Jill sings, throwing her arms around Mom.
“Sandwich!” I screech, falling on top of Jill. I poke the mole in Mom’s eyebrow. Mom pats us both.
“Now go get ready por bed!” she says.
Jill and I pivot and bolt out of the kitchen, streaking through the dim living room between the huge TV and a dozing Dad. His moustache quivers. We galumph up the grey-carpeted stairs on all fours like dogs. The china cabinet rattles. We enter my room and flop onto my small bed, which creaks and groans under the weight of two bodies. Posters of puppies cover my walls. I shift aside a heap of blankies and stuffed animals and lie down in the dead beetle position. Then I fling Jill off my legs and she soars through the air before she lands on her knees at the foot of my bed. She throws her hands out in front of her, her face dangerously close to the rails. My purple Doodle Bear fixes her with its button-eyed stare.
“Wait!” I say. I place a pillow beside my bear, against the white bars that almost smashed her face. “Now you have a target.”
This time, the rocketship lands on the landing pad. We giggle and squeal with delight.
“ES-STOP ES-SCREAMING!” Mom yells from downstairs. We ignore her and continue our game. Jill climbs onto my legs again. This time, I hurl her off of me as hard as I can.
Time slows down.
The pillow shifts.
And then red spurts everywhere.
I lock eyes with Jill, her sweet face pale and contorted and covered in blood. Her dark hair sticks to her cheeks, tangled. My eyes bulge. An infinite second of stunned silence stretches on.
Suddenly, Ate stomps out of her room, a foam slipper in one hand. She throws out her chest importantly and irritably pouts out her lower lip.
“Will you guys be qui—MOM!” Her eyebrows shoot up higher the longer she holds the word. I wait, frozen.
Mom is already in the doorway, her eyebrows contracted and her eyes wide and worried. Her eyes sweep over the scene, over the blood on my sheets, on my clothes, on my pillows. Blood gushes from a gap in Jill’s mouth where three of her top front teeth had been. Tears form in Mom’s eyes as she grips fistfuls of her hair and screams. She steers Jill out of the room. As if I’m sleepwalking, I shuffle down the hall after them. Dad strides into the bathroom to help clean Jill up.
My vision blackens and blurs as I watch the sink water turn pink. Mom lets out high-pitched, hysterical sobs. Her hands tremble as she moves around the cramped bathroom. Jill fidgets. Dad keeps his calloused brown hands steady as he slumps over Jill.
He wipes the smears of red from Jill’s face and puts rolls of gauze in her mouth. Dad’s eyes are weary and his curly hair has lost its shine. Jill finally starts to cry. The gauze gives her squirrel cheeks. Dad murmurs to Jill and pets her hair.
“I kanat beleeb it. It’s nine o’clock at night and we’re going to da hospital,” Mom rages to Dad.
I hobble back to my room and sit on the edge of my bed, dizzy and clammy and shaking. Mom follows me. She screams and scolds with unintelligible words, and I cower. Tears slip silently down my cheeks. Flecks of red splotch my Doodle Bear, complementing the blue scribbles.
For a long time afterwards, the three black X’s in Jill’s gums haunt me every time she smiles. The stitches float in the darkness behind my eyelids, disembodied, glowing white.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jeff Zimmer
Copy Editor
 @copyoverlord
 
For those who missed it, on February 18 there was a shooting in the York community. A shot was fired inside an apartment residence on Assiniboine Road, and fortunately, the grad student inside was unharmed.
What bothers me is the lack of security we have in our community. For a campus of almost 65,000—a population big enough to rival small towns—we don’t have a police department on site.
Yorkton, a tiny city located in east-central Saskatchewan with a population of roughly 17,200, has a better source of protection than students here; they have the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) nearby. It’s honestly surprising that York doesn’t have a detachment of Toronto police, given our notoriously problematic location near Jane and Finch.
With an active police force on campus, we would surely see a dip in crime. I acknowledge that we have the York security patrolling the entire community alone, but they cannot do this alone. With the added extension site of Toronto police, they would offer far more presence to our community.
Let’s face it, we’re basically a city with a shopping mall, but even in my hometown of Mississauga, we have a police station—it’s located within the shopping centre of Meadowvale. Then there’s another two in the area to boot. So why can’t our community benefit from another form of protection?
We have the emergency towers dotting the campus and York security, and if we don’t have Batman or any similar vigilante, we should most definitely have a Toronto police branch on site.
I don’t fear many things, but as an individual incapable of stopping bullets with my face, I have to come to terms with the fact that I’m going to fear a person with a 12-gauge Remington 870 shotgun. Unless York offers bulletproof vests to students with our tuition, I regretfully fear that without vigilantes or armed security, our rather large community will continue to suffer through its ongoing trend of crime.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jack Hostrawser
Louis realized he was staring. His gaze drifted through the bent spider web in the windshield, down the hood, and off into the twinkling embers on the plains below. Over the lake, another anvil flickered silently and the sun seemed to shear off the air itself. Calvin was down there, watching the coverage of his dad on TV. Louis had done a bad thing and now his son and the rest of the city were learning of it in high definition, with surround sound. Far away, his story was
interrupting sitcoms.
“Now what?” he said, for the sound of it. Aluminum and iron, injectors and water pumps, all ticked and cooled beneath deep, dented green. Nothing. Nothing to say, nothing worth saying. He sat and wondered in his car on that tarmac ledge between the caves of damp coniferous and the vast potential below. He couldn’t stay here; he was prey. He’d ditched a chopper, for Christ’s sake. No one ditched the chopper.
The road hugged the edge of the escarpment, damming up the heavy moss of the forest. The moaning trees twisted in the grip of the cold front, pushing the storms east. A dandelion seed barrelled in through the window and settled on the dashboard. It probably wanted an autograph.
Soon he realized that he needed to piss. He might have held it all day—he hadn’t been paying attention. He slithered from the car, his cartilage creaking as the rear strut did. The sheet metal there deflected inwards to conjure police-issue ram bars. He tried to cross the wire fence that girdled the ditch but it was loose with age and wavered as he stood
on it. He imagined falling and shooting himself and the image brought hints of irony to his mouth.
He’d never owned a pistol, and he was wary of it. He also noted that wedging it in the front of his pants was probably not helping, but it stayed.
Leaping, he pushed his foot into the post and it crumbled under his soles. He started to swear then hit the ground hard. Finishing the curse and tossing in several others, he brushed the mud and needles from his hands, revealing the fine wisps of scarlet meteors across the butt of his palm. The throbbing pain along his side persisted but he repressed it, breathing deep to pull in the howl of the wind and chill the blood that wept from his hand, stigmata of an unconvincing Christ.
He moved into the forest until the rush of it surrounded him. If the car were spotted, he at least wouldn’t be caught with his fly down. By now, the warmth of his body had begun to flow back into the grip of the pistol and the metal seemed to fuse with skin until he pulled it out to avoid shooting his dick off.
As the sodden evening shivered, he loitered. The smells of exhaust, gunsmoke, and blood were gone from his nose but they were dusted across his brain. And suddenly he was strolling in the woods.
Sitting on a dry log, he thought about smiling and stared some more. The storm had saved him
earlier. Lucky break. Now the humid air chilled him and drew his thoughts to warmer places. He thought about shooting himself, for prudence’s sake. There wasn’t really a choice but he held up the gun anyway, taking it in his hand and cycling the action. The unused bullet flew silently into the moss. As he levelled the sights, the setting sun risked a glance through the ragged clouds and dripping leaves, igniting the crooked birch and forging little diamonds on its paper dress. Fate, babe. Bang.
There were holes in the back of the Mustang. Little ones where the patrolman had aimed. He doubted that it was protocol to open fire during high-speed pursuits, but the holes had no comment. He had a thought and dove to the pavement to check for leaks: clear, red, green, brown. Now would be too soon—he’d made it this far and he wasn’t done yet. Satisfied, he wiped the oily road water from his palms and lowered himself back into the leather bucket seat.
“You’re still with me, right?” He was talking to a car. The breeze sent the little fluff of dandelion flying out the window. Some sign.
Calvin had called the Mustang Stacy. He realized again that he hadn’t said goodbye. He muttered something under his breath that shook past a lump.
In time he took a breath and placed his hand on the key and turned. The eight cylinders grunted to life. She was ready. He was ready. Easing out the clutch, he headed off to die.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
 
 
spotted on campus • Blueberry Hill, one of York’s old eateries over yonder in York Lanes, is due to close April 30. However, loyal Blueberrians showed that they would not give up without a fight. Several supporters were seen strolling around campus wearing posters reading “Save Blueberry Hill.” What does fate hold for Blueberry Hill?
? If you find anything amusing around campus, snap a photo of it and send it to photos@excal.on.ca or facebook.com/excalweb or tweet @excalweb with a short description. You could be featured in Spotted on Campus! Compiled by News Department. yuni kim
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jonathan Fucchansky
second year, finance
“It’s faster. It costs less money for students. I have to do four years, so it’s kind of unfair.”
 
 
Hasrat Islam
third year, business
“You can get done with it earlier. I come from a business background. I want to get a job, but I want to get into my family business. The faster I finish the program, the faster I can join my dad and help out.”
 
Anna Toronova
first year, schulich
“I don’t agree with it, especially for courses like math which take time to learn. It really depends on the subject matter and how long the study hours are.”
 
 
Yousef Refaie
first year, undecided
“I believe in the Greek way of teaching. […] It makes you a more complete and knowledgeable person so you can adapt your values.”
 
 
Mishaal Sinha
first year, finance and business
“It depends on the credits you’re taking. If you take your courses in three years, what are you learning? I think it’s better that you take all the necessary courses, and then finish up properly.”
Compiled by Leslie Armstrong, and Cara Chapman
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Debate boils down to quantity versus quality
Leslie Armstrong
Arts Editor
@Peachcrate
According to a survey, most students would rather enrol in a four-year program than a three-year program.
A February 21 report released by Higher Education Strategy Associates revealed that, from a survey of at least 850 people, 94 per cent of university students agreed that they would rather study in a four-year program than a three-year program. In fact, half of those students were taking extra years to finish their studies.
Some York students, like sixth-year theatre and English student Garett Oliver, disagreed with the idea of a three-year undergraduate degree program, saying that the quality of education would only suffer as a result.
“That hasn’t really worked in the past,” he says. “They did it with high school by removing grade 13. It’s looking at it more as getting a piece of paper with your name on it saying whatever program you’re in rather than actually learning something, which should be the function of post-secondary education.”
On the other hand, several students commented in favour of a condensed three-year undergraduate program, saying they would rather jump-start their careers and save some cash on the way.
“It would be done faster. I can get out of here and start my career. I’m a musician,” says Cecile Eugene, a third-year music major. “As soon as I’m done, I can get on the road and tour. But because it’s a four-year program, I have to stay here for four years instead of three. Plus, all these extra courses I have to take—like humanities and social science—won’t help me be a musician.”
Some students have actually seen how the three-year programs work overseas, and are quite taken to the idea. Venessa Lao, a second-year accounting student, sees the move as a good thing for students. She says that in countries like Australia, a lot of her friends finish their studies abroad in three years.
 “It would be a benefit for students financially,” she says. “I have friends who are basically taking loans that they have to pay off the minute they graduate.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
But who ended up with the harder job?
Hufsa Tahir
Staff Writer
 @excalweb
President Mamdouh Shoukri swapped his suit and tie for a letterman jacket and backpack, joining the throngs of students on the Square One GO bus to York. This day marked York’s—and Canada’s—first-ever President for a Day event.
The lucky York student who won a day in Shoukri’s presidential seat is Rabia Sajun, a third-year biochemistry and education student whose winning contest entry included three ideas for improving student life: expanding Steacie Library, reducing class sizes, and enhancing campus safety.
“It’s been super busy,” Sajun describes her day. “I’ve been in a lot of meetings. I met vp Rob Tiffin about disability. I’m interested in accessibility services for all students. I met vp Brewer about campus safety.”
She also talked to vp academic and provost Patrick Monahan about class sizes, and about improving student engagement in classrooms.
While Sajun sat through several meetings, Shoukri spent his day in a lecture on molecular biology and in a physics lab. Sajun serves as the co-president of the Chemistry Society, and Shoukri sat in for her office hours, selling students old lecture notes and professor-approved sample copies of old tests for $15 a packet.
“I’ve had a chance to talk to students there, learn more about the university and about their concerns,” he says.
The one negative of the day for Shoukri, however, was when he visited a very crowded Student Centre for lunch. The lineup for the microwaves especially dismayed him.
“I wouldn’t do that if I was a student. I’d give up on warm food,” he remarks. “To be honest, maybe building a new Student Centre will take time, but doing something about the microwaves should not.”
For Shoukri, the event was a way of engaging with the student population, something that he didn’t expect would happen on such a high level.
“Fact is, I walk through campus all the time and talk to lot of students,” says Shoukri. “But they want to talk to me more now, probably because I’m not wearing a suit, I’m wearing this—” he gestured to his letterman jacket—“They’re probably more comfortable seeing me trying to reach out to them.”
Sajun highly approves of the President for a Day campaign and believes it should be a recurring event.
“I think this idea was a really interesting experience to get a behind-the-scenes look into what is involved in implementing something,” she says. “The admin is doing its best to better student life, and this gives students a better behind-the-scenes look.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
“There’s been a terrific increase in interest this year” -McMillan
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
@jackieperlin
The world-famous TEDx talks are about to begin their second round at York.
The Technology, Entertainment, and Design (TED) Conference is set to take place March 10 at York’s Glendon campus.
The talks are part of a number of globally-occurring conferences that are owned by the private not-for-profit Sapling Foundation, which began in 1984 and aims at addressing a number of issues within science and culture.
“There’s been a terrific increase in interest this year,” says Ross McMillan, one of the co-curators of the event.
McMillan adds that the event has already received many more applications from students eager to participate in the talks than the 100 spots available.
Some of the speakers set to present at York include a student talking about her research on domestic violence and aboriginal women, and a York vice-president presenting his take on how universities are changing to meet the demands of the future. Past presenters in the talks include figures such as Bill Clinton and Bill Gates, though they were not at York campus.
All speeches fall within the overall theme of this year’s conference, “Impact Matters.” Speakers are encouraged to highlight their stories about making differences in their communities.
Ross calls the event a “one day symposium,” where participants will spend the entire day listening to the twelve speakers and watching two performances.
“It’s really a cross-section of the York community,” says McMillan, who notes that organizers are looking to cultivate an audience from all walks of life that can not only attend, but also engage in talks with other participants who they would not normally interact with.
The last day to send in an application is February 29. For those unable to attend in person, the event will also be streamed online.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
CUPE accuses employer of continuing to ask for concessions from union
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
 @jackieperlin
Four months of negotiations and a total of 34 agreements.
That’s the number of motions that have been agreed upon by York management and the Canadian Union Public Employees (CUPE) local 3903, but the negotiations have reached a turning point with about 120 proposals still remaining on the table.
CUPE 3903 has made the first step towards putting the union in a legal strike position by filling for conciliation with the Ontario Ministry of Labour on February 15, asking for a government-appointed conciliator—or third-party individual—to help facilitate and attempt to enable the two sides to reach an agreement.
While the union emphasizes that it hopes to reach an agreement with the university through the conciliation process, it is also lashing out against the university, stating in a website update that “given the Employer’s reluctance to recognize our members’ needs and their unwillingness to bargain on a proposal-by-proposal basis thus far, the Union has no choice but to begin preparations to hold a strike mandate vote and set a bargaining deadline.”
Karen Walker, chair of CUPE 3903, explains that conciliation is the step before holding a strike mandate vote, which would determine if the Local will strike.
A strike or lockout of the Local, however, can only occur 31 days after the conciliation process has begun, which should be starting in the coming days.
Walker also explains that the university has failed to address each proposal made by the Local, and is instead offering a total compensation package of two per cent, encouraging the Local to accept the package and divvy up the money at their discretion.
While Walker notes that in past years CUPE has received a package of five per cent and that initial offers made by the university are usually low, her concern is that most of the items that have been negotiated upon thus far have been inconsequential.
Walker says that while the Local has given hundreds of proposals to the employer, the employer has only made six counter-proposals to the original package and are unwilling to budge on many of the important ones, including refusing to move on the “sign back deadlines,” where the Local is contesting the new deadlines given to teaching assistants to sign back their contact.
“Such deadlines are a not-so-subtle attempt to place the blame on us for the fact that they were late with September pay for 1,400 members […] despite the fact many of these contracts were signed in June and July!” states the update.
Walker says the majority of proposals agreed upon thus far have been items proposed by the university and accepted by the employer, not vice versa. For her, the actions of the university are impeding upon the negotiation process causing no agreements on key proposals.
“Without this leverage, we are concerned that the Employer will continue to stall through conciliation, talking in circles while our contracts continue to be eroded by inflation,” states the update. “Rather, the Employer’s stance remains unchanged: reduce your demands to fi t within our financial mandate and maybe then we can talk on some of these issues,” it continues.
Robert Castle, senior advisor to vp fi nance and administration, is adamant that the university is doing everything in its power to reach an agreement with the union and says that negotiations thus far have been positive.
“We’ve had good work done with the union,” he says.
Castle notes that the university received over 170 proposals from the union in November of last year, so it is only reasonable that the process is taking time.
“There’s been a lot of work done through our negotiations […] it’s hard to see how we’re not taking this situation seriously,” he says.
Castle also says the university is pleased to go into the conciliation process.
“We’re perfectly happy going into conciliation and we don’t see the conciliator as leveraging for either party. It’s a third party independent voice to help us to get to an agreement,” he says, adding that the university does in fact expect a detailed review and discussion of all the proposals.
Once a conciliator is appointed by the Ministry, the individual will reach out to both parties to continue with the negotiation process. Nevertheless, CUPE says that having a strike mandate does not mean that the union will strike.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
