CRO says margin of error “less than one per cent” 
Tamara Khandaker
Staff Writer
@anima_tk
The elections are over and the incumbent party has won by a clean sweep. But members of the challenging party have alleged that there are a number of flaws in the election process.
Mandy Yang, who ran for director of Schulich with the slate Free York University (FYU), approached Excalibur with concerns regarding the way polls were run, and a number of students have backed up her claims.
Yang says that there was potential for double voting, and that there were instances in which students were given fewer ballots than there were slots.
Vivian Chen says she initially voted for Yang, who is a friend of hers. A few days later, she was stopped by a York United candidate in Central Square who asked her if she would vote. Chen says she informed the candidate that she had voted for Yang already, but the candidate said she didn’t know who Yang was and insisted that Chen vote for her. Chen asked if she could vote for just one slot, and the poll clerks allowed it. She was not asked if she had already voted.
“I feel like there was a lack of administration. It didn’t happen properly,” she says.
When Chen told Yang that she voted twice, Yang thought she would see for herself if this was possible. After removing her campaign gear, she went to a poll in the Lassonde Building to vote for a second time.
Unlike her friend, she was asked whether or not she had already voted. Yang said no, and the poll clerk allowed her to proceed.
However, the election’s chief returning officer (CRO), Cécile Des Vignes, says it is extremely unlikely that any individual was able to vote twice or receive only one ballot.
“The margin of error was less than one per cent,” Des Vignes said in an email. “This could not have had any impact on the outcome of the elections.”
However, students Yuanyou Ma and Stefan Gatti-Cavanagh both say that they had difficulty voting for their own colleges. Ma was not given a ballot for her college, Calumet, and Gatti-Cavanagh had to go to a second polling station to be able to vote for his college, Vanier.
“They didn’t seem prepared very well,” says Gatti-Cavanagh, “I’m not sure if they were scamming everyone, I’m not sure what to feel.”
Hamid Osman, the YFS executive director, says that it is almost impossible for this to happen. He explains that the only confusion that arises when it comes to voting is when a student has a common name. But in these cases, the ballots are put into an envelope, and later cross-checked against their information.
Another student, Sangeung Jung, is also confused as to whether or not her vote was counted. She says the poll clerk could not find her name in the database, and she was given two envelopes to hold her ballots. This is done when someone has a common name, but on York University’s database, she is the only Sangeung Jung.
Regardless, Osman expressed confusion as to why Yang did not approach Des Vignes when she ran into these problems.
“I don’t understand why she would go to Excalibur first before coming to file a complaint with the CRO,” says Osman, who confirmed that Yang had not filed any formal complaints with Des Vignes. “If there were any issues, the CRO would have caught onto it,” he says. “It’s interesting that no one else from her team contested this.”
However, Yang is not the only person on the FYU slate who believes the process is flawed. Jonathan Jupiter, FYU president, says that he has noticed many problems which may deter students from running against the incumbent party in the future.
“At the end of the day, anyone campaigning deserves a fair election,” he says.
He does not think students were made aware of the fact that elections were happening, let alone taught how to vote correctly.
“A spoiled vote means that someone who doesn’t understand how to complete a ballot has voted, someone who was not educated about the process,” he says.
“People put up banners for Nas, for Frost Week, and Welcome Week. Why aren’t we promoting elections?” he asks. “Why can’t there be a display board of all candidates? Students aren’t aware enough.”
Jupiter also says that a lack of resources made campaigning considerably more difficult for FYU.
Nevertheless, Jupiter says he congratulates York United for their successful campaign.
“York United worked hard and did a great job, and I don’t want to take anything away from them. But I do want to improve on elections,” he says. “Why should we run when we don’t have a chance? That’s the message they’re sending out.”
With files from Leslie Armstrong and Yuni Kim
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Representatives from Students in Support of CUPE 3903 and JUST SAY NO TO STRIKE share their thoughts on the bargaining process
Yuni Kim
News Editor
@YuniKimchi
 
Students in Support of CUPE 3903
My name is Farshad Azadian. I’m one of the activists and a spokesperson for the group. I’m a fourth-year undergraduate psychology major.
JUST SAY NO TO STRIKE
I’m the co-founder of JUST SAY NO TO STRIKE. I’m a York graduate student, and part of CUPE 3903 Unit 3.
 
Support CUPE
We want to prevent the strike. The administration at the university tried to drive a wedge between students and workers last time, waited it out for several months, and allowed McGuinty to step in. This divide between students and workers resulted in a prolonged strike. None of the academics want to be on strike. They have bills to pay, too. Students and workers should be united to make the university listen. Shoukri makes nearly half a million each year. Give the workers a better deal, that’s our demand. Workers are expecting job security, and that’s unacceptable?
SAY NO
Our purpose is to provide students with information about the strike process that is not biased in a way that the CUPE updates are. They say things like “someone at the table is forgetting to bargain!” in their language. When they talked about the strike mandate vote, they told people just to vote yes. They never ask people to question or present alternatives. If you’re a client, we’re the ones signing their cheques. CUPE 3903 are employees, but also students. We are also encouraging students to prevent a strike before it happens.
 
Support CUPE
I was at U of T, and I transferred during the period of the strike. Actually at U of T, our union was bargaining as well. We ran a similar campaign to support CUPE 3902, and we pressured the admin. Students and workers were together. We collected up to 1,400 online and paper petitions, we brought it to the university […] at U of T, we prevented a strike. But at York, you had this strike that harmed education, hurt the workers, and you had stepping on labour rights.
SAY NO
I suppose if all the students decided to side with the union, the university would give in. But if the students sided with the university […] I think it works both ways. Union members could have done a better job not polarizing students. If they want to block the road, that’s fine. But I don’t want to talk to them. I remember one time I drove up to the entrance [during the 2008 strike], and one union member didn’t stop knocking on my window until I opened it, and she gave me her spiel. It’s not a good way to get students on your side. CUPE 3903, as opposed to U of T’s CUPE 3902, has had a lack of skills as far as communicating with the community. They come off as abrasive and off-putting.
 
Support CUPE
We’ve got a lot of support. We started over the past couple weeks, but already the NDP club, the sociology student association, and student activists support us. We started putting up posters and tabling, and a couple of dozen students are already on board.
SAY NO
I think people have used our website as individuals to vent about how they’re feeling. We haven’t had any groups approach us, but that’s not surprising because our point of view is an unpopular one at York University.
 
Support CUPE
You should be mad. Students should be mad and do something about it. York admin isn’t willing to give academic workers—thousands of them—basic wages and job security. Our education is being compromised. We appeal to students and undergrads to get involved with our campaign.
SAY NO
We’d like to encourage people to take action in whatever way they can. On either side, I think the clear thing is that we resolve the situation. Write a letter to your MPP, use Facebook, tell your friends, spread the word. Let your perspective be heard.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Idan Raichel Project coupled their campus performance with an intimate chat dedicated to their fans
Adelaide Strachan
Contributor
The Idan Raichel Project played to an intermittent audience of fans Monday afternoon. The performance consisted of an interview with Raichel and fellow collaborator, Cabra Casay, whose voice embodies her Ethiopian heritage and Jewish upbringing. The result is a breathtaking performance of cultures.
Raichel and Casay reminisce about the Idan Raichel Project’s humble beginnings in Raichel’s parents’ basement just outside Tel Aviv. Thus far, they have collaborated with more than 70 different artists who make up the Project’s signature sound. Having sold more than 300,000 albums, the Idan Raichel Project is a three-time platinum selling artist in Israel and has a solid cult following around the world.
When I first heard that the Idan Raichel Project was coming to Toronto—and to our university—I was extremely excited, to say the least. I was first introduced to his music by a friend about seven years ago. His music makes you feel as though you have been listening to it your whole life.
Raichel won me over with his charm and sincerity when he discussed his music and influences. His overriding philosophy of love and tolerance and his sense of community came to light with a contagious sense of passion through his music.
The only downside to the afternoon’s performance was that the time allotted was too short, and the fact that Idan and his crew had to rush off to catch a plane back to Israel left no time to talk with the fans. At the very least, he left us wanting more with some spine-tingling music vibes.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
 
 
 
 
 
spotted on campus • On Red and White day, York’s golden-maned mascot was giving out free hugs and posing for photos in the middle of the Student Centre to celebrate the school’s 53rd birthday. A bevy of athletic achievements were also celebrated, with cheerleaders, live music, and a DJ. Faculty, staff, and students clad in red-and-white gear had a chance to win prizes, and the bookstore sold discounted merchandise in honour of the event. There was plenty of clapping, cheering, and of course, mounds of free cake. Congratulations, York: you’re middle-aged.
If you find anything amusing around campus, snap a photo of it and send it to photos@excal.on.ca or facebook.com/excalweb or tweet @excalweb with a short description. You could be featured in Spotted on Campus! Compiled by News Department. alex hum
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Amelia Ruthven-Nelson 
Recruitment Manager
@AmeliaR_N
A man who caused a disruption at an on-campus restaurant was arrested by Toronto police March 22.
The accused arrived at Blueberry Hill in York Lanes at approximately 8 p.m. and spent the majority of two hours’ time in the men’s restroom, which was later found to have been flooded. Police were called to the scene after both the restaurant owners and York security were unsuccessful in making the man leave the washroom.
The accused was escorted out by Toronto police around 10 p.m. and later was charged with mischief. As they escorted the accused out of the restaurant, he appeared to be soaked in water.
“He seemed very apologetic,” says one of the owners. “He wasn’t threatening anyone. We were just worried about what would happen if other students did approach him.”
Employees went around the restaurant shortly after the incident, informing customers that the men’s restroom was out of order.
Toronto police say they cannot release the name of the person, or even whether the person was a York student.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
@jackieperlin
Negotiations between York and the union representing York’s teaching assistants and contract faculty continued last week in an effort to avoid a second strike by the union in four years.
York met with the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) Local 3903 March 22 after the local voted in favour of a strike mandate, placing CUPE 3903 in a legal strike position as of April 12.
Joanne Rider of York media says the meetings following CUPE 3903’s strike mandate have been “productive” and explains that the university remains hopeful a negotiation will be reached with the conciliator.
Rider notes the university has increased its monetary proposals to meet the union’s desires. This includes increases in the per-term amount of financial assistance for international students, increases in summer assistance provided to graduate assistants, and increases in funds with priority given to international students.
However, according to CUPE 3903 chair Karen Walker, there has been “little movement” with regards to the university’s stance and the negotiation process since the vote for a strike mandate.
As for the York Federation of Students (YFS), vp equity Siva Vimalachandran says that while the student union has no influence over the bargaining process, they too remain hopeful that both sides reach an agreement before the strike deadline.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Safety and student space still remain primary goals to tackle
Jacqueline Perlin
Assistant News Editor
@jackieperlin
Another year, another student election, another win by the incumbent slate.
The results of the York Federation of Students (YFS) elections came Saturday with little surprise when the York United (YU) slate swept the polls in an overwhelming win over the opposition slate, Free York University (FYU). The winners were announced March 26, after the polls were closed and ballots counted.
“All the candidates more or less played fair and stuck to the rules outlined to them in the YFS Elections Bylaws,” said chief returning officer, Cécile Des Vignes in an email to Excalibur. She noted that while a number of demerit points were handed out for reasons such as using unapproved campaign material, there were no disqualifications, marking this the first YFS election without a single disqualification, according to YFS executive director Hamid Osman.
Every candidate running on the YU slate for executive and director positions won their seat, including the three returning members of the executive team: Vanessa Hunt, Alastair Woods, and Robert Cerjanec.
Hunt, who is returning for her second term as YFS president, says that the win is a reflection of the hard work and effort her slate put into the election.
She says that many of the YFS’s main priorities will remain unchanged going into next year, such as issues with safety and student space topping the concerns.
The implementation of the remaining Metropolitan Action Committee on Violence Against Women and Children (METRAC) recommendations—specifically with reference to the mandatory women’s studies or equity class—is a major element.
While this is something the YFS has been working towards over the past year, the recommendations that have yet to be addressed prompted Hunt to throw in her bid for a second time.
“That is part of the reason I wanted to come back,” she says, explaining that the YFS has engaged in “heavy duty” research to support the implementation of an equity or women’s studies course, and that they intend to bring their research and work to the university and have the York senate approve the recommendations.
“We’re all very excited and happy, but also very humbled,” says Hunt of their win and the YU slate’s upcoming challenges, noting the strong support she received from students during the campaign period.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
All exams to follow regular schedule as of now, says York admin
 Hamid Adem
Staff Writer
@excalweb
 
With CUPE 3903, the union representing teaching assistants, graduate assistants, and contract faculty legally allowed to strike as of April 12 if an agreement is not reached, many students might be facing exam schedules.
“The university is in the process of figuring out a plan B if needed,” says a representative from the Registrar’s Office. “We haven’t been given any details yet, but when we do know it will be up on the York website.”
Joanne Rider of York media says as of now, exam schedules remain the same.
“We are meeting this Thursday and Friday with the union and the conciliator again, and will continue to provide regular updates,” she says. “So with respect to the question about backup or alternative schedules, currently all academic activities are proceeding as planned.”
Despite the fact she may not get her grades on time, third-year English major Stephanie Mckechnie feels that CUPE 3903 has the right to go on strike for wages and benefits.
“You need to do that kind of thing to get results,” she says. “The administration knows the student body will be really upset by it, so they would be more willing to give in to the bargaining.”
However, not everyone holds the same view as Mckechnie when talking about the potential strike. Caroline Ruccella, a first-year student, understands the predicament but still feels stressed about the situation.
“I’ve been terrified as hell for the past few months, and know all my major exams are happening. I just want it done,” she says. “If the union has any problems, they need to take it up with the administration and not let it affect the students.”
Should CUPE 3903 choose to strike, Rider says the university will be taking all possible steps to minimize the impact on students and academic activity.
With files from Yuni Kim
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
