What do you get when you cross Thirteen, Sugar and Spice, and Drive?
Wait—minus the black humour, the powerhouse performance by Ryan Gosling, and the heartbreakingly honest script penned by 14-year-old Nikki Reed based on her own experiences with sex and drugs. If you guessed Spring Breakers, starring James Franco, Selena Gomez, Ashley Benson, Vanessa Hudgens, and Rachel Korine, you’d be right.
The work of writer-director Harmony Korine, whose previous credits include an eclectic mix of critically acclaimed indies, Spring Breakers defies categorization.
From the very first scenes of the movie, which feature the suggestive licking of popsicles, topless co-eds, and bikini-clad girls and sweaty frat boys smoking from a bong, Korine makes it clear that this is not another sweet and innocent teeny-bopper flick.
Friends — Brit (Benson), Candy (Hudgens), Cotty (Korine), and Faith (Gomez) — desperately want to escape to Florida for spring break to get away from their mundane lives. Lacking the funds for their vacation, the wild and wreckless Brit and Candy decide to  rob a diner at gunpoint, with Cotty driving the getaway car.
When Faith, a devout Christian only connected to the girls through a lasting childhood bond, finds out how her spring break is going to be financed, she is reluctant but agrees to go along.
The four party hard in Florida until they are arrested for trashing a hotel room. When rapper and  drug dealer Alien (Franco) bails them out of jail, things really start to get out of control, and Faith decides to go home. The other three find themselves involved in Alien’s criminal activities, with Brit and Candy taking great pleasure in the violence and the money it brings.
What were presumably supposed to be breakout roles for  Disney tween queens Gomez and Hudgens and Pretty Little Liars’ Benson, the trio, Gomez in particular, shows poor acting chops. Even worse, not one of the four female stars has a shred of cha- risma, and together they are about as interesting as a spring break spent helping your grandparents clean their basement.
Maybe even less so, as the latter might yield some unexpected treasures and a laugh or two at your parents’ old photos That’s why when Franco appears on screen about half an hour into the film, the audience can breathe a collective sigh of relief. Sporting gold teeth, cornrows, and an impressive Southern drawl as Alien, Franco is simultaneously charm- ing, eerie, and vulnerable.
Franco delivers an off-beat but precise performance that is captivating, and his command of the screen reminds the audience what acting and screen presence should look like. His periodic and slow repetition of the words “spring break” throughout the film is perfectly creepy, providing a steady rhythm for the action.
Altogether, Spring Breakers is confused, over-the-top, and leaves many questions unanswered, the most compelling being what has made Brit and Candy so jaded, yet so glad, to become an integral part of a trashy gangster’s violent life.
But what makes the movie interesting, despite an unrealistic plot and sometimes painfully slow pacing, is its visual aesthetic: its mix of grainy, shaky takes; So-Cal vibe; shots of the vibrant, colourful sun and sunsets; and costumes that take full advantage of the faded ’80s beach styles.
The film is a visual delight, while the juxtaposition of guns, money, violence, blood, and drug use make it hauntingly beautiful.
Add to this a forceful, bass-filled soundtrack produced by Cliff Martinez (Drive), Gucci Mane, and dubstep wonderkid Skrillex, and you get a film that is vulgar, tacky, and cheesy, but visually and aurally striking. In fact, it’s precisely these qualities that make it so.
If Spring Breakers offers any social commentary or has a deeper meaning, I didn’t catch it, but that doesn’t mean the movie isn’t worth watching. The film confusingly, though stylishly, blurs the lines between mediums and genres and feels very of-the-moment. Part music video, part video game, part film, Spring Breakers might just be a whole work of art. And that’s worth the price of admission.
Vanessa Del Carpio
Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Say what you will about Rihanna’s taste in men (in addition to clothing and promotional tours), but the girl can sing.
She has a powerhouse voice, made more interesting by her Bajan accent.Given her strong vocal ability, one would think any Rihanna album would capitalize on this strength.
Unapologetic, however, doesn’t. Instead, it feels tired, repetitive, and just like every other album Rihanna has put out in recent years. It lacks the freshness, originality, and attitude the singer is known for, epitomized in 2007’s Good Girl Gone Bad.
Take, for example, her highly publicized and gossiped about collaboration with Chris Brown, “Nobody’s Business.” The track, aside from calling attention to the on-again-off -again couple’s tumultuous and controversial relationship, is a prime example of the album’s “been there, heard that” feeling.
Similarly, “Numb,” a collaboration with Eminem, is reminiscent of every other Rihanna song you’ve ever heard, and not even the better ones. It feels heavy and overproduced, and the lyrics lack a certain spark. Eminem’s part is the silver lining of the song, but it too feels like a run-of-the-mill Eminem performance.
The song just serves as a reminder of just how good Rhi-Rhi and Eminem’s last collaboration, “Love the Way You Lie,” was, and just how bad “Numb” is in comparison. “Stay” is the standout track in the album; a slower song that showcases Rihanna’s vocal range, placing her unique voice centre stage. Rihanna delivers a nuanced performance of the song that is infused with emotion and pain.
Still, “Stay” is not enough to save the album, but it does provide hope for future material if Rihanna stays on its slowerpaced path. Overall, Unapologetic makes it clear that Rihanna has released seven albums in seven years, and suggests that she should take a break before heading back to the studio. Maybe then will audiences see the spunky and innovative Rihanna they used to love.
Vanessa Del Carpio
 Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Arian Shahnavazy
Contributor
Thanks to the highly acclaimed, Grammy award-winning album, The Resistance, progressive rock band Muse had fans all over the world anxiously anticipating their sixth studio album, The 2nd Law.
The band has lived up to its reputation as an avant-garde group, this time creating an album which presents fans with a new sound in every track. However, much of the criticism for the album is related to this new sound.
The band experimented with their sound in the form of instrumental dubstep.
The 2nd Law takes a full 180-degree turn for the band’s thematic style, establishing itself as a personal album with themes such as alcoholism and escapism.
The album starts off with the track “Supremacy,” where lead singer and guitarist Matthew Bellamy plays a long Bond-themed solo.
“Madness,” a track that starts with a slow George Michael vibe, eventually transforms itself into a fast-paced, symphony-like ending—a fantastic treat for those who appreciate rewarding build-ups.
 “Panic Station,” which follows, holds a completely new sound for Muse, combining elements of funk, disco, and rock, and an upbeat track that will undoubtedly have you nodding your head.
Finally, the lyrical portion of the album ends with a grand surprise. The last two tracks, “Save me” and “Liquid State,” are sung by bassist Chris Wolstenholme.
The songs are based on serious moments in Wolstenholm’s life, but the tracks themselves have a bigger shock value than a remembrance value.
Despite one or two tedious songs in the album like “Explorers” and “Big Freeze,” and the completely unfiltered dubstep instrumental “The 2nd Law: Unsustainable,” The 2nd Law is an enjoyable album that music lovers of all different genres can pick up, and find something they like in it.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
