Melissa Sundardas
News Editor 
A man has been convicted of second-degree murder in the hit-and-run killing of York business student Vincent Dang.
During the trial, which began May 18, 2012, the court heard that following an altercation between Naveen Ariaratnam, Dang, and their groups of friends inside Rockwood nightclub on Friday, Nov. 26, 2010, Ariaratnam deliberately drove his rented SUV at 20-year-old Dang, killing him.
According to the Criminal Code, those convicted of a second degree murder receive an automatic life sentence. Ontario Superior Court Justice Michael Dambrot must still determine how many years, between 10 and 25, Ariaratnam must serve before qualifying to apply for parole.
Friends of Dang say the news of Ariaratnam’s conviction does not bring them much satisfaction.
“The man took his life. At the end of the day we can’t bring Vince back,” says Errol Olorvida. “He’s never coming back.” Olorvida was  partying with Dang at Rockwood the night he died.
Olorvida recalls Dang always being the positive thinker of their group of friends.
“I miss him a lot. Whenever there was a bad situation or anytime anyone was negative he would always try to make the best of things and would always be there to say something positive,” Olorvida says.
Dang left a lasting impact on everyone he encountered, his friends say.
“I’ll remember Vince as a loyal and reliable friend,” says Francis Nguyen who was also with Dang on the night of the hit-and-run murder. “He was someone you could always count on in need, someone who could always sympathize with you and he was always smiling.”
Nicholas Matas, another close friend of Dang’s and a second-year psychology student at York says Dang was one of the best people he’s ever met.
“I love and cherish him and I’m sorry he’s not here anymore, but he still lives on through his friend and family,” Matas says.
On the opening day of the trial, Crown prosecutor Warren Thompson played a security video of the vehicle striking Dang for the jury members.
Throughout the trial the court heard details of what happened the night of Friday, Nov. 26 that led to Dang’s death.
Once Ariaratnam and Dang’s groups were kicked out of Rockwood nightclub by the security staff early Saturday, the two groups continued to fight outside the club, the court was told.
As Ariaratnam drove away in his SUV along with four friends, he saw Dang and his friends walking along Blue Jays Way and taunted them to follow him.
After exchanging words, Ariaratnam backed away and Dang and his friends ran toward the SUV, the prosecution said.
Ariaratnam then made a U-turn and began deliberately driving straight towards Dang and his group at the intersection of Wellington St. and Blue Jays Way, the court heard.
Unable to jump out of the way in time, Dang was struck by the massive grill of the Suburban and died less than an hour later in the early hours of Saturday, Nov. 27, 2010.
It took two days of deliberations for the jury to come to the verdict that Ariaratnam was guilty as charged of second-degree murder.
Five jurors suggested Ariaratnam serve a minimum of 10 years before being eligible for parole and one insisted he serve 15 years.
On July 20, Ariaratnam will return to court for sentencing.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
