Why the experience of watching games on your computer screen pales in comparison to that of a live game
I’m a huge basketball fan, spending far too much time online, watching games on my NBA League Pass.
I very much enjoy my live-streamed basketball games, and I’m not willing to let them go.
There is no spectator experience that comes close to attending a live game and seeing it through your very own eyes.
I’ve been to two pricey basketball games in the last two years. I went to see the the Boston Celtics and the Denver Nuggets play the Raptors, with the Raptors taking the win for both games. My fondest anti-Andrea memory was Kevin Garnett dunking hard on Andrea Bargnani, a moment I will relish forever. I also recall DeMar DeRozan driving the lane, dunking over two tall, green uniforms.
I remember the long, wild dreadlocks of then rookie Kenneth “The Manimal” Faried soaring through the air, as he made monster dunks and hard blocks in his breakout game, while the entire stadium went silent, each play in protest.
I recall my heart sinking when José Calderón kept his dribble for the last eight seconds and hit the buzzer beater against Denver behind the arc. At the same time, I was excited, captured by the spectacle of a tight game. The last 20 seconds felt more like minutes, and as much as I was cheering for Denver, I was actually thrilled when Calderón hit the shot.
Then I was overcome by a feeling of sadness because I lost a bet to my friend and had to buy him a drink.
These are moments that have stuck with me more than any of the several dozen games I’ve streamed online. When you watch a live stream, you see continuous replays that you can’t see when watching a live game. But all the replays I’ve seen online are quickly forgotten, and the single moments I witness in person become their own vivid replays in my head.
With live games, the experience is shared among friends, thousands of roaring fans, and the players on the floor. Screaming my demands to players through my laptop screen is not nearly as exciting as it is in the stadium. It’s hard not to raise your voice at a game when everyone else around you makes you feel like you’re part of the action just as much as the players are.
Live streams don’t have that. The interactivity between fans and players is lost in livestream games. There are merits to live streams, which is why I watch them all the time. They’re much less expensive than paying to watch live games. They’re also non-committal. I can leave a stream on and eat my breakfast or pause it and do my homework (yeah, right).
The design of the NBA League Pass is impressive because I can watch four different games in four different windows at one time, which is great on busy NBA nights with 8 to 10 happening in a row.
The downside to live streaming is you’re less attached to the moment, and as a result, big plays don’t really seem like big plays. That’s a real shame.
If you’re wondering if I’m going to stop watching my live streams, my answer is no. As a busy student, I don’t have the time or the money to watch all the games I want, so live streaming basketball games is my best option. But make no mistake—the convenience of live streams can’t compensate for the exhilaration that comes with watching a game unravel right before your eyes.
Watching the shots go up and swish in front of you, hearing the announcer’s booming voice, and sitting next to the angry old man whose passion for the game results in your shoe becoming the landing pad for his nachos. The whole experience disappears behind a computer screen.
Fuck it, I’m buying tickets now.
By Alex Hum, Features Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Osgoode Hall hosts event to shed light on issues surrounding the inquiry
At a discussion in Osgoode Hall December 3 about a provincial inquiry into missing and murdered Aboriginal women in Canada, two British Columbia lawyers said the inquiry wouldn’t achieve anything notable.
Speakers at the event entitled “Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women in Canada: Learning from the Missing Women Commission of Inquiry,” said the inquiry failed to establish a resolution regarding the prevention of crime against aboriginal women.
David Eby, executive director for the BC Civil Liberties Association, an organization which aims to protect the human rights and freedoms of people in Canada, says this inquiry failed because the women who were meant to be represented didn’t have adequate legal resources to defend themselves.
The Missing Women Commission of Inquiry was organized for two main purposes.
Firstly, it was to provide female survivors of sexual assaults and abductions with a chance to tell their stories, and to investigate what happened to the deceased women so a public hearing could be organized to highlight the injustice, explains Eby. The second purpose was to build strategies to prevent similar tragedies.
“Unfortunately, it didn’t provide either of those functions,” says Eby.
According to a 2009 Statistics Canada report, “Aboriginal women are three times more likely to experience violent victimization than non-Aboriginal women.”
Eby says Aboriginal women are more likely to be murdered or abducted, especially in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside, a crime hot spot, yet BC’s police force has made little progress on the issue.
Most of the crimes against Aboriginal women go unsolved, and the problem has worsened over the last several decades, Eby says.
“We found this absolutely appalling, and it forced us to investigate why Aboriginal women are more likely to be victims of [murder or abduction], and what can be done to stop it,” says Avnish Nanda, student of Osgoode Hall Law School and organizer of the event.
The BCCLA decided to get involved to ensure that policing services were available to Aboriginal women without discrimination and that police were doing enough to protect the safety of Aboriginal women, sex workers in particular, according to Eby.
During the inquiry, says Eby, the Aboriginal women were forced to represent themselves, while the Vancouver police had 25 lawyers to represent them.
“These women, who have active addictions […] or mental health issues, were against some of Canada’s best lawyers,” says Eby.
Eby also argues the inquiry didn’t answer the question of why these women were being killed and what made them particularly vulnerable.
The second speaker of the event, Robyn Gervais, was appointed as independent counsel representing the interests of the Aboriginal women at the inquiry into serial killer Robert Pickton’s case. Pickton had targeted a number of Aboriginal women, the Canadian Press reported.
 Gervais resigned from her position after six months.
“I withdrew because I felt that I couldn’t do my job,” says Gervais, adding that she felt, given the odds stacked against the Aboriginal women from the beginning, her contributions to the inquiry would be void.
Amongst several problems with the inquiry, Gervais identifies “the lack of funding for Aboriginal organizations, and the imbalance between the police witnesses and other witnesses in the room.”
“There were not community witnesses but a lot of police witnesses,” she says.
Moving forward, Eby and Gervais say there needs to be a national inquiry to address this issue.
“This is a national issue so it’s not just the Highway of Tears,” says Eby, referring to British Columbia Provincial Highway 16, the site of many unsolved murders and disappearances.
Nanda says bringing a discussion of this inquiry to York, and particularly Osgoode, is important because there are staff who have experience in dealing with Aboriginal issues.
He calls for a national inquiry on these issues. “We must listen to victims families and the community in order to understand what’s really going on.”

By Alex Hum, Features Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Balancing subsidy with fare recovery primary cause
Commuters relying on York Region Transit can expect to pay a higher fare next semester. Starting January 1, 2013, YRT fares will increase.
According to a YRT press release, the price of cash fares will go up by 25 cents from $3.50 to $3.75 for one-zone rides and from $4.50 to $4.75 for two-zone rides. The price of all ticket books will increase by two dollars; all passes will increase in price by five dollars. The prices for Ride to GO cash fares and Ride to GO monthly stickers will remain unchanged.
“This is only the second fare increase since 2009,” says Richard Leary, general manager of York Region Transit. “We’re trying to be cautious about the need to increase fares, but there is also that subsidy balance we have to be cognisant of,” says Leary.
Currently, YRT generates 37 per cent of its operating costs from fares, and 63 per cent of its budget is subsidized by the government, Leary explains.
YRT is expecting its ridership to increase to 22.5 million in 2013, says Ken Turriff of YRT corporate communications.
In the short term, with the fare increases, YRT hopes to be able to fund 40 per cent of its operations through revenue, and reach 50 per cent in the long run, says  Leary
Reaching a balance between revenue and government subsidy to fund operating costs, and compensating for the increase in ridership for 2013 are the main reasons for the fare increase, says Leary.
For the 2013 year, YRT also plans to reduce service on underperforming routes in order to cut costs, as well as expand “Dial-a-Ride” and on-request ride service, which operates on select routes during certain hours.
For 2013, YRT plans to increase its efficiencies and establish a grid network while improving the overall reliability of its system, says Leary.
By Munirul-Haq Raza, Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
