Astronomy professor Paul Delaney talks about putting man on Mars
Alisa Gomziakova
Contributor
The Chinese called it Ying-huo, the fire planet. The Greeks claimed it was Ares, the god of war. From H.G. Wells’s War of the Worlds, to Ray Bradbury’s The Martian Chronicles, Mars has always captured the imaginations of great thinkers.
There have thus far been many quests to Mars, and we, as a civilization, have landed many times on its surface, but no lander has been so aptly named as Curiosity, the rover now searching for the answers we have been seeking for so long.
Curiosity has begun its two-year exploration of Mars. After just over a month since its landing, it is ready to conduct its science mission. On September 14, the scientists took over for the engineers, and the rover began searching for rocks to analyze.
Paul Delaney, astronomy professor at York, explains Curiosity will identify, “both the geology and the environment that currently exists on Mars and how it has changed from the past. We know that it has changed significantly. Curiosity is supposed to fill all the gaps for us.”
Currently, Curiosity is set to search for evidence of ancient life preserved near the base of a five-kilometre-high mound at the center of Gale Crater. This may provide insight into how the formation came to be, and the geological history of the area.
“This may be one of the thickest exposed sections of layered sedimentary rocks in the solar system,” writes Joy Crisp, deputy project scientist for the mission, on the NASA website. “The rock record preserved in those layers holds stories that are billions of years old—stories about whether, when, and for how long Mars might have been habitable.”
Delaney explains that by building upon previous missions’ findings, the Curiosity team will be trying to looking to see whether Mars has all the necessities to support life. The rover would be looking for several tell-tale signs: water, methane, and leftover carbon compounds.
“If you find organic compounds sitting in the soil, you have to speculate how it got there; one good answer for that is ‘life,’” he says.
In the next ten years, Delaney hopes to see technology progress towards air-borne vehicles. The technology is now in development.
“A Mars glider, a large balloon or an aerodynamic wing, would be a big improvement,” he says.
But what about putting humans on Mars? Delaney regretfully explains, regardless of financial limitations, there are certain physical challenges we are still not capable of overcoming.
First, the travel time would be nine months.
“Because of the way the planets orbit, you can’t just turn around and come home,” he says. “You would have to wait on Mars for about a year. This makes it a 2.5 year round trip to Mars.”
Taking enough supplies to support human life on Mars for 2.5 years is just one of the major challenges.
While the atmosphere on Earth shields us from the sun, there is no such protection on Mars, making it inhospitable.
Yet Delaney is hopeful that humans will be on Mars within 20 years.
“It’s a terrific dream, and many students on this campus alone would be happy to [go to Mars],” he says.
But while we seem to be getting closer, promises of putting man on Mars have been heard for 40 years, and in reality, we are still far from the goal.
Delaney stresses, “This has to be a worldwide endeavour, just like the International Space Station. We’ve got to go to Mars the same way.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Romina Julian
Contributor
10. Starships: Do They Exist?
Students will learn the history and mechanics of starships. The final project involves designing a starship that will be made in the near future. This course is not associated with Nicki Minaj.
9. Big Brother: TV show or reality?
This course explores Big Brother’s impact on society. Students who are fans of George Orwell’s book, 1984, as well as the hit reality show, are encouraged to see the value in being cooped up in a house and constantly watched.
8. A Journey Into the Films of Nicolas Cage
Nicolas Cage has had a vibrant
film career, and his films have been described as loud, overdramatic, and bizarre. Students will analyze the versatile filmography of the Oscar-winning actor and keep track of the same awkward smile he has in every movie.
7. Six Seasons and a Movie: An Intellectual Analysis of Vampire Shows
Students will look at TV Shows and recent films that have featured vampires, and discuss whether or not vampires are still badass. They will be watching a lot of True Blood, The Vampire Diaries, and the Twilight saga.
6. Elementary Dothraki
This is an introductory course for students with little to no knowledge of the Dothraki language. Students will learn to carry on everyday conversations and to yell and spit vulgarities. Games like Dothraki Boggle and Scrabble will be featured as in-class activities.
5. Surviving the TTC
Students will learn how to tolerate riding the TTC, and will ace the class if they are able to actually ejoy the ride and ignore the screeches of subway trains. Students must ride the TTC repeatedly to get participation marks.
4. The Science of Titanic: Jack’s Survival
There was definitely room for two people on that driftwood. Best of luck to students who have original thoughts about this subject.
3. Introduction to Internet Memes
Professor Nyan Cat guides students through common internet memes, looking at how they developed and how to use them to point out how dumb other people are on the internet. Students are also expected to create a meme of themselves for their final project.
2. Romantic Literature of the 21st Century: A Look Inside 50 Shades of Grey
The best way to understand literature is by reading it aloud in front of an entire class. This method of teaching will help students understand the depth of 50 Shades of Grey. Students must buy their course supplies at the Stag Shop.
1. The Philosophy of YOLO
This course will unpack the significance of the expression, “YOLO”. Using the works of Drake and Lil’ Wayne, students will learn how they can apply “YOLO” to their lives in order to make wise, well-thought-out decisions.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Wayne Hudson
Senior Staff Writer
 
Outside Vari Hall
Normal type Pokémon, like Chansey and Kangaskhan, are comfortable hanging around in this area. It may not look like much, but if you get creative with the space, you can use it to strengthen your attacks and one-up your opponent. If you need to get into Vari Hall, you’ll need the Poké Flute to wake the Snorlax blocking the doors.
Tait McKenzie Pool
When the York water polo team isn’t practicing here, you’ll find water and ice types of Pokémon chilling out in the pool. This terrain is flexible, especially if your Pokémon can freeze over the entire pool using “ice beam.” Be careful in a water battle, as Pokémon attacks can come from anywhere. You don’t want to find yourself all washed up.
Arboretum Parking Garage
Electric and poison types have formed an unusual bond in this parking garage. Both types are attracted to the environment, so you’ll find Pikachu and Magnemite with Zubat and Koffing. The space is pretty tight, so you’ll have to get more creative when you battle here. If you take a hit, it’s more than likely that you’ll need to use an antidote or a paralyz heal.
Subway Construction Zones 
Rubble, dirt, dust, and steel cranes make a perfect battlefield for rock, ground, and steel Pokémon types. Watch your step outside York Lanes because you might trip over a Geodude, and you don’t want to be on the bad side of a Golem. Stay far away if you do run into a battle because the rock and rubble will be flying at you when Dugtrio tears through the ground underneath Sandslash, and you definitely don’t want to be around when Steelix knocks the crane over.
Underground Tunnels 
Why do you think they shut down the underground tunnel system? It was shut down years ago when Ghost and Dragon type Pokémon were found underneath York. If you’re here to catch Pokémon, it will be tough in the dark. But if done properly, you can use it to your advantage in battle. Catching Dratini would be well worth the trouble if you can train it up to be high level. Fair warning: the way down to the venue of darkness is a difficult one. Bring “hyper potions” in case a Gengar or a Dragonite gets in your way.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
“Healthy” habits that add on extra inches can be broken
Alex Hum
Features Editor
The quest to lose weight is one that often ends unsuccessfully. Achieving that slimmer waistline can become a seemingly unachievable task to those torturing themselves with a so-called diet. But what if you are unconsciously sabotaging your diet?
If you have already taken the steps to change your eating habits, take a look at these five dieting pitfalls, which may be causing you to gain weight, and five remedies to those problems.
Eat a healthy breakfast.
Even when dieting, it is essential to start your morning off with a good meal. Eating breakfast gets your metabolism going early in the day. That kick-start of energy will continue for the remainder of the day. Eating a good breakfast also prevents you from craving junk food later on when you are low on energy.
Eating small-sized portions throughout the day helps to keep that metabolism up. Do not (I repeat, do not) starve yourself. It will not only negatively affect your body in a number of ways, but it will eventually lead to binge eating near the end of the day. Eating after dinner will only sabotage your diet. Your biggest meal should be at the start of the day and then decrease in size up to dinner.
Not all fats are bad.
Don’t be mistaken: eating fat is not stopping you from slimming down; you may be mistaking that with sugar. That’s not to say eating excessive amounts of fat is good for you, but you need some healthy fats to burn the bad ones. Some examples of good fats are those found in fish oil and olive oil because they help break down cholesterol.
Fats also have the added bonus of making you feel fuller for a longer period of time. Allowing some healthy fats into your diet will stop you from reaching for that bag of chips, full of unhealthy saturated fats.
Say no to sodas and fruit juice. 
The sugar in carbonated drinks is not doing your body any good. Many believe that fruit juice is a healthy alternative to soda. If there’s fruit in it, it must be somewhat healthy, right? Wrong.
In fact, fruit juice is just as bad as, if not worse than, drinking soda. It contains high levels of fructose, a sugar. Drinking too much fruit juice will speed up the accumulation of fat, and though it’s cool, sweet, and refreshing, it will keep you pudgier than you would be without it. In short, a glass will not do much harm, but any more is setting your diet back more than you realize.
Instead, eating fruits and vegetables will satisfy that craving for something sweet, and give you necessary vitamins and fibers at the same time.
Don’t skimp on the water. 
Surely, you have heard you should be drinking eight glasses a day. Your body needs to stay hydrated to function properly, and stay alert.
Using water to quench your thirst ensures you do not resort to other sugar-filled drinks. Water also fills up your tank a little more, keeping you fuller and away from the junk food and all that unnecessary snacking. Drinking a small amount of water before a meal will also help keep you from binge eating, and wanting to pass out afterwards.
Extra tip: consuming less alcohol will help your diet. Alcohol adds up to a lot of extra calories that will end up working against you.
No cheating.
Many diets suggest cheat days to help you cope with the changes. A cheat day is the one day a week where you allow yourself to eat as much of whatever you desire, which is otherwise not allowed by your diet.
Don’t kid yourself. A diet is a lifestyle change that takes full commitment. With a high-calorie cheat day, you reverse all the progress you’ve made that week.
Instead of cutting out the unhealthy foods you love altogether, simply decrease portion sizes. That way, you won’t need the cheat day. Avoid these entirely so you don’t throw away all the hard work you put in to get in shape.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
 
 
She says: Yes. 
Aileen Ormoc
Sports Editor
Plain and simple, if Lance Armstrong is not guilty of using performance-enhancing drugs, he should fight the charges.
If he wants to hold onto any integrity as a professional athlete, he needs to prove that the USADA has no grounds to charge him with doping.
The fact of the matter is Armstrong has never tested positive for drug use.
The U.S. Anti-Doping Ageny has only sought Armstrong out on allegations of drug use are through supposed eyewitnesses who claim he used banned blood transfusions, steroids, testosterone, and the blood booster, erythropoietin (EPO), to win all seven of his Tour de France titles. None of this is based on concrete evidence, but rather hearsay.
So where is all the “evidence?”
President of the International Cycling Union, Pat McQuaid, says they have received no proof of Armstrong’s alleged drug use from the USADA. And it has been over a month since Armstrong refused to fight the doping allegations.
Armstrong’s reasoning for refusing to fight the charges is not strong enough.
He says that he wants to protect his family from all the negative media attention, and that he wants to focus on improving the Lance Armstrong Foundation for cancer support.
However, there are more pros than cons for Armstrong if he were to go ahead and battle this case. The cons if he loses: he is stripped of all seven of his Tour de France titles, he is banned from competing in cycling competitions in the future, and all the money he has won is taken from him. The pros: he becomes the poster boy for athletes wrongfully accused of doping.
If he came out on top, he could follow in the footsteps of other high-profile athletes wrongfully accused of doping, who won their cases in the end.
Last June, Roger Clemens of the New York Yankees was slammed in Senator George Mitchell’s 2007 report on the use of performance-enhancing drugs. Major League Baseball identified Clemens as a steroids and human growth hormone user. These claims were not based on positive drug tests but rather on speculation surrounding Clemens’ alleged drug use by other players and training specialists—again, more hearsay. In the end, Clemens was acquitted of all charges related to drug use.
Although Armstrong argues his refusal to fight the charges in no way implicates him, it definitely doesn’t do his reputation any good. More specifically, the doping charges cast a negative light on the Lance Armstrong Foundation. For Armstrong to simply refuse fighting the charges raise questions related to his foundation, about  whether or not the money is really going towards cancer research and support.
Armstrong’s decision will now leave many people wondering if he was ever a credible, honest athlete.
He says: No. 
Arshad Desai
Contributor
Last month Lance Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour de France championship titles after the United States Anti-Doping Agency accused the cyclist of doping.
Armstrong, who has been at the heart of a doping scandal ever since his first Tour de France win back in 1999, decided to not challenge this most recent accusation.
Some have found Armstrong’s choice to refuse testing to be an admission of guilt. In my humble opinion, however, it was a smart decision by Armstrong because he is clearly in the midst of a witch hunt.
The USADA is responsible for testing Olympic athletes for the use of performance-enhancing drugs. The USADA’s evidence supporting their accusations against Armstrong is based on testimonials from Armstrong’s former teammates. This, of course, ignored the fact that the cyclist has passed over 500 drug tests, and yet he is still somehow being portrayed as guilty by the USADA.
When this news broke in June, Armstrong was in Montreal, and stated on his website that he and the Lance Armstrong Foundation have a more important fight on their hands: cancer.
I believe that Armstrong’s focus to help cure cancer justifies his not wanting to continue to participate in this drug-testing witch hunt, seeing as how he has passed that test 500 times already—a simply staggering number.
What more does he have to prove?
He overcame cancer, an amazing feat in and of itself, then went on to win cycling’s most prestigious championship seven times. I fail to see what else there is for Lance to prove about the legitimacy of his victories.
His decision to not continue to be tested is not an admission of guilt, as some people think, because as Armstrong states, “There comes a point in every man’s life when he has to say, ‘Enough is enough.’ For me, that time is now.”
Armstrong took the high road and decided not to fight this time, and to me, there is nothing wrong with that.
Essentially, cycling is a sport that has had, and will likely continue to have, a myriad of doping convictions. It’s time for the next doping witch to step up and fill Armstrong’s cycling shoes.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A list of foods that will help replenish your body’s nutrient and vitamin levels
Sahar Nourouzpour
Contributor
While Thursday pub nights may be the highlight of your week, the aftermath of that night tends to culminate in a horrible hangover, all too frequently featuring horrendous headaches and feelings of nausea.
So when you forget to load up on water and multivitamin pills the night before, remedy these ills by packing a healthy meal with some of the hangover essentials listed below to salvage the rest of your day.
Bananas
Bananas are a great way to feel better fast. Those bottomless drinks the night before caused you to lose a lot of water from either urinating or the other ugly alternative. The loss of potassium is what leaves you feeling cramped and nauseous, and eating bananas can help to restore the potassium you have lost.
Honey and lemon 
Honey and lemon tea are great alternatives for restoring fluid loss. They also contain the right amount of sugar to fix any deprivations from the normal sugar concentrations in your body. Consequently, tea provides you with just the right amount of sugar.
Ginger 
Ginger root, the same kind found in ginger ale, helps to ease an upset stomach. The ginger blocks serotonin receptors which can cause that queasy feeling you get after consuming a lot of alcohol.
Asparagus
Asparagus is packed full of minerals and vitamins that can replenish those lost the night before. Additionally, asparagus protects the liver from certain toxins ingestedwhile drinking.
Fruit juice and Gatorade
Both are great for treating hangovers since they help balance the levels of sugar and electrolytes that have been depleted by alcohol.
Eggs
One of the reasons hangovers are so bothersome is toxic substances, such as acetaldehyde, building up in your body as you drink alcohol. Eggs contain a lot of cysteine, a friendly amino acid, which helps fight off acetaldehyde.
Pickles
Just like asparagus, eating pickles can be a great way for the body to regain absent vitamins and minerals. They also contain high levels of salt; this is extremely helpful since salt concentration levels run low following a night of binge drinking.
Sauerkraut
A little odd to consider, but sauerkraut works wonders with hangovers. The magic lies in its ability to restore sodium levels, all the while helping with digestion due to the friendly bacteria and lactic acid found in cabbage leaves.
Although this list may be a little weird to cosume all in one day, try incorporating it into different kinds of food, little by little. The body’s natural response from excess alcohol is to restore balance.
So before you go out on the town, try to remember to stock up your fridge with a few of these essential items to help you feel better the next morning.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
In an intense home match, the Lions’ late gamble didn’t pay off
Robert Weese
Contributor
The York Lions narrowly lost to the Waterloo Warriors 23-22 on September 22, a day reserved to celebrate the past and current members of the Lions’ organization.
Coming off a 24-20 loss to the Laurier Golden Hawks on September 15, the Lions’ season record dropped to 1-3 in a hard-fought battle against the Warriors.
Tensions ran high into the last 30 seconds of the game when quarterback Myles Gibbon took an unnecessary gamble going for the touchdown, but getting picked off by Waterloo’s defensive back Harrison Mair.
 Gibbon attempted to steal the game from the Warriors, with a pass to York’s star receiver Jonelle Tolbert, the quarterback’s third interception of the game.
Lions’ head coach, Warren Craney, lamented the team’s lackluster finish to a tightly fought game.
“[The Lions were] significantly better than the Warriors in many areas,” says Craney. Although Craney was disappointed, he says they have to remain positive for the remainder of the season, so the team can continue to improve within the Canadian Interuniversity Sport.
In the first half, each team’s defence proved unshakable. Lions’ linebacker James Tuck led the defence with five unassisted tackles and one sack, and defensive end Patrick Russell earned one sack, both of whom troubled the Waterloo offence.
The Lions’ defence, however, lacked at key times during big plays, a reoccurring problem for a defence that gave up over 350 yards to the Warriors’ offence.
Waterloos’ quarterback, Jamie Cook, connected with wide receiver Nick Anapolsky for a 79-yard touchdown.
Another 46-yard touchdown pass from secondary quarterback Brian Chris to wide receiver Michael Robson in the third quarter resulted in 362 total offensive yards for the Warriors.
Although the Lions showed signs of a comeback near the end of the game with two key defensive stops, fueled by sacks from Tuck, their offence didn’t capitalize on those opportunities.
Gibbon shined for the Lions, with two touchdown passes, throwing 352 yards. Gibbon led the Lions late into the fourth quarter on a 90-yard touchdown drive, going 6 for 7 passing on the drive.
The Lions next game is away against the Windsor Lancers on September 29.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Re: “Face to face: understanding shyness”
excalibur » sept 19, 2011
Don’t confuse introversion
with shyness
As a shy person, I’m glad this article was written. It really does shed some light on shyness and social anxiety. So thank you for writing it. However, I noticed at the top of the article it says “introversion,” and under the shyness tips, it suggests modeling the behaviour of extroverts. While I think this can be an extremely helpful tip for shy people, I wanted to point out that shyness and
introversion are not the same things. While they sometimes go hand-in-hand (I am shy and introverted), there’s a clear difference between the two. Shyness
can simply be defined as the fear of social judgement, while introversion has more to do with external stimulation (at least, according to Susan Cain in her recent book Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World that Can’t Stop Talking). While I am shy and introverted, my shyness has improved over the years, but I will always be extremely introverted.
Cain explains introversion not as being asocial, but a different way of being social. An introverted person would prefer a quiet night chatting with friends, versus a loud, thumping club with people they don’t know (because studies show introverts are more sensitive to external stimulation, like noise and lights). I really enjoyed this article, but I just wanted to point that out, as I get a lot of questions as to why I’m quite happy staying at home with people I love, versus socializing every night. So while shyness can be improved by social exposure, someone who is introverted shouldn’t feel like they need to change. It’s just who they are, and quiet time is essential to their happiness and well-being.
—Lena Demes
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
For many people, how food gets from a farm to a supermarket is a process by which no small details go unnoticed. For many Canadians, the small details of the media acquisition are essential, but for others, not so much.
The magnitude of this purchase, and the consequences it will have on the Canadian media scape, is more than a mouthful.
This is what’s at stake. If Bell acquires Astral, this would increase Bell’s English-speaking television market share from 28 to 33.5 per cent, still within its legal allotment. It will also give Bell over 90 TV channels, more online multimedia content, an additional 100 radio stations on top of its current ownership of CHUM Radio, one of Canada’s largest outdoor advertising companies, and the only headway to SiriusXM Canada.
The discourse surrounding this issue is highly charged with rhetoric that panders to Canadian nationalism. Bell’s CEO George Cope, in a closing appeal to the CRTC, spoke of how this merger, in which Bell will absorb all of Astral’s media properties, will benefit Canada by giving us a stronger foothold in the global economy facing off against giants like Netflix, Apple TV, Facebook, YouTube, and Google, to make sure we Canadians are being taken care of.
Irrespective of the infantilizing tropes, they are feeding Canadian consumers a David-versus-Goliath fairytale.
This rhetoric aims to divide and
conquer Canadians. Some think the merger is problematic because it
gives an already vertically integrated media conglomerate even more power. Others think the merger can help Canada strengthen its media scape
by creating more jobs, generating more revenues, and competing within the global economies of media.
I don’t think we can blame Bell for this attempted purchase of Astral. After all, they’re in the business of business. We have plenty of other media options available to us, and if people want to curb the growth of vertically integrated media conglomerates, like Bell, we need to start paying more attention to independent, local, and publicly funded media.
We have the power to make choices. As conscious Canadians, we need to know where our media are coming from, so that we know what we’re consuming to make informed choices. We need to question the production of our cultural content—like the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, whose mandate is the duty to provide culturally constructive media for Canadians—to feel good about consuming it, because this merger is a byproduct of our
passive consumption.
There needs to be recourse to local media, and, conversely, publicly funded media. In the world of consumerism, knowledge is synonymous with power. Together, you and I can make informed choices about the media we consume.
I want to know where my media comes from, how it gets to me, and only then,
I can feel safe sinking my teeth into it.
Dave Synyard 
Deputy Copy Editor














 



 York University Community Newspaper 
