
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Sarah Ciantar
Arts Editor
Illustration works covered the walls in the Special Project Gallery in the Center for Fine Arts, capturing attention with vibrant colors and bold lines. The Seneca Illustration Diploma grad show visited the gallery with collected works from the graduating class of 2012 in the illustration program.
The show was called “the first course of its kind in Canada.” The unique four-semester, two-year Independent Illustration program combines the practice of illustration with industry insight. The program attracts students with a strong interest in visual arts and storytelling and freelance artists, and its success cleaves to its approach of not only teaching illustration, but also preparing students for the working world.
In addition to learning about traditional art forms such as mixed media, printmaking, and digital media, students create and register their own small business, develop a working website, and pick up accounting, marketing, and revenue generating skills to succeed as entrepreneurial artists.
Showcasing works from every student, the show was diverse in content, but at the same time unified by the illustration styles with bold markings and colourful subjects. Works in the show included comic art, graphic novels, children’s books, advertising, concept art, and caricature. Artists promoted the business aspect by offering business cards and pamphlets of their art.
The exhibition encouraged students not only to fully develop their portfolios, but also to develop the skills to market them.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Impassioned support for the Caribbean pub-restaurant aids license renewal

Sarah Ciantar
Arts Editor
The Orange Snail, York’s long-standing Caribbean-themed pub and restaurant, has secured its licence for five more years.
Albert Bain, owner of the Orange Snail, says he feels great relief in finally having a definitive answer about the future of his restaurant. Bain had been awaiting a response since April 2012.
“I was worried about the time it took for them to get back to me, but having a backing from a lot of people gave me confidence,” Bain says.
The process of renewal required the Orange Snail to prepare and present a proposal detailing why their restaurant should remain open at its current location.
Joanne Rider of York media says the decision to renew the lease was “based on the satisfaction expressed by the York community and the quality of the proposal.”
One condition of the renewal of the Orange Snail was to concentrate more on the Caribbean theme, says Bain.
Located in the basement of Stong College, the Orange Snail has developed many positive relationships and left lasting impressions on their customers throughout the eight years it has called York home.
“This place has been special to me,” says Bain. “Over the years it’s just been me and my wife who run it. It’s something that I enjoy doing.” His commitment to maintaining a positive environment has allowed him to gain the support of the York community.
Students and faculty presented letters supporting the renewal of the Orange Snail’s lease to the master and president of Stong College.
Putting the area up for tenure, (meaning other merchants are able to bid on the space) was a mandatory part of the Orange Snail’s renewal process. Only a few bids, however, were placed on the property, making the Orange Snail the best candidate.
Bain says the pub’s location contributed to the low number of other bidders. Because it’s in a low traffic area, it is necessary to have an established relationship with the customer, he explains.
York’s food and beverage department was also supportive throughout Bain’s process of holding onto his well-known spot.
“They have been extremely helpful, with guiding me through the waiting process and giving encouragement to hang on.”
With the recent renewal, the Orange Snail’s contract is extended until April 30, 2017. They also have the option to extend their lease for an additional five years, which would make the space theirs until April 30, 2022.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Additional buses and schedule changes for September
Melissa Sundardas
News Editor
Students who use York Region Transit to travel to and from campus may have shorter wait times in the coming school year.
As part of YRT’s service changes to over 70 bus routes, three York University routes will receive more frequent service.
“We know that a lot of students and faculty take our service to the university, so what we do is we increase service capacity,” says Richard Leary, York Region Transit general manager.
The routes to change include the Viva Purple and Orange, and the YRT 22A route.
To accommodate students who want to get to York more quickly, the YRT has added a few extra buses to the Viva Purple route which will travel to and from Richmond Hill to York, as opposed to the regular route which extends to Markham Stouffville Hospital.
Viva Purple will now run every seven minutes, instead of every 15 minutes.
For the Viva Orange, the YRT has worked with Züm in creating a schedule that ensures an easier transfer from one transit system to the other.
The Züm bus and the Viva Orange will arrive alternately so that when commuters get off of one bus, they can board the other one right away.
“We want to create reliable [wait time] so that people can really depend on public transportation to get to and from the university,” says Leary.
The 22A route, which travels from Newmarket to York, is getting an increase in service as well. There will now be 17 trips per day to and from York, up from 5.
All new route adjustments will begin on September 2.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Summer campus crime rates cause uneasiness in returning students

Melissa Sundardas
News Editor
In the wake of multiple sexual assaults, a robbery, and multiple cases of unknown males invading women’s washrooms in the Vari Hall area, students say security officers should increase patrolling of this area.
Located at the heart of the university, Vari Hall draws in lots of traffic, and many students travel through and around the building to get to lecture halls, bus stops, and other areas on Keele campus.
“I think it would be a good idea for more security patrol around Vari Hall considering the recent crimes that have occurred here,” says Delilah Signar, a fourth-year children’s studies major.
“Just because Vari Hall isn’t much of a secluded spot doesn’t mean it should be ignored; we are seeing crime increase here lately so this area should be given more attention.”
Although Joanne Rider of York media says York security patrols the campus on a regular basis and will be increasing security presence, she was unable to comment on whether specific areas on campus—namely, crime ‘hot spots’ on campus about which the York community raised safety concerns—would see increased patrolling in the future.
“[York security services] would adjust the plan based on what they determine the need would be, but it could potentially compromise their security plan if they were to reveal their plans,” says Rider.
Adrienne Middlebrook, a fourth-year communication studies major, suggests York should relocate the security office to the centre of Vari Hall for better exposure.
“It’s the centre of action for campus so it only makes sense [for the security office to be in Vari Hall] especially in the evening hours,” she says. “I feel there should be officers and maybe GoSafe staff members to escort students around.”
Vanessa Hunt of the York Federation of Students says there have been past incidents where security members were stationed in various areas to deter crime, but that those with criminal intentions always managed to find a way around them.
Hunt’s major concern, however, is that creating a larger security presence targeted around Vari Hall or any other ‘hot spot’ could almost create a “smarter criminal” who can avoid the officers. She says York should instead alter its way of thinking about crime from the roots.
“I think for some people, [increased security presence] makes them feel safer,” she says. “But if we really want to start targeting the issue of safety it has to come from a community collective of really shifting that focus and dialogue around how we are going to get to the root of this problem.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Pond’s Edge complex will provide more living, shopping, and office space by 2015
Mark Grant
Photo Editor
The newly proposed residence, retail, and office-space complex, Pond’s Edge, is set for phase one of its construction, according to York administration.
The ground has already been cleared in the space between Pond Residence and Osgoode Hall, the site for phase one, which will offer hundreds of beds in the student housing section, as well as 20,000 square feet of retail space.
“Phase one will be completed hopefully in August of 2015,” says Henry Morton, president of Campus Suites.
In a press release, the university announced construction companies Campus Suites and Forum Equity Partners have been chosen to handle the multi-stage project.
The cost of the construction is to be absorbed by the two companies, both of which will recuperate building costs through rental fees on the retail and residence spaces with no ostensible cost to York.
The renovations to other college residences, however, are expected to cost the university around $70 million, a cost York plans to cover through a 3.5 per cent residence fee increase over the next 10 years.
Morton says that office space will not be developed during phase one of Pond’s Edge but retail and student housing spaces will be.
He says specific retail tenants have yet to be chosen, but a number of student-related services, convenience stores, drugstores, restaurants, and grocery venues are being considered.
The announcement of the Pond’s Edge project comes in the wake of student outcry against the closure of the Founders Residence, one of the first student residences built on the Keele campus.
“Founders was closed for a number of reasons,” Morton explains. “Part of [that] was that some of the colleges have been unable to keep up with the modern demands of students.”
Most of the undergraduate residences at York are designed with first-year students in mind, as opposed to the needs of students in second year or higher.
“In many cases, the colleges realized they needed updating,” says Morton. “I think Founders has had a little bit of a resurgence lately and there’s a debate, there’s discussion afoot about whether the residence should be reopened or not,” he says.
Pond’s Edge will be marketed to students in second year and higher, with a focus on attracting students who currently live near campus.
Morton elaborated on the potential growth in the campus population coming from the Toronto Yonge Spadina Subway Extension currently under construction on campus.
“We are hoping the subway will be an attraction for a lot of people who might otherwise live elsewhere,” he says. “We’re interested in attracting many of those who are off campus to come closer to campus.”
Following the success of international student applications to Pond residence, students coming to study at York from abroad are also a key asset to the forthcoming residence.
“People will see the university as more attractive, with more attractive housing options for [students] to consider,”  Morton says. “We’re also looking at the strong international push that the university is making today and hoping to attract a significant number of [international students].”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Tuition fees rise to approach the provincial maximum
Melissa Sundardas
News Editor
The upcoming school year is set to take a bigger chunk out of your bank account.
Glen Murray, Minister of Training, Colleges, and Universities, announced a one-year extension of the existing tuition fees structure for Ontario universities.
University governing boards  may increase tuition fees for domestic students entering arts and science, and other selected undergraduate programs, by 4.5 per cent.
For graduate students and those in high cost professional programs, tuition fees may be increased by a maximum of eight per cent, and increases in tuition fees for continuing students in any program must not exceed four per cent.
Gyula Kovacs, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Training, Colleges, and Universities, says when Ontario’s Tuition Fee Framework policy was first introduced in 2006, tuition fees were frozen for two years.
After that, increases between four and eight per cent were allowed, depending on the type of program and year. The maximum average fee increase is five per cent annually in Ontario.
To raise tuition fee levels, institutions are required to participate in the Student Access Guarantee program, which ensures that they provide additional financial assistance to students.
Ten per cent of the additional revenue from tuition fee increases must be put towards bursaries and other student assistance programs to provide financial aid to students most in need.
According to a Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario report, Students’ Analysis: The 2012 Ontario Budget and Tuition Fee Announcement, students in Ontario will collectively “pay at least $165 million more in 2012-2013 as a result of this policy.”
Alastair Woods, vp campaigns & advocacy for the York Federation of Students, says this tuition framework extension into the upcoming school year is somewhat a “slap in the face” to students from a government that promised to reduce tuition fees by 30 per cent.
The 30 per cent tuition fee grant was introduced by the Ontario government in January 2012 and annually provides a rebate of $730 for college students and $1,600 for university students who come from families with incomes under $160,000 a year. Students are only eligible for this grant if they have been out of high school for less than four years.
“[The government] instituted this very complex grant program and then quietly allowed the tuition fee framework to continue for an extra year. I think that’s very disingenuous and the impact that it’s going to have on students is obviously very negative,” says Woods.
On the other hand, Richard Smith, senior policy advisor for the Department of Assistant VP Finance and CFO, explains the importance of the tuition fee increase, saying, “Our fees go up every year, so we need to be able to pay the operating cost of the university, so we need to raise tuition.”
Even despite the tuition fee increases, Smith says York had to make a 3.25 per cent cut to their budget for the year, insisting that if the administration had
not gone ahead with the increases, the cut would have been far worse.
Woods labels the tuition rebate program as a band-aid solution to the problem of high education costs. “These increases really reflect a reluctance on the part of the government to seriously deal with the problem of tuition fees,” says Woods.
While their tuition fees don’t adhere to the same framework, international students can also expect to see a rise in the cost of their education.
International student tuition fees are expected to increase by five per cent this year.
With files from Hamid Adem
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
August 29, 2012

Originally scheduled to be completed by September of the new school year, the York Lanes west-end renovation project will continue into September.
Interim access through the area will be restored on Tuesday, September 4, just in time for the start of fall classes.
Students will be able to travel through York Lanes by
entering through the colonnade or the York Lanes corridor, which leads to a narrow path beside the BMO.
Christopher Edey, director of commercial land use development for the York University Development Corporation, explains that the completion of the project has been pushed back because of a delay in receiving glazing, which is needed for the glass in the atrium lobby.
The construction area will remain inaccessible.
The entire entrance will be unveiled and re-opened for regular use in early October.
Tamara Khandaker, Copy Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
