Melissa Sundardas
News Editor
York security services assist Toronto police in investigating the series of incidents
Four women have reported being sexually assaulted on York’s campus Thursday July 5, according to York security bulletins.
In all four of the incidents which took place an hour apart from each other, women reported walking near Vari Hall or the Colonnade when approached by a male suspect – in one case two males may have been involved – who attempted to speak to them before touching them uninvited.
“York takes very seriously these reports of sexual assault. York Security Services is assisting Toronto Police Service in their investigation of the incidents, which involved unwanted touching,” says Janice Walls, deputy spokesperson for York University.
Walls says York security services have stepped up both foot patrols and car patrols in the area and will continue to do so over the weekend.
The first incident occurred at 3:40 p.m. when two men approached a female who was walking, heading toward Vari Hall, the first of two York security bulletins says. The alert was posted on the security service’s section of York’s website Thursday July 5.
One of the men attempted to block her way and engage in conversation with her before touching her twice, the bulletin says.
The second incident took place at 3:43 p.m. when a female was exiting the Colonnade and she was approached by an unknown male who attempted to speak with her and touched her on two occasions.
Following York’s Thursday posting about the sexual assaults, a second security bulletin was posted online Friday night saying two additional females had now come forward and reported also being sexually assaulted on campus Thursday afternoon.
In each of these newly reported cases, a male suspect again approached the women and attempted to speak to them before touching them.
One incident occurred at 3 p.m. on the second floor of Accolade West, near Vari Hall and the other occurred at 2:55 p.m. near the north exit of Vari Hall, the second security bulletin says.
The suspect in all four incidents is described by victims as male, black, 21-23 years old, 6’3” in height, with a skinny build, scruffy beard, wearing a white baseball cap, green shirt, and baggy jeans.
The second suspect said to be involved in one of the incidents is described as male, black, 21 to 23 years old, 5’8”, heavyset, wearing a black baseball cap, green shirt, and jeans.
Anyone with information about the incidents can call police at 416-808-2222.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
