The York-based theatre company says goodbye to hierarchy—today’s actor could be tomorrow’s director

With its distinguished fine arts faculty, York is a stepping stone for artists. For the Coyote Collective, a group of York artists now presenting a series of short plays called The Festival of Altered Surroundings, the Eleanor Winters Art Gallery is that stepping stone.
The Coyote Collective presents a new model for theatre production, in which members work as a group with interchangeable roles. Each group member specializes in their own discipline of theatre, which allows him or her to hone that special skill while broadening other abilities and talents.
Blue Bigwood-Mallin, a fourth-year student, advocates this collective process.
“The idea was that working this closely together, we will learn from each other and can call on one another for any role, creating a ‘collective based learning,’” Bigwood-Mallin says.
Susannah Mackay, a production member studying devised theatre, is of the same mentality.
“Working in a collaborative sense has given me confidence to produce my own work independently and not feel pigeonholed into only one aspect of the industry,” she says. “I feel I have confidence to do all of it because of the collaboration.”
Additionally, the Coyote Collective sees their work as a process rather than an end product where progression is essential. By never labelling a piece as complete, they train themselves to constantly improve their work.
What the Coyote Collective finds most rewarding about their method is that their expertise, and talent in a particular area is value.
The festival showcased a combination of different styles of theatre, in addition to works at different stages in their development. The show consisted of three original vignettes.
The first drama, entitled Mama, directed by Mackay, captured the audience with a dramatic monologue, effective lighting, and sound effects.
This emotionally charged, experimental piece follows a man taking care of his decrepit mother. Mackay captures the audience with her portrayal of a split personality, manifesting her psychosis in the form of a sock puppet.
The second dramatic work, a read-through by Garett Oliver, a theatre and English double major, featured performances by Oliver, Mackay, and Bigwood-Mallin. Although still in its early stages of development, the read-through managed to captivate the audience with a strong script.
“The intent of the read-through was to get something on its feet and see how it stands in a public space,” says Oliver. His read-through was presented for the first time at the festival.
The final drama, Horizon, was performed by Mackay, Oliver, Bigwood-Mallin, and Eric Welch, a final-year theatre major. One of the best developed vignettes, Horizon was one of the stronger performances evinced by its
dramatic totality.
The power in the performance came from the effective use of props and having a strong contrast of white and black objects, highlighting the difference of man-made and natural objects. Horizon is about expressing to an audience the truths that civilization has lost, which can still be found in nature.
To emerging artists, The Festival of Altered Surroundings is a stable rock for self-promotion and versatility.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Sarah Ciantar
Arts Editor
The soothing, melancholic melodies of Norah Jones’s new album, Little Broken Hearts, are a collaborative effort between Jones and Brian Joseph Burton, otherwise known as Danger Mouse, to compile 12 brooding songs.
Jones takes a new approach to music by presenting a darker, more raw style. She fills her music with emotion and heartbreak, nicely complemented with heavy percussion and recursive lyrics.
In the summer of 2011, Jones and Burton connected to finish the album. At this time, Jones drew on a devastating breakup with her now ex-boyfriend.
Repetitive, soothing notes start off the album in the track “Good Morning,” where soft notes and depictive lyrics show Jones’s melancholy, allowing the listener to relate with his or her personal relationship turmoils.
The title track presents heavy percussion, a repetition of sounds, and rawer-sounding vocals, culminating in an indie motif.
The track “4 Broken Hearts” presents both a unique sound with various repetitive loops that combine with edgy lyrics to display Jones’s reminiscing thoughts.
Jones’s edgier, darker approach is mirrored in her choice of album art, inspired by the poster for the 1965 film Mudhoney. The visual aesthetics of the album present a vintage feel to complement Jone’s vocal transformation. On the cover, the combination of a choppy haircut, bold red lips, and a shadow covering half of her face give Jones a fresh look.
Jones expresses, throughout the album, the various emotions that relationships nurture, and allows her audience to access a range of emotional states to relate and submerge themselves in her music.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jeremy Lin rides the pine while his race takes centre court
Aileen Ormoc
Sports Editor
Wiping the sweat from his brow, Jeremy Lin slides forward in his seat, staring intently from the sideline as Game 5 between the New York Knicks and the Miami Heat takes off.
A sea of blue and orange, the Knicks bench is at full capacity.
But one player sticks out from the crowd, and it is not because of his grey business suit.
The six-foot-three, 200-pound point guard, born in Los Angeles, California to Taiwanese parents, is always passionate about playing basketball.
The 23-year-old’s story is ripped right out of the headlines.
A Harvard economics and sociology graduate, Lin is the ultimate underdog.
Initially, Lin was not drafted by any NBA team.
He got his break with the Golden State Warriors and was traded to the Houston Rockets before he secured a sport with the New York Knicks.
Ironically, the Knicks put him on the court out of desperation.
With three straight 20-point games, his talent is hard to deny.
Knicks fans all over the world are cheering on the breakout star with signs: “Loving Lin Long Time,” “The Knicks Good Fortune,” and “Domo arigato, Mr. Lin-boto.”
But have the puns gone too far?
There is a clear line between a racial slur and a clever play on words.
Sports anchors, however, have joined in on the running jokes about Lin and his Asian-American background.
Last February, ESPN released a highly offensive headline describing Lin as, “a chink in the armour,” after the Knicks suffered a loss.
Days later, ESPN fired the headline writer who came up with the phrase and suspended the anchor who mentioned it on air.
The New York Post featured a headline on the front page that read, “AMASIAN!”
Two news anchors on Fox 5 discussed the physical attributes that make Lin a star point guard.
News anchor, Greg Kelly, then posed the question, “What about his eyes?” to which the other news anchor, Jill Nicolini, began to laugh hysterically.
On February 13, 2012, notoriously outspoken boxer Floyd Mayweather tweeted, “Jeremy Lin is a good player but all the hype is because he’s Asian.”
Mayweather then added that African-American players with the same abilities as Lin do not receive similar praise.
Fox Sports columnist, Jason Whitlock, tweeted, “Some lucky lady in NYC is gonna feel a couple inches of pain tonight,” after the Knicks lost a game to the Lakers
A few days after the incident, Whitlock issued a public apology.
Among all these comments, race appears to be a most contributing factor to Lin’s athletic professionalism.
Lin’s performances take a backseat to his Asian ethnicity, as many news stories featuring Lin highlight his race in some manner.
The empirical fact that he scores an average of 20 points per game is backgrounded in many of the stories news media purvey.
In an interview with the Herald Sun, Lin acknowledges the stereotypes against Asians in the NBA.
He explains that, “Hopefully in the near future, we will see a lot more Asian-Amerians playing in the NBA.”
Conversely, it would be unfair to say that race hasn’t played a part in Lin’s rising basketball stardom.
He has nudged open the door for other Asian Americans who also want to play in the NBA.
Lin has even helped the Knicks regain their “cool” factor. And they wasted no time capitalizing on all the hype.
“Lin-sanity” was a smart marketing ploy on the Knicks’ behalf.
From t-shirts, hats, and even Ben & Jerry’s Taste the Lin-sanity ice cream flavour, these marketing tactics brought in a lot of revenue for the team.
However, the majority of the “Lin-sanity” merchandise is racist.
Images of Lin dressed as a ninja and Goku in Dragon Ball Z are just a few of the racially driven jokes about Lin.
There is a hypocrisy that exists in the NBA: calling Jeremy Lin a fortune cookie is apparently hilarious and acceptable, but making jokes about Kobe Bryant’s inability to remain faithfully monogamous is unacceptable.
The bottom line is that Lin’s ability to perform on the court is not in any way related to his race.
And the “Lin-sanity” puns are becoming a form of racial insanity that ignore the fundamental purpose of basketball, or any other sport for that matter: athleticism.
The next time Lin steps onto the court, let us keep his ethnicity out of the picture and focus on what promises to be an amazing comeback.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Spotting the difference between picky eaters and full-fledged illnesses
Aileen Ormoc
Sports Editor
She walks across the gym floor, her frail frame barely casting a shadow. Just tipping the scale at 95 pounds, she takes a swig of water before beginning her workout.
With a protruding collar bone and flat stomach, you would never guess she was 4 months pregnant.
She eats bite-sized portions three times a day, obsessively counts calories, and goes to the gym seven days a week.
But this fixation on achieving the perfect body follows her into her adult years.
Now, more than ever, adult eating disorders are steadily on the rise.
We have a limited amount of information on eating disorders like pregorexia, anorexia athletica, and orthorexia, they are proving more harmful than one would assume.
According to a 2002 survey in the National Eating Disorder Information Centre, 1.5 percent of Canadian women from the ages of 15–24 have struggled with an eating disorder.
Gili Haimovich is a facilitator at Sheena’s Place, a support group for people suffering with eating disorders.
She admits that roughly 80 percent of her clients are over 18.
“There is now a new eating disorder that is going into the lexicon on mental health,” says Haimovich. “What we used to think of as just picky eaters can be to an extent an eating disorder itself.”
In an interview with Women’s Health, Dr. Sari Shepphird, a Los Angeles-based psychologist who specializes in treating eating disorders says that a combination of genetic factors result in an eating disorder.
Shepphird explains that eating issues can entirely skip a generation, remain dormant for years, or never become active.
Although anorexia and bulimia are the most well-known eating disorders, there are new eating disorders coming to the surface.
Pregorexia is an extreme form of diet and exercise while pregnant to keep from gaining the extra 25 to 35 pounds of baby weight.
Celebrity culture has shaped expecting mothers’ ideas around their body type.
But starving mothers are more likely to develop a number of health problems as are their children.
These mothers are at a higher risk for developing depression, anemia, and hypertension.
Infants who are malnourished are often miscarried or born with birth defects.
Anorexia athletica is an addiction to excessive exercise.
Those who suffer from this disorder can be found at the gym seven days a week.
They don’t work out to live a healthy, balanced lifestyle; they work out because they are addicted to it.
Often, people suffering with anorexia athletica feel a tremendous amount of guilt if they do not stick to their regular workout routine.
Compulsive exercisers are at risk for developing depression, in addition to severe cardiac problems.
Orthorexia is an obsession with healthy eating habits. Severe cases can result in malnourishment.
More specifically, sufferers of orthorexia focus on eating only organic foods, eliminate entire food groups from their diet, and refuse to eat foods that are not “pure” in quality.
Their eating does not come from a fear of being overweight.
Instead, they are driven by a fear of bad health, an obsession with being in control, or the desire to boost their self-esteem.
“More education is the key,” explains Haimovich. “Education before they develop into eating disorders. Colleges or universities should have classes that teach students how to consume media.”
The good news is that adults with eating disorders tend to experience less difficulty recovering compared to adolescents.
“About 50 percent of of patients will fully recover likely because [people] over 30 have the maturity needed to recognize that they need help,” says Shepphird.
With files from Women’s Health
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
New sport model adds wrestling to competitive varsity program
Aileen Ormoc
Sports Editor
After placing ninth in the Ontario Athletics Association men’s championships, the York Lions wrestling team will compete at the varsity level in the 2012-2013 season. Varsity status is given to teams that directly represent York University in the OUA or Canadian International Championships. Last June, it was announced that wrestling would be part of the Sport & Recreation Department’s new sport model. The new sport model organizes varsity teams into three separate categories: elite, high performance, and competitive. Varsity teams are placed into categories based on their accomplishments in the last five years, the presence of highly-skilled athletes, and the team’s positive influence on York’s reputation. The wrestling team has delivered some stellar performances in the last five years. For the first time last year, the team competed at the OUA championship with Mehrdad Pourkamali and Paul Henein on the men’s team placing in the top-10 spot. At the 2010 Junior Pan American Junior Championship in Nicaragua, former athlete Anton
Shchipillo placed third in the freestyle competition. Shchipillo also placed second in the Greco Roman Provincial Championships. Head coach Bahman Sarbazi and assistant coach Eamonn Dorgan will lead the team into the next season starting this fall. Sarbazi and Dorgan have been with York’s wrestling club for the last three seasons. “It has been a lot of work to get to this point,” says Dorgan. “But we feel we have put together the groundwork necessary to become a contender at the OUA and CIS levels in a short time.” Sarbazi brings a wealth of knowledge and years of coaching experience. From 1991 to 2001, he coached athletes in the Iranian national program at the junior, juvenile, and adult levels. Sarbazi has won 11 club championships in his native country, Iran. Dorgan has coached a slew of Canadian athletes who have gone on to compete in provincial and national championships. Competitive wrestler himself, he won Canadian senior championships in 2006 and 2007. He won gold at the Commonwealth Games in 2007. Dorgan represented Ireland in international competitions from 2005 to 2007 and appeared at the 2007 European championships and the 2008 Olympic qualifiers. “We have already sparked the interest of some of the top wrestling talent across Ontario, says Dorgan. “We look forward to drawing on the expertise of York’s high-quality coaches that have previously produced numerous championship teams.” Near the end of October, the OUA wrestling season will begin, with the wrestling team competing in a championship by mid-February. With files from York Lions
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Dave Synyard
Deputy Copy Editor
Award winners now have the chance to shine forever.
On Monday May 10, numerous York students, faculty, staff and alumni who have won awards from the university over the last five-plus decades had their names commemorated and enshrined in a series of 10 glass-paneled structures placed at the North end of the rotunda in Vari Hall.
Those who are recipients of a President’s University Wide Teaching Award, President’s Research Excellence Award, President’s Staff Recognition Award, Governor General’s Gold and Silver Medals, Murray G. Ross Award, Bryden Alumni Award and the Distinguished Research Professor or University Professor title have their names displayed on the awards installation.
“It is a wonderful opportunity to celebrate excellence at York University. We are a young and vibrant institution with our best years ahead of us, and all of these people have helped to build it to what it is today,” said York President & Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri.
This awards display was created through a collaboration of the design firm Entro | G+A and manufactured by WSI Sign Systems Ltd. and KING Architectural Production and cost about $120, 000.
Each glass structure weighs 500 pounds and they were assembled on site to set up the display.
York’s Planning and Architectural Design Services assisted with these artistic plaques from initiation to completion.
The idea for the look of the project is the work of Entro | G+A, who aimed to create an aesthetically attractive piece to showcase all the past award winners and future recipients to come.
“The overall impression was to be an art piece,” said Richard Anthistle, Entro | G+A project manager. “It needed to be something that would be obviously interesting to look.”
It was Entro’s idea to use the medium of glass and custom colour concrete footings that were poured for the glass panels.
At the end of 2011 York signed on Entro | G+A was to add a creative flair to this project and by February of 2012, the company started to craft the creation for the current glass-panel structure that punctuates the north side of Vari Hall.
WSI Sign Systems Ltd. and KING Architectural Products coordinated the production side of the display, bringing a design team on board.
Patrick Monahan, vice-president academic and provost, who led the initiative said this awards display is a work of art and it gives York a way to “tangibly recognize our most successful and our most accomplished members of the community.”
“I think that this will be recognition of accomplishments not only of the people who are recognized here, but of the entire University. It will give us a sense of the tradition and pride that we have,” said Monahan. “It reminds us that what we do today builds on the work of our predecessors.”
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
New water stations around campus will make York greener
Melissa Sundardas
News Editor
The sale of bottled water on York’s campuses is set to dry up by 2015.
This decision was announced by York President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri last month as part of a much larger effort to reduce York’s ecological footprint.
“The timeframe is crucial as it allows our institution the ability to assess our drinking water infrastructure, improve access, educate the community, and ultimately, reduce the amount of waste that we as an institution generate,” says Shoukri.
There are currently 25 water-refill stations on both of York’s campuses combined that provide both students and faculty members with free access to filtered water. That amount is expected to at least double by 2015, and water stations will be included in all prospective design plans, says Ilan Kapoor, York environmental studies professor and chair of York’s sustainability council.
Kapoor says that the phase-out is part of a larger plan.
“We live in a society where the convenience factor leads to all sorts of unsustainable practices,” says Kapoor. “We need to not think of convenience all the time, and we must start to think of our ecological footprint. The point is we’re not removing access to water; rather, we’re increasing access to free water across campus rather than privatized, paid-for water, and I think all in all, it’s a much better situation.”
Alastair Woods, vice-president of campaigns and advocacy for the York Federation of Students, says the discussion about specifically phasing out bottled water sales came after a YFS campaign. Take Back the Tap, a national initiative run by the Canadian Federation of Students and the Sierra Youth Coalition, focuses on getting whole communities to phase out the sale of bottled water.
Planning involved three years of negotiations with the university and the president’s sustainability council.
“I think a lot of students realize that water, like education, is a public good and it’s not something that can be bought or sold,” says Woods. “We found a lot of students
were very supportive of the idea of upgrading water infrastructure so that we have more stations and that all they needed to do was bring a water bottle.”
The cost for installing the new water-refill stations, installing signs directing people to the refill stations, and fixing York’s current drinking fountains will cost approximately
$200,000 over a three-year period, says Steve Dranitsaris, the senior executive officer for the department of the vice-president finance & administration.
Daniella Magnatta, a fourth-year kinesiology student, says York’s water bottle phase-out plan is a great idea.
“I think it’s more environmentally friendly, and those hydration stations are awesome,” Magnatta says. “The water’s cold, it tastes good, and this will reduce waste.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
