Though CISPA, SOPA, and PIPA were stopped in their tracks, efforts from governments to infringe on internet freedom continue
Vanessa Del Carpio
Contributor
Everyone knows about SOPA (Stop Online Piracy Act) and PIPA (Protect IP Act), the two pieces of proposed U.S. legislation that targeted online piracy and copyright infringement.
The acts were crushed after English Wikipedia, Reddit, and 7,000 other websites blacked out their web pages in protest on January 18, 2012, and congressional leaders were forced to shelve both acts indefinitely.
And internet watchdogs declared victory, rejoicing in the collective power of the people, and their ability to influence important government decisions.
At least that’s how the story goes.
Since then, CISPA (Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act), another U.S. act, which would have enabled and encouraged two-way public-private information sharing between the U.S. government and private companies, was proposed and defeated.
Here in Canada, we have our own contentious piece of legislation, Bill C-30, the Protecting Children from Internet Predators Act, which proposes allowing police to conduct online surveillance of Canadian citizens in the name of combatting child pornography.
And now, civil liberties and privacy rights organizations are fighting an international free trade agreement, TPP (Trans-Pacific Partnership), which, according to OpenMedia, a grassroots organization dedicated to an open internet, would go as far as “cut[ting] off internet access for users accused of breaking copyright laws.”
Despite all their efforts, advocacy groups have failed to keep differently worded, but similarly invasive legislation from repeatedly creeping up on us.
David Ellis, a communication studies professor at York, who writes a blog called, “Life on the Broadband Internet,” says what people don’t know about these acts is that whether or not they deal with privacy or piracy, they’re part of an ongoing initiative to police the internet, which began all the way back in 1996 with the Communications Decency Act.
Ellis says these legislations are the result of groups in power, such as big content companies, law enforcement agencies, intelligence agencies, and political leaders, wanting to protect what they consider to be of social importance.
“These interests have the power to influence law-making whereas individual onliners don’t, except through the activities of advocacy groups,” says Ellis.
So why have we not been able to put a permanent halt on attempts to take away our freedom on the internet?
Part of the problem is while piracy is a hot-button issue in society, other aspects of internet legislation that invade our privacy are less contested. Every day, we give up personal information without giving it a second thought. Ellis says it’s a trade-off many people seem to be willing to make to be able to use Facebook or shop online.
“[These acts] seem to offer an important social benefit […] in exchange for giving up other kinds of protection that may be thought of as less important. This is very much the kind of tension we’ve seen over government activities like warrantless eavesdropping and online spying.”
Still, many people are unaware of just how much their privacy has been compromised.
“It takes a lot of work to understand your privacy rights,” says Ellis.
Further complicating public understanding of the issues are politicians grandstanding and attempting to polarize the public in the debate, like when Canadian Public Safety Minister Vic Toews made the statement that public safety critic Francis Scarpaleggia either stood with
proponents of Bill C-30 or with child pornographers.
Ellis says these kinds of political maneuvers shift the discussion away from issues that should be of greater importance to the public.
“Theft of [intellectual property] in particular has grown into a perceived threat far out of proportion to actual harms, certainly when compared to identity theft or actions that might cause physical harm to large numbers of people.”
Now, more than ever, it is important that we educate ourselves about proposed legislation that could impact our privacy and access to the web, because of the internet’s prominence in our daily lives, the way it allows us to share
information and participate in a global community.
Ellis says, “The internet is a precious tool for social, personal, economic, and cultural development that will only suffer when right-wing governments—like the one we have in Ottawa—try to impose their ideology on us about what they perceive to be internet problems, instead of offering us smart engineering ideas and a high regard for the consumer rather than corporate welfare.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
When the Olympics come to a screeching halt, athletes struggle to find their place in life
Aileen Ormoc
Sports Editor
When the closing ceremonies come to an end, it can be a daunting task for most athletes to adjust to their regular routine.
Without the camaraderie of fellow teammates and support from larger-than-life crowds, Olympic athletes can begin to suffer from a form of depression dubbed “post-Olympic stress disorder.”
Frances Flint, coordinator of the athletic therapy certificate program and specialist in the psychology of injury at York, says over the last few Olympics, post-Olympic stress disorder has been a local term used to describe the depression that comes with the end of the Games.
Flint says the disorder can occur among both successful and unsuccessful athletes in the Olympics.
“I think it can be both,” she says. “I think it’s the person that’s totally invested, totally committed, and has not been taught how to handle those changes that are going to occur.”
Athletes who typically go through this disorder place far too much importance on winning.
“The goal shouldn’t be a gold medal,” says Flint. “It should be the process in getting there, and if you have achieved your process in getting there, you will perform your best.”
While there are programs and sports psychology consultants who work with athletes at sports excellence centres around the country, more needs to be done to help these athletes cope with the pressures of performing at the Games.
Flint says, “[These Olympic athletes need to] sit down with someone who specializes in retirements, changes in life, to talk with someone, and set out a plan.”
Creating more balance in your life is the key to digging yourself out of this form of depression.
“You need to plan for that change in being an athlete,” says Flint. “It doesn’t mean you’re not an athlete anymore, it just means that your focus is on school, family, and work, but you need to plan for that just as carefully as you plan to be an athlete.”
The good news is that people are beginning to recognize the importance of good mental health for such athletes. Larger numbers of sports psychology programs are becoming widely available to both Olympic and varsity athletes.
At York, we have the athletic therapy certificate program that helps student athletes who are having a tough time psychologically dealing with the stressors of competing.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Deyana Sameh, president of York’s club, talks to Excalibur about kendo’s rich history 
Robert Weese
Contributor
War cries echoing through the room, and bamboo swords driving at people at a 100 miles per hour—York University Kendo Club’s practice looks more like a raging battlefield than a typical team practice.
Going into its 15th year, the kendo club has been training diligently all season to compete in the Canadian Kendo Federation’s annual intercollegiate tournament.
Kendo was established in Canada during World War II, when many Japanese immigrants were forced into internment camps due to the government’s fear of espionage and sabotage following Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbour. Thus, says Deyana Sameh, president of the club, they learned and practiced kendo.
“Once they were released from these camps, they continued and shared their passion with other Canadians who became interested,” she says.
The sport then spread all over Canada, and is currently most popular in Ontario and British Columbia.
Translating to “the way of the sword,” kendo originated in the samurai class of feudal Japan. The sport became popular in the late 18th century, when the swords and the armour were refined to lower the risk of severe injury and death during a match.
The swords, called shinai, were now made with bamboo instead of metal, which still allowed fighters to deliver strikes and thrusts to an opponent’s target area with full force, but reduced the chances of serious injury.
The armour, or bogu, based on traditional samurai armour, was also adapted with the goal of a less violent sport in mind. The word can be broken down into two parts: “bo,” which means to protect or defend, and “gu,” which means equipment or tool. The bogu is also worn with a robe underneath, called a hakama nagi.
 A set of bogu has four components: men, which protects the face and shoulders (i.e. a form of helmet); kote, which protects the hand and forearm; do, a torso protector; and finally the tare, which are groin and leg protectors.
Each piece of armor has a target area that fighters try to exploit during a match to earn marks or points. For the men, it is the centre top, and upper left and right sides for cutting strike moves, and the centre of the throat protector for a thrust; for the kote, it is the wrist portion of each kote protector; for the do, they are the two lower sides of the torso which fighters can hit with a slashing cut to the stomach region; and lastly, the tare has no target areas but it offers protection against off-target and accidental strikes.
To win a match, a competitor must earn two points or have the highest score once the time is up.
Prior to the start of a match, both kendokas bow to the instructors, or sensei, and to each other out of mutual respect; upon conclusion, they bow to the dojo, the arena, as if to say, “Thank you for all of this.”
The club meets weekly for practices, which consist of drills for both beginners and advanced members who are already certified to fight with armor.
Sameh emphasizes the importance of respect and discipline in kendo, whether it is during practice or in
a tournament.
“Etiquette is very important in kendo,” she says. “The etiquette to both your opponent and the sensei [is what] we try to teach to our beginning members.”
Sameh says while it’s difficult to be a competitive club, with transportation and equipment fees coming out pocket, they are not interested in reaching varsity status.
“We would have to change every university kendo club, and have them become varsity as well,” she says. “It’s not really something we’re working towards. We are happy where we are.”
The club has already started to prepare for the annual intercollegiate Kendo tournament in January, which York is hosting this year. The club has set their sights on winning the Sumarai Cup, the most prestigious award for students, having narrowly missed the award in the past.
Samed has her eye on the prize.
“This year, we’ve been training really hard, so we’re hoping to get first place and get the trophy.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
