Red
Taylor Swift 
3 out of 4 stars
I didn’t know what to expect from Taylor Swift’s fourth studio album, Red, released October 22. I didn’t find her last album, Speak Now, particularly interesting, and I was afraid Swift had lost that magical spark that shone brightest on her sophomore album, Fearless.
But I underestimated her.
On Red, Swift experiments with new styles on a few tracks and perfects her signature country-pop sound on the rest. Her voice is more mature; she controls better and no longer sounds like a kid.
The album’s record-breaking lead single, “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together,” is a playful, bubble-gum pop departure for the country’s singer that is delivered with so much spunk and attitude, you can’t help but sing along as Swift sarcastically sings, “And you would hide away and find your peace of mind/With some indie record that’s much cooler than mine.”
Swift also dabbles in dubstep with “I  Knew You Were Trouble.” The track is danceable and smart, with Swift reflecting on getting involved with someone she knew was wrong in the first place.
But Red is really about Swift doing what she does best — harnessing her unmatched ability to perfectly describe life’s nuances, like the second a guy pulls out a chair for you, the way someone speaks with their hands, and dancing around the kitchen in the middle of the night.
This is Swift’s gift; crafting lyrics that describe those moments with precise details and inspired metaphor, and delivering them in her sweet-country voice, inflicting key words with emotion and quirkiness.
“All Too Well” is Red’s standout track, and one of Taylor’s all-time best. She effortlessly does all of the above, while taking the listener through one of her relationships, from hopeful beginning to passionate end. And she somehow does it using the imagery of a scarf.
Red is Swift at her best; it contains 16 tracks that are each a clear result of musical and personal growth.
By Vanessa Del Carpio
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
