Charges have been laid against Sharyar Jaleel, 40, of Toronto in connection to Scott Library Sex Assault.
The arrest was made earlier today. Jaleel is charged with one count of sexual assault and one count of Breach of Recognizance.
He is scheduled to appear in court at Old City Hall, on Saturday, May 25, 2013, room 101, at
10 a.m.
More to follow.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
What is on right now?
Soulo Theatre Festival
Happening right now from May 23-26th is the Soulo Theatre Festival. A relatively new festival in Toronto with interactive theatre performances and solo acts.It includes workshops and panel discussions open to the public to teach those who are interested, how to do it themselves. The festival has a diverse gamut of plays this year, ranging from the intimate to the absurd. Check out the schedule of events online or head downtown to 922 Queen Street East in Toronto.
Doors Open Toronto
Want to peruse through 150 different historically and culturally significant buildings in Toronto? Well,  now you can with Doors Open this weekend. The theme for this year’s event is “Creators, Makers and Innovators” and includes a slew of new, old and revamped buildings that are open to the public to explore. The event began in 2000 and has drawn more than two million visitors to 600 different locations within the city. This would be a good choice for those looking for a bit of culture this weekend.
Anime North
Is steampunk your thing? How about anime, maybe manga? Well if you are a true fan, you already know about the epic event that is Anime North happening this weekend in Toronto. This massive convention will be held at three different locations this year including the  Toronto Congress Centre, the Doubletree International Plaza Hotel and the Sheraton Airport Hotel. It is a celebration of anime, art and culture in Toronto with an expected draw of close to 20,000. Did we mention, most of those attendees will be dressed in cosplay? Even if you aren’t a huge anime, this event is unique and a must-see for anyone looking to do something a little different in Toronto.
Abdul malik
Arts Editor
With contributions from Michael Burton
Executive Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mental health initiatives to be launched this Fall  for faculty and students. The new program will include online tutorials and increased communications to help inform the York community of the resources available to them.
Let’s talk York.
In an effort to increase mental health awareness on campus, York unveiled a five-year mental health strategy on May 14, 2013.
Suzanne Killick, a co-lead of the strategy and director of learning and organizational development, says the first 18 months of the plan will focus on creating mental health awareness through “Mental Health EDU,” a 20-minute online program that helps faculty learn the signs of students in distress.
Also within the first 18 months, efforts will be made to enhance communication about resources that are available to students on campus.
Frank Clarke, director of communications and planning for the faculty of health, says the main goal is to increase talk around mental health, remove stigmatization surrounding the topic, and debunk common myths.
Communication efforts will include events similar to the “Let’s Talk Mental Health” day held this past February, as well as peer mentoring and community support programs.
Coordinator of health education and promotion Haran Vijayanathan says the strategy will also include information sessions and professional development sessions to build the confidence levels of staff and faculty in addressing mental health issues.
“Sometimes we find that everyone is aware of these signs and symptoms of mental health, but [the issues are] more in their comfort level of approaching students about them,” says Vijayanathan.
The new strategy is about recognizing students may be struggling and providing them with access to resources on and off campus whether it’s therapy, physical activity, counseling, or crisis lines.
Lesley Beagrie, associate dean of professional and global programs, and co-lead of the new strategy says she felt that there was a need for York to address mental health issues more comprehensively.
She notes stress levels among some students were increasing.
“As an associate dean, I did see an increase in student academic petitions, and a lot of students were citing stress or other serious mental health concerns as a reason for why they were not as successful,” Beagrie says.
The strategy was created after research was conducted on campus on people’s concerns about mental health. The York University Psychology Clinic and the Centre for Disability Services also provided input during the development of the strategy.
Beagrie says external research from other universities on mental health issues also helped in creating the strategy.
Zaynah Aleemullah, a fourth-year biology student, hopes the new strategy will make using mental health services less intimidating.
“Currently at CDS, if you want some attention, you need to fill in a form, book an appointment with a secretary, see an intake counselor, and then finally see a counselor who will help you,” she says. “It takes a lot of courage to open up to a counselor, so I think they should work on making the procedure less impersonal.”
That said, she says it’s encouraging to see York addressing mental health issues that affect its student population.
Other initiatives under the strategy are still being developed by the Mental Health Steering Group, which is made up of faculty, staff, and students.
The group is responsible for implementing the strategy over the course of five years and hopes to launch the “Mental Health EDU” program by September 2013 as part of student and faculty orientations.
Rameeza Ahmed
Assistant News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Suspect approached woman three times and on the third time, tried to kiss her hand.
Toronto Police and York Security are looking for a suspect after a sexual assault was reported at Scott Library on Wednesday, May 22. They have released an image of the suspect as well.
A 19-year-old woman was approached by a man on the third floor of the library between 7:30 p.m. and 8 p.m, police say.
The man started a conversation with the woman, asked for a cigarette, touched her leg, and walked away, according to a York security bulletin sent out to students around 2 p.m. Thursday afternoon. He returned and tried to hug the woman, who pushed him off. He then left, but came back for a third time, this time asking the woman for her phone number and attempting to kiss her hand, the bulletin says. She shook her hand free and left the library.
The suspect is described as brown, 20 to 30 years old, 5’8” with dark frizzy hair. He was last seen in a dark blue vest over a black or dark blue T-shirt and blue jeans, carrying a black string-style bag with yellow stripes and a black laptop bag. A security camera image of the suspect has been released.
Anyone with information regarding the incident is asked to contact Toronto Police Service directly at 416-808-2222.
Rameeza Ahmed, Assistant News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
