 
With classes starting September 9, this leaves an entire week to get all that partying and excitement out of your system. Our own video editor Ashlee Mitchell got in touch with the folks over at Winters College to talk about the upcoming frosh festivities. To learn more about frosh events happening at your college, get in touch with their student government to see how you can take part and enjoy this week of freedom. So have a safe and fun frosh week!
Then you’re going to start learning, right?
Ashlee Mitchell
Video Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Looking towards the fall Ontario University Athletics season, here are Excalibur’s five bold predictions for the York Lions.
1. Entering the 2013 men’s soccer season, the Lions will be looking to fill the void left by goal-scoring machine and team leader Adrian Pena. For most teams, losing a player like Pena would be absolutely devastating, but not for the Lions, who are perennially in the top 10. The emergence of Mark Anthony-Kaye in 2012 was a treat for all who witnessed it. The young rookie midfielder made his opponents look silly, scoring seven goals on just 13 shots over the course of the season, good for seventh in the Ontario University Athletics in scoring.
Prediction: Anthony-Kaye will hit double digits in goals this season, and will finish top three in the OUA in goal scoring. 
2. Much like Mark Anthony-Kaye, Nour Ghoneim let her presence be known in the OUA women’s soccer league during her rookie season. Despite starting just 10 games in 2012, Ghoneim finished tied for third place in OUA scoring with 13 goals.
Prediction: Ghoneim will lead the OUA in goal scoring, and it won’t even be close if she manages to start in all 16 games. 
3. Last year marked a new beginning for the Lions’ women’s rugby team when they posted a 0-5 record in 2011. The Lions managed to climb back to a respectable .500 record in 2012, after winning three out of their six regular season match-ups. The Lions’ 3-3 record was good enough for a playoff berth, but I believe they will do more than just earn a spot in the playoffs in 2013.
Prediction: The Lions rugby team will win a playoff game next season. 
4. Quarterback Myles Gibbon was a driving force behind the Lions’ men’s football team’s resurgence last season on the field. Gibbon finished third in the OUA in passing yards and 10th in rushing yards.
Prediction: Myles Gibbon will lead the OUA in all-purpose yards in 2013. 
5. Last season, the York Lions football team took the OUA by surprise, proving they were not the Lions of old. York managed to win two games last season, while losing a few games by a couple of points.
Prediction: the Lions will earn their first playoff berth in seven years.
Ryan McCabe
Sportsand Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
For some of York’s finest athletes, the end of the Ontario University Athletics season doesn’t mean they stop being active. This summer, several Lions were able to compete at the Canada Summer Games, winning medals for Team Ontario.
The York community was fortunate enough to send six athletes to the games in Sherbrooke, Quebec earlier in August, including York’s 2012 male athlete of the year, David McKay. Joining McKay at the Games were his track and field teammates, Eric Brathwaite and Chris Preece, who will all be returning to the York’s track team next year.
Competing among the best athletes Canada has to offer, all three men were able to win a medal at the games, continuing their winning ways from last season, which helped the Lions claim a team bronze medal at the Canadian Interuniversity Sport championship.
“Height is not important as long as you’re scoring as many points for the team as you can.”
Brathwaite registered a throw of 15.28 m in the shot put — good enough for a bronze medal in the competition. Following suit, Preece added another bronze after scoring a 54.30 m in the hammer throw, earning his first ever medal at the national level.
Once again proving why he was deemed worthy of York male athlete of the year last season, McKay absolutely decimated his opponents, winning the gold medal in pole vault with a jump of 4.95 m — 45 cm higher than the silver medal jump.
McKay attributes his successes to York Lions’ pole vault coach Arye Rosenoer.
“My coach is very good at preparing me to be competition ready. Arye’s pole vault knowledge is hard to match, and he is a huge reason I am able to jump the way I do.”
Although to a casual fan it may all look the same, McKay notes that there is a distinct difference between an athlete’s mindset when jumping on a national level, compared to the CIS level.
“During the school year, the most important thing is to score as many points as possible. Height is not important as long as you’re scoring as many points for the team as you can,” he says. “During the outdoor circuit of meets, I become more concerned with the actual heights I’m jumping. Most provincial and national teams will select athletes based on their performances, not their rankings. Of course, at meets like Canada Summer Games, it becomes about winning again.”
The other three athletes who joined the trio of track stars were volleyball players Marco Dakic and Alexander Duncan-Thibault, and wheelchair athlete Michael Kahn.
Dakic and Duncan-Thibault finished fourth overall with Team Ontario, while Kahn added to the York medal count, winning silver in the 1500 m, as well as taking home gold in the 400 m.
With York students earning a total of five medals at the Canada Summer Games, Lions fans can only hope that this is a sign of events to come this upcoming season, and if McKay has it his way, he’ll do whatever he can to make this the case.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
During the 2012-2013 season, David McKay, York male athlete of the year, won both CIS and OUA gold in pole vault and was named a CIS first-team all-Canadian. The track and field star kept the good times rolling this summer, winning a gold medal at the Ontario championships, topped off with another gold medal at the Canada Summer Games. MacKay sat down with Excalibur to chat about his busy summer of competition, this upcoming school year, as well as his thoughts on the new CIBC Pan Am and Parapan Athletics Stadium being built on campus.
Excalibur: It sounds like you have had busy summer. Have you been able to find time to relax? 
David MacKay: I’ve actually tried to limit myself to only competing at championship competitions this summer, just to have more time for quality training. On weekends when I’m free, my friend Chris will often invite me to his house in Cookstown where I can stay and hang out with him and his family, which is really nice.
E: What’s it like to not only compete at the Canada Summer Games, but to also win gold? 
It was a fantastic feeling to win the gold medal at the games. I was representing Ontario, so it felt great to help contribute to the provincial team’s points. The best part about the competition was probably the number of spectators. Track meets are usually watched by just friends and family, but in Sherbrooke, there were a lot of spectators from the community, which made the competition a lot more fun and intense.
E: You are coming off a season where you were named York male athlete of the year. What goals have you set to try and raise the bar in 2013? 
I’m going to raise the bar by raising the bar! This year will be about trying to jump higher in the hopes of reaching heights that will be competitive not just in Canada, but internationally.
E: One thing that boggles my mind is when students from western Canada come to York. How did you end up becoming a Lion?
Well, pole vault is a hard sport for universities to accommodate, and most of the schools out west don’t have indoor facilities. I knew I would have to move elsewhere for school. I chose York primarily because the pole vault coach Arye Rosenoer has an excellent reputation as a high-level pole vault coach. York was also a good fit for me academically, and I’m enjoying the environmental studies program and hope to attend law or business school afterwards.
E: Track events are as much about mental preperation as they are about physical preparation. Are you superstitious at all? Do you have any mental tricks to keep you focused? 
For me, superstitions have always added an unnecessary variable that is not in my control. Having a lucky rock or ritual can be fun, but at the end of the day, I take full responsibility for my successes and more importantly, my failures. As far as mental preparation, I mainly try to keep relaxed and stay focused on what my goal is for the day.
E: What about flying five metres in the air appeals to you? 
Well, I do like the fact that it’s different and a little bit dangerous. It is a very fun event to not only do, but to train for as well. We do gymnastics, sprinting, lifting, and jumping. It requires skills from many different disciplines, which is probably the most appealing part of pole vault.
E: What are your thoughts about the new stadium about the new Pan Am and Parapan Am Athletics Stadium being built at York? 
I think the stadium will be great for all sports at York. Having a world-class stadium on campus will hopefully strengthen the sports community and get people to more events. I know the track team is excited about the possibility of having a locker room in the stadium. It will be a great place to train and competitions there would be lots of fun.
E: Ten years down the road, in a perfect world, what do you hope to be doing? 
I would probably be done with athletics and in my first years of a career. I hope I’m not the only third-year student that hasn’t decided what exactly they want to do. I’m trying to keep doors open so I can find a career I will enjoy. If I never had to work because of success in pole vault that would be cool too!
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
