Over one hundred York students and faculty members gathered outside of Vari Hall Wednesday afternoon to support imprisoned York professor and filmmaker John Greyson and emergency room physician Dr. Tarek Loubani.
The event, organized by the York University Faculty Association (YUFA), was done to raise awareness and pressure the Canadian government to take action.
“We think it’s very important to keep the situation of these men in the public eye,” says Craig Heron, vice-president external of YUFA. “It’s already been six weeks. They are not in good shape and without constant public pressure on the two governments involved here, then we’re not likely to get them out soon.”
The rally included speeches from close colleagues and students of Greyson and York President Mamdouh Shoukri, shedding light on the injustice of their situation in Egypt.
Shoukri says the fact that Greyson and Loubani have been held for so long without charge is unacceptable and hopes for a speedy resolution.
Throughout the day, leaflets, buttons, and postcards to send to the Canadian government were distributed for York students and staff to show their support.
Brenda Longfellow, a friend of Greyson and an associate professor at York, says her support comes from knowing Greyson was wrongly imprisoned and needs to be released.
“York is a community and we are all part of this community and when someone has been wrongly imprisoned or is in danger, we all must act,” says Longfellow.
So far two petitions have been started on LabourStart and Change.org. The petition on Change.org has garnished over 140,000 supporters. Heron hopes this rally will bring about more support in the next few days.
Victoria Alarcon
Senior Staff
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
This is our first installment of a new York Lions hockey blog by Excalibur’s own Joseph Narsa. Joseph has an unrelenting passion for hockey, sports and writing. He has his own blog on HockeyBuzz.com at my.hockeybuzz.com/joeynarsa50.

The excitement of a cold rink, and the sound of sticks hitting the ice lead me to Canlan Ice Sports Arena. Here I meet with Jim Wells, head coach of the York Lions’ men’s hockey team for the first time.
Wells is a knowledgeable hockey mind with a passion for the game, and most importantly he is an approachable person.
However, don’t be fooled by his calm demeanor and courteous personality. There is a fiery character in the leader of this pack. When asked what goals the team had set out for this year, without hesitation he said:
“Our goal this year is an OUA (Ontario University Association) West championship. Our goal is to be in that series and we feel we have the best club we’ve had in four years. We are taking a championship attitude right from the get go.”
There is no better sound to the ears of Lions’ hockey fans than of championship aspirations. It is evident that this coaching staff and team are confident in their abilities but barring any huge injuries, they feel they cannot only compete with the best, but be the best.
We continued to chat about the team this year, mainly on their strengths and what York students can get excited about. “Our strengths are definitely our ability to play defence and in our back end,” Wells said. “We believe we have the best goaltender in the OUA West for sure in Andrew Perugini.”

Defence and goaltending is the backbone of any hockey team. More specifically, solid defence and great goaltending is the mark of a championship hockey team. Wells believes with a core group of guys made up of former American Hockey League defenceman John de Gray, captain Jesse Messier, and goaltender Andrew Perugini, the Lions have a solid defensive foundation to work from. Wells put it simply “Defence Wins Championships.” It’s an age old concept that holds true in all levels of hockey, and one that this writer firmly believes in.
The Lions were busy in the offseason bringing in four new recruits, with three of the four players brought in measuring 6’3″ or taller. When asked if size was an element the coaching staff felt needed to be addressed, Wells said it was a combination of size and strength. “ Some of our very talented players are not very big people, so we needed to surround them with good size.”
Size in hockey comes at a premium, specifically size that can move. With the inclusion of players such as new recruit Gregg Sutch, who the coaches have praised for having size and ability, the Lions should be very happy with their new acquisitions.
Wells clearly believes in this year’s edition of the York Lions men’s hockey team. So what can we expect to see out of this team when the Lions take to the ice this year?
“Everything we do we are going to take a lot of pride in, starting in defence and work ethic,” said Coach Wells. “We plan on being the hardest working team on the ice game in and game out.”
Only time will tell whether this year’s edition of the men’s hockey team will reach their ultimate goal of an OUA West Championship. However, one thing you can be certain of is this pack has a lot of pride, and no matter what the outcome is, they will be ready to play.
Joseph Narsa
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
