
4 p.m., Monday, January 21: Oh yeah! The U of T sex party is tonight. Hah, boobs and dicks. Greasy pervs. Desperate chicks. Full-screen porn. Flavoured condoms.
5 p.m. Oh god, I really want to go. Is it okay that I’m dreadfully curious? No, I really shouldn’t go. I have so much work to do.
6 p.m. If I go, I’ll have to skip out on my work and devote three hours to standing in the cold. If I don’t go, I’ll feel like the social pariah of my generation. I’ll feel…boring.
6:30 p.m. Maybe if I complain about how much work I have to get through tonight, I won’t get peer-pressured into going. Huzzah! I have an excuse not to go. I’m too busy being important.
7 p.m. People are taking their clothes off right now, and my palms are sweating.
7:15 p.m. Tamara (the Copy Editor) bursts into my office to tell me that if we don’t go, we’re going to regret it for the rest of our lives. It’s -15°C outside, I look like a bedraggled cat, and I’m dressed in thin leggings and a windbreaker over a hoodie. She can’t be serious.
8:00 p.m. I can’t figure out how Tamara convinced me this is a good idea. As I board the 196 Rocket, I immediately regret this decision.
8:01 p.m. Tamara realizes she left her student card at home. We get off the bus in the Village and stop at her place to get it.
8:05 p.m. How about I jump on her couch to buy myself some time? It’s warm in here. I feel safe.
8:10 p.m. Tamara announces she can’t find her student card. Oh, good.
8:20 p.m. Tamara phones Oasis Aqua Lounge and asks if a student card is required. A) a person with a student card can vouch for a person without a card, and B) the line stretches around the block, and the club is at capacity. I feel a great sense of relief mixed with disappointment. We call it a night.
9 p.m. YOLO.
10:15 p.m. We get off at College Station. I realize all I’ve had today is a glass of orange juice and toast with peanut butter. We stop at a nearby restaurant. Half a pulled pork poutine and a shot of Jack for $20? Yes please!
11:20 p.m. Man, we should blow this joint. Okay winter, I am your bitch.
11:30 p.m. The lineup is much shorter than I expected. We get in the line with the evening crowd. We’re behind a couple. They’re friendly and nice, and they seem to be there for the same reason as us: curiosity.
11:40 p.m. A group of guys exits the club. One guy yells, “Don’t go in. It’s a trap!”
11:50 p.m. A slew of other couples join in behind us. Same deal: curious, average 20-somethings with nothing better to do on a Monday night.
12:00 a.m. The couple in front of us asks how long we (Tamara and I) have been dating. No, no, we’re just friends. They ask us why, then, we’re in the couples line. I glance over their heads at the singles line, a much shorter line comprised solely of young men. Should I join the singles line? No, I don’t have the social skills to stay cool if I get in before Tamara.
12:20 a.m. My butt is the first thing to lose all feeling. Jumping jacks are making my lungs hurt.
12:30 a.m. The line hasn’t budged. Oh crap, the last subway leaves soon.
12:40 a.m. We peace.
12:00 p.m., Tuesday, January 22: A text from a guy friend who went to the party: “It was like visiting New York City with a tour bus. Also, so much sausage.”
Leslie Armstrong, Editor in Chief
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A three-game losing streak comes to an end in a revitalizing win to help secure playoff position
Everything seemed to click for the Lions in their win against cross-town rivals, University of Toronto’s Varsity Blues, on Friday, January 18, which put an end to their three-game skid with a score of 97-72.
From the start of the game, the Lions kept their steady lead, pulling further ahead at the end of each quarter.
They forced turnovers, getting 18 of their points off fast-breaks, led by the tireless defensive effort of Lions guard Nidun Chandrakumar.
Their eight-point lead at the end of the first became a 10-point lead at the end of the second, 38-28, sparked by the hot hands of Lions forward and co-captain, Aaron Rados, and guard Raheem Isaac. Together, Rados and Isaac hit back-to-back baseline three-pointers that initiated the momentum of the Lions’ offense halfway through the second quarter.
Varsity Blues forward Ben Garvin and guard Alex Hill dropped 14 and 22 for the night respectively, including two makes from behind the arc for each of them. Point guard Arun Kumar helped with 13, including two of his own from the three-point line.

But Lions star point guard and co-captain David Tyndale proved to be too much for the Varsity Blues to handle. Tyndale put in 28 points for the night, getting hot in the third quarter with all three of his three-pointers. But head coach Tom Oliveri says that Tyndale’s excellent ball handling was more important in getting the win.
“[Tyndale’s] points were great, but we should look the seven assists and three turnovers. He had a better than 2:1 assist-turnover ratio. That’s how your point guard has to play,” says Oliveri.
Oliveri has encouraged his team to pass the ball more and look for the open man, and it finally came together tonight. The Lions totalled 18 assist—four more than their last two games combined.
“When we share the ball and make the extra pass, we are a much better basketball team. We shared the ball, we penetrated against the defense, and we found people,” says Oliveri.
Every Lion pulled down at least two rebounds, except for guard Akeem Isaac who took a hard foul and sat after just one minute of play, and the team finished with a total 42 rebounds to U of T’s 20.
The Lions were able to convert on second and third-chance opportunities—something the Varsity Blues struggled to do.
In the final minutes of the game, Isaac was clotheslined and hit in the nose by the elbow of U of T guard, Alejandro Prescott-Cornejo, who was immediately ejected for the flagrant foul. Isaac was in obvious pain as he quickly dropped to the ground, blood gushing from his open wound, but then collected himself and walked off the floor.
This was an important game for the Lions, who are holding onto the last playoff spot. Before tonight, U of T was two wins behind them, which has now been stretched to a three-game differential, giving the Lions more breathing room as they continue the fight to hold onto their position.
“We knew that if we lost, we would be in jeopardy of missing a playoff spot, so it was a much bigger meeting,” says Oliveri. “We’ve played them  pretty tough here traditionally the last couple of years. The challenge is going to be in a couple of weeks when we go back down to their place.”
Alex Hum, Features Editor

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Proposal by immigration minister to protect international students from fraud
To protect international students from fraud, changes in the International Student Program have been proposed by the immigration minister.
According to a Citizenship and Immigration Canada news release, Immigration Minister Jason Kenney is proposing the “limit of study permits to students attending institutions designated by provinces and territories.”
“The proposed reforms are intended to address integrity concerns within the International Student Plan, by ensuring genuine students are studying throughout their period of authorized stay in Canada, and attending quality educational institutions,” explains Paul Northcott, a spokesperson for Citizenship and Immigration Canada. 
According to the news release, Citizenship and Immigration Canada will work with the provinces and territories to decide which schools are most suitable to meet the needs of international students.
The protection against unprincipled institutions will also eliminate the abuse of student visas, by ensuring students coming to Canada to study are doing exactly that, says Northcott.
Presently, international students can apply to any Canadian school by stating their interest. However, there is no way of tracking whether or not they follow through with their educational motives.
Kenney’s proposed changes would permit Citizenship and Immigration Canada the right to request a confirmation from study permit holders that they are in fact following through with their post-secondary education.
Schools not designated to host international students will be able to offer programs of six months or less on regular visitor visas.
The proposal also promises eligible international students the opportunity to obtain a part-time job off-campus without having to worry about applying for a separate work permit.
“Citizenship and Immigration Canada anticipates that the elimination of work permit applications for off-campus work, along with the anticipated reductions in applications from non-genuine students, together, would reduce application processing costs by $32 million over 10 years,” says Northcott. 
“I really like the idea of eliminating the application for a separate work permit, which otherwise costs an extra $150. That makes it easier to find part-time work,” says Manuel Rodriguez, president of the International Students Association at York. 
“Right now, we are allowed to work on campus, but we aren’t allowed to work outside of campus. Tuition is expensive, so it’s good that they’re making it easier to make a little extra money,” he says.
Although Rodriguez says he is unsure of the affects the overall proposal will have on York directly, he agrees with the intentions behind these changes.
“I think it’s a good proposal, and it’s good that there will be more accountability for the institutions.”
Jenn Goldasic, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Station box excavation expected to be done spring 2013
Drilling for the York subway site has resumed and will continue to take place for five weeks, with the station box scheduled to be completed by spring of 2013.
Obrascon Huarte Lain and FCC Construccion are currently the contractors in charge of digging the station box, and once the digging is finished, the site will be handed over to a new contractor.
“A drill rig is currently drilling piles into the ground in preparation for the construction of the scoop, which is a light well that will bring natural light into the concourse of the station,” says says Debbie Cole-Gauer, TTC community relations coordinator.
Ellis Don Construction Inc. will construct the station on all levels, “including the track level, where you get on and off the train, and where the train comes in, the concourse level, and the main level as well,” says Cole-Gauer. “They are going to build the structure and the entranceway and everything to do with the station.”
Once finished with the excavation of the site, OHL and FCC will continue to work and construct the remainder of the tunnels north of Steeles Avenue West and proceed to build the Highway 407 station.
Hamid Adem, Assistant News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
College administration alleges Ahmed Al-Khabaz was warned not to test the system a second time
After finding a glitch in Dawson College’s data system that could expose the personal information of students and staff, Ahmed Al-Khabaz was expelled.
Al-Khabaz was accessing the Montreal college’s messenger program with a friend when he first discovered the problem.
He was using the college’s messenger app when he discovered his friend could see his profile picture without being logged into his account.
“This is when it hit me, and this is when I started trying to see how it works,” says Al-Khabaz.
He found that he could find students’ SIN numbers, addresses, grades, locker information, and schedule and that he could make changes on their behalf.
He says a glitch of this kind means the entire college’s personal information could potentially be stolen, so he immediately notified the school of his findings and offered to demonstrate the problem to them.
“At the beginning, they really didn’t trust me, but with a bit of convincing, we began a demo in front of the head of the IT department,” says Al-Khabaz.
After demonstrating the glitch using a test account on a test server, Al-Khabaz says the head of Dawson’s IT department was surprised and thanked him and his friend, assuring him the problem would be fixed.
Once notified of the security breach, the college contacted Skytech—the developers of the Omnivox software, which is the software system used at the college—to get the glitch fixed.
The school, although pleased that Al-Khabaz notified them of the potential security problem, did not approve of how he found it, as it was a breach of his program’s professional code of conduct.
“We thanked him for his vigilance, but he was told his behaviour was not part of the professional code of conduct and that he would be subjected to certain terms of a sanction,” says Donna Varicca, Dawson College’s communications coordinator. “Some of his web rights were revoked for a period under the stipulation that his activity would cease.”
Al-Khabaz, who at that time was in the computer science program in Dawson College, says he was told the glitch would be fixed. Because of how he discovered the problem,  Al-Khabaz was told not to attempt to do so again, as it would breach the professional code of conduct of his program.
However, a few days later, Al-Khabaz went onto the Omnibox website to test if the problem had been solved.
“I was trying to get [into the system] using the same method as before, which alerted Dawson College and Skytech as somebody was trying to invade their servers,” says Al-Khabaz.
Al-Khabaz says he was then immediately contacted by Skytech.
“They told me they were going to call the RCMP, and that I could spend six to 12 months in prison, but since I helped find the glitch in the system, they wouldn’t press charges if I told them the rest of the issues I found,” says Al-Khabaz.
After notifying the school of the remaining glitches, he signed a nondisclosure agreement with Skytech, but Dawson College was not as forgiving about the situation.
When attempting to enter the system the second time, Al Khabaz had breached the sanctions placed upon him by the university and was expelled.
“If you’re in a career program, you’re being taught and prepared to go into the workforce, and there’s a certain set of standards that one works by,” says Varrica. “If you’re in blatant disregard of that code, then there are sanctions and consequences for your actions.”
After being expelled, Al-Khabaz met up with a civil lawyer who helped him with his appeal letter, but Dawson College did not reverse the expulsion.
Al-Khabaz decided to seek help from the Dawson Student Union.
“I’m really blessed to have them behind me,” he says.
The Dawson Student Union is currently appealing to reinstate Al-Khabaz into school.
Hamid Adem, Assistant News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Students to voice thoughts and concerns regarding transit
Trinity-Spadina MP Olivia Chow will be at York’s Keele campus on January 31 to discuss her plan to end gridlock in Toronto and address students’ questions and concerns regarding transportation.
Chow, the official transportation critic for the New Democratic Party, will be speaking to students and faculty about her campaign for a national transit strategy, a plan to eliminate congestion and long commutes that millions of Canadians endure everyday.
Jon Sufrin, Canadian studies program coordinator at York and a key organizer of the event, says getting on and off campus is a nightmare for most students.
“We chose Ms. Chow [to speak] because we think that she connects with a lot of important issues facing Canada today,” says Sufrin. “Not only transit funding itself, but how to get all the different levels of government to cooperate with each other to make the best overall situation for our society.”
Sufrin says he is hoping to raise awareness of Canada’s transportation system in an attempt to encourage students to become more involved in a matter that
directly affects them on a daily basis.
“I want to get a lot of students out and actually involved in politics, in caring about their society and engaging in making it better,” he says.
Chow’s presentation will focus on potential options for students who depend on public transit, and will allow them to suggest ways to improve the future of Canada’s transportation, whichChow says she will take into consideration.
Sufrin says this event is a great opportunity for students to express their thoughts on their everyday commutes to and from campus.
“Students often complain they don’t get their voices heard, but we have Ms. Chow, the official transportation and infrastructure critic, coming to listen specifically to what [students] have to say about transit.”
Chow will allocate 40 minutes to speaking to the audience about their personal transportation experiences, and any concerns students have regarding future transit changes, discussed during the presentation, could eventually be incorporated into her national transit strategy.
Jenn Goldasic, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
App to feature emergency information and tools for students and staff
As part of the president’s update on safety to the York community, the creation of a mobile safety application was announced.
In response to the crimes that have occurred at York, the university’s communications and public affairs division and the office of the vp finance and administration have been working on the development of the York U Safety App since late summer to early fall.
The app is accessible on iPhone, Android, and Blackberry devices, is free, and can be downloaded from the QR code on the safety awareness campaign posters starting early February as well as on York’s safety website, explains Robert Castle, senior advisor of policy, operations and communications.
York is using a similar platform to the one implemented at Queen’s University for their mobile safety app, called Sekure, Castle says.
The app allows users to make direct calls to York security and 911, is readied with a flashlight, and a photo feature that allows you to take a picture and send it to security. The app also provides direct links to the campus map, goSAFE and shuttle bus information, and community resources, including SASSL and the Centre for Human Rights, among others.
The app is equipped with an alarm to allow harassment victims to attract attention to themselves, and to deter potential perpetrators, says Castle.
York’s Community Safety Council, comprised of students, faculty, and staff, developed the app and modified it according to the needs of York community members.
“It was certainly great to hear members of the community saying they would appreciate having a safety app,” says Castle. “It sort of dovetails nicely.”
“I think it’s going to be a good tool for people to have on their smartphones.”
-With files from Melissa Sundardas
Kathryn DeGrano, Contributor

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
