Two former York executives have had their fraud charges dropped after a phony invoice scheme that billed York for over $1.2 million. Despite the charges being dropped, they are still facing a civil action suit from York.
Michael Markicevic and Phil Brown, two former York employees, have been acquitted of all criminal charges of fraud against the university.
The criminal charges of fraud were dismissed on May 1 by Assistant Crown Robert Wright on accounts of the poor credibility of key witnesses.
According to the Toronto Star, Wright announced in court that the prosecution had set aside charges against Markicevic and Brown and said that while the police had reasonable grounds to lay the charges, there is no reasonable prospect of conviction at this stage of the matter.
Both Brown and Markicevic were charged by police for their alleged involvement in a phony invoice scheme that billed York for more than $1.2 million between May 2007 and April 2010. 
While employed at York, Markicevic worked as an assistant vice-president and Brown as director of maintenance.
Although the criminal charges were dropped against both former employees, they are still facing a civil action suit by the university.
Joanne Rider of York media says the university was disappointed in the Crown’s decision to dismiss the criminal charges against Markicevic and Brown.
“We do have substantial evidence in the fraud case, and we are still pursuing a civil action case including the civil action against Markicevic and Brown,” says Rider.
“Markicevic had already tried unsuccessfully to try to have the civil case against him dismissed.”
According to an interview done by the Toronto Star, when asked about the Crown’s decision, Markicevic expressed relief over the crown’s decision. In the same interivew, Markicevic said that as a result of York firing him, his reputation has been damaged, he’s having a hard time finding a new job, and that this situation has cost his family about $800,000 in legal costs to date.
Markecevic said to the Toronto Star that he is depicted by York as being the mastermind behind the entire fraud invoice scheme, with the university filling the civil action suit in early 2012 before the police criminal charges.
“I’m not able discuss specifics relating to an individual’s case when it comes to an agreement made with the university, but we are making an effort through the civil action suit to recover the funds that were defrauded by Markicevic,” says Rider.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
President Shoukri has placed in Canadian Immigrant Magazines Top 25 contest. 
York’s President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri is in the running for Canadian Immigrant magazine’s Top 25 Canadian Immigrant Awards.
The awards acknowledge citizens for their accomplishments in their adoptive country.
Sanjay Agnihotri, director of operations and strategy at Metroland Specialty Markets, who leads the Top 25 awards program, says Shoukri’s nomination was a result of his inspiring academic and professional accomplishments, as well as his participation in many organizations.
Shoukri currently sits on the boards of directors for the Ontario Centres of Excellence, Cancer Care Ontario, and the Canadian Merit Scholarship Foundation.
“I am extremely honoured to be nominated for this prestigious award along with such respected and accomplished individuals who have contributed so much to Canada,” says Shoukri.
The nomination process is open to all Canadians who wish to nominate an inspirational immigrant with permanent residency or citizenship in Canada.
Nominators are asked to provide reasons as to why the nominee is inspiring to them, including any accomplishments they have made and any challenges they have overcome, explains Agnihotri.
Nominations, as well as votes, were made on Canadian Immigrant’s website. The winners of the awards will be announced June 20, 2013.
“After the nominations phase is closed, a judging panel reviews the hundreds of nominations sent in and selects 75 finalists who earn the highest marks on a set scale of criteria,” says Agnihorti. 
The criteria used by the panel to shortlist the finalists is based on nominations that describe how the potential candidates’ work has improved the standard of living in Canada in some way, whether these accomplishments have been made on a local or national scale.
Shoukri says his involvement in the Top 25 program and its testimonial is an achievement for not only himself but for the entire York community.
“This is public recognition for all of the amazing achievements by people here at York. We are known for excellence and innovation both in Canada and increasingly on an international level, so we all share a part of this nomination,” says Shoukri.
Winners will be announced by Canadian Immigrant on June 20.
Milica Markovi
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York alumnus and SAIA activist Hammam Farah has been banned from York property. After receiving warning letters, the Students Against Israeli Apartheid had their club status revoked for “repeated disruption of academic activities.”
Students Against Israeli Apartheid’s status as an officially recognized student group at York was revoked by the university following a rally held in Vari Hall on March 27.
Janet Morrison, vice-provost students, who makes decisions with respect to club statuses, de-listed SAIA as an official club until January 2014 for “repeated disruption of academic activities,” according to Joanne Rider of York media.
“Specifically, SAIA will not be able to book space or otherwise access university resources directly or through another student organization,” says the notification letter from Morrison. SAIA is also “debarred from re-registering for official student group status” until January 1, 2014.
Rider says this isn’t the first time that SAIA has “disrupted academic activities” during one of their rallies and that this action wasn’t taken lightly. The university follows a similar process with any student club, association, or organization when university policies are violated, she explains.
“We followed due process including warning SAIA a number of times before we made the decision to sanction them,” says Rider.
SAIA was notified on May 3 by York that their club status had been revoked via email and letter delivered by Morrison.
Along with SAIA, a number of other groups were present at the rally, including the York University Black Students’ Association, York’s chapter of the Filipino Canadian Youth Alliance, the Middle Eastern Students’ Association, Ontario Public Interest Research Group-York, Independent Jewish Voices – Toronto, Fightback, and CUPE 3903.
“An unprecedented attack on academic freedom and freedom of speech on the York University campus.” 
A few members of student groups involved in the rally received warning letters from the university.
Excalibur obtained a copy of the letter sent from the university to Arshiya Lakhani, one of the students who spoke at the March 27 rally.
“By this letter, the University is giving you notice that should you in future fail to comply with applicable regulations of the University […] York University may invoke disciplinary action against you in accordance with applicable University rules,” the letter said.
Letters were also sent to the presidents of YUBSA and the Middle Eastern Students’ Association, among other students.
“The warning letters sent from the university definitely felt threatening,” says SAIA member Huda Al-Sarraj.
YUBSA and Rider were contacted concerning warning letters but were unable to be reached in time.
“Receiving the letters and threatening us is problematic because all these clubs involved are fighting for fundamental rights, like YUBSA who fight against racial profiling and for black rights,” says Al-Sarraj.
The rally in question took place one week after the York Federation of Students endorsed the Israel Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions campaign at a board of directors’ meeting, joining York’s Graduate Students’ Association in their support of the movement.
In a post on SAIA’s Facebook page, the group writes that the university’s decision to revoke their status is an “unprecedented attack on academic freedom and freedom of speech on the York University campus.”
When asked for a response, Rider says, “York University encourages freedom of expression and debate of controversial issues, and values diverse perspectives.  The university does not permit such expression to compromise or disrupt classes or other academic activities.”
“With the March 27 rally, we wanted to show that York didn’t have an ethical investment strategy and that we needed to push for that,” says Al-Sarraj. “We cooperated with York security, and we also had a security liaison and marshal keep things under control.”
Following the same rally, York alumnus and SAIA activist Hammam Farah was banned from entering York property as of April 25.
According to a letter sent to Farah by Gary Brewer, vp finance and administration, Farah was banned from campus because of his participation in two demonstrations — the first on November 29, 2012, and the other on on March 27, 2013,  — where he was observed by York security using an amplification device to speak to a gathering of students and others.
Rider says Farah was banned for violating university policy.
“Acting in violation of any York University policy or procedure may result in a review process,” says Rider. “Actions by the university as a result of the review may include banning an individual or group from campus.”
This is the first incident since 2009 that a club has been sanctioned by the university.
In 2009, SAIA and the Hasbara Fellowship were each suspended for 30 days and fined $1,000, the Tamil Students’ Association was suspended for 15 days and fined
$500, and Hillel was fined $500 for “for their part in recent activities which disrupted classes adjacent to Vari Hall rotunda,” according to a York Media Relations press release.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
With a new editorial team comes a new set of experiences, opinions, and skill sets. We are excited, to say the least – and Abdul Malik would like to introduce himself and the whole new editorial board with a smile, a hearty handshake, and a pat on the back. We’re on your side, we swear.
Hi. You there?
Are you reading this? Do I have your attention? I do? I hope I have your attention. Because I’m about to INTRODUCE THE FUCK OUT OF MYSELF.
I’m Abdul Malik, the new arts editor around here. We’re all new. In the same way the guards change regularly at Buckingham palace, aspiring Bat-men blow up the lairs of the ninjas that trained them, and white dwarf suns create nebulae that eventually coalesce into brand new stars, Excalibur has a new editorial team once again.
One of the great things about this paper is the fact that the staff changes every year. Each new editor brings a different set of priorities and personality to their job; it’s simultaneously a way to improve the learning experience and stay in touch with the ever evolving needs of the community we serve.
“Cynicism is far too easy, and we are all of us doing the best we can.”
And believe me, we’re here to serve.
To those unacquainted with Excalibur, I’ll give you this sentence to expend your phallic jokes re: our name. Done? Alright. Cool. To get you up to speed: we’ve been York’s community newspaper since 1966 and we are completely autonomous from the school administration. Our job is simply to be journalists, journalists that look out for the interests of York’s students, faculty, and community.
To those familiar with Excalibur and are cynical about the paper, student journalism, or the impact of the press-at-large: at the end of the day, we’re still here to look out for you, regardless of how you view us. Cynicism is far too easy, and we are all of us doing the best we can.
To those of us who pick up and read Excalibur regularly, we can guarantee the paper will only get better. We’ve picked up from what was already an amazing team of editors, and we have titanic shoes to fill.
Our team is diverse. Some of us have worked here in other positions, others are entirely new, and a few of us started as volunteers and staff writers. Our doors are open to anyone and everyone who wants to be a part of the team, and this has only ever been a good thing.
The paper has content online and in print; we change with the times, and expect a Herculean degree of web content this year. The physical paper will stay strong, too, no matter how many death bells toll for print journalism.
Hey, we outlived Newsweek. Isn’t that neat-o?
At this point, it’s not unsafe to call Excalibur an institution at York, and while there have been ups and down in the paper’s history, we have a standard of excellence to meet — a standard that’s set not by us, but by you, the reader.
And I can speak for the entire team when I say we plan to go above and beyond the call of duty for the next year. We’re here to create dialogues, keep you in the loop, and shine a light on any of the numerous goings on, positive or negative, on the York campus.
We hope you can be a part of what we’re doing, while we’re doing it.
And occasionally, our headlines will be punny. Sorry in advance.
Abdul Malik
 Arts Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
