Ashlee Mitchell lays the groundwork for all prospective volunteers.
This is just a healthy reminder to everyone, we are constantly looking for new volunteers to help us write, edit, layout and just put together the paper. There are great opportunities for any student looking to get involved. This is your chance to develop your resume, build a portfolio and launch yourself into a great career.
We are looking for you, and our lovely, charming and wonderful video editor Ashlee Mitchell is laying down the law on how you can get involved.
So, when can you start?
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Toronto Police Services are currently investigating a robbery that occurred on September 27 on York’s campus.
The robbery  occurred at 6:15 a.m., at Pond Road near Hoover Road.
According to a security bulletin released by the university, the robbery occurred while a community member was walking and was then approached by three male suspects. The resident was then put into a headlock, had his pockets searched and had his iPhone stolen. The suspects then ran towards the Rexall Centre and got into a small black car. The community member didn’t suffer any injuries during this incident.
The incident was reported to York Security at 4:15 p.m. that afternoon.
Should students have any information about this incident, they are asked to contact Toronto Police Services directly at 416.808.2222.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
An assault was reported this morning that occurred during orientation week, with arrest made soon after.
A male York student has been arrested in relation to a sexual assault that occurred on campus during orientation week in Winters residence.
The incident was reported to residence life staff and Toronto Police Services early this morning. The male suspect was soon thereafter taken into custody.
Students with any further information are asked to contact Toronto Police Services directly at 416.808.2222.
Hamid Adem
News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
