
 

 

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
It’s that time of the year again where everyone dresses up as their favourite pop star or a scary monster, but a fitness enthusiast isn’t going to just cover up all of their hard work in the gym with some cheap plastic costume.
You’re going to want to show off the gains you’ve made over the past year. Here is some inspiration for you gym rats who want to show off your progress without looking like you’re trying too hard.
Superheroes: Every fitness buff’s true desire is to look better than other humans — we want to look superhuman.
So why not show off your muscles as Wolverine or Thor? Sure these might be popular, but they are for good reason: they are physical freaks. What will set you apart are the minor details in your costume, and of course, having a giant set of guns (meaning muscles of course, these two guys would never use guns).
Ladies, look no further than Wolverine and Thor’s close friends. Storm is always a great option. With the proper makeup, this costume can be a real showstopper. If you want to go for a more menacing look, Black Widow from the Avengers in her all-black jumpsuit can be quite the attractive costume idea.
Famous warriors: Know that saying “He went Rambo on his ass?” Well, there’s a reason that phrase caught on. Rambo is a universally known badass who will destroy anything the world throws at him. You don’t get that reputation without looking like a man-made machine. Like Rambo, being a Spartan warrior gives you a good excuse to walk around shirtless and show off your six-pack. You can’t go wrong with either. Both represent powerful beings no one wants to meet in a back alley.
Jacked cartoon characters: Cartoon characters have the unique gift of never needing to hit the gym. They can be as big as the cartoonist wants them to be. A guy like Johnny Bravo is slick with the ladies and can barely fit a T-shirt over his bulging muscles. All you need is a little black tee, some big muscles, a little hair gel, and you’re good to go. If you’d rather go for a more athletic, intimidating look, why not Goku from Dragon Ball Z? The guy looks like he works out 24/7, and karate attire always kicks the cool factor up a couple notches.
A little self-deprecation: You want to have a good time, but you also want to show off your muscles. A funny costume is a solid way to show off your hard work but still look as friendly as a teddy bear. Why not try being a gym rat? Wear your normal gym attire — maybe wash it a few times first — then attach a cute little mouse snout to your face. It’s clever, it’s funny, it shows off your beautiful body and it’s cute; it’s near perfect.
One very important don’t: Please do not dress up as anyone from Jersey Shore. Do you know how many Pauly Ds and Situations there will be and have been downtown Toronto the past few years? A lot, and half of them aren’t even in a costume. We get it. “Gym, tan, laundry.”
But the joke is over — it’s unoriginal and straight up lame now. Ladies, the Snooki and JWoww costumes are also played out now, and thank the gods for that. Unless you plan on making a complete ass out of yourself on Halloween, just stick to the suggestions above.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions look to find a way to navigate the OUA playoffs after a first-round exit last season.
Highlighted by their exhibition trip to Quebec and the RBC Classic at Brock University on October 26, the Lions’ pre-season is now over.
Basketball season is upon us, and the Lions are looking to start their 2013-2014 regular season on a high note.
After ending off the last season with a disappointing quarterfinal loss to Ryerson, the Lions are preparing to start this season without star point guard David Tyndale.
The team will need to find leaders who are willing to step up and replace Tyndale’s production which topped out at 15.5 points a game last season.
The Lions came away with mixed results during pre-season play, scoring a 84-77 victory over the University of Regina Cougars while splitting contests with the Laval University Rouge et Or.
York’s season will officially kick off against the Guelph Gryphons on November 1 at the Tait McKenzie Gym. Like the Lions, the Gryphons ended their 2012-2013 season in second to last place in their division. The fact Guelph’s Dan McCarthy, who finished his career with 1,274 as a Gryphon, will not be returning to play will not help their situation.
Guard Zachary Angus will now take on the challenge of playing the leadership role as Guelph takes on a rebuilding phase. Angus has steadily improved every year that he has played and averaged 13.5 points per game last season.
Finishing outside of the playoff race back in February, the Gryphons had a lot of time to focus on their rebuilding process. With the help of the 12 first-year players added on to the team, the Gryphons’ realistic goal is to clinch a berth in this year’s playoffs.
The Lions should compete, but not struggle against this Guelph team. The departure of Tyndale will give the guard rotation more breathing room and should encourage a healthy amount of competition for playing time within the team.
Watch out for second-year forward Daniel Tulloch to take another huge step forward after an impressive rookie campaign. Tulloch finished off last season averaging 11.3 points per game and comes into this season as the go-to player on the court for York. Adding fifth-year forward and 11.9 points-per-game scorer Aaron Rados to the mix, York’s forward talent can compete with the best of them.
The Lions will not have much time for rest after their game against Guelph; they are playing against the Lakehead Thunderwolves the next day. Lakehead took home the bronze medal in last year’s playoffs and have solidified themselves as a top team in the West division.
This game will not only test the Lions but it will provide an early sense of league placement as York takes on a weaker Guelph team on Friday and a solid Lakehead team on Saturday.
The Lions will need to shut down Lakehead big man Ryan Thompson who shot an impressive 49 per cent from the field last season, leading to an average of 14.4 points per game. Lakehead will be looking to keep the ball in the post as much as possible and tough defense down low will be vital in order to win this game.
Be sure to celebrate the beginning of basketball season and support your Lions basketball team at the Tait Mckenzie gym on November 1 and November 2.
Amjed Al Salman
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York’s men’s hockey team has gotten off to a blazing start.

Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions showcase a speedy team that proves tough for opponents to hang with.
After hosting the Waterloo Warrios and University of Toronto Varsity Blues in a pair of contests this past week at Canlan Ice Sports Arena, the York Lions were able to get off on the right foot with a thrilling shootout victory over the Warriors. But their weekend would eventually end on a sour note as the Blues walked away from the rink with a 4-2 win.
York’s loss to U of T marks their first of the season after winning five straight to start. During their five-game winning streak, the Lions pulled out three games in extra time, with two going all the way to a shootout.
In the Lions’ win over the Warriors on October 24, a scrappy Warriors team jumped out to the early lead with a powerplay marker. Seconds after the Lions’ Jordan Forfar went to the box for tripping, Waterloo’s Justin Larson netted his third of the season to go ahead 1-0.
York took to the ice without their leading scorer and captain Jesse Messier against the Warriors, which Head Coach Jim Wells believes was a contributing factor to his team’s slow start.
“I think what happened is that we were a little cautious playing without our captain,” says Wells. “I think once they realized they could play with Waterloo, they kicked it into high gear.”
It didn’t take long for York to get their feet back under them, as a quick goal just four minutes later would knot the score up at one. Defenceman John de Gray fired a shot towards the net with the final seconds of a Lions’ powerplay expiring. Eventually the puck would end up with Michael Santini, who jammed the puck away to tie the game at one.
The second period saw a very undisciplined Warrior team commit three penalties, including a four-minute powerplay towards the end of frame after Waterloo’s Luke Lynes was charged with a double minor for high sticking. Despite all the powerplay chances York had, they could not find a way to put a puck in the back of the net, often making just one to many passes before watching the puck fly back towards their end of the rink.
“They’ve got a pretty good goalie, and I think we are overthinking it and trying to be too pretty,” says Wells, “I just want our guys to be more direct, get pucks to the net and slap in a few rebounds.”
 Waterloo managed to still outshoot the Lions in the second period even though they spent a fair chunk on the penalty kill. Luckily for York, netminder Andrew Perugini came up big with a couple of timely stops to keep the score at a deadlock heading into the final period.
A quick-paced York team took to the ice for the third, with Waterloo having to kill off most of Lynes double minor to begin the period. The Lions looked far more comfortable on the powerplay to start the period, but a de Gray blast off the post would be as close as they could get. York finished the game scoreless on the man advantage despite having 14 minutes of powerplay time.
Thankfully the Lions would find a way to score without an opponent in box, as a goal by Tyler McGee just over five minutes into the third vaulted his team ahead 2-1 with just 15 minutes left in the game.
Following the rhythm of the action, Waterloo came storming back with heavy offensive pressure that put the Lions back on their heels. The Warriors relentless attack was stopped cold by Perugini for most of the night, but a goal by defenceman Ryan Hanes at the 10:56 mark in the third period would once again tie the game up with minimal time remaining.
With both teams peppering the other goalie with shots all game, neither team was able to end the game before a shootout was needed. After a failed Waterloo attempt on their first shot, York forward Forfar calmly glided down the ice, finishing off a sweet move by snapping the puck off the bar and in to give York a one-goal advantage. Waterloo would ring the bar on their next attempt as well, but this time the puck would stay, eventually leading to a 3-2 victory for the Lions.
After the game, Wells praised his players for their performance.
“Today was a real gutsy performance,” Wells says. “We had some key players out and a lot of players rose to the occasion. They did a great job, and I am pretty proud of them right now.”
In their second contest against U of T, the Lions would have their captain back in the fold but struggled all night with minor mistakes that ended up costing them the game.
Messier was the best player on the ice for York, setting an example for the rest of the team by sacrificing his body on the penalty kill while also scoring the team’s only two goals.
After both teams scored within two minutes of each other mid-way through the first, a hard-hitting affair ensued with solid defence on both ends of the ice. The Blues pulled ahead in the second as Jeff Brown capitalized on a Lions’ penalty, scoring his second of the night halfway through the game, putting his team up 3-1.
Messier would try and set the tone for the Lions in the third period scoring just 12 seconds in, but a late goal by the Blues would hold off their opponents for the 4-2 victory.
The Lions for the most part played a solid game, but momentary lapses in judgement led to chances that the Blues buried. While a player or coach never wants to lose a game, Wells thinks the loss could be just what his team needs to refocus.
“I don’t think losing is ever fun nor is it ever fun to restart again,” Wells explains. “At the same time, I think we are in a place where we will definitely have the players’ attention. After coming out the room after speaking to them, I know they want to work hard and they want to stay tops in the OUA.”
York is now tied with the Lakehead Thunderwolves for the Ontario University Athletics lead with 10 points and a 5-1 record.
The Lions look to bounce back with a big win over the Ryerson Rams on Halloween night before playing their next three contests on the road.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mark Anthony-Kaye scored two goal to help lift York to victory.
The York Lions men’s soccer team took on the Laurier Golden Hawks in Ontario University Athletics quarterfinal action on October 27 at York Stadium.
The Lions came face to face with some tough defence from the Golden Hawks, but eventually York’s offensive prowess took over, leading to a 5-0 win for the Lions.
It took the Lions a bit of time to get their game on track as they made a lot of uncharacteristic choices with the ball early on. As much as the Golden Hawks tried, it has been near impossible for any team to keep York’s offensive threats off the scoreboard this season, and this time it was the Lions’ Mark Anthony-Kaye who stepped up in a big way.
In just the 24th minute, the Lions swarmed to the net after a fast break forced Laurier into a scramble. Eventually a shot was fired on net that Laurier’s goalkeeper came out to challenge. Despite making the first save, the goalkeeper failed to corral the rebound, forcing him to watch Lions’ striker Anthony-Kaye blast one into the back of the net to put York up 1-0.
Anthony-Kaye was not done, he streaked through the defence only to bungle his chance, but luckily got a free shot at the keeper just a minute later.
After the Golden Hawks committed a foul in the goalie’s box, the Lions sent Anthony-Kaye onto the pitch to take the shot. The prolific goalscorer made no doubt about his decision, kicking his second goal of the game past the keeper to give his team the 2-0 lead they would take into halftime.
Despite his giant first half, Anthony-Kaye had noticeably taken a seat on the bench at the start of the second. Lions’ Head Coach Carmine Isacco chalked up the decision to the luxury of having a great team.
“We have a deep team, and Ty [Downes] came on and did very well. We have a lot of options, and it just made sense at the time.”
It turned out to be a wise decision. Instead risking injury, Anthony-Kaye sat on the sidelines watching his team score another three goals in the second half to polish off the victory.
York took a more relaxed approach in the second half, with Laurier getting a few quality chances throughout the final 45 minutes. Although the Lions took the foot of the pedal a bit, that didn’t stop goal-scoring fiends Jonathan Loa and Dylan Sacramento from getting in on the action.
Sacramento scored a beauty by utilizing his speed to blow past his defender. Once past the defence, he made no mistake about where to place the ball, easily striking one past the keeper to give his team a three-goal advantage.
Loa salted the game away with a late goal in the 87th minute, which York soon followed up with another goal in extra time by Anthoney-Kaye’s replacement Tyrone Downes.
The final two goals gave York a very convincing 5-0 victory, sending them to the OUA final four hosted by Ryerson the weekend of November 2. After Laurier was coming off a big playoff win of their own, Isacco was very pleased with his team’s performance.
“We had a good week of preparation, we played a motivated team who did very good in a playoff game prior to this, and we did the right things at the right times,” he says.
When asked if his team holds any advantage with inner city rivals Ryerson hosting the games, Isacco made it clear that he doesn’t care if he’s playing in the arctic or Toronto, it’s all just soccer to him.
“I hope [it gives us an advantage]. You know it’s always a soccer field, it’s always 11 versus 11 so whatever happens, happens. I guess it’s nice not to have to travel,” Isacco adds.
The Lions’ await an intense match-up with the Carleton Ravens on Saturday — a team they are all too familiar with. The Ravens eliminated York in last year’s final four, forcing the Lions to play for bronze on their home turf.
Carleton’s record is below what it was last year heading into their semi-final match-up, but records mean nothing when it comes playoff time.
“Very direct team and very strong,” Isacco said, praising the opponents. “They are athletic and physical, but we just have to match their intensity and do better.”
The OUA final four takes place November 2 and 3 at Birchmount Stadium.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
One of the many pieces from the MFA showcase.
The incredibly raw show I AM’: Now h e r e, put on this past weekend by the 2013 MFA artists, delivered flesh and poetry to audience members.
The fifth Master of Fine Arts in Contemporary Choreography and Dance Dramaturgy fall production showcased eight solo artists, who used their own lives and personal bodies as sources of history, wisdom, and knowledge to explore their identities.
Professor Darcey Callison, director of the graduate program in contemporary choreography and dance dramaturgy, explains, “In Now h e r e, the dance artists are presenting the outcomes of their own bodies’ memories: their cultures, identities, and technologies, their wishes, dreams, and potential, their fears, and their personal power…Scholar Harvie Ferguson wrote that ‘all history is the history of the body.’ These choreographers are interpreting the histories of their bodies for the stage.”
From beginning to end, the audience was invited to delve into the many diverse perspectives provided by each soloist, diverse in cultural perspectives, dance style, and use of technology in association with each piece.
The audience was taken on a trip, starting from the inner psyche of one’s mind in “Drag” by Ruth Levin, traveling through time and space within African texture in Sharon Harvey’s “Behind the Eyes of a Venus.”
One of the more reflective pieces was by Justine Comfort, titled “Flesh and a Broken Whisper.” This piece used a poem called “Autotomy” by Wis?awa Szymborska as its driving force to emphasise how individuals at times have to divide themselves to survive.
But as the poem illustrates, they can only divide “…into flesh and poetry. The throat on one side, laughter on the other, quiet, quickly dying out.”
The show also pulled on some heartstrings with a nostalgic performance by Maria Victoria Mata Soledad called “Lejania (Distant),” which took us to a place far from here, but a place very present in Soledad’s mind. In fact, presence was a significant theme in her performance.
Through an exhausting, tear-jerking and undoubtedly prepossessing performance, Marie France Forcier’s dark humor explored how trauma builds identity, in Forcier’s contemporary choreography, “Little Guidebook for Using your Suffering Wisely.”
With Callison serving as artistic director and Professor William Mackwood as the director of design, this year’s MFA Fall Dance production could not have been more engaging.
The eight choreographers in York’s MFA program in dance brought their thesis research to the stage with power, individuality, and truth.
Pavan Kabar Ubhi
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A scene from Lather and Nothing Else, winner of Best Fiction Film.
Students, teacher, friends, family, and film-lovers alike packed into the Royal Cinema on October 22 for York’s 11th annunal Cinesiege event. Cinesiege is a juried film festival that occurs once a year to “celebrate the imaginative and intellectual potency of York students in film” as described by Shawn Brixey, dean of the Faculty of Fine Arts.
Undergraduate filmmakers were given the opportunity to showcase their films in front their peers. Only 33 of the 167 films Cineseige received were nominated for nine categories.
The evening began on a sombre note as Ali Kazimi, head of the film department, dedicated the night to Matthew Schoalts, a York film student who passed away unexpectedly last year.
It was a night of support and enthusiasm as the filmmakers were congratulated on their tenacity and praised for their creativity. Members of the faculty spoke about how York’s “grassroots approach” to cinematic storytelling allows students to work, grow, and build together.
A panel of five high-profile jury members carefully examined the submitted films, selecting seven of the winning films that would be screened at the event.
A dynamic montage of some of the most captivating shots from the nominees was screened at first, displaying the high quality of all the films.
“It was very difficult, we had the pleasure to watch and enjoy these films but we also had to make a few tough decisions,” says Anita Doron, a member of the jury, describing the selection process.
Ultimately, there could be only nine winners. The films were a testament to the dedication of the faculty members and students who comprise York’s film production and screenwriting program.
Tavish Gudgeon
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
While we get shade thrown at us for our many other flaws, no one can deny York students have an amazing sense of style.
Walk through campus from the halls of York Lanes all the way to the Tait McKenzie Centre, and look closely.
You’ll see some of the best-dressed people in the city here — their styles are unique and inspired, and deserve to be showcased. This is especially true in the fall when warm accessories are making a comeback, as are gorgeous browns and burgundies, boots, and jackets.
You’re not restricted by snow or heat, and you can creatively layer different textures to keep yourself warm and looking fabulous. It wasn’t difficult to spot well-dressed students, but if you look closely, their style isn’t as obvious as you might think. Excalibur went out to see what York students are wearing and how they’re wearing it.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The famous castle’s moody, Transylvania-esque exterior.
 
Given that I don’t particularly believe in ghosts – and that there is constroversy amongst those who do about whether or not Casa Loma is even haunted — I didn’t expect to find my trip to Toronto’s neo-Gothic palace very creepy.
But regardless of whether you hear whispering poltergeists or see doors open by themselves, there’s something surprisingly unsettling about Toronto’s 100-year-old castle.
The main three floors are typical museum fare, with displays on original homeowner Henry Pellatt and the military espionage that went on in the castle halls during World War II. Interesting to some, but not a huge draw for Halloween-specific visitors.
I tried for my first half hour to freak myself out in the castle’s Great Hall and elegant suites, but there were too many kids laughing and screaming (visible, opaque kids, I mean), and too much sunlight pouring in through the 20-foot tall windows.
While any horror movie buff will appreciate Casa Loma’s resemblance to The Shining’s Overlook Hotel, and Ghostbusters fans will think more of the mansion’s dusty old library, the castle simply wasn’t designed to give nightmares.
Maybe the myth is true that the archaic elevators rise and drop by themselves, but they’re for staff only. Maybe a Progressive-era woman drifts through the second floor hall, but how do you distinguish her from the tourists?
Some people might find old-timey furniture and dark staircases scary enough, but for both the seasoned ghost hunter and scientifically-grounded cynic, it takes more. The castle’s lofty turrets and, especially damp catacombs may be the fix.
The towers (one of which is currently closed off) are accessible only by a single narrow spiral staircase, that twists upward through three stories of increasingly dim stone rooms. Though I didn’t see any spirits roaming the quarters, I was taken by the general ambiance.
This whole section of the castle was mostly silent, far from many visitors, and lit only by thin, frosty windows, the same windows that Sir Pellatt has been supposedly observed peering out from the garden. The walk back down was a claustrophobic, vertigo-inducing descent.
The castle’s basement is the place where most paranormal accounts stem from. The cafeteria is neighboured by two unnerving areas. On one side is the swimming pool, left freakishly incomplete due to budget constraints. The concrete basin appears to have been untouched for the last century.
On the other side is a long, twisted tunnel, lit only by intermittent bulbs hung from the ceiling. Again, no ghost sightings, but this is the area I would recommend enthusiasts explore. It winds along, 18 feet beneath Austin Terrace, leading to the castle’s less renovated stables and shed, where there have been unverified sightings of British redcoats and general “uncomfortable feelings.”
I found the tunnel to be the eeriest part of my trip. In my walk through it, I didn’t encounter a single other attendee.
The tunnel’s unique design and location, however, traps peculiar echoes and inexplicable noises within its musty rock corridor. A distant hammering and incessant drip can always be heard, while I would often detect my footsteps bounce along the walls for several seconds after I stopped in my tracks. There were even voice-like hums reverberating along the walls. It has also been rumoured that horse trotting and neighing can be clearly heard at certain times of day.
The tunnel passes by the ominous former boiling room, which is caged off and drenched in a spooky yellow light.
To a rational explorer, these “paranormal activities” can surely be chalked up to science. I didn’t ever feel a tap on my shoulder, or see a translucent “woman in white.” I won’t sell Casa Loma as the Amityville House.
But the sheer atmosphere makes for as worthy a Halloween-encouraged trip as you’ll find in downtown Toronto.
Dustin Dyer
Features Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
