Music is a family affair for York-based folk trio, the Pick Brothers
A cozy Aurora home with high ceilings, hardwood floors, lumpy loveseats, and framed family portraits—this is the recording studio of the Pick Brothers, a York University-based folk trio.
The three-piece plays keggers in the Village and frequents venues like the Opera House and El Mocambo, but their favourite place to play and record is the family home they grew up in. Over a weekend, Jeremiah, Casey, and Gabriel Pick recorded their upcoming nine-track album Pink Lemonade, to be released in the spring, in their living room.
“As weird as it sounds to say, [the album] feels like our house,” says Casey, the 20-year-old double-bassist. “One producer who we spend a lot of time with said it sounds like [we] captured the vibe of the weekend. That’s pretty high praise, because that’s what that weekend was all about—the feeling in the house, the energy.”
As the brothers finish up “Venice,” an adventurous, earthy number filled with woodsy harmonies run through with whimsical threads of mandolin, they glance at each other, smirking.
“Everyone has music-isms, and being brothers, you kind of catch on to those music-isms,” says Jeremiah, the 23-year-old guitarist and lead vocalist.
They switch gears for the slower “Pink Lemonade,” Jeremiah and Casey hanging back to let their youngest brother, 17-year-old mandolin player and backing vocalist Gabriel, take the lead with mournful, breaking vocals.
Jeremiah says their home recording sessions started happening “by accident” when the trio became fed up with the various recording studios they were using to record their album.
“It was really slow,” says Jeremiah about the new process. “We were doing one song at a time, just sort of stripping the songs down and talking about different directions for the songs.”
They resorted to recording the album in their living room. For their upcoming album, they called in a sound engineer, a family friend, to set up in their living room for the weekend.
“It was such a fluid process,” says Jeremiah. “Any idea that we had was immediately put into action. So it was just really easy to get into it and to move forward. Once it was recorded, it felt so good.”
When it comes to their passion and their success as a band, the Pick Brothers swear by playing in a comfortable, familiar space. Gabriel says his idea of a perfect lifestyle is rolling out of bed and playing all day.
“For four days, we did that,” he says. “We would wake up, have a 16-hour day of just recording, go to sleep for a little while, and then wake up and do it all again. I got a little taste of what I hope to be the rest of our [career].”
The Pick Brothers grew up in an environment where music was always playing. Because they were raised by a musician father, the music of The Band, Van Morrison, and Steely Dan shaped their folky, harmonic sound.
In addition, many of their family friends were musicians, hosting backyard parties where they gathered to play Appalachian folk, blues, country, and rock n’ roll.
“We all learned to play, or particularly I did, so we could jam at these parties,” says Jeremiah.
The brothers all agree that when it comes to their chemistry as a band and their individual dispositions as musicians, they owe more to their upbringing than they do to talent.
“Since birth, I’ve constantly been surrounded by music,” says Casey. “I think it would have been impossible to grow up in a manner where I did not play music.”

Jeremiah says the “you-have-it-or-you-don’t” factor is not talent, but exposure to music.
“I think some people are fortunate enough where they’re able to engage in music growing up,” says Jeremiah. “I think it’s also to do with wanting it. If you really want to play, you will.”
When asked if the constant togetherness makes them get on each others’ nerves, they immediately extinguish the notion.
“We fight, but we never seem to fight about creative decisions,” Jeremiah responds. “The fights are always stupid. They’re never about the music.”
For now, the Pick Brothers are playing cozy venues with modest crowds, with their last gig taking place at the Horseshoe Tavern. While the next step is getting onto as many festival bills as possible for the summer, such as NXNE, POP Montréal, and Hillside, the trio fancies themselves a solid folk getup. They thank their deep connection to each other.
“We’re on the same page,” says Casey. “When something feels really good, it tends to feel good for all of us.”
Leslie Armstrong, Editor-in-Chief
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ben Affleck’s Best Director snub for his Academy Award-winning film Argo is karmic for Canadians
Ben Affleck’s Argo was a taut, gripping, and frenetic political thriller that barrelled towards its cathartic dénouement with irresistible and centripetal force. The unrelenting pace, palpable tension, and impossibly deft editing is a testament to the collective craftsmanship behind the film and a personification of a director in top form.
But at the 85th Academy Awards, Affleck wasn’t even nominated in the Best Director category, recognition he surely and justifiably deserved. All of his hard work, sacrifices, and risk-taking were overlooked, marginalized, and ignored with a resounding wall of silence by the Academy. Affleck has every right to feel slighted, every right to feel robbed, insulted, and angered. Kilometres north of Hollywood, however, 33 million Canadians played an orchestra of small violins.
At this point, the factual inaccuracies of Argo have been well-documented. Based on the Iranian hostage crisis that followed the 1979 Islamic revolution, the real hero of the stranger-than-fiction story was Canadian ambassador to Iran, Ken Taylor, who risked the lives of himself and his wife, as well as Canada’s national security and diplomatic relations with Iran, in order to take in six American strangers.
Did he do it out of empathy or North American nepotism? It doesn’t matter why, but Taylor did the right thing. In Argo, however, the role of Taylor was relegated to that of a glorified hotel doorman.
Instead, the film championed the efforts of Tony Mendez, a man who, according to the then US President Jimmy Carter, was only in Iran for one and a half days.
In fact, during an interview with CNN, Carter said, “Ninety per cent of the contributions to the ideas and the consummation of the plan [to rescue the hostages] was Canadian,” but Argo “gives almost full credit to the American CIA.” It should be no surprise that Taylor was not particularly chuffed.
In an interview with the Toronto Star, Taylor said, “In general, it makes it seem like the Canadians were just along for the ride. The Canadians were brave. Period.” He also agreed with Carter by saying, “[The rescue plan] was 90 per cent Canada, 10 per cent the CIA.”
Yet, as loudly as us polite Canadians could mutter and murmur in protest, the voices of those offended by our offense were even louder and more vociferous. “This is Hollywood, after all,” they said. Movies are about entertainment, not academic honesty. If Affleck wanted to be historically accurate, he’d make a documentary.
These sentiments are true, but ultimately specious, at least in regards to Argo. Any film that doesn’t want to be taken seriously as a historical document shouldn’t open up with a title card that says it was based on a true story. A film that does this has to show some fidelity to fact. “Inspired by true events?” Fine, but if you know your film is fictional, don’t put up a title card that suggests otherwise.
Speaking of title cards, the film, when it premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival last year, had a postscript suggesting Taylor was given conciliatory credit and that the CIA let Canada take the glory for the operation.
Taylor, quite rightly, called it “disgraceful and insulting” and flew to Los Angeles to personally write a new postscript.
But Taylor’s effort amounts to merely a Band-Aid on a festering wound. Argo, even with its new postscript, is still a piece of rousing, if finely made, jingoistic propaganda. Movies matter, and what movies say matters just as much, if not more so. The very act of the world’s most prestigious and acclaimed awards show bestowing recognition to a film based on falsehood only strengthens and legitimizes the very falsehood it was founded on.
If all people ever see of the Iranian hostage crisis is what they see in Argo, then what they see in Argo is what they’ll believe. In a decade’s time, what will the public think of the fiction that is the film’s story?
Will they fact-check and research, or trust that Argo was “based on a true story?”
To his credit,  Affleck and company were on stage to accept the award for Best Picture at this year’s Oscars, but one would be naïve to think that a film as beautifully constructed as Argo could direct itself. Affleck did, and he deserves credit. But just the same, neither the CIA nor the American government went beyond the call of duty to save its own citizens during the Iranian hostage crisis. A brave group of Canadians did that.
Affleck has every right to complain about his snub from the Hollywood history books, as much we Canadians do, anyway. But our response to his resentment should and will be the very same attitude that Affleck originally had to ours. To pull a quote from the film itself, “Argo fuck yourself.”
Justin Li, Arts Editor
Ang Lee was awarded the Oscar for Best Director for his work in Life of Pi.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Symptoms include avoiding friends and family and a feeling of euphoria while surfing the internet 
Do you feel like you are  addicted to the internet?
The American Psychiatric Association may include internet addiction in the upcoming May revision of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), meaning the medical community is closer to recognizing this folk condition.
The DSM officially recognizes substance addictions like alcoholism, or compulsive addictions like problem gambling. But internet addiction has mental health experts on the fence about its validity as a “disorder.” Currently, it is not listed in the DSM, but may be included in May’s revision.
Internet addiction disorder, or pathological computer use, is overusing the internet to the extent of where daily life is severely interfered.
Internet addiction can extend into overuse of cybersex or pornography, online video gaming, online gambling, social networking, and online shopping to name a few.
Caroline Davis, professor in the School of Kinesiology and Health Science at York, says the internet poses risks to people under certain circumstances.
“The internet has become so vast that it basically functions as a vehicle to do anything the user wishes,” says Davis. “Users can easily shop, gamble, watch pornography, and obtain large amounts of information on virtually anything without ever having to leave their home.”
Dr. Kimberly Young of St. Bonaventure University advocates for the legitimacy of internet addiction as a mental disorder.
Young says prior research in this field cites mental health issues, such as depression and anxiety, as possible reasons for users becoming addicted to the internet.
The internet can be an escape for people with existing mental health issues, she says, because it distracts users from their depressed state.
There are a growing number of treatment centres that offer help to those struggling with internet addiction.
Toronto’s Centre for Addiction and Mental Health offers an extensive treatment program for those who believe they suffer from the disorder, and takes in new clients. Their program includes therapy, social interaction, exercise, and more.
Davis is hesitant to include internet addiction in her lexicon of mental health.
“I have yet to hear of a case where the internet has severely had a negative impact on a person’s life, like alcohol or cocaine,” says Davis.
“It’s not listed in the DSM as a disorder, so I wouldn’t consider it as a real disorder just yet.”
Hassan Sheikh, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
