Devised and playwriting theatre student Luke Reece has proven himself to be a capable entrepreneur, founding the rising theatre company, Little Black Afro Productions. Having put on a variety of in-company shows over the last two years, LBA has found success in fringe festivals and short runs across southern Ontario. Luke answered a few questions for incoming theatre students.
Excalibur: What’d you like and dislike about first year theatre?
Luke Reece: My favourite thing about first year theatre was the variety of skills I learned. I was hanging lights, making skirts, and building a giant water tower for Hippolytos. You get to learn about every aspect of theatre, inside and out. There is also a really friendly community that is wonderful to be a part of.
I don’t think there was anything I really disliked but something that was challenging for me was making the time for crew shifts. I was (and still am) commuting from Mississauga and I wouldn’t be home until 11:30 pm or later on days I had crew shifts and then up early the next morning to get to Stagecraft.
E: What do you wish you had done more of in first year, especially re: your program and your aspirations? 
L: I’m fairly happy with everything I did in first year. I was there for Orientation Week, acted in Playground, played intramural sports and all that fun stuff. I guess what I wish I did more was go see more of the upper-year devised shows. Shows, shows and more shows! See the un-mounted ones too.
E: What do you wish you hadn’t done? 
L: I wish I hadn’t procrastinated as much as I did! I wish I hadn’t not slept as much. Yes, that’s a double negative. That’s what happens when you don’t sleep enough. ..make sure you stay healthy! Take care of your body and your body will take care of you.
E: How did first year shape you as both a creative person and help build up Little Black Afro ? 
L: First year shaped my creative being in the most positive way ever. I was exposed to new techniques and did things I never thought I would even try. I also met a ton of other creative people who I learned from. You learn a lot from working with your fellow theatre students.
As for Little Black Afro, after my first year of theatre, I had learned so much and I wanted to put it into practice. My friend Ryan Ovas came to me with the idea and we just went to it. It’s that easy. I reworked a piece I wrote back in high school, and it was noticeably better. It was clear proof that I had improved as a theatre artist through my first year at York. And then, in future shows our cast and crew were all Yorkies.
E: What advice would you give to incoming theatre students regarding the program? 
L: Try everything! Approach everything with an open mind, and prepare to surprise yourself with everything you will learn. There are things you didn’t think you’d like that you’ll like a lot and vice versa. It’s a lot of work, but you get out what you put in, so work hard. Also, don’t be afraid to have fun. It’s a big York theatre family, and now you’re a part of it. Welcome!
Abdul Malik
Arts Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Don Jon, Joseph Gordon- Levitt’s directorial debut, is a strong, bold take on how our generation forms relationships and how unrealistic our expectations of those relationships can be.
Don Jon cares about very little besides porn and the flashes of open-mouthed women and bouncing breasts during the opening credits of the film make this clear.
We follow Jon, played by Gordon-Levitt himself, a chauvinistic, Jersey Shore-esque “bro,” who likes to work out, go to the club, go to church, and masturbate excessively. During a typical night out at the club, he meets who he believes is the woman of his dreams, Barbara, played by Scarlett Johannson.
As their relationship progresses, it becomes clear that Jon and Barbara aren’t on the same page in terms of expectations, which we see during a scene in which Barbara tells Jon how she desperately wants him to meet her parents.
and take classes at night school as he dry-humps her outside of her apartment. He wants sex as good as the pornography he is addicted to, and she wants a happy ending like the ones shown in the films she obsessively watches.
Everything in Jon’s life is an objectified version of what it’s supposed to be, and Gordon- Levitt shows us this is a bold way. When his portrayals verge on the stereotypical, we’re reminded that he doesn’t take himself too seriously. His girlfriend is almost too hot, but also incredibly vapid and demanding. His family looks like an Italian-American blue-collar family taken straight out of one of too many reality TV shows. His church is where he confesses his numerous sins and instantly redeems himself by reciting 10 Hail Marys and 10 Lord’s Prayers. It is only when he gets to know Ester, played by Julianne Moore, a quirky middle-aged woman in his night class, that he begins to reflect on his empty affair with pornography and how it affects his relationships with women.
Gordon-Levitt is able to walk the line between satire and stereotype, while creating a tight narrative that wraps up in a satisfying conclusion.
The social commentary is relevant and honest, but doesn’t overwhelm the script. Levitt knew exactly how deep to go with this film, and he hit his mark perfectly. If he remains this tempered and disciplined, he could be a force to be reckoned with in Hollywood. Considering all the attention Don Jon has been getting, we will all certainly be watching.
Marileina Pearson
Photo Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Amidst international cries for their release, York film professor John Greyson and London, Ontario doctor Tarek Loubani are still being held in an Egyptian prison.
The actual date of the arrest is unconfirmed, but most sources have reported it to be between August 16 and 18. Loubani, who is an emergency room physician and assistant professor at Western University, was arrested alongside York’s Professor Greyson on accusations of being part of an armed gang, threatening security, and possessing firearms, ammunition, and explosives.
The two were originally in Egypt on a stop-over when they were apprehended by Egyptian police. Both Greyson and Loubani were headed to Gaza; Greyson was hoping to shoot a documentary, while Loubani was set to take part in the training of local doctors.
On August 20, the Egyptian newspaper Al-Youm Al-Sabea released the Cairo prosecutor’s statement which said Greyson and
Loubani, along with seven other prisoners were required to stay in prison for 15 days.
“The pair were at the wrong place at the wrong time.”
Following the hiring of lawyers to represent Greyson and Loubani, Justin Podur, York professor and mutual friend of Greyson and Loubani, wrote on his blog that the allegations announced by the prosecutor are not formal charges.
“The prosecutor is not bound by any rules of evidence, and as a result, the press release was full of wide-ranging, far-fetched, and outright bizarre accusations,” Podur wrote online. He added that the 15-day detention order is not jail time, but rather a “detention order pending investigation.”
The detainment of Loubani and Greyson comes at a turbulent time for Egypt as they face the deadliest period of civil unrest they have seen in 60 years. It was only recently that Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi was ousted as from o ce, and since then, conflict has erupted between the Muslim Brotherhood, the military, and other political factions within the country.
This recent violence has killed over 1,000 people, which makes the detainment of the two Canadian even more concerning for family and friends.
According Canadian officials in Egypt, it appears that the pair were at the wrong place at the wrong time, and were apprehended during the arrests of anti-government protesters, reported CTV. Shalakany Law Office has been hired to represent Greyson and Loubani and is currently working to free the pair, who are being held pending an investigation by prosecutors.
Greyson, who has been part of York’s film department since 2005, is both an awarding winning filmmaker and professor of video theory, film production, and editing. President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri says the university as a whole is extremely concerned about the safety and well being of Greyson and Loubani.
“We are in contact with Canadian government officials about the detainment of the two men, and we offer our support for theirsafe return,” says Shoukri.
“Our thoughts are also with their family and friends at this time.”
Deepak Obhrai, parliamentary secretary to John Baird, Minister of Foreign Affairs, told CBC on August 19 that the federal government is trying to call on the Egyptian ambassador for the release of Greyson and Loubani.
Meanwhile, demands for the quick release of the two Canadians has been growing in Canada. Other universities, including Western and Queen’s, have released statements of support, along with organizations like the Canadian Civil Liberties Association, Canadian Doctors for Medicare, and the Toronto International Film Festival.
A petition has also been set up on change.org, calling on the Canadian government to put pressure on Egyptian authorities for a quick release and has gathered over 86,000 signatures as of publication.
News
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Representatives from Students Against Israeli Apartheid recently sat down with York administration to discuss the SAIA rally that occurred earlier this year, which resulted in their club status being revoked until January 2014.
The meeting with administration, which took place August 7 in the President’s Office, followed a
York University Board of Governors meeting on June 24, during which members of the Board walked out after SAIA members attempted to engage them in a discussion.
At the June 24 meeting, SAIA delivered a communication to the chair of the Board, which was read aloud by a student Board member. The board was then advised by the speaker that the document, which contained demands from SAIA, be drawn to the president’s attention.
Once the first page of the statement was read, individuals from SAIA attempted to engage the board in a conversation, expressing concerns about York’s alleged investments in weapons manufacturing companies and the sanctions imposed on their club.
“SAIA members had violated meeting protocol and the chair’s repeated requests to follow protocol were not met. The members of the board then walked out and continued their meeting in a closed setting, according to Rider.”
The incident was recorded via mobile phone, uploaded to You- Tube, and circulated amongst various social networking platforms.
SAIA’s club status was revoked following a March 27 rally after which a student complaint was received by the York University Office of Student Conflict Resolution that academic activity was disrupted by a SAIA rally in Vari Hall.
Rider says that the matter was referred to a local adjudicator and a resolution was achieved between the parties.
According to Huda Al Sarraj, a member of SAIA, the adjudicator found there to be no academic disruption.
A statement from SAIA, provided by member Dan O’Hara, said members took very precise, word-for-word notes at the meeting. According to SAIA, the adjudicator said, “I didn’t find that there was a breach. I think that what the student was complaining about was fair, but I didn’t think that it met that threshold of disruptive activity. I didn’t find a formal breach.”
York officials, however, state: “It is false that the adjudicator found there to be no academic disruption. In fact, academic activities were disrupted which is in violation of University policy. “
The university also notes that members of SAIA were warned verbally and in writing that they were in violation of a contract signed by the club, stating that it would abide by all university policies.
The same day SAIA’s club status was officially revoked on May 3, SAIA activist and York alumnus Hammam Farah was also banned from York property due to “repeated disruption of academic activities.”
“SAIA claims adjudicator ruled no breach.”
Al Sarraj commented on this past summer’s meetings: “What York is currently portraying is that they treat alumni like outsiders who come on private property.”
Earlier this month, a total of 125 York faculty members signed a statement addressed to Shoukri, as well as to Janet Morrison, vice-provost of students, and Gary Brewer, vice-president of finance and administration, expressing their concerns about civil liberties on campus. The statement cited an earlier statement made by the Canadian Civil Liberties Association who also came out in support of SAIA.
The statement called on York administration to restore SAIA’s full rights as a student club, to withdraw the trespass notice against Farah, and to amend the Student Code of Conduct and the Temporary Use of Student Space Policy to “recognize the legitimate right of peaceful assembly on campus by members of the […] community.”
SAIA has also been gathering support for their reinstatement as a student club through an online petition which has collected 1,363 signatures thus far.
Hamid Adem
News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Can you believe that Ontario doesn’t have CEGEP yet?
For those who don’t know, allow me to be condescending for a moment about something I was unaware of until last year: CEGEP (Collège d’enseignement général et professionnel) is Quebec’s enforced college system.
Basically, students from the province enter university with two years of post-secondary experience that we don’t get in Ontario. I feel like the kid who just found out all his friends get money when they lose a tooth.
“CEGEP lets you figure out your future cheaply.”
I’m well aware that mass overhauls of education, healthcare, and everything else are tricky business. I’m also quite familiar with the questions many people have about Quebec’s education system on the whole. It does work, however. The benefits are twofold.
For one, every year thousands of university students pay Ontario millions of dollars in tuition just to figure out what they maybe want to do at some point if they don’t want to not do it. A lot of these people end up dropping out in a year, or three, after their fortunes have been drained discovering they don’t want to be a psycho-para-engineer.
CEGEP lets you figure out your future cheaply. The programs are usually two years long and are affordable – two reasons it really doesn’t matter if you screwed up choosing your major. In fact, many CEGEP students will focus in one stream, and discover their future university major in some mandatory other class on the side.
We enter university at 17 or 18 in Ontario. In Quebec, high school ends a year earlier, but the extra year of schooling that CEGEP provides means they start university around 19. Those couple years at the end of our teenagehood are pretty formative. It doesn’t matter what you do with that time – by the laws of science, you’re going to grow up.
Personally, I think that giving yourself a year or two to mature before entering university can help relieve the stresses of adapting to a new environment, and reduce social anxieties that many first-years have.
For this reason, I’ve always encouraged taking a year off between high school and university, but a CEGEP equivalent would be even better, offering something productive for us to do with that time and a means to adjust more smoothly into higher education.
Ontario already offers the choice to pursue college, but it’s more of an opposing option to university than a companion. With a CEGEP-like program in place, many people will find a passion that they otherwise wouldn’t have known they thirsted.
So do I think that this little piece is actually going to cause the Ontario government to reform their entire education system, build dozens of new institutions, and hire thousands of new professors? I’m 60 per cent sure it won’t. But maybe this will help cultivate some sort of action.
If Ontario won’t initiate an equivalent program with the scope of Quebec’s, they can at least encourage other post-secondary endeavors that help bridge an oft-ignored leap in our young lives. Let’s make that big journey off to university really worth it when the time comes. We don’t all have the luxury to be uncertain.
Dustin Dyer
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Excalibur opinions section welcomes typed, double-spaced letters (no longer than 300 words). All submissions must be accompanied by the writer’s name, major, year, and telephone number/email address. Submissions longer than 300 words will be sent back to be shortened. All submissions will be edited for clarity, spelling, and grammatical errors. All editing is up to the discretion of the editor.
Materials deemed libelous or discriminatory by Excalibur will not be printed. All opinions expressed in the opinions section are those of their authors and are not necessarily those of the Excalibur staff, editorial board, or Board of Publishers.
Send submissions to our office at 420 Student Centre, fax to 416-736-5841 or email to letters@excal.on.ca. Please embed submissions in the body of the email.
Re: York sanctions SAIA
I find the banning of SAIAas a student group completely unconstitutional and a blatant violation of the Ontario Human Rights Code; SAIA in no way violated the student code of conduct and were just practicing their civil liberties.
Isay this because Iattended the rally on March 27 and it was not as disruptive as they’d like us to believe. There was a heavy security presence and there were no major incidences that would be cause for sanctions. York’s administration has proved very prejudiced against anyone who dares speak out against injustice. Isuspect that this decision must have been pre-meditated; there must also have been influence from the university’s shareholders and affiliates to resort to this decision.
The March 27 rally is not a sufficient reason and has crossed the line into censorship. Furthermore threatening YUBSA, OPIRG, and other student groups is a desperate move. Iwould think that York University would be a great space to exercise our civil liberties, York being progressive and all, but now it no longer feels like the safer, inclusive space they promised us when we enrolled. Ifully agree with SAIAthat the decision to revoke their status is an attack on academic freedom.
Margaret Macharia
BA Economics Hon. 4th year
Re: Safety forums 
Iam writing this in reply to a recent opinion article entitled “York administration plays it safe” in Volume 47, Issue 22 of the Excalibur. Iwas slightly disappointed when Iread this article that emphasized the “lack of interest” of the writer for safety initiatives that the university undertakes. Ican only hope that not too many students at the university have the same opinion and indifference towards this topic, but Ifear that Imight be wrong.
Ido not know if the intentions of the forums held over the past year were “part of a larger public relations strategy of the university,” but Ibelieve that they were not. Nonetheless, the forums held were an amazing opportunity for everyone in the community to come together and voice their concerns on a very important topic. If you want your voice to be heard, you should not take it elsewhere. WE, the students, ARE York University, and only we can make it better. While the administration might have the financial power or the fancy job titles, students can be leaders and agents of social change, if we so choose to be, by investing our passions accordingly. Imagine that there were no inspiring and passionate individuals in the world: what would happen if we were all to decide that we no longer cared?
Ioana Gheorghiu
BA Nursing, 1st year
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
