Playing their best season yet, the Lions prove to be too much for the Lancers
The Lions continued to revel in their hot streak, showing no signs of mercy against the Windsor Lancers last Friday, January 25, and taking it home with a final score of 3-0.
In the first set, the Lions took a considerable lead, staying aggressive and delivering solid serves. Towards the end of the set, the Lancers began to show some signs of life, making impressive blocks, but it was too late. The Lions took the set with a final score of 25-15.
The fast-paced action of the second set began when the Lions took the lead in points. Furious spikes on both ends began to fire in rapid succession. Lions outside hitter Ray Szeto who stole the show, as the Lions set Szeto up to score with big spikes repeatedly.
As the score crept towards 25, the Lancers began to panic and became downright careless, handing York points with numerous violations. The ref made a questionable call towards the end of the second set. When the score was 23-17, the crowd held their breath as the Lions’ own Felipe Humana-Paredes tapped the ball over the net, securing the set point.
As the third set started, the Lancers began to hustle but were no match for the Lions now working in tandem with the strong support of the fans. Although the set began with each side scoring points, the Lions soon took the lead, and it was York’s outside hitter Timothee Jaumel who secured the match point, ending the set and the game with a score of 25-14.
The Lions are playing their best season in years, and tonight was the best game of the whole year according to Head Coach Wally Dyba.
“We played real smooth tonight,” says Dyba. “This year we have some of the most dynamic players. They are fiercely competitive and have an astounding physical ability.”
Dyba commented further on the impressive efficiency score of  .426 per cent the Lions boast this season.
“To put it in perspective, having a  .426 efficiency score in volleyball is like shooting at 70 per cent in basketball. It’s downright incredible,” says Dyba.
The Lions hit the road again on February 2 to take on the Queen’s Gaels.
Ari Derin, Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Media Music Concert 2.0 unearths contemporary classical music in music scores of iconic films, television, and video games
Scores from The Lord of the Rings, Kingdom Hearts, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, and many other pop culture classics were presented in an artistic light at the second annual Media Music Concert.
The concert was a nostalgic experience, recalling childhood memories from video games, television, and film with a live orchestra playing the iconic sounds, each accompanied by a video of the source material.
“It’s important in any medium,” says Vasilios Palantzas, music director for the concert. “Without music, a lot of that stuff would be boring.” Palantzas was co-conductor for the concert, organizing the smaller orchestra groups.
This entirely student-run event presents a vision of the direction of contemporary classical music. Music made for video games, film, and television have become a part of pop culture, and present a new way that classical music can be enjoyed.
“It’s modern-day classical music,” says Palantzas. “There are still people composing symphonies, but it’s not like it was before. The last early 20th century, stuff kind of died down. A lot of it now is for wind symphonies and concert bands. So I think this is the major supply of classical or orchestral music in film and video games.”
The concert also highlighted artistic qualities in the music from video games and film that are often overlooked.
Because the music is a part of the bigger picture, Palantzas says the artistic value can easily go unacknowledged.|
“People don’t pay attention to it as much as they should,” he says. “When you go to a movie, no one really comments on the music.”
He also says video game music and film scores, although made for the specific media, can still be enjoyed on their own.
“Media scores are created in context, which is why we have a video to go with it; sometimes you don’t really need that context, but with other ones you do,” says Palantzas. “For my piece, “Lord of the Rings: Two Towers,” the musicians need context to understand what is being played, but an audience can just listen to it.”
The concert started with a thought bubble from Isaias Garcia, the organizer behind Media Music 2.0, and president of CASA: “I want to be a film composer.”
Composing music as part of a bigger picture, for video games or movies, is one of the ways musicians stay contemporary.
Sarah Ciantar, Arts Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
