Hitting the slot machines every weekend may be a bigger problem than you think.
According to a new study by Anna Goudriaan and her team at the Amsterdam Institute for Addiction Research, the brain of a compulsive gambler and an alcoholic are one and the same.
Researchers analyzed brain activity scans of 15 people who showed signs of pathological gambling, in addition to 16 individuals who did not. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to observe their brain activity during a gambling game involving risk and reward evaluation.
The study found that pathological gamblers had more activity in the bilateral ventral striatum, the bilateral ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and the left insula when they were expecting a win, but there was no difference in brain activity between the two groups when they were anticipating a loss.
Researchers explain that compulsive gamblers have a tendency to be overly optimistic about their outcomes.
In short, these individuals have a heightened expectation of reward as opposed to casual gamblers who do not.
The anticipation of a greater reward triggers the increased desire to gamble, says Goudriaan. In the study, Goudriaan says, “When the brain of problem gamblers was activated more during the expectation phase of gambling [before the outcome of the game], this was associated with a higher level of intense, urgent, or abnormal desire (craving) to take up gambling activities.”
In the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Disorders, coming out May 2013, which provides criteria for mental disorder classification, pathological gambling will be categorized under “addiction and related disorders.” It will be recognized as the first addiction that isn’t dependent on substances like drugs or alcohol.
With pathological gambling, the anticipation of a high reward is the addictive element.
Goudriaan is optimistic about the study’s results because it opens up the possibility of use of high frequency brain stimulation, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), to reduce mental activity, which would act as a supplementary treatment to reduce stimulation in the three parts of the brain associated with pathological gambling.
Goudriaan and her team are currently running tests using rTMS on alcoholics to see if it alters their neural expectations of rewards.
Because of the ease of access to casinos and a lack of regulation, the persistence of a pathological gambling addiction is dangerous.
Addiction expert Stanton Peele says while alcohol and drug consumption is regulated, the government plays a crucial role in promoting gambling through race tracks, administering lotteries, and licensing casinos.
Despite the differences between pathological gambling and substance addiction, John Grant, MD from the University of Chicago’s Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neuroscience, believes the two should be classified together and used for medical screening.
Grant suggests physicians not only ask about smoking, drinking, or drug use, but also pathological gambling, as a means to assess potential problematic behaviours.
Charlotte Pedersen, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Juggling part-time jobs, midterms, and social calls can be tough without some extra help.
But instead of overdosing on caffeine or Red Bull, try these eight natural energy boosters, which are proven to provide a better energy fix without the dreaded crash that comes several hours later.
Brighten up your morning
Draw those curtains back, and let the the sunlight pour in. Scientists call this the “dawn signal” because the sunlight triggers the cells in your eyes to send a boost of energy to your brain’s internal clock. This tells your body to wake up at the sight of sunlight and helps your body stay awake for the remainder of the day for as long as you are exposed to the sun.
Pick a sunny spot at lunch
Forget the Student Centre’s artificial lighting, and grab a bite to eat beside a window, or better yet, outside. Thirty minutes of exposure to midday sunlight has been shown to boost energy levels.
Avoid high-fat lunches
Ditch the pizza with a side of oil. Digesting these fatty foods releases cholecystokinin, a hormone which triggers the post-meal sluggish, cranky feeling. Instead, opt for a salad or chicken breast—these options are lighter and won’t drag you down for the rest of the day.
Interact with your body
University of Michigan researchers say self-administered acupressure, like squeezing your hand or tapping your head, can be just as effective as a small cup of coffee.
Have some tea-time
Far less jarring than coffee, certain teas provide a smoother release of caffeine, which helps you avoid an eventual caffeine crash. The energizing amino acid L-theanine, found in black, green, and white teas, is known to reduce fatigue.
Take a power nap
Sometimes, it’s good to listen to your body when it’s telling you to sleep, even if it happens to be between classes. Research funded by NASA found a short nap boosted performance levels for long-haul pilots by 34 per cent. So go ahead, and sneak in a nap at Scott library; just make sure you nap for no more than 30 minutes, or you may find yourself more sluggish than before.
Hydrate
Dehydration can cause several uncomfortable symptoms, such as headaches and a lack of energy. If your hydration level drops by 2.6 per cent, your fatigue levels can double. Take advantage of those nifty hydration stations around campus to stay alert throughout the day.
Splash your face
After a long day of class, head over to the washroom, and splash some cool water on your face and wrists to deliver that jolt of energy you’re lacking.
Charlotte Pedersen, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The next time you encounter that persistent headache, you might want to skip the ibuprofen and talk to your doctor instead. Chronic and unbearable pain is a problem and could mean bigger problems. Here are six pains you need to address.
That throbbing headache often means dehydration, lack of food or sleep, or other less deadly causes. However, severe head pain accompanied by other symptoms like light sensitivity or visual aura could be a brain aneurysm.
A throbbing tooth calls for a dentist visit ASAP; it could be nerve damage from cracked or rotting teeth. Ignoring this common symptom could lead to a bacterial infection which can spread throughout the body if not treated soon.
Just because the pain has passed, it doesn’t mean it’s any less of a threat. This is especially true when it comes to chest pain. While it may just be a bad case of heartburn, you may have also just had a heart attack. Every year 10,000 women under age 45 suffer from a heart attack. Because women tend to experience less painful symptoms than men, it may feel like chest pain, fatigue, shortness of breath or throat pain.
What you might just pass off as a case of gas or bloating could be the warning signs of ovarian cancer. Early symptoms of ovarian cancer include bloating in addition to having difficulty eating. If you experience these symptoms for more than three weeks, see your a doctor.
If Tylenol isn’t easing your persistent back pain, and you feel a numb or tingling sensation in your feet, a disc in your back could be applying pressure on a spinal nerve. It’s recommended that you visit an orthopedist if you experience these symptoms because ignoring them can lead to permanent nerve damage in your spine.
Noticeably swollen and extremely tender areas of your leg could be signs of a blood clot. When we sit for long periods of time, blood can pool into our lower body and start to clot. In certain cases, it can grow large enough to block a vein or artery. If you are feeling leg pain and swelling, you should consult your doctor and ask for a CT scan or ultrasound to confirm that what you’re feeling isn’t a blood clot.
Charlotte Pedersen, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
