
 





 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 

The Lions have had a strong first half of the year, but we’re excited to see where they will be by the end of it.
4. How far can Rob Dyba take the men’s volleyball team?
After finishing around the middle of the pack the past few seasons, Lions Head Coach Rob Dyba has been able to lead the team to a 7-3 record after taking over for his father on the bench. York currently sits tied in fourth place with Waterloo, who they hold a 1-3 record against this season. The Lions are right behind McMaster, Ryerson, and Western in the Ontario University Athletics standings.
Still, the Lions only sit three games back of the undefeated Mc- Master Marauders, and with some key wins, they could slowly climb in the ranking. Barring a colossal collapse, the Lions could do some damage come playoff time if they hit their stride down the stretch.
3. Will the men’s hockey team regain their early season form? 
The Lions gained national attention after starting the season on a five-game winning streak, but since then, the Lions have a record of 3-6 and now sit seventh in the OUA West division going into the winter semester. The West standings are jam packed this season, with just seven points separating first and ninth place, meaning anything can happen between now and the playoffs. The Lions must capitalize on multiple games against Waterloo, Laurier, and Brock after the break to put themselves on solid footing before playing a tough final four games.
2. Can the men’s basketball team emerge as a contender in the OUA East?
York didn’t lose a game by more than eight points against the West division and finished with a 5-3 record going into divisional play. They lost a key game against the Queen’s Gaels in their first divisional game, but still sit just six points out of second place with 13 games to play. With the top three teams competing in the OUA East division, the Lions will not have an easy time collecting wins, but with strong outings against Windsor and McMaster this season, they have proven they are not a team to be taken lightly in the winter semester.
1. How far will the women’s volleyball team go?
Sitting at 9-1 on the season, York looks to continue another season of dominance as they push for
an OUA gold. It is not a question of whether they will make the playoffs, but how they will perform when they get there.
The Lions are going to duke it out with their rivals, the Ottawa Gee-Gees, for top spot in the OUA East division. With both teams claiming a victory in their two games this year, neither team wants to be on the losing end if they meet again in the playoffs.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
Ryan McCabe
Sports And Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

It’s a fairly safe remake with only anecdotal changes, so there really isn’t any incentive to watch and compare.
The original is better, so if you’ve got that bias going in, it’s better to avoid the whole thing altogether. That being said…Oldboy tells the story of Joe Doucett (Josh Brolin), a particularly vulgar, alcoholic, bullshit-artist who is mysteriously imprisoned and kept alive for 20 years. When he’s released, he has to find out where his daughter is and most importantly, who impris- oned him and why they let him go.
Josh Brolin does a really good job but doesn’t ever really elevate over-expectations. Actress Eliza- beth Olsen’s also fairly competent, but the film doesn’t expect very much from her.
The problem with Oldboy is less in the acting and more in the context. 
You have to remember this isn’t just a remake but an American remake; things are going to get lost in translation. Samuel L. Jackson’s character, for example, is handled pretty well plot-wise, but he’s dressed like he’s coming right out of a Manga and it’s incredibly distracting.
Also, there’s something really jarring about the action here. The famous hallway fight is shot really well and it’s that goofy-gory kind of fight you might see in an anime.
The problem is that the film switches from this to really serious, emotionally heavy kills without convincing us that the emotion is there.
It comes with the territory with this kind of movie, but because it’s a remake, you have a certain amount of freedom to tweak plot points, which Spike Lee didn’t seem to be interested in.
All in all, Oldboy is a lesser version of an amazing and terrifying film.
It still holds on to some of that original brilliance, but certainly not enough to warrant a watch unless the luxury of the English language is enough to entice you.
TJ Brown
Contributor

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
 


 




 



 York University Community Newspaper 
