
Modern Vampires of the City, Vampire Weekend’s third album since 2008’s self-titled debut, does for the band what Kid A did for Radiohead: pulls us in by the gut and shows us what the band is really made of. This album isn’t a step in the right direction for these New Yorkian rich kids; it’s a giant leap.
Gone is the unfocused, fill-happy snare, the cheap-sounding harpsichord on every track and the dinky riffs that are only catchy inasmuch as they are drilled into your brain from repetition.
Poison ivy-league banter excused as song lyrics (what the fuck is ‘horchata’?) has evolved into something more mature and down-to-earth, covering topics such as mortality and growing up. “The gloves are off, the wisdom teeth are out,” sings Koenig in Vampire Weekend’s single, “Step”, which is quickly becoming the hipster anthem of the year.
The album is still in-arguably Vampire Weekend-sounding. Ezra Koenig’s voice weaves itself through each track and ties the album together with its familiar sweet, hushed tone.
The afro-beat, the wordiness, the heavy reliance on well-written melodic changes, which was a strength in their debut but a mess in their second album, “Contra” in 2010, comes exploding back in “Modern Vampires” but with a vengeance.
It sounds like the boys are finding their sound, and have whittled away all the crap to produce pure quality. It’s like the baby-carrot of the Vampire Weekend discography minus the carcinogenic bleach.
What’s so different about it? A couple things. For one, the band has become familiar with the humbling sound of pure, un-synthesized piano. A Vampire Weekend first, apparently, the effect of the instrument on their music is evident.
In the opening track, “Obvious Bicycle”, the piano lays down the foundation for the melody, while sweet and sweeping vocals, which are choral at the climax, sit gently over top and ride the tune out. They sound less like cool kids tinkering around on expensive synths and more like sophisticated Columbia grads, whatever that means. The sound is much more grounded. Another highlight utilizing this new discovery is “Hannah Hunt”, a gem of a tune about halfway through the album. “If I can’t trust you, then damn it, Hannah, there’s no future, there’s no answer,” Koenig bellows at the chorus, while swelling instrumentation marry a gorgeous piano riff in what is unmistakably an eargasm.
Aside from adopting a new instrument for their repertoire, the band has adopted a new producer. Ariel Rechtshaid, who has helped produce stuff by the Plain White T’s, Usher, No Doubt, Snoop Dogg, Kylie Minogue, Major Lazer, and others, had his hand at co-producing the album alongside Rostam Batmanglij — the first time the band has ever had someone other than Batmanglji touch their sound.
It was probably the best decision they’ve ever made. The funky beats, the pop-with-a-twist – the urban influence – is present throughout the album. The tune “Ya Hey” is the embodiment of this. Thanks, Ariel – we hope you stick around.
Vampire Weekend is growing and changing, and by the sound of “Modern Vampires”, there are great things to expect from these guys in the near future.
Nowadays it’s hard to find an album that merits a listen without skipping any tracks, and this album is beautifully cohesive, but part of its beauty is that each track stands on its own. The music is fuller-sounding, more focused and self-aware. These Columbia grads ain’t graduated yet – they’re in the midst of learning, and it’s paying off.
4.5/5 stars.
Erica Dennis-Orofino
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Would you be able to end your child’s life if that’s all he or she ever asked for?
Directed by York theatre professor Aleksandar Lukac, the play BEA follows the struggles of a mother, Katherine, and her daughter Beatrice (the titular Bea), who wishes to end the physical and mental sufferings caused by her progressive chronic illness.
With Bea and her mother’s relationship strained by years of struggle, Bea’s new caregiver Raymond acts as an absurd mediator to bring both of their realities closer to one another. Within the layers of writer Mick Gordon’s text, the emotional intensity overshadows the underlying theme of language. There are terms for children who lose their parents and spouses who lose their partners. But what title do you give to a parent without a child?
“Even language knows that this isn’t meant to happen,” says Katherine. The terminology is crucial in understanding the problem of the euthanasia dogma. Language is a blanket of our perception, the questions asked in BEA don’t focus on whether you would put an end to a life. Rather, the questions ask whether you would save that life.
Performed brilliantly promiscuous and active in a character that has no physical and sexual ability to be either, Toronto based actress Bahareh Yaraghi’s portrayal of Bea and her control over the stage is sensational. Deborah Drakeford’s versatility is central in portraying the challenging role of Bea’s mother, Katherine, stuck in her dilemmas of love, guilt, and death. Brendan McMurtry-Howlett carries out the demanding role of Raymond emphatically and soulfully, highlighted by a solo performance of A Streetcar Named Desire, one of the plays finest moments.
Writer Mick Gordon is best known for his “On” collaborations (On Love, On Emotion, On Death), each with a unique perspective on the fundamentals that constitute our basic humanity. Lukac notes, “BEA could’ve easily been named On Empathy.”
Gordon’s text and Yaraghi’s performance bring to life the imaginations of Bea and her yearning desire to feel. We also witness the mental anguish Bea’s mother Katherine goes through in the midst of her daughter’s demands to assist her suicide and the notion of guilt in committing such an act.
Her character reflects the problems parents in these cases go through; they empathize with their child’s’ suffering and wish to help put an end to the pain, yet the vilification of assisted suicide can lead to an internal conflict that supersedes the criminal.
Empathy is a theme which prevails over all others in this play; to really be able to step into the shoes of the one suffering, you must love him or her unconditionally, and how can unconditional love lead to second degree murder?
“Dying is not a crime!” roared Al Pacino in the role of the infamous physician and euthanasia activist Jacob Kevorkian in the 2010 television film You Don’t Know Jack. You Don’t Know Jack takes a more overarching view of euthanasia as we witness Kevorkian tackling both fields of medicine and politics to inspire change in the legal system. Tried and convicted for his role in assisting 130 patients in voluntary euthanasia, Kevorkian served 8 years in prison.
The polarized figure could be seen as a murderer or a martyr, depending on where one stands on the euthanasia issue. In Kevorkian’s last interview with Larry King in June 2010, he said “That’s why I’m in medicine. Really…I’m not just handing out aspirin for some symptom or something. I mean, this is really where the rubber meets the road in medicine.”
Euthanasia is an ethical landmine. It is a subject both physicians and politicians distance themselves from. For the former, it seems to be an awkward and odd reversal of their role in society. For politicians, it is a controversial issue best kept under the carpet in favour of the voting bodies.
In Bea’s case however, we witness euthanasia through the emotional layers of a bedridden 29 year old, who has been deprived of the most basic acts in life we ‘normally’ take for granted.
On May 12, a panel discussion was held after a performance of BEA, featuring three distinguished guests: Ken Galinger, ethicist and writer for the Toronto Star, Joan Gilmour, of York’s Osgoode Hall Law School, and Dr. Sandy Buchman, lead palliative care physician at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto.
“Welcome to my everyday life,” said Buchman, “Bea realistically reflects the physical, emotional, psychological and existential suffering that individuals experiencing progressive chronic illness as well as their loved ones face in Canada in 2013.”
Amongst the panel members there is a general agreement that society is further ahead of politics on this issue, and this play is an example of how art is an excellent platform for addressing societal dogmas. In BEA’s case, the problem of euthanasia is not looked at as a crime worthy of punishment, rather, it projects a blessing in disguise.
Theatre @ York
The Euthanasia Theatre
York Professor Aleksander Lukac seeks to illuminate one of our most divisive ethical issues
Azad Imanirad
York theatre professor Aleksander Lukac’s new play, BEA, deals with a parent and child caught in the middle of the euthanasia debate. Lukac has been awarded Best Director at The Festival of Serbian Theatres a record six times. His past works include Bulgakov’s Moliere (Kiev Festival) and Ivan vs. Ivan which has toured Europe, including Moscow, London, and several cities in Serbia. Last year, he directed Peter Weiss’ Move.(me).ant, as part of a workshop for students in his third-year Approaches to Theatre class.  I sat down with Lukac to discuss BEA.
What separates BEA from your previous theater experiences?
L: “Several things – I usually either direct plays with a more epic approach – larger stylistic scope and larger casts. BEA is probably the most intimate I have gone in my career.”
What was the most difficult/challenging aspect in directing BEA?
L: “Stemming from the first answer – finding a diversity in the expression and an exciting tempo with only three actors on stage. And convincing myself that an individual’s drama can still move the audience without involving too many varying contexts.”
And the most rewarding?
L: “Crying. Crying in rehearsal with my stage manager during several scenes. And then hearing the audiences cry in the same places. Then of course, the more articulated comments from the audience, which have so far been absolutely overwhelming. But crying first.”
Do you see the role of theater as an approach to criticize or create a platform in which societal issues can be discussed still significant? And what element in BEA do you find approachable in communicating with the audience? How do you connect audiences in a way that is larger than the play itself?
L: “Well, we had a panel [of experts, after the show] of people who are far more connected to the issues of assisted suicide than us, and I had a feeling they all appreciated that our play was going into places that are so challenging, meaning they expect that art can help in dealing with these hard issues by contextualizing and also finding a different language to address them.
I have dealt with political theater before (in Yugoslavia and Canada) and still believe that theater can address and possibly influence a discourse on the most difficult subjects in society.”
Let’s talk about the actors and your approach in working with them? Was it different from your past experiences? if so, how?
L: “I had a phenomenal cast at Actors Rep Company – Bahareh Yaraghi, Deb Drakeford and Brendan McMurtry-Howlett. It was one of the easiest jobs in terms of work. I think we were all, with the great help of our stage manager Jennifer Stobart, extremely aware of the delicate subject we were dealing with, and this awareness turned it into a family operation very quickly. I think that it is impossible to do this play in any other way.”
Why do you think the theme of assisted suicide is ignored by politicians, physicians, and the patient/loved ones? Why do they distance themselves from it?
L: “You were at the panel, and I think that the overwhelming conclusion was that the doctors and families want something to move along — that these situations be regulated to the best of our ability. Politicians don’t want to be on the hook for those decisions as they are very hard, complex, and would certainly stir up the voting bodies. Nobody wants that. It is a shame when you think of how many people are suffering and there is a lack of courage to help them in the way they want to be helped.”
Guilt, blame, sexuality, isolation, escape, free will; with so many themes in the play, was there one specific theme you yourself felt needed to be emphasized?
L: “Love. In this case, only total, unconditional, love could resolve Bea’s plea for death. Because she is asking for it from people closest to her and for whom this is the hardest possible choice. So to me, that emerged as the main theme amongst all others that are certainly present in the show.”
BEA runs from May 7-May 26. More info @ www.factorytheatrer.ca
Azad Imanirad
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

The latest Alistair Newton production, Of a Monstrous Child: A Gaga Musical, is an incredibly intimate docu-drama/musical about, as the title suggests, Lady Gaga. The show is, perhaps quite consciously, structured like an essay: it has a thesis, followed by point-proof-explanation and multiple “body paragraphs” of ideas about Gaga in relation to art history, pop culture, and performance art, followed by a repeating of the thesis.
The play delves into many deep layers of understanding of pop culture, fashion, rebellion, history, depression, and art itself.
There is a clowning element within the play. It’s just astonishing that the company have managed to combine all of the elements. If you were to be charged with creating a docu-drama/musical in the style of Brecht and Weimar Cabaret about Lady Gaga -while giving the audience a history lesson and presenting all of this information in essay format- what are the odds that you could pull it off? You’d better call in Alistair Newton.
Newton employs many intuitive techniques to bring the audience into a very intimate relationship with the performers. A part of the play is about exploring the relationship between artists and performers, and what Gaga’s take on it is.
This takes the audience into discussions of different experiments in that relationship that Gaga has taken inspiration from. The most notable is Marina Abramovic’s 2010 MoMA installation, which invites patrons to share an intimate moment with Marina, just sitting across from her in silence.
An audience member is brought to sit in front of actor Tyson James for a touching monologue.
Another scene makes use of an experiment by Yoko Ono, who Gaga had once worked with,  in which audience members are invited one at a time to come onstage and cut off a piece of Yoko’s clothing, or in this case, Gaga’s dress.
Bruce Dow, playing the late fashion and art innovator Leigh Bowery, deserves every ounce of acclaim he gets and more. Though playful and elusive, Dow has many intimate moments of audience interaction. He walks into the audience a couple of times to perform with it; the first is in humourous gest, the second, to deliver a powerfully personal and heart-wrenching story. During the latter, Dow had walked up and spoken to me. Though I had felt intimidated at first, the feeling was soon replaced with compassion and empathy.
I’ve never been so touched or felt such a connection to a performer before.
The crown of Dow’s achievement in intimacy, however, is at the end of the play. After getting an understanding of the character’s struggle with accepting himself, which is a struggle we can all understand, Dow tells us of a time when he had gone to an artist’s studio to be painted. Of his own accord,  Dow had stripped himself of all clothes and makeup, which he would never leave home without. In a cathartic moment for the character, he appears naked before us. Dow is a rather large man. It’s astonishing that people may ridicule an obese man; and an obese man may feel shame at his body.
But not here, not today. In the audience, nobody had been ashamed.
We were brought together in this trust and understanding, created between the audience and the cast.  I don’t think anyone who has seen the play will again be so quick to judge.
If you’re wondering why I haven’t mentioned Gaga’s role in the play, it’s because as much as the play is about her, she isn’t the “protagonist”.  In customary documentary style, the subject is always there, but from an objective distance.
However you want to phrase it, Kimberly Persona does a very stunning job at imitating, playing, and creating Lady Gaga. Persona is on stage quite a bit, but more as a “supporting role”, in the sense of storytelling.  You will be pleased to know that she does sing and dance and play piano and cello and quite amazingly. She has an incredible piano solo at the end of the piece. You look at Gaga, you question and think about Gaga, but you never make contact with her until she plays for you, such as it is.
 
‘Of a Monstrous Child: A Gaga Musical’ by Alistair Newton
Buddies in Bad Times theatre, 12 Alexander Street
May 14-26

Marcus Bernacci
Contributor

Marcus Bernacci
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ryan Gosling, still handsome.
The Place Beyond the Pines, Derek Cianfrance’s three-part crime drama, looks like your average Ryan Gosling thriller. It comes complete with the brooding star smoking for the first 10 minutes of the film, and a strong female supporting role. However, it is a film that is rare in its genre. Though far from perfect, the film manages to use both suspense and violence to create a far deeper meaning than can be understood from the usual crime drama.
Violence holds an important place in western narrative, driving stories from the ancient Sumerians and Greeks right through to 19th century Germany, where the Brothers Grimm wrote surprisingly gruesome folk tales for children. The violence in all these stories had a purpose: to display the power of gods or to warn children against harmful strangers. Modern storytelling, however, has become riddled with explosions and gunshots that are void of meaning, and are simply there for spectacle.
The Dark Knight Rises, last summer’s biggest blockbuster, fell into a trap that most Hollywood films succumb to, one that prevents them from being as thought-provoking and substantial as they might try to be. The overuse of meaningless violence in the film only served the purpose of advancing the plot without commenting on the violence itself. The Dark Knight Rises is a typical superhero film, with obvious attempts to be more, adding empty, arguably manipulative emotion to the anarchy of Gotham City.

It’s no surprise that the box office is saturated with these types of films — they gross the highest out of any other genre after comedies.
“You can’t just be violent for violence’s sake.”
There is of course a time and a place for these types of films, but does anyone ever wonder why they are so rarely considered “great” films?
In The Place Beyond the Pines, a cycle of crime and violence is the centre of the plot, and the repercussions drive the narrative forward, creating what has been hailed by The Observer as an “engrossing, extremely well designed and acted film”. Each violent act has a direct emotional outcome. This creates a more thought-provoking and emotional film which makes the viewer think more about the action on screen.
Nicolas Winding Refn, director of Drive and the upcoming film Only God Forgives, commented “…Violence only works if there’s a consequence. There’s a build-up. You can’t just be violent for violence’s sake, because it’s not emotionally engaging, so it becomes bad pornography.” The hope, of course, is that the films being exhibited in theatres are indeed great films. Gratuitous violence can often conflict with emotion and empathy, which is at the heart of great storytelling, and is what makes for great films.
Marilena Pearson
Contributer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
