So, are you ready?
Thousands of Apple users waited anxiously for the iOS 7 update to become available on their iPhones last week. The social media world was bursting at the seams with tweets, status updates, Instagram pictures, and Tumblr posts about the new software. Apple’s marketing of this new bright and shiny update had iPhone users drooling at every promo video and picture that they released. iOS 7 has been talked about for months. Now that it’s here, was it worth the hype?
For those of you that are technologically challenged, the operating system is the basic foundation of every Apple product. Apple promises iOS 7 to be the “most advanced mobile OS” in the world, which is a pretty bold statement if you ask me. Apple also claims their devices are “always years ahead” due to all the advanced engineering and technology that comes in every product.
This isn’t the first time we’ve been told these things by a tech company, but it seems to be working for Apple. Take a look around your lecture room and you’ll see a sea of iMacs, iPhones, iPads and iPods being used. Despite competition with companies who use the Android OS (or Blackberry in the past), Apple still seems to be the most popular tech brand with millions of users eagerly awaiting the newest products to be released.
Before iOS 7 had become available to users, people were already talking about the next iPhone 5S being developed. That being said, you have to ask if we’re simply blinded by the idea of “shiny and new” or if there’s actually something to be excited about.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rT_OmTMwvZI
The moment I laid my eyes on it, I knew I was in love. 
My phone had finished updating and seeing the lock screen had won me over. The font of the date and time, new control centre accessible from the lock screen, unlock slide and passcode buttons looked so fresh and clean and new. I opened the home page and fell in love all over again. The icons were much brighter, colourful, and simple.
Multi-tasking was made even easier with the ability to look and scroll through all the apps that were open. The new selection of ringtones, text tones, and alarm tones also made me a happy iPhone user. The camera and photo app now includes filters to choose from, ultimately making me look more attractive with less work/time spent. Overall, my phone worked faster and smoother than before. And even if it doesn’t, it at least looks like it does. Apple users would agree the new software transformed everything about their mobile devices. The look, feel, accessibility, and overall function of the iOS 7 is something to be admired.
Though some are nostalgic for the old iOS system, or think the new iOS looks too much like Android software, iOS 7 seems to be pleasing most users. All week I’ve asked classmates, friends, and co-workers their thoughts on the update and all responses I’ve gotten were a short and sweet “I love it!”  It isn’t very often that things live up to their hype these days, as were constantly being marketed the newest and coolest toys to play with. I don’t know if iOS 7 actually lived up to all the promotion and publicity, but it definitely satisfied the majority of iPhone users as well as worked up an appetite for more Apple products to come.
Julia Alfano
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Qoola has opened shop in York Lanes, giving York students another healthy treat.
The first thing that struck me as I walked into the restaurant was the cool, vibrant ambience.  Modern and fresh in look, the bright colours pop out at you leaving you feeling happy, ready for frozen yogurt. The place has galley-style seating, with chic white chairs. It’s a fun and welcoming atmosphere for students to chill and relax.
The moment I walked in, there was an employee ready to explain the ins and outs of how this place worked. At the time –   I wasn’t  really in the mood for frozen yogurt just yet. I asked if they had any food options, and to my surprise they had two interesting sandwich choices.
I was recommended the Yogurt infused Turkey Sandwich. The sandwich is made with  panini style bread and prepared fresh right in front of you. It had turkey, freshly sliced tomatoes, mixed greens, Emmental cheese, and a yogurt strawberry infused sauce. The taste of the sauce comes through with each bite. It has a very subtle sweetness, with the flavor of fresh strawberries, honey, salt, pepper and a hint of vanilla essence. The nutty flavor of the Emmental cheese complimented the sauce very well. The only element that was lacking was the multi-grain bread which was brushed with extra virgin olive oil.
After having the sandwich, I sampled all 10 flavors of frozen yogurt they had. Frozen yogurt at Qoola is priced by weight. The consistency is almost a cross between ice cream and Greek yogurt. My favorite was the sweet coconut. It was smooth, creamy, and intensely infused with coconut. Some of the offerings are fat-free and probiotic. And if you really wanted to jazz things up, don’t be shy to check out their wide selection of toppings at the bar, from fresh summer berries to white chocolate shavings. For the health nuts, they also have flaxseeds and slivered almonds.
On a strip where you get fried chicken, burgers and fries, it is great to have another healthier alternative added to York Lanes. One of these days when I allow myself to be bad, I may just have to try their warm Belgian waffle with vanilla froyo on top.
Mathis ZArie Bailey
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
