
 

 

 

 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
York University’s own film student Eui Yong Zong is making waves as an experimental director. His second-year films Conceived and Elizabeth have played at various festivals and beat out numerous films one and two years above his own at York’s own juried showcase of films, Cinesiege, a first in York history. Excalibur sat down to talk to him about his filmmaking career, his experience at York, and his plans for the future.
When did you first know that you wanted to be a filmmaker?
I did have a special interest in film growing up, but the decision to become a filmmaker came fairly recently—maybe about two years ago.
Can you tell us a bit about your film Conceived and the filmmaking process?
A few years ago, my father told me the story about how I was conceived and also how he wanted to have an abortion, so he pushed my mother to go through it alone. In the end, my mother decided to keep the baby, and here I am.
Last year, in experimental film class, I wanted to revisit the story and recorded the Skype conversation with my parents living on the other side of the globe (somewhere in Asia) and filmed imageries that could fit into the mood of the narrative. It was all shot on 16mm bolex camera mixed with some of the super-8 family archive. Everything was built around a single conversation.
You have encountered a lot of success with this film, such as winning Best Alternative Film at the Cinesiege 2013. How does this affect the way you see your filmmaking?
Winning an award at Cinesiege was definitely a rewarding experience, and I’m grateful for it. It was definitely a great encouragement for me to push forward for my next projects!
Conceived was a very simple film with very little production value, but perhaps the story was engaging, and maybe that’s what matters the most in the end.
How has the film program at York helped you? What is your experience like there?
The film program at York is superb. And it’s all about the people you meet. Professors in the program have been very supportive and inspiring—especially for Conceived because I had never been exposed to experimental filmmaking prior to film school, the kind of approach and different styles I learned in class were significant in shaping my film.
And just working with your fellow classmates on one another’s sets; I think meeting and working with people who have the same passion as you do is the biggest asset you will leave the school with in the end: your friends.
Are you working on another film, or do you have any ideas for the future?
I’m working on my first fiction piece. It is actually a hybrid of documentary and fiction. I’m having the real people play the roles, but the story is scripted. Because they are real people in their own environment, there is a documentary element to it.
I guess my idea for the future is to keep improving on my craft of storytelling. I would love work in feature documentaries or make my own in the near future.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
As you walk into the theatre, folks in facepaint brandishing tommy guns and speaking in Chicago accents frisk you. “Guns and booze?” they ask, reaching into my pockets, pulling out my phone and a tissue. One of them grimaces. “That’s gross,” he says, before putting them back in.
And it’s all uphill from there.
The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui is a play by Bertolt Brecht. It’s one of his lesser known ones, and if this adaptation is any indication, one of his more brilliant.
Following the rise of the titular gangster as he goes to control the town of Cicero’s cauliflower trade amidst press, politicians, dockworkers, and immigrants, Arturo Ui paints a grand picture of fascism in a very entertaining microcosm. It was written as a parable for the rise of Hitler, after all.
Much of this comes in the stylish production design and the scrappy, modern aesthetic given to it by director Ted Witzel, remounting a production from January, with much of York’s MFA program in tow. Every part of the scenery is cohesive and cool in the way only the lawless frontier of tommy gun America can be, but it’s also unquestionably Toronto. The entire set is basically built and plastered with headlines from our city, in fact.
Paired with interesting musical choices (fucking Nas is on the playlist) accompanying live music and the use of projections for a variety of purposes, the play merits rewatching simply by virtue of the sheer number of things going on at any given time. The use of a thrust stage adds to this, as everyone’s on point and always playing to a different side.
It’s a high-octane production that feels very honest and indie, sold especially by the tone that’s set (elements of interactivity are introduced to us as the play starts and are followed through as it goes on) and the remarkable range of acting on display.
There’s an undercurrent of tension and humour to the piece that’s buoyed by the ensemble, and all of them shine in their respective roles, with Daniela Pagliarello deserving special mention for her performance as Ui. Her performance plays on an emotional tightrope that rarely, if ever, feels disingenuous, regardless of whether her character’s learning to strut, or screaming bloody murder in an almost cliche I’ve-seen-these-attempts-at-frustration-before way.
It’s not a perfect production. The projections often break the narrative with history lessons and explanations of how the play parallels Nazi Germany, calling back our own situation in Toronto through some too on-the-nose text; these elements are present within the play and handled masterfully in the action, not needing the extraneous details.
There’s a point near the end where the audience is called in to participate, and the only way to win is to not play. The whole thing feels like it runs just a tiny bit too long, and (although this is more because of the text) it’s a cynical, hopeless, and nihilistic affair.
But it’s a cynical, hopeless affair with passion, a burning heart, and a very visceral desire to entertain—a perfect antidote to the meandering, slow-paced theatre the average non-goer expects of the medium, and a great way to come into theatre if you’ve never been before.
If you’re looking for a better play to see right now, fuhgeddaboutit.
Abdul Malik
Arts Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Last weekend, York’s fourth-year acting conservatory students were hard at work on their performance of The Stronger Variations.
Inspired by an August Strindberg play written in 1889, The Stronger Variations followed a similar structure to the musical form “theme and variation” and touched on themes of love, loyalty, desire, and betrayal.
Director and York professor Allyson McMackon explains that Strindberg’s play acted as the “theme”—the main idea all the variations were built around. “We took this idea and then added to it, subtracted from it, looked at relationships in different ways, different settings, and slightly different circumstances,” McMackon explains.
Theatre@York’s performance of The Stronger Variations guided the audience through an emotional 75-minute journey. A collaborative creation, the performance featured 11 emerging actors from York’s fourth-year acting conservatory, as well as many theatre production students.
Each young actor plays both the role of the betrayer and the betrayed at some point throughout the evening. “At the end of the day, we have all betrayed and been betrayed, we all know a bit about both of these roles. Plumbing where one turns into the other is where things become interesting,” McMackon says.
McMackon suggests Strindberg’s original idea, that of a man and a woman parrying back and forth verbally in a very monologue fashion, is fairly black and white. She believes there is more colour in these relationships. “Things are not so cut and dry,” she says.
She explains that by shifting roles, each actor was able to explore both opposing characters and further navigate their emotional worlds. The Stronger Variations forced the audience to examine their notions of “strength” and what it means to be strong.
The idea of “strength” was shown in various ways, such as a woman falling in an evenly matched fight or a “weak” woman facing her fears. However, McMackon maintains that The Stronger Variations was not designed to establish answers. “It is for people looking for questions, looking for ways of probing who they are, how they view the world, and how they view theatre,” she says.
McMackon originally directed The Stronger Variations with an all-female cast in 2005 as part of the Toronto Film Festival. In 2006, she directed the piece again with two additional male actors. This production was in association with The Harbourfront Centre.
Theatre @ York’s production was an entirely different experience for her. She was able to expand the production as well as the concept of the piece.
The 11 emerging actors, all much younger than her previous casts, came in with arguably less experience regarding love and betrayal. However, their commitment, emotional vulnerability, and individual impulses allowed them to shine a unique new light on The Stronger Variations.
“I am astounded by the commitment of the conservatory cast on a daily basis, and [I] get to experience all the discoveries they make along the way. It’s deeply moving for me,” she says.

Last weekend, York’s fourth-year acting conservatory students were hard at work on their performance of The Stronger Variations.
Inspired by an August Strindberg play written in 1889, The Stronger Variations followed a similar structure to the musical form “theme and variation” and touched on themes of love, loyalty, desire, and betrayal.
Director and York professor Allyson McMackon explains that Strindberg’s play acted as the “theme”—the main idea all the variations were built around. “We took this idea and then added to it, subtracted from it, looked at relationships in different ways, different settings, and slightly different circumstances,” McMackon explains.
Theatre@York’s performance of The Stronger Variations guided the audience through an emotional 75-minute journey. A collaborative creation, the performance featured 11 emerging actors from York’s fourth-year acting conservatory, as well as many theatre production students.
Each young actor plays both the role of the betrayer and the betrayed at some point throughout the evening. “At the end of the day, we have all betrayed and been betrayed, we all know a bit about both of these roles. Plumbing where one turns into the other is where things become interesting,” McMackon says.
McMackon suggests Strindberg’s original idea, that of a man and a woman parrying back and forth verbally in a very monologue fashion, is fairly black and white. She believes there is more colour in these relationships. “Things are not so cut and dry,” she says.
She explains that by shifting roles, each actor was able to explore both opposing characters and further navigate their emotional worlds. The Stronger Variations forced the audience to examine their notions of “strength” and what it means to be strong.
The idea of “strength” was shown in various ways, such as a woman falling in an evenly matched fight or a “weak” woman facing her fears. However, McMackon maintains that The Stronger Variations was not designed to establish answers. “It is for people looking for questions, looking for ways of probing who they are, how they view the world, and how they view theatre,” she says.
McMackon originally directed The Stronger Variations with an all-female cast in 2005 as part of the Toronto Film Festival. In 2006, she directed the piece again with two additional male actors. This production was in association with The Harbourfront Centre.
Theatre @ York’s production was an entirely different experience for her. She was able to expand the production as well as the concept of the piece.
The 11 emerging actors, all much younger than her previous casts, came in with arguably less experience regarding love and betrayal. However, their commitment, emotional vulnerability, and individual impulses allowed them to shine a unique new light on The Stronger Variations.
“I am astounded by the commitment of the conservatory cast on a daily basis, and [I] get to experience all the discoveries they make along the way. It’s deeply moving for me,” she says.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kissing in the line, searching for your debit a little late in the game, finally making up your mind when you get to the cash register… Do you hate these habits? Or do you have them? As the busiest time of year comes upon us, it’s time for some reflection. Christmas isn’t approaching: it’s here! Yes, this means that as of now, Christmas music will, whether you like it or not, be the soundtrack to your life.
It also means that Starbucks will be doling out gingerbread lattes, just in case your cold, winter heart needed an extra warm dose of adrenaline (read: sugar), and Second Cup has whipped out the old Christmas-shaped specialty cookies, which definitely don’t look like they’ve been hiding in the Christmas cabinet since last season, and definitely DO look like sleigh bells or Rudolph or whatever.
More importantly, Christmas means the busiest time of year for retail and service industries. Probable fact: did you know Christmas time is the most beloved season for shareholders, company owners, and secretly managers, but most HATED by their employees?
Anyone who has ever worked a retail or customer service job knows Christmas time is the absolute worst… largely because of the customers.
I took it upon myself to investigate this at York Lanes, snagging quick interviews with employees, searching of customer service horror stories.
I want to educate York students on how to be the best-behaved customer they can to make things a little easier on everyone this season. With the results of my investigation, I’ve compiled a list of the FIVE WORST KINDS OF CUSTOMER. Read carefully, York student, because this could be you.
The following information is based on the experiences of employees, all of whom asked to remain anonymous, as well as personal experience of the avid York-Lanes-goer.
5. You, the first-year
This one’s tricky, because sometimes it’s hard to tell if you’re a first-year, or just a rude man-boy with a baby-face and Phat-farms. (Do people still wear those?)
An employee at Great Canadian Bagel says since they’ve been around for so long, “[their] customers are all regulars; people we see every day, and we get to know their faces. It’s rare that we get difficult customers, but when we do get them, they’re usually people who don’t really know how things go here; they’re newbies, usually first-years.”
Just in case you, reader, are one of these people, here are a couple of quick tips to help ease the transition to college: the barista doesn’t want your phone number, the other people in line don’t care about what you did last night, and if you want to be treated with respect, drop the curt, apathetic attitude, and say “please” and “thank you.”
4. You, with trust issues.
If an employee tells you they don’t have something, like bagels at the Tim Hortons near Curtis Lecture Hall, just believe them. They are probably not lying to you. If they could sell you more over-priced baked goods, they would.
You should not ask an employee a question, get an answer you don’t like, and then ask the same question to a different employee. Definitely, you should at least make sure the first employee is out of earshot when you ask his or her co-worker the same question.
This kind of trust issue is unwarranted, and makes you look like a spoiled little brat. An acceptable kind of trust issue is if you don’t want to buy a burger at Hero Burger anymore because someone may or may not have spotted a roach somewhere in the vicinity, Excalibur published it, and everyone freaked out.
When speaking with the nice young lady at Hero Burger, she had nothing but great things to say about the customers. “All of our customers here are great. The students aren’t difficult, they’re not picky: they don’t really care what’s on their food, as long as it’s food.” That’s nice. I guess that explains the roaches. (Bada-ping!)
3. You, on the phone.
This one also includes “you, listening to music” or “you, glued to your Nintendo DS.”
This customer is really easy to single out, because they have a phone or electronic device glued to the side of their face, or to their hands, and are consequently too distracted to place their order. If you are a customer, waiting in line and talking to someone on the phone, or listening to music on your headphones, or something, stop it. Just stop it.
This happens at Second Cup all the time. And there’s a limit to the number of times a barista can ask you what your order is before they explode. There’s a spectrum of rudeness here too, because sometimes, you on the phone, CONTINUE your phone conversation even after the barista has gotten your attention.
Are you kidding me?
2. You, who thinks you’re the only one in line.
I have noticed that this happens more often in places where you have a lot of choice, like Berries and Blooms. There’s always a lineup at Berries and Blooms, and you with your huge school bags, blocking three rows of food, need to be more aware of your surroundings. Especially when all I want to do is pay for my banana and get out.
But this is besides the point. Here it is: when you are one of many in line, do NOT hold up the line because you don’t know what you want yet. That is really annoying. You’re like that chick on Jeopardy who hits her buzzer first just for the sake of being first and then doesn’t know the answer and looks like a huge moron.
You are in line, congratulations: you have taken the first step in fulfilling your responsibilities as a functioning, paying customer. The real work is in choosing. When you get in line, you are accepting that very soon, you will be asked what you want, and when that time comes, you must have an answer.
An employee at La Prep in York Lanes admits that their “most annoying customers are those who hold up the lines asking for the individual prices of everything in the window. It holds up the line and wastes our time.” There is a solution, students of York: you can read the menu. Wait, you can read… right?
1. You, who can’t order off a menu. 
Most of us are particular about our coffee. I am. And I will admit that I have gotten pissed off at the people at Starbucks in CFT for adding water to my macchiato. But Starbucks is not the Build-a-Bear of cafés.
“The most difficult customer is the one who doesn’t know how to order off a menu,” a Starbucks barista comments. “We customize drinks for people, and that’s no problem, but you have to order it customized, and not shout out orders while we’re making you the thing, because then we have to restart each time, and it holds up the line.”
The barista even informed me of a young customer who once threw his lid on the counter and stormed off the second he received his drink because it didn’t fit his last-minute specifications.
Please, don’t shout out custom orders as the barista is carefully crafting your concoction. Not only is that rude, but it makes their job unnecessarily difficult.
How would you like to be doing whatever it is that you do, being a student, and while you’re trying to do a good job at that, having someone yell at you, “WAIT, now you need to be a cat, quick! Now you need to catch this metaphorical ball! Is there a line behind me? Doesn’t matter!”
I bet you wouldn’t like that. Starbucks is the only place on campus where everyone in line always looks as angry as the people serving you behind the counter, but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t practice basic, respectful human behavior.
“Be the change you want to see in the world.” – Ghandi.
 
This top five list was numbered five to one, because that’s what a top five list should do, but the ratings are interchangeable. All of these types of customer suck.
What links them all are rudeness, indecisiveness, and pickiness. You might be thinking this sounds terrible, and it does. But there is a silver lining for all you undergrads: there was a general consensus among the York Lanes food and service industry employees that “young students” aren’t always the biggest culprits, and that the age group of 30 – 40 years old is in fact, the worst.
So, mature students, or grad students, or moms and dads of university students: better shape up, because Santa’s watching.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

After a remarkable run that fell just short of an Ontario University Athletics championship, the York Lions’ women’s volleyball team once again has an OUA banner in its sights. If the team—who went 17-1 last season and 16-2 the season before—looks like they can’t get any better, the addition of Brittney Hopley may be just what pushes them over the edge.

Excalibur: You played in the NCAA at California State University, Bakersfield. What are biggest differences and similarities between playing in the United States and Canada?
Brittney Hopley:  It was much, much more intense. We had to train every week on the court and in the gym, where we lifted every day for an hour. The season down there is much shorter and starts in late August and spans only until December, so you have to play two or more games each week plus practice. I was flying out of LAX every weekend. That really tired me out physically and mentally. The OUA goes until late spring, so things like practices and games are more spread out, and I can manage my time.
E: You were pretty athletic in high school playing volleyball and doing track and field, but given your size and strength, you also had potential in basketball or rugby. Why volleyball?
BH: I loved to do both sports in high school, but I leaned towards volleyball during university. I prefer volleyball because it’s a team sport.  You play alongside your teammates where you depend on them and they depend on you.  
E: You grew up in Thornhill, Ontario, went to Laurier to play volleyball and study, then spent a season in California and are now back up here in Canada again. Do you see yourself sticking to York playing for the Lions? Or could there be another big jump?
BH: Well, this my fourth year playing volleyball, and I’m 22 and feel really old. I don’t think I really want to move anywhere. I really like this school and the squad so I am going to try to stick it out here.  
E: Do you feel more energized or shall I say more at home playing in Canada, where you’re close to home and where your family and friends can come out to home games and cheer you on?
BH: Yes, I grew up in Thornhill and have lots of support from my family. When I played at CSUB, it was different because I didn’t really have many people down there to cheer me on, and it was too far away for family to visit. We beat Ottawa at home this year, the same squad we lost to at OUA finals last year. So it definitely makes a big difference to play at home and have the support at your house.
E: You suffered a concussion at CSUB and missed part of the season, then bounced back quickly, making a big impact after. Could you tell us a bit more of how it happened and how you were able to play strong and bounce back? Are you scared of future incidences occurring?
BH: I slammed my head on a pole accidentally, and was out for a while from volleyball. I was frustrated as it took a bit of my time away from volleyball and studies. Things like this happen. You have to accept them and try to be safer the next time around. The CSUB volleyball coaches take injuries seriously and want to make sure you are healthy when you get back, so I was eager to get back and play when they cleared me. The worst parts were missing out on team bonding because I couldn’t go on team trips to away games where we really get to know each other.  
E: York has had a good track record in the past couple of years. As they march on towards winning it all, do you feel it will be a lot of pressure on you since you’re new to the team?
BH: I’m older than many of the players and have more experience because I have played in the OUA for Laurier and NCAA, so I feel like I can add to the team. I really like this squad and feel very comfortable out there playing. I do not feel nervous so much as excited, and I think we have a great chance to win it.
E: Any dreams of playing in the Olympics representing Canada someday?
BH: I would love to represent Canada at the Olympic Games one day, but to get to that level of competition, you have to train insanely and devote a lot of time to it. People can go overseas to Europe and play after they graduate to train and get ready for the Olympics. They love Canadians.

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York Lions athletes (left to right) Ray Szeto, Errol Brooks, Sarah Fiorini, and Myles Gibbon.
Fall semester is coming to a close, and it is now time to look back at the top 10 single game performances from the first three months of Lions action.
10. Ray Szeto – Men’s volleyball
November 9, v.s Ryerson Rams
Stats: 25 points, 20 kills, 4 digs, 3 blocks, 2 aces
On November 9, the Lions headed downtown to take on the Ryerson Rams in their third game of the season. This game held some significance not only because York was taking on one of their Toronto-based rivals, but because the Rams were also ranked ninth nationally coming into the game. After the Lions fell behind two sets early, Szeto rallied his team to three straight set wins to beat the Rams on their home court.
9. Jesse Messier – Men’s hockey
October 10 v.s Laurentian Voyageurs
Stats: 2 goals, 1 assist
In the Lions’ home-opener, Messier was sure not to send York fans home disappointed as the Lions broke down the Voyageurs 6-1. Messier was able to secure the game winner almost fourteen minutes into the first period and also assisted on the Lions’ third goal to send his team ahead 3-1. The captain would later add an empty netter as the Voyageurs desperately tried to claw their way back into the game.
8. Richard Iheadindu – Men’s basketball
November 14 v.s Waterloo Warriors
Stats: 22 points, 6 assists, 5 rebounds, 4/10 three-point shots
The Lions found themselves in a bit of a hole after a rough second quarter that saw the Warriors outscore them 24-9 to take a 38-30 lead into halftime. But with the help of Ihedindu’s team-high 22 points, York was able to erase their fourth-quarter deficit, eventually winning the game 86-79.
7.  Errol Brooks – Football
September 14 v.s McMaster Marauders
Stats: 193 yards on 20 carries, 9.6 yard per rush
In a game where not many had hope for the Lions, Brooks put together arguably his best performance of the season. He finished the game with three rushes of over 30 yards as the Lions put a scare into the then nationally ranked Marauders on their home field. Any game where a running back averages a first down almost every time he touches the ball is worth some recognition.
6. Sarah Fiorini – Women’s soccer
September 15 v.s UOIT Ridgebacks
Stats: One incredible penalty kick save (the rest doesn’t matter)
After struggling to find the back of the net early in the season, the Lions sported a 0-1-3 record heading into their matchup with the UOIT Ridgebacks at York Stadium. After a hard fought game by both sides, the Ridgebacks were given a penalty kick in the 89th minute with the game tied at 1-1. Instead of watching her team fall to 0-2-3 on the season, Fiorini became the hero as she knocked the UOIT shot away from her net. The Lions then turned right around and scored the game-winning goal in injury time to secure their first win of the season.
 5. Myles Gibbon – Football
September 7 v.s Laurier Golden Hawks
Stats: 14-28 for 211 yards and 2 touchdowns, 14 carries for 155 yards and one touchdown
In the Lions’ first game on the new turf at York Stadium, Gibbon made sure to christen it in style. At one point, the Lions trailed the Golden Hawks by 15, but with Gibon leading the way, York earned their first win of the season in a 33-20 comeback.
4. Valerie Ushanova – Women’s tennis
October 13 at the OUA tennis championships
Stats: OUA silver medalist
Although Ushanova was unable to reclaim her OUA gold medal from the year before, a valiant effort throughout the entire season led to a second-place finish in at the OUA singles tennis championship. In a closely contested finals match, Ushanova fell by scores of 7-6 and 7-5.
3. Kirsten Dillon – Women’s volleyball
October 19 v.s Waterloo Warriors
Stats: 53 assists, 8 digs, 2 aces
In just the second start of her career, Dillon put on a performance to remember as York beat the Warriors three sets to one. Dillon finished the game with an eye-popping 53 assists, setting up four different teammates at least 10 times in the win.
2. Megan Lee – Women’s hockey
Stats: 37 saves on 39 shots
October 26 v.s Queen’s Gaels
Despite struggling much of the season, the Lions’ women’s hockey team brought their A game as they faced the nationally ranked Gaels in Kingston. Lee put together a stellar performance in net, backstopping her team to a come-from-behind shootout win.
1. Megan Lee – Women’s hockey
Stats 21-28 for 368 yards and 5 touchdown passes, 13 carries for 62 yards and 1 rushing touchdown
September 21 v.s Carleton Ravens
In their first game against the re-born Carleton Ravens, the Lions made sure to let them know they were still the new kids on the block. Gibbon was nearly automatic all day, missing just seven passes while scoring six touchdowns in the Lions’ most decisive win of the season 50-34.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
After losing their first game of the weekend to the nationally ranked Brock Badgers by a lopsided score of 64-33, the York Lions women’s basketball team came out flying, but failing against the McMaster Marauders on November 23.
The Marauders entered the game riding a two-game losing streak after winning their first five games of the season. Despite a gutsy performance, a late game rally by the Marauders dashed any hopes of a Lions’ win as the road team walked away with a 56-54 win.
York jumped all over the Marauders early in the game, holding their opponents to zero points halfway through the first quarter. Third-year forward Llyandra Kerr was able to score three quick baskets to put York ahead 6-0, followed by a drive and score by Nadia Qahwash to cap off a 8-0 run by the Lions.
Foul trouble aside, McMaster quickly recovered from their slow start by scoring 11 points in the latter part of the first, pulling within four heading into the second.
The Lions found their mojo again in the second, with Emma Thompson draining a long three to begin the quarter followed by another bucket from beyond the arc a few plays later by Qahwash to give York a 22-11 lead. After starting the quarter on a dominant 11-1 run, the Lions once again allowed the Marauders to climb back into the game as McMaster reeled off a 12-0 run of their own, giving York a slim 26-24 lead heading into the break.
A persistent theme throughout the game, the Lions once again overwhelmed the Marauders coming out of halftime, with Courtney Osborne converting on an and-one on York’s first possession of the second half.
A series of strong plays beginning with a steal off a McMaster inbound was followed by team co-captain Kayla Pangos crashing the boards to grab an offensive rebound that eventually led to another basket for Kerr as the Lions jumped ahead 31-24. Kerr impressed the crowd all night, shooting 77 per cent from the field for a team-high 16 points, while also adding eight rebounds.
The Lions’ sizeable lead would once again vaporize as the Marauders were down but not out. Staring at a 35-26 deficit, the Marauders battled back in the final minutes of the third quarter to bring the score to just a three-point lead for York. The scoreboard read 40-37 heading into the final quarter.
The fourth quarter was the most hotly contested of the game as both teams went back forth until the final shot. With every Lions’ basket the Marauders would answer with one of their own, the scoreboard reading in York’s favour 44-42, 46-44, 48-46, and 50-48 at various times throughout the quarter.
It wasn’t until 37 seconds remained in the game that McMaster was able to claim their first lead of the game, which proved to be the only lead they would need as a last-second Lions’ shot attempt failed, giving the Marauders a 56-54 victory.
Despite the loss, York put forth their best performance of the season giving the highly praised Marauders a proper fight. Co-captain Qahwash was a force leading all York players with 36 minutes and putting together an impressive stat-line that included 14 points, eight rebounds and three assists.
Fellow captain Pangos was able to contribute nine points and six rebounds in the losing effort. She takes a lot of positives from her team’s impressive performance.
“It was an unfortunate ending to the game, but we came out strong and got a 12-point lead for a while,” Pangos explains. “This was definitely one of our strongest games of the season. Mac is a good team, but I thought we executed well, and we scored tonight which is something we have been struggling with, so all in all it was a great game.”
Pangos’ father, who is also the York Lions’ head coach shared similar sentiments about his team’s performance but also realizes why his team fell short.
“Well, it was an awesome performance,” Bill Pangos says. “McMaster is one of the top teams in the country, and we played phenomenally. We lacked execution down the stretch. We were throwing shots and not executing in key situations, and part of that is inexperience being in those situations. But in terms of the player’s effort and attitude, it was fantastic.”
The Lions now begin their divisional games with their first at home on November 29 against the Queen’s Gaels. Although the Lions did not come away with a win in their game against McMaster, they proved they can go toe-to-toe with one of the best— a massive confidence booster, says the younger Pangos.
“It’s huge. Friday’s game is clutch for us because we are starting to play teams we’re battling with for playoff spots,” she says. “So this game was a huge confidence boost, and hopefully we keep our heads high and get some momentum going into Friday’s game.”

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
In gender studies course at a liberal university like York, it’s reasonable to expect an openness to new ideas about gender and sexuality. Not to assume that everyone shares liberal views of gender and sexuality, but I think there is an established decorum when discussing these identities, especially around what is acceptable vocabulary in a classroom setting.
But apparently not everyone has clued in. In one class, I heard a student ask a question while referring to men who engage in sex with other men as “faggots.” My ears went numb, and I was in disbelief. “Faggots.” Not a sneer through “homosexuals” or scoff before “gays,” but a word that purposefully digs deep into an attitude of abhorrence and abuse. How could you say that?
Other students in the class looked around at each other for clarification—did that really happen? No way would someone at a university ever say that word in a classroom. How, in an environment of ideological acceptance where we are learning the new ways in which people identify themselves, could we hear this?
A classroom is a place to feel safe and share ideas that may differ from one’s own. To use hateful vocabulary shows little knowledge about the issues surrounding these words and how deeply they affect people.
A university should strive to teach its students about the historical and contemporary changes to societal attitudes around the world. Education on different identities is integral to helping students develop an appropriate vocabulary for discussing their world and the peoples they encounter.
I use to be indifferent to the York Federation of Students’ campaign to allocate a selection of equity studies courses to essentially serve as new general education credits. This campaign primarily stems from York’s experiences with violence.
But more freedom to take equity courses would ensure an education that not only deals with the multitude of identities that people use, but provides a vocabulary to understand and discuss these labels, while not blatantly disrespecting and discriminating.
Maybe this sounds highly idealistic. But in university, I see no reason why we can’t expect more from ourselves and our peers. Using an appropriate vocabulary, I feel, shows both support and an awareness of the issues of prejudice and ignorance. People have differing views on sexualities, among other identities. However, to have the ability to consider other identities, comes with education first.
The professor of that class, stumbling but kind, corrected the student and advised them about the use of derogatory words. Learning about the effects that language has on others helps us develop a better understanding of the people around. This student was in the right course.
Tess Reid
Comics and Graphics Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Construction, the word every student dreads to hear, is hitting York again, as the York University Development Corporation plans the Lands for Learning project.
The project aims to develop the 140 acres of land along the south side of Steeles Avenue, west side of Keele Street and south of The Pond Road, referred to as the Lands for Learning. According to the project website, there is enough space for up to 25,000 new residents and 21,000 jobs in the area.
The project, which has been spurred by the Spadina subway extension, takes into account the changing demographics and needs of the campus once the extension is completed. Christopher Edey, director of commercial land use development for the YUDC, says a project such as Lands for Learning requires a long-term view.
“As the lands are developed, York students will have greater choices in terms of where they live, part-time employment opportunities close to campus, dining, and shopping options,” says Edey. “All in a vibrant university neighbourhood with great transit access to the rest of Toronto and the Greater Toronto Area.”
Although all of the individual parts of the project are not set in stone yet, and the vision for Lands for Learning developments is still being decided, the project is estimated to be four times the size of Yorkdale Shopping Centre, and currently includes: a new building for the Lassonde School of Engineering and the York Athletics Stadium, which will host part of the 2015 Pan Am Games.
Future potential developments include additional student housing and commercial units (such as offices and stores), which will provide new jobs and residences in the vacant lands owned by York.
“As you move around campus, what do you think is missing?” asks Edey. “What changes would make campus a more interesting place? What is important to you when it comes to new development?”
Mila Bordt, a fourth-year theatre major, feels the Lands for Learning project is great as it is trying to incorporate bright and accessible options for students and residents once the subway is completed.
“It’s definitely something we need, being so far away from civilization, it seems like,” says Bordt. “I would, however, prefer to solve the unresolved issues that still stand on our campus and improve the speed at which this is being done.”
The issue of safety is a hot-button topic on campus and when asked about this, Edey says that as Jane Jacobs explained more than 50 years ago, people, and the casual oversight of public spaces they bring will improve safety.
“By adding people and a variety of uses that generate walking traffic throughout the day, safety will be enhanced,” says Edey.
The Lands for Learning studio is currently located in York Lanes in the same office as the subway extension project office.
The studio has also taken the initiative to reach out to various groups, like Access York and York Recruitment to learn about the needs of these groups.
Edey says he is impressed with the variety and quality of ideas coming from York students.“Students are involved not only in visiting the studio, but in running it,” says Edey. “The three student ambassadors that manage the studio have done a great job in canvassing the campus to encourage people to share their thoughts.”
The development team for the project is continuing to ask for suggestions on what the York campus needs. Edey says at the end of the day, what makes cities and neighbourhoods successful is the presence of people in them.
“We will draw people to the campus in the city through gradually adding a mix of urban uses into the edge precincts, and using well-designed public spaces such as pedestrian pathways, bikeways, and roads to link them to the academic core of the Keele Campus,” says Edey.
The website also hosts a comment forum for those that might not be able to visit in person.
Devon Macpherson
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
