Dylan Godfrey weighs in on the lack of attendance for York sports. If they expect to fill the stands, they better start winning. 
I’m a fan – online.
And as an avid sports fan and current York student, sadly, I must admit I rarely attend any York sporting events. I’d rather sit in my residence room and endlessly scroll through statistics or stream videos of my favourite professional sports teams than attend a Lions’ game.
It’s not that I don’t have any interest in amateur or university sports — I’ve attended many of my local hockey team’s games recently. So what is it, beyond genuine interest in sports, that would draw an athletics enthusiast like myself to a Lions game?
The answer is simple. That is, the idea is simple; the execution, maybe not so much. The answer: win.
To the casual sports observer, York seems to be a place of complete athletic incompetence when you consider the ineptitude of some of the more high-profile sports teams such as the football program, which has only won three games since I started attending York (I am going into my fourth year of study.)
Ironically, these rare wins are a significant step up from how the football team was playing in years prior to my enrollment. Such disappointments certainly don’t inspire a sports fan, let alone a casual sports fan to attend a York game.
“The answer: win.”
A losing team doesn’t have an audience; we’ve seen this most clearly in hockey. The Lions’ hockey team, while they’re not as bad as the football team, has struggled. Their most successful season, to date, was 2011-12 when the team went 14-10-1 — an ordinary record at best. According to statistics posted on the Canadian Interuniversity Sport website and from firsthand accounts, attendance at Lions’ hockey games is not good — a fact that goes hand in hand with the lack of success the team has had on the ice.
From the world of professional sports comes an example of the opposite, where winning and athletic achievements mirror the upturn in attendance. In 2003-04, the Pittsburgh Penguins were floundering to stay afloat in the NHL. The team only won 23 of their 82 games, and fittingly, were ranked 30th in attendance that year, averaging less than 12,000 people per game. But over the next decade, during which the team saw a Stanley Cup victory, divisional titles, and household names like Crosby, Malkin, Staal, Letang and Fleury, the team’s attendance fortunes changed dramatically. The Penguins have been in the top five of league attendance since 2007-08, which runs parallel to the amazing and consistent success.Thus, if there is one thing that these hockey examples make obvious, it’s that success equals fans in the stands, while mediocrity, underachieving, and utter failure leaves the arena empty and cold. Once the Lions start winning, it’s guaranteed people will start to care and show up to games.
While some Lions’ sports thrive, like our top notch soccer program, it is the high-profile struggles of the football and basketball teams that have perpetuated the loser mentality among the York community. If the Lions want to see a spike in attendance at their sporting events, every sports team must be successful, in turn creating a winning culture that any fan — casual or hardcore — would love to support.
Dylan Godfrey
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Serena Williams will look to reclaim her Rogers Cup championship from last year’s winner Petra Kvitova. The event is expected to draw over 100,000 fans to the Rexall Centre at York.
Looking to reclaim her title, Serena Williams will return north of the border this summer. This sets up the juicy storyline of two defending champions returning to battle it out for the top spot once again at the Rogers Cup, hosted by York at the Rexall Centre.
The last time Toronto hosted the Women’s Tournament Association tour, Williams, currently ranked number one and took home the top prize. But last year in Montreal, Williams’ absence left her title up for grabs for all contenders. After a tough week of tennis action, fifth-seeded Petra Kvitova rose to the top of the pack, defeating Li Na in three sets to take Williams’ crown.
“Live tennis is unlike any other sport in the world.”
The Rogers Cup is classified as a Premier 5 event on the WTA tour, meaning that seven of the top 10 ranked women must compete at the event, with the winner receiving $2 million in prize money, as well as 900 points towards her WTA ranking.
Fans can expect WTA tour stars, like Maria Sharapova, last year’s runner-up Li Na, and Caroline Wozniacki, to be in attendance among others, but the players are just one aspect of an event.
“We have quite a few things cooking for this year’s tournament that we will unveil in the next couple of months,” says Sarah Grossman, Tennis Canada’s manager of media relations and communication. “One thing I can say that we have done is reconfigure our stadium to allow for a more intimate experience.”
There will only be lower bowl seating this year, which will create an electric atmosphere for every single session. Grossman explains that fans will now be closer to the action than ever before.
The history of the Rogers Cup dates back to 1881, making it the third-oldest tennis tournament in the world.  Every year, the event draws the largest single-week crowd for the WTA tour, with tournament organizers expecting close to 100,000 spectators over the course of the week.
For the past eight years, York has proudly hosted the national event at the Rexall Centre, and continues to share hosting duties with Montreal this year.
Last year saw the Association of Tennis Professionals tour roll into Toronto, with Serbian tennis star Novak Djokovic taking home the top prize. This time, the women will take to the Rexall Centre courts August 3 – 11 in Toronto, while the men compete in Montreal.
While tennis may not be high on everyone’s list of sports priorities, Grossman insists live WTA tennis is a spectacle you shouldn’t pass up. “Live tennis is unlike any other sport in the world. When you see these women play in person you realize the power, strength, and athleticism they have, and it’s just remarkable.”
For anyone in the York community that is interested in attending the Rogers Cup, all students, staff, faculty and alumni can save 25 per cent on tickets for the August 5 – 9 session. Contact Tennis Canada for more details.
“Did you know?
The Rogers Cup boasts one of the most impressive past winner lists on both the WTA and ATP tour. The long list of stars includes Andy Murray, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Caroline Wozniacki, Ana Ivanovic, Andy Roddick and Chris Evert.” 
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
