Eight York students are launching a $20.5-million lawsuit against the university over the March 6 Student Centre shooting.
The two students injured in the shooting and six others who witnessed it, allege that York security failed to respond to the incident appropriately.
According to the statement of claim, Annie Malik, who was shot in the leg, is suing for $18 million, and Namra Malik, who was hit with shrapnel from a bullet, is suing for $1 million. Six other students are each suing for $250,000 for psychological damages caused by the incident.
There are 18 claims, stating the university was negligent in terms of campus safety, which the plaintiffs allege allowed the incident to occur.
Among others, the claims accuse York of failing to maintain the campus in a safe manner, failing to install a sufficient amount of security cameras, failing to hire a sufficient amount of security guards, and failing to protect invitees of the university.
The statement reads that the students have suffered and will continue to suffer a loss of enjoyment in life due to the incident.
In an email to the Toronto Star, Joanne Rider of York media relations wrote that the university empathizes with the survivors who have been impacted by the incident.
She wrote, “York University’s first priority is to provide a safe environment where people can study, live and work. The university has a multi-year safety and security plan — this has resulted in many enhancements over the last several years, with ongoing enhancements planned.”
Annie told reporters that she did not see any members of York Security at the scene of the incident moments after it happened and Toronto police and firefighters arrived before York Security.
At a press conference, Sandra Zisckind of Diamond and Diamond, the law firm representing the students, said, “Why was EMS and fire on scene before security? That’s a question that needs to be answered […] You cannot express and be free if you are afraid for your safety.”
This lawsuit follows the arrest of the alleged shooter, Kemon Edwards, 22, on March 13. He currently faces 17 charges, including possession of a firearm and aggravated assault.
Ashley Glovasky
News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
