The Peace Tower flag on Parliament Hill was lowered to half-mast in honour of Jim Flaherty, Canada’s former finance minister who passed away April 10 by an apparent heart attack. He was 64 years old.
“We’ve lost one of the law school’s and university’s most accomplished graduates, a dedicated leader and a fine human being,” said Lorne Sossin, dean of York’s Osgoode law school.
In 1970, Flaherty completed his law degree at Osgoode. He worked as a taxi driver at nights and during the summer to pay for his tuition.
He was described as a great friend to the school, as he returned to York on many occasions. He attended class reunions and visited to develop funding, most recently helping to secure $25 million for Osgoode’s rennovation.
In 2012, he was on campus to help unveil the renovations with York President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri.
“Our government’s support for post-secondary education has not only made a difference in the short term, but has also set the stage for future prosperity,” Flaherty said at the unveiling, according to YFile.
Ontario MPP Christine Elliott, Flaherty’s wife, has asked for privacy on behalf of herself and the couple’s triplet sons.
“We appreciate that he was so well supported in his public life by Canadians from coast to coast and by his international colleagues,” said Elliot in the National Post.
Less than a month ago, Flaherty resigned as finance minister with alleged plans of returning to the private sector. Leading up to his resignation, he had been struggling with various health problems, most notably a skin condition called Bullous Pemphigoid.
President Shoukri released a statement regarding Flaherty’s death, expressing condolences to family, friends, and colleagues of Flaherty and his ties to the York community.
“Widely respected for his sharp intellect, tireless work ethic, and good humour, Jim will be remembered by his York classmates, friends and colleagues as an individual of tremendous integrity, principle, and candour,” said Shoukri.
Ryan Moore
Assistant News Editor
Photo source: Wiki Commons
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
