





 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
After completing the season with an even 13-13-2 record, the York Lions men’s hockey team was put up against the Lakehead Thunderwolves in the first round of the Ontario University Athletics playoffs for a best of three series.
The Lions were the clear underdogs coming into the series after dropping both their regular-season contests to the Thunderwolves, who finished in second place in the OUA West division with an impressive 17-8-3 record.
The Lions hosted the first game of the series at Canlan Ice Sports Arena on February 19, but were unable to capitalize on the home ice advantage as Lakehead claimed a 4-2 victory. In typical Lions fashion, they left their best period until the third, scoring two quick goals to begin the period, but were unable to complete the comeback as a late empty-net goal sealed their fate.
The final game would be held in Thunder Bay at Fort William Garden on February 22. After the Thunderwolves jumped out to a one-goal lead early in the first, York’s Jordan Forfar was able to tie the game up mid-way through the first period but a late Thunderwolves goal would give them the lead at the end of the first.
York battled back to tie the game at 2-2 but the wheels would eventually fall off for the Lions as Lakehead pulled away for a 5-2 victory, ending York’s season.
This marks the third season in a row that the Lions bowed out in the first round of the playoffs. Replacing star goalie Andrew Perugini and captain Jesse Messier will make advancing further next year an even tougher task.
Messier finishes his career at York with 130 points in 135 games, while also adding four points in six career OUA playoff games. Perugini leaves behind a similar track record of success, finishing with 2.58 goals against average while also claiming 33 victories in his time with the team.
The emergence of Michael Santini coupled with the steady leadership from John de Gray will likely be key going forward for the Lions, while they will look to Andrew’s younger brother Chris Perugini to hold down the back end. 
With York perennially knocking on the door for elite status in the OUA, hopefully next year is the season they are finally able to knock down the wall.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
After a gutsy second-semester resurgence following a rough nine-game losing to streak to start the year, the 2013-2014 season is now over for the Lions women’s basketball team. While most students were off on reading week, the Lions lost to the Ottawa Gee-Gees 70-46 in the first round of the Ontario University Athletics’ playoffs.
Despite a balanced team effort in terms of scoring, the Lions could not contain Ottawa’s fiery offense led by Francesca Bellehumeu, who finished the game with 23 points.
York was aware defeating the Gee-Gees would be no easy task as their polar opposite records indicated. After winning their first game of the season, the Lions went on to drop nine straight contests, leaving themselves with an uphill battle second semester for even a sniff at the playoffs.
The Lions came back like champions though, winning seven out of their 10 games from January 10 to February 8, catapulting themselves back into the playoff picture with just a few games remaining. In some ways, the fact that the Lions even got a chance to play the Gee-Gees was an accomplishment in itself.
Unfortunately, Ottawa’s strong regular season play continued into the playoffs, where they asserted their dominance over the Lions with a 26-4 first-quarter thrashing. The Gee-Gees were then able to coast to victory as the Lions battled valiantly to close the gap. York was able to match their opponent in the final three quarters, scoring 42 points while Ottawa managed 44, but the damage from the first quarter was far too much to overcome.
The Lions have not reached double digits in the wins column since the 2007-2008 season. In what seems to be a never-ending drought, York finished with a disappointing 8-14 record this season. Road woes proved to be the Achilles heel for the team who went just 2-9 when playing away from Tait Mckenzie.
Averaging 10 points and four rebounds per game in her five-year career with York, guard Nadia Qahwash has been a consistent bright spot for the team and will surely be missed in the years to come. Leaving with her is guard Kayla Pangos, who finished the season with a career-high 7.3 points per game, along with 3.5 rebounds per game.
While championship hopes are currently on hold, there is a lengthy list of positives waiting to be checked off by the team before next season begins.
Amjed Al Salman
Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The most successful York Lions men’s basketball season in seven years came to an end on February 19 with a heartbreaking 86-85 first-round loss to the Laurentian Voyageurs.
York finished the season with an 11-11 record, while the Voyageurs finished just a game ahead in the standings with a record of 12-10, giving Laurentian homecourt advantage for their first-round showdown.
The first three quarters were largely forgettable for York, as Laurentian had the game wrapped up by the end of the third quarter. Boasting a 13-point lead, the Laurentian crowd was confident, and the Voyageurs were Goliath. With the season on the line, York had a dominating fourth quarter, highlighted by a 13-0 run that led to York outscoring Laurentian 27-15 in the fourth.
With just 23 seconds remaining in the game, York’s Nathan Culbreath hit a jumper that put the Lions up 85-84, forcing the Voyageurs to take a time-out. One defensive stop was all York needed to get out of the first round alive. As the clock ran down, the defense was solid.
But then there were only 20 seconds left. Ten, five, three, two, and heartbreak. In what was a season ender for York, Laurentian forward Tychon Carter-Newman scored a layup with one second remaining to win the game.
Looking back at the season, the Lions’ team was exactly what their 22-game record suggests. There were generally few surprises throughout, good or bad.
Having gone 1-9 against teams with better records, the Lions typically won the games they should have and not many others. Their only win over an opponent ahead of them in the standings came against the same Laurentian team they would later meet in the first round of the playoffs.
It is hard to determine whether this season was truly a success for the men’s team. Although the vastly improved regular season record holds traction within the conversation, the Lions have not made it past the first round of the playoffs in four seasons. 
There is an undeniably bright future ahead for York nonetheless. Combining an average of 34.1 points this season, forwards Daniel Tulloch and Ryan Ejim will continue to lead the group of young, talented players next year.
The pieces of the puzzle are slowly aligning for York’s basketball program. With a large majority of the roster returning next year, the Lions’ only option is to top what they accomplished this season and become a leader in the East division in the next.
Amjed Al-Salman
Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Like most of my peers, I took Valentine’s Day to…not…do…Valentine’s things.
Nope, my date was with the second season of House of Cards, a show that, like all other Netflix original programming, is released on a per season basis, with all the episodes premiering at once.
And of course, all the assignments that had piled up one by one for the last month, the “due right after reading week” ones, fell by the wayside.
Welcome to the world of binge watching, the best drug you never knew you were addicted to.
The advent of all-you-can-consume TV has given way to accessible marathons of entire seasons or runs of TV shows and miniseries, an idea that seems harmless at first, even pretty good for your own watching (instant gratification, no commercial breaks).
However, there’s an edge to binge watching that belies its harmless run of “26 episodes in two days” fun. I suppose it’s all in the title, right?
Binge. Watching.
A recent poll of 1,275 Canadians done by Head Research shows that on average, viewers have watched three or more episodes of any given show back to back in a year, averaging out at about four episodes a week and 4.6 on weekends.
I don’t know about you, but this seems somewhat endemic. Given the fact that most binge viewers are between 16 and 35 years old, according to a report issued by Magid Generational Strategies, I now know why just about every aspect of my life is suffering except my ability to brazenly quote The Wire.
Many shows are calculated to be compulsively watchable.
A common criticism of the new House of Cards season was the show chose to forego depth in favor of an almost scientifically calculated approach to keeping the viewer moving from one episode immediately into the next.
This creates a vicious cycle of content absorption, and you may come to at 3 a.m., two nights after you’ve started, having seen more of Frank Underwood’s rise to power, and already begun scrolling through your Netflix queue, wondering, what’s next?
This is a sign of addiction, and is murderous to work ethic, the immediate gratification aspects of watching a series from start to finish not having the patient reward or anticipation of the weekly show.
I’ve lost track of the shows I’ve binged. It’s not really a problem, but it’s a problem. Already classified as an addiction in anything but diagnosable terms, binge watching can often regress into a glazed set of hours without anything getting done, moving from fix to fix as seasons of television disappear within days.
There’s a proven chemical response that your brain releases as it moves from episode to episode of reality blurring nothingness, and it’s a powerful drug. According to Netflix’s data, about 61 per cent of people who subscribe to their service engage in binge watching.
Others consider binge watching a form of empowerment, akin to going out to watch a movie or taking the time to read a book—a constructed set of hours in which you are one with the television screen, taking in the particulars of the experience.
Yeah, right. Try saying that after a two-season run of Downton Abbey, immediately followed by Hell on Wheels. Most binge watching is done accidentally.
“Accidentally.” 
It’s a kind of addiction unique to our age, one built on information and consumption of information, for better or worse. Binge watching is great in moderation, when you’ve hoarded every episode of True Detective waiting for the end of the season so you can watch it all, for example.
But it can also be habitual. As midterms pass us by and the end of the year draws close, just remember, kids. Frank Underwood can wait.
Abdul Malik
Arts Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Looking forward to George Clooney’s new historical drama, The Monuments Men?
I was, until I saw it.
This isn’t to say it’s terrible by any stretch; it just has fundamental problems that leave it dry.
To start off, the story itself is functional: set nearing the end of World War II, the film starts with Frank Stokes (Clooney) assembling an elite team of artists to identify and protect great works of art from the Nazi forces who have been ordered by Hitler to collect and in some cases destroy them. The team consists of a rather talented cast, including Jean Dujardin, John Goodman, Bill Murray, Matt Damon, and quite a few others.
Charismatic and comedic, the cast does well with what little is expected of them, but it never quite feels like enough. In a film that has a cast of experts coming together, each must be allowed to showcase their particular talent, time must be spent developing their characters, and at the very least, they must be placed in a situation that lets them combine their talents to complete an objective.
Even if just one of these aspects is done really well, it can make for a fun experience, but in The Monuments Men, not one is done to any satisfying level. They seem content to revel in an idea that’s akin to “eh, almost good enough.” Most of the film has the team split into groups of two, with no obvious spatial or emotional connection to one another. It really doesn’t work and leaves the film feeling episodic.
Worse still, the film commits the cardinal sin of establishing a sense of urgency, but not operating as if there is any sort of haste when Hitler decrees that if Germany falls or he is killed, all of the stolen art is to be destroyed. 
It ends up being a missed opportunity for suspense and perhaps some character development, which puzzlingly is present only in Cate Blanchett’s character, who is absent from the film so much you’ll often forget she’s in it at all.
[su_youtube url=”http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CreneTs7sGs”]
The Monuments Men is heavily underwritten and plain boring. It has a few cool moments, due to either Dujardin’s charm or Murray’s comedic timing, but mostly, it just panders along a poorly explored and underdeveloped story.
Do yourself a favour and go watch The Lego Movie instead; it’s awesome.
T.J. Brown
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Body of Minds MFA dance thesis show was held February 13 and 14 at the Sandra Faire and Ivan Fecan Theatre, where seven master’s candidates presented the practical components of their theses.
With artistic direction provided by Professor Darcey Callison, and production design and direction by Professor William Mackwood, Body of Minds featured a diverse set of themes, styles, and perspectives.
Marie France Forcier’s piece, “The Snow Globe,” focused on her research about the expression of post-traumatic stress in contemporary choreography, while Ruth Levin’s choreography in “eField” used “the space around as a catalyst for movement.”
In “Dull Roar,” Valerie Calam developed a method called “states of body,” which allowed performers to freely to make decisions in the moment on stage.
The main theme in Michelle McClelland’s piece, “The Cyborgs’ ‘Plight,’” was a reflection on how technology has affected the ways in which humans connect with each other.
With technology, McClelland found a theme that resonates with everyone. At times, the dancers were in close proximity to each other, and then would push away from one another, posing the question of whether technology isolates people or brings them together.
Maria Victoria Mata’s ensemble piece, “Memory Lane,” also reached the audience on a personal level. Many will connect with the theme of the immigrant experience. Whether it’s their own first-hand experiences or stories they’ve heard from friends and family, the vibrant colors and energy of the work opens people up to reflect on their own memories.
Sharon Harvey’s piece called “Solo/Souls Deep” was a choreographic dance interpretation and transformation of Ernie Barnes’ “Sugar Shack” painting. Harvey’s choreography conveyed a very distinct, palpable energy, which was reminiscent of the painting, as did her choice of complementary colours in the costumes.
Patrizia Ferlisi’s “Grand Act(s)” is a dedication to female vaudeville performers of the early 1900s to the 1920s. Using costumes and props from the actual era, the performance came alive, while the music, a jazz fusion, added an element of fidelity to the performance.
Zainub Pathan
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Over reading week, the York Lions played host for the Ontario University Athletics Track and Field Championships held at the Toronto Track and Field Centre on February 21-22.
After two grueling days of competition, it was the Windsor Lancers men’s team and the Guelph Gryphons women’s team who were crowned the OUA champions. The Lancers’ men reclaimed their OUA title, after Guelph ended Windsor’s 14-year title streak last year, while the Gryphons’ women claimed their first back-to-back OUA championships in school history.
York was able to improve upon last year’s results, finishing the weekend in fifth place on the women’s side, while the men captured a third-place finish.
Success was not difficult for York, who would find the podium on 15 different occasions over the two-day span, collecting a total of nine gold medals and two top two finishes. 
Two of the Lions’ golds came in record-setting fashion, as shotputter Brittany Crew threw a massive 15.80 metres to break the previous OUA record, while 60 metre sprinter, Khamica Bingham, set a new OUA record with a time of 7.23. York’s Dontae Richards-Kwok almost added a third new record but ended up tying the previous mark with a blazing time of 6.66 in the 60 metre final.
Richards-Kwok also enjoyed a gold medal run in the 300 metre final, with teammate Jameel Brown finishing right behind him, giving York both the first and second-place spots on the podium.
Another pair of Lions would share the podium in the men’s shotput as Eric Brathwaite and Umar Khan finished first and second with throws of 17.28 metres and 16.59 metres respectively. The gold was Brathwaite’s second of the competition, having dominated the men’s weight throw Friday morning with a toss of 19.57 metres.
York’s final two individual golds were won in the field as Richard Jansen finished atop the leaderboard in men’s triple jump with a jump of 14.46 metres, while star pole vaulter David McKay was able to claim his third straight OUA title with a jump of 4.91 metres.
The 4×200 metre women’s team earned York’s only team gold medal of the weekend, finishing ahead of Guelph and Western with a time of 1:39.95. The men’s 4×200 metre would also find a place on the podium, finishing just behind Guelph with a time of 1:29.17.
The Lions’ other medal winners included Bismark Boateng, who placed third in the men’s 60 metre, and the men’s 4×800 metre relay team who clocked in at 7:44.23 to take bronze.
After a successful OUA season, York now looks ahead to the Canadian Interuniversity Sport Championships in Edmonton to once again claim a team medal after the men’s team won bronze last year. All athletes who place first or second in their respective events at the OUA Championships move onto the CIS Championships along with any athletes who rank above the CIS standard for their event.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Excalibur Editorial Board, along with our frequent fashion writer Alex Hum, have chosen the worst fashion faux pas currently doing the rounds. If you’re one who likes to sport articles of clothing from time to time, prepare to be offended.
Michael Burton
Executive Editor (Online)
Indoor fashion scarves. I know a lot of people who do this, and I have been pretty quiet on this issue. But I could have sworn that scarves were for your health, not for being fabulous. I am expecting serious backlash on this one, but I have prepared myself with a fuzzy set of mittens, and a warm cup of chicken noodle soup.
Hamid Adem
News Editor
Suits at casual social engagements. It’s try-hard, and doesn’t work most of the time. If you know you’re going somewhere casual, like a dive bar or picnic, don’t wear a three-piece suit. It makes you look like a douchebag. 
The least you can do is lose the jacket, which should be fitted and tailored. There’s only one thing worse than wearing a suit to a casual setting, and that’s wearing an ill-fitting suit to casual setting.
Marileina Pearson 
Photo Editor
Victoria’s Secret PINK is a brand that is synonymous with tacky. I desperately needed a pair of plain black cotton leggings once, and it took me 25 minutes to find a pair in that store that didn’t have rhinestones, glitter, or a pop of neon.
I am sick of seeing grown asswomen wearing PINK plastered over their chest, butt, and lower leg. This store should be purely reserved for 13 year-old girls looking for pyjamas or cute lingerie to seduce their 13 year-old boyfriends.

Erika Madsen
Creative Director
Uggs. With the passion of a thousand dying suns.
First, they are super impractical for living in Ontario, since they are next to useless in any form of water, let alone snow. And I’m not talking about their “winter boots,” which may have actually been adapted for the snow. I’m talking about the people who wear their original boots in the slush and seem confused and upset when their feet get wet.
They also give your feet virtually no support. They are all-around dumb shoes, and they lower your IQ by 50 points when you wear them.
Tess Reid
Comics and Graphics Editor
Gaucho capris. Five years ago, they made a whisper of a comeback. You saw them around — not everywhere, but on the occasional girl who needed something other than leggings. These mid-calf parachutes were popular in the early ‘90s (not in a good way) and promptly left.
I hoped by now, their comeback would have ended and been thrown back into fashion obscurity, but they haven’t budged.
Your aspiring yoga-loving mom and grade school teacher are keeping these babies alive. Just stop it, folks: they brutally cut your calves in half and distort your shape. Capris sculpt your legs with tailoring and conforming to the body—gauchos just chop them off.
Alex Hum
Senior Staff
Double-denim: this horrid look has been threatening its return from the ‘80s, where it has been long buried and people were, up until recently, happy to let it rest. Thankfully, the ground is still relatively cold so we can put a stop to this before it spreads again.
Let me be perfectly clear that this look doesn’t do justice to anybody ever. It’s tacky, and you look like you’re in a too-blue full body jumpsuit that isn’t even comfortable. It is true that blue is a very in-season colour, but looking like a lost wannabe cowboy in Toronto is never in style, not here in the city.
Choose either the top or bottom half of your body for denim, but never both.
Abdul Malik
Arts Editor
Fedoras. When I see someone in a fedora, my go-to is to think, who do you think you are? It’s the lamest attempt at looking presentable you could ever make. They’re not adorkable, they’re just straight up dorky. 
Even the most presentable fedoras, trilbys for example, are just unsightly on anyone living in the current day. You don’t look artsy, you don’t look nice. You look like a sorry mouth breather living out of mom’s basement, debating the intricacies of Babylon 5 on internet message boards.
It’s for good reason fedoras have come to be the symbol for all those that are lost, awkward, and under 25 in our culture. They flat out suck. Pair it with a goatee, and you might as well be wearing a sign that says, “Please don’t talk me.”
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
Fashion jerseys.
These jerseys look nothing like the ones teams wear on the field and for whatever reason, most teams always make the base colour black or silver.
Either don’t be cheap and buy a real jersey, or just buy a team T-shirt, because people look funny when they wear jerseys in public.
Dustin Dyer
Features Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
After reporting on one of the most politically charged elections of the past several years, I was disappointed to see, once again, an alarmingly low voter turnout.
On average, 6,924 votes were counted for each of the executive member positions of the YFS.
Although the total number is higher than last year’s and no executive positions were acclaimed, the voter turnout is discouragingly small for an undergraduate population of over 53,000 students.
On one hand, you can blame students, and to a certain extent, it is their fault for not caring enough to exercise their right to vote. But on the other hand, the problem is systemic; the election process should not be as inconvenient and invisible to students as it is right now. 
Like in past years, in this year’s election, Chief Returning Officer Bradley Chin, who is in charge of overseeing and regulating the elections, chose to hold two morning open forums (one during a snowstorm) for students to learn about their candidates’ platforms and to ask them any questions they may have. The Keele forum was advertised the day before, with a few posters being plastered on the walls of the Student Centre, but not anywhere else on campus.
And like many open forums in years prior, less than 10 students showed up for the Keele forum and about 15 students showed up for the Glendon forum, most of were there just because the forum was happening in the cafeteria.
Candidates were only given 11 days to win our votes, with two of those days falling on weekends, and seven of which happened to be during Multicultural Week. Clubs are busy organizing events, while students are busy participating in those events, with the elections being a mere afterthought for most.
If you choose to vote, you can only do so on campus, since the YFS and CRO continue to support a paper ballot system over online voting.
What the YFS elections lack is accessibility and student awareness of candidates’ platforms, which would allow them to make informed decisions. They rely on a short campaigning period, the majority of which is taken up by bigger and more interesting events going on on campus. They also rely on only two open forums, which happen so early in the morning that you have to wake up at an ungodly hour to attend.
They also only rely on paper ballots to gather votes from a mainlycommuting student population, a method that is no longer used by York’s board of governors to select their student representatives or by the York administration for spring referendums. Instead, York relies on online voting to accommodate as many students as possible.
The CRO may call it a successful election in his report released February 15 and say there was a high voter turnout, but is an election really a success when less than 15 per cent of the student population showed up and voted?
It’s not.
Students should start demanding that elections become more convenient and more accessible, so the winning YFS candidates can really say they represent the student population.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
