
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 

Coming off a convincing three-set victory over the Royal Military College of Canada Paladins the night before, the York Lions’ women’s volleyball team welcomed the Queen’s Gaels to the Tait McKenzie Centre on January 26 for what turned out to be a war on the court.
After taking the first set by just four points, the Lions’ inconsistent play allowed the Gaels to triumph in the next three sets to walk away with a massive 3-1 win over York.
Queen’s entered the game desperate for a victory with their playoff lives still swinging in the balance, while the Lions looked to capitalize on a rare Ottawa Gee-Gees loss from earlier in the week.
With a win, the Lions would have found themselves in sole possession of first place in the Ontario University Athletics East standings. Instead, they found themselves in a three-way tie with Ottawa and Toronto for top spot after the loss. Lions’ Head Coach Nick Tran says he knew they were facing a hungry squad.
“We knew coming in it would be a tough game. Queen’s is very desperate right now, and they played like that. I feel like they wanted the game more, they fought for every point, and they executed their game plan very well.”
Things started off well for York in the first set as they jumped out to an early lead. A massive nine-point run was capped off with a beautiful block by Brittney Hopley, putting them ahead 12-3 early in the set.
The Gaels displayed some of the heart that would eventually lead to their victory, pulling together an impressive 8-2 run that brought the score to just 14-11 in the Lions’ favour. York would eventually settle for a 25-21 first-set victory after holding off another surge from the Gaels late in the set.
Although the Lions held back the Gaels in the first set, the second set took a completely different direction. Queen’s quickly bombarded their opponents with a furious attack, leaving the Lions confused as they found themselves down 5-0.
After responding with a great rally to bring the score to 5-1, the Lions regained form and answered with a five-point run of their own, leaving the set tied at 5-5. Neither team wanted to give up an inch the rest of the way, with the score being tied at 12 different points down the stretch.
Eventually the scales would tip in the Gaels’ favour 26-24, tying the match at one set apiece.
The heated exchange continued into the third set when York jumped out to a big 9-2 lead. However, once again, the Gaels battled back to make the set interesting. Both teams went back and forth with massives smashes that led to a 25-25 deadlock, but it would once again be the Gaels who prevailed 30-28 after a York net violation cost them the set.
The Lions looked all but defeated in the fourth and final set after two deflating late-set rallies cost them. The Gaels jumped out early in the set and never looked back on their way to a 25-14 set victory, and 3-1 match win.
York middle, Hopley, says the team needs to regain its mojo after the tough loss.
“I feel like we need to get our momentum back,” Hopleys explains. “I find that when we go on runs, we play more as a team and we trust in each other. If we just maintained the momentum and kept the ball in our possession, I feel like the result would have been different.”
The Lions must now turn their attention to securing sole possession of first place in the OUA East standings. York hits the court again on February 1 against the Western Mustangs in London, Ontario.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

York Lions’ men’s volleyball team looked to continue their winning ways on January 26 as the Queen’s Gaels came to town for their second and final matchup with York this season. Echoing the results of their first matchup, York once again prevailed over the Gaels with a 3-1 win.
A wild first set saw neither team pull ahead by more than three points at any point as both squads traded blows to begin the game. After coming back from 24-22 down to tie the game at 25-25, York’s Alexander Duncan-Thibault was able to make an impact in the final moments as he collected three of the Lions’ last five points to give York a 32-30 opening set victory.
While the first was a tough act to follow, the second set did its best to match the excitement of the first. The Lions found themselves battling from behind for the first half of the set but still, Queen’s was unable to pull away after securing leads of 10-7, 12-9.
After tying the score at 16-16, the Lions’ offensive attack led by Ray Szeto, overwhelmed the Gaels en route to a slim 25-22 second-set win.
The third set once again was a tight contest in which neither team could build any momentum. After falling behind 16-13, the Lions fought back to tie the game up at 16-16 and would eventually gain a slim 22-20 advantage after a massive smash by Marko Dakic.
It was then the Gaels’ turn to take a swing, and they answered with a three-point run to take the lead 23-22. Once again, both teams would find themselves tied at 25-25 at the end of the set, but with a quick two-point rally, Queen’s was able to pull within one set of York with a 27-25 win.
In the fourth and final set, the Lions were finally able to gain some traction when a 7-3 run put them ahead 14-10. But their streak would not be long-lived. Queen’s slowly clawed their way back into the set, catching the Lions at 17-17 and setting up yet another dogfight for the set’s final points.
In the waning moments of the set, it was once again Duncan-Thibault who stepped up in a major way for the Lions. A massive spike put his team ahead 23-21. Then, following his teammate Jade Cameron’s ace, Duncan-Thibault was able to come up with a big block to secure the 3-1 York win.
With the win, the Lions now have a cozy two-game lead in the standings over Ryerson for fourth place with a record of 12-4, while the Gaels are left on the outside looking in on the Ontario University Athletics playoff picture.
With just four games remaining on the OUA schedule, York has already clinched a playoff position, and with a bit of luck, the Lions can still finish anywhere from first to fifth place.
The Lions continue their march toward the playoff s in London, Ontario where they will take on the Western Mustangs on February 1.
Ryan McCabe
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Photo source: Clara Thomas Archives & Special Collections at York University.
Torontonians looking to add a wistful, artistic touch to their Facebook newsfeed can find something very special in the Vintage Toronto community page.
Started by former Toronto resident Bill Stevenson, it’s a loving archive of the city, which pulls antique photographs from a variety of sources.
Stevenson has a particular adoration for Toronto’s late-70s sketch comedy series Second City Television, bygone shops such as Sam the Record Man and Eaton’s, and keepsakes such as old postcards and local promotions.
Having gained gradual popularity since its inception in January 2012, the page has now amassed over 55,000 likes.
There’s no real mandate or methodology to Stevenson’s photo collection. Any sentimental token of Toronto past is fair game, and the submissions from others are often just as evocative as the page’s own pictures.
The anthology is filled with over 5,000 black and white, sepia-tone, and undersaturated snapshots both personal and general, from old class photos and church congregations to period images of recognizable city intersections and landmarks, sometimes in the making.
Elsewhere, you’ll find general historical artifacts, such as a photo of the Toronto Star declaring the death of John F. Kennedy. But the real power of Vintage Toronto is its ability to dig deep and find the city’s ageless charm.
Something about seeing identifiable spots, snapped in pastel colours through the generations, gives Toronto a romantic context you never knew it had.  At once, it makes these places seem more familiar, yet also more storied and extraordinary.
Those who recognize long-gone buildings, or remember the city’s barren ‘60s skyline, may get the most emotion out of Stevenson’s work, but it’s very worthwhile for younger residents too, especially those not familiar with the city’s history.
This is about as nonlinear, accessible, and poignant a tour of an aging Toronto as you’ll find online.
In this retro-revolution era, where soft-hued photography is as easy as an Instagram filter, sometimes it’s refreshing to see the real deal.
Dustin Dyer
Features Editor

Torontonians looking to add a wistful, artistic touch to their Facebook newsfeed can find something very special in the Vintage Toronto community page.
Started by former Toronto resident Bill Stevenson, it’s a loving archive of the city, which pulls antique photographs from a variety of sources.
Stevenson has a particular adoration for Toronto’s late-70s sketch comedy series Second City Television, bygone shops such as Sam the Record Man and Eaton’s, and keepsakes such as old postcards and local promotions.
Having gained gradual popularity since its inception in January 2012, the page has now amassed over 55,000 likes.
There’s no real mandate or methodology to Stevenson’s photo collection. Any sentimental token of Toronto past is fair game, and the submissions from others are often just as evocative as the page’s own pictures.
The anthology is filled with over 5,000 black and white, sepia-tone, and undersaturated snapshots both personal and general, from old class photos and church congregations to period images of recognizable city intersections and landmarks, sometimes in the making.
Elsewhere, you’ll find general historical artifacts, such as a photo of the Toronto Star declaring the death of John F. Kennedy. But the real power of Vintage Toronto is its ability to dig deep and find the city’s ageless charm.
Something about seeing identifiable spots, snapped in pastel colours through the generations, gives Toronto a romantic context you never knew it had.  At once, it makes these places seem more familiar, yet also more storied and extraordinary.
Those who recognize long-gone buildings, or remember the city’s barren ‘60s skyline, may get the most emotion out of Stevenson’s work, but it’s very worthwhile for younger residents too, especially those not familiar with the city’s history.
This is about as nonlinear, accessible, and poignant a tour of an aging Toronto as you’ll find online.
In this retro-revolution era, where soft-hued photography is as easy as an Instagram filter, sometimes it’s refreshing to see the real deal.
Dustin Dyer
Features Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Open from January 28 to February 1 at York’s Ivan Faire and Sandra Fecan Theatre is a sold-out, modern take on John Gay’s 1728 political satire, The Beggar’s Opera.
Set in a medium security prison in Toronto, the play is about inmates who put on a production of the timeless ballad opera. The “hero,” Macheath, a smooth-talking gang leader and ladies man, seeks to scam the rich, outrun the law, and romance his many lovers, including Polly Peachum, the innocent daughter of a black-market businessman, and Lucy Lockit, the jailer’s daughter.
Excalibur had the opportunity to interview director Gwen Dobie, as well as actors Emilio Vieira (Macheath), Christopher Oszwald (the alternate Macheath), and Alison Campbell (Polly Peachum), who eagerly shared their thoughts and experiences.
Excalibur: What, in your opinion, is the most powerful thing about the play?
Emilio: The most powerful moment in the play for me is any time one of the prisoners decides to make the text of The Beggar’s Opera something they can experience. I think everyone has a moment for themselves that is particularly powerful.
E: How did your research of poverty, inequality, and social justice infl uence the way you directed this play?
Gwen: I think the whole concept of putting this in a prison came from an experience of witnessing true prison theatre. [Seeing that production] hit me hard. Experiencing these people who we can dismiss in a heartbeat as being not worth our time when 90 per cent of the time, the reason they’re there, the underlying factor, is poverty. When you witness people rise above that, it’s really powerful.
E: Emilio and Chris, you both play the part of Macheath. Is it normal for there to be multiple actors for the same role, and were you able to learn from each other in the shared experience?
Emilio: There are always understudies in giant shows, especially for shows that put an actor through what this puts Macheath through. Chris and I are very good friends and competitive classmates. It was good to help each other by watching each other.
Chris: When I explored the character, having done the audition, I realized that with the singing, technically I’m not on the level that Emilio is. Just watching Emilio makes it easier to know where I need to be, especially vocally. He’s a huge idol of mine when it comes to singing. I’m watching him, almost like a spy, trying to steal his tricks.
E: In the play, Macheath is a liar, a cheater, and a criminal, yet somehow everyone still loves him. Why do you think that is, and how do you, as actors, portray this paradox?
Chris: We both have different approaches to Macheath, and Gwen encouraged that. The scariest villains are those who don’t show it. So my approach is to play him like a lover, a fool in love who neglects his role as captain of a group of thieves for physical, sexual attractions to girls of any kind. He’s also a person who just can’t help it, and I can relate to that in my private life as well. I just love women.
Emilio: Women love bad men. Macheath’s the antihero everyone loves to be. Being a hero can be boring, but being an anti-hero is a lot more interesting.
E: How does the music in The Beggar’s Opera deepen the experience of the play?
Gwen: The songs are 30 seconds long. It’s just an amplification of that moment. The whole show doesn’t grind to a halt when they start to sing; it moves the action forward.
Emilio: I had a wonderful voice teacher, David Smukler, who said, “Actors will speak for as long as the spoken words can hold the emotion, and then when the emotion gets too large, they must sing.”
E: Gwen, what is the hardest thing about being a director?
Gwen: I think it’s wrangling artistic imagination and energy. When you’ve got 200 people involved in a production, that’s a lot of imagination and energy to harness and keep focused and moving forwards in a positive constructive, healthy, happy way. I came in with a whole lot of ideas but really, they’re just words on a page, just ideas. To actually manifest those ideas, it’s the harnessing of that energy, to be on that same path together moving forward.
E: Do you find it diffi cult to transition from being yourself to being your character?
Chris: I sometimes feel it’s hard to get into character when there’s no concentrated time of when I need to be this character. It’s sometimes hard to keep that focus going for six hours—stop and go, stop and go. The closer we get to having the show put together and running it, the easier it is to commit emotionally to this character for two hours or however long it takes.
Emilio: It’s tough. I spent most of my Christmas break making flow charts to decide who I am at which moment, and how that person affects the other people. It’s a very influential process. I tried to find the things in that beast that are like me, and if I can find the things I know are already about me, I can live in that part of me for a little.
E: What is your dream part to play?
Chris: It’s always been my dream to be in an epic war movie. I’ve always admired Saving Private Ryan or every war movie ever made. Especially coming from Austria, post-World-War-II era, my grandparents, and even my parents, are still shaped by this. Being in a war movie, I could die any second. People die next to me. That would be a crazy thing to do.
Alison: A lot of my previous experience has been musical theatre, and then I switched to classical. Three years ago, I would have said Juliet. I played her in high school, and I’d love to do that again, or someone in Phantom, or Les Mis. Now, I’d like to play Marie from the opera La Fille du Régiment by Gaetano Donizetti. It’d be so much fun as she’s all personality.
Emilio: I’d love to be Simba in The Lion King—the animated edition; I’ve wanted to ever since I was a child. The relationship between those lions is actually the story of Hamlet, so I guess Hamlet. And I’m very much in love with Shakespeare, so I think that’d be a happy medium for not being an animated lion.
Gwen: I’m in the planning stages of a new work. I have a company on the side, Out of the Box Productions. It’s an immersive theatre piece that explores the themes of speed, stillness, and time. I’m leaning on the text of Alice Through the Looking Glass. This is what I like to do—take existing texts, crack them open, and put in music and movement. That’s on my back burner until I get this puppy up.
Elizabeth Doutsis
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

With Oscar season underway, the names of may have never heard of before are becoming very prominent.
The Oscars celebrate the best film of the year, but they often have a focus on some of the more independent films that not as many people see, or even hear about until they earn their nominations.
A lot of these movies are made by well-respected people in the film industry, but if you don’t know who they are, their names may mean nothing to you.
Below are some of the over-looked films from directors and writers who may be seeing Oscar gold this year, quality films you may want to seek out before the big night, so you can get a feel for who these unfamiliar faces are.
The Director: Alexander Payne
 The Film: Election
Alexander Payne has made a bit of a niche for himself, as he often depicts depressing situations in an oddly humorous light.
His film Nebraska, which is nominated this year, is equally hilarious and heart-wrenching. It tells the story of a father and son truly getting to know each other in the midst of drama over a lottery ticket.
Payne has famously explored human pain in all of his films, such as Sideways and The Descendants. His best film, however, is arguably 1999’s Election, which stars a young Reese Witherspoon as Tracy Flick, an over-achieving student who gets caught up in drama with the teachers at her school in the midst of a class election.
Matthew Broderick plays the teacher whose life gets turned upside down by Tracy Flick, in what is probably Witherspoon’s best performance. The film is based on the novel by Tom Perrotta, who is known for his dark comedic tone.
The Director: Jean Marc-Vallée
 The Film: C.R.A.Z.Y.
Canadian Jean-Marc Vallée’s film Dallas Buyers Club took the Academy by storm this year, earning a surprising six nominations. This is not to say the film isn’t worthy of those nominations, but the smaller, independent film’s presence in certain categories, like Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay, took many by surprise.
Prior to Dallas Buyer’s Club, Vallee worked in Québecois cinema, with his most notable film being C.R.A.Z.Y., a film about the trials of love for a young Québec boy, who is dealing with issues of his sexuality while growing up in a religious household.
The Writer: Spike Jonze
 The Film: Being John Malkovich and Adaptation
Spike Jonze is rather well-known by now, but there are still many who have not seen some of the brilliant films he has made in the past.
Her is Jonze’s first screenplay, and he has been nominated for Best Original Screenplay.
He also directed the film, along with two other notable films in the past—Being John Malkovich and Adaptation.
It seems as though his work on these two high-concept, intellectual films, both written by genius screenwriter Charlie Kaufman (also known for Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Synecdoche, New York) has helped him to craft his own high-concept comedy.
Her feels almost like a film that Charlie Kaufman would write. Putting Her aside for now, there are two films that Jonze has directed that would be silly to not seek out, as they are classics.
Being John Malkovich is the 1999 film which stars John Cusack, Cameron Diaz, Catherine Keener, and yes, John Malkovich.
The film follows Craig Shwartz, a puppeteer who stumbles upon a portal leading into actor John Malkovich’s consciousness (Malkovich plays himself).
This is a highly philosophical, existential, and quirky film that is 100 per cent clever and original. Adaptation is the 2002 film, which stars Nicolas Cage as screenwriter Charlie Kaufman. When Kaufman was asked to adapt Susan Orlean’s novel The Orchid Thief, instead of adapting the book, he wrote a movie about himself writing the adaptation of the novel.
This film reaches metaphysical levels that run so deep, that it becomes hilarious and profound at once.
The Writers: Julie Delpy, Ethan Hawke & Richard Linklater
 The Film: Before Sunrise and Before Sunset
Nominated for the third installment of what is now known as the Before trilogy, actors Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy, who reprise their roles as Jesse and Celine, alongside director Richard Linklater, make magic happen again in Before Midnight.
Regarded as part of the best trilogy of all time, Before Midnight follows Jesse and Celine nine years after the last film, Before Sunset, just as that film came nine years after the first, Before Sunrise.
The trilogy challenges the idea of what a romantic film is—they are equally as romantic as they are real, human explorations of two genders and two people who truly connect in this world. Before Sunrise finds two strangers meeting on a train, and their story unfolds into what is probably the most resounding exploration of a relationship ever depicted on screen.
The Director/Writer: David O. Russell
 The Film: I ? Huckabees
David O. Russell has made waves recently as his last two films were both critically acclaimed: 2010’s The Fighter and last year’s Silver Linings Playbook.
This year, his film American Hustle has taken over the Oscars with an astonishing 10 nominations. One film of Russell’s that often gets overlooked is 2004’s I ? Huckabees, an ambitious story about a pair of detectives played by Dustin Hoffman and Lily Tomlin who run a service, solving your existential problems.
The film received mixed reviews, but its ? was in the right place. It is a quirky, eccentric, and messy film, but it is filled with laughs and the traditional David O. Russell chaos that has garnered all of his films outrageous amounts of attention.
Now that you are more familiar with some of the filmmakers being honoured at this year’s Academy Awards, you may not be so tempted to take a bathroom break during the speeches.
This has been an incredible year for film, and what better way to celebrate it than to revisit some of the past accomplishments of the filmmakers who are still so relevant today.
Adriana Floridia
Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The cast of Teenagers, from left: Allyson Pratt, Nick Stojanovic, Emmanuel Kabongo, Dana Jeffrey, Chloe Rose, and Nykeem Provo.
Upon entering Rize Studios for the premiere party of Teenagers, one might think they’ve walked into a hotspot nightclub in Toronto. The walls, lined with Toronto’s young talent, from actors to filmmakers to musicians, fill the room in eager anticipation of the new web series co-written by York students Mathew Murray and Sara Tamosauskas, and directed by Murray.
The Teenagers website describes the show as “the trials and tribulations of a unique group of teenagers in their senior year of high school.” 
These teens smoke, swear, fight, have sex, and occasionally do their schoolwork, much like normal kids do.
The crew, mainly York and Seneca students, spent a total of nine days on set with the cast, filming the eight episodes that make up the first season.
The episodes are short, at most seven minutes, and will be broadcast via YouTube over the next few months.
The first four episodes were aired at the premiere party, and they left me wanting more. Even though they’re limited to a tight airtime, nothing feels rushed and the characters’ dialogue feels organic and not at all expositional.
The actors’ looks and body language say even more than their conversations; a lingering glance sent chills up my spine, and I was sitting on the edge of my seat. Fans of Degrassi: The Next Generation will find themselves drawn to Teenagers, which stars actors Chloe Rose and Raymond Ablack.
Later in the evening, the first two episodes were uploaded online. The first episode has hit 10,000 views in just its first week of being up on the web. The series, its actors, and creator have been featured on Global and CP24. And it’s not going to be slowing down anytime soon.
This series is not to be missed, for a number of reasons: watching it will support independent Canadian filmmakers, and it will support York students.
The best part is that it’s smart, funny, and an all-around good show, and proves that there’s a lot to be gained from studying film at York.
Ashlee Mitchell
Video Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
