Coldplay’s sixth full-length album Ghost Stories came out of nowhere, kind of like Chris Martin and Gwyneth Paltrow’s divorce, which was made public on Paltrow’s site Goop.com in March 2014.
After a passion-infused relationship spanning 10-plus years, which inspired memorable tracks such as “Fix You” (from 2005’s X and Y) and “Paradise” (2011’s Mylo Xyloto), songs buoyant and hopeful in nature, Chris Martin leads his band back into Rush of Blood to the Head-esque, moody territory.
Except it’s a major downer.
When it comes to Coldplay, melancholia often works in their favor, but Ghost Stories is all sad, no payoff.
Album highlights are few and far between.
“True Love” stands out as the most carefully written melodic arrangement. Even without listening for lyrics, the music itself is enough to make you feel something—an area where the rest of the album lets you down.
The lyrics are heartbreakingly honest, depicting what it’s like to be on the receiving end of someone falling out of love with you: “Tell me you love me, and if you don’t, then lie. Lie to me. Call it true love.”
It’s the closest thing on the album to a natural progression from the grandiose Mylo Xyloto—it has a constant synth chord progression laying out the background, then a poppy beat keeps it from plateauing.
But it’s Chris Martin’s vocals and the strings which take it to another level.
A trademark, crying guitar lick leads it into the outro, with Martin’s softly soaring vocals taking it right into “Midnight,” that single that sounds like the musical love-child of Bon Iver, James Blake, and Imogen Heap.
“Midnight” is a deceiving track in that it sounds nothing like anything else the album has to offer.
“Oceans” is another hidden gem: a stripped-down, acoustic guitar track with a bit of reverb, sounding like it was recorded live in a room, with just Martin and his faithful guitar.
Lastly, “O” ends the winning streak with soft piano and hushed vocals, another simple song that sounds like it came off Viva La Vida. 
At its best, Ghost Stories is acoustic guitar and simple piano, reminiscent of early Coldplay a la Parachutes.
The other half is uninspired, forgettable melodies with an electronic beat tacked on in an attempt to pump some life into them.
“A Sky Full of Stars” is a blatant dance tune which could appeal to a different audience, but leaves a bad taste in the mouths of Coldplay’s longtime fans, who (like me) have been eagerly waiting to see what they’d come up with after the upbeat and uplifting Mylo, which was full of life.
There’s nothing wrong with a transitional album, except this one doesn’t know where it’s going.
Hopefully Chris Martin will make it through this chapter of his life with Coldplay’s soul intact, because we haven’t given up on them.
Tunes like “Midnight” and “O” are indications that the real Coldplay—ever-growing and changing, but always full of passion—is still somewhere in there.
 
Erica Orofino
Copy Editor
 
Image source: Facebook/Coldplay
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
Jasmine Wiradharma
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Paolo Rinaldi
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
esn@yorku.ca
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
Matt Costin
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
After watching an excerpt of Professor Sheila Cavanagh’s film, The Queer Bathroom Monologues, I never thought about the toilet or bathroom the same way again. It was no longer just a hush-hush space to dispose of bodily waste.
The film stimulated an important class discussion among the students in Critical Sexualities at York and motivated me to think about our relationship with the bathroom.
I had never imagined that the bathroom, a space that we usually associate with personal hygiene, has fostered experiences of discrimination and aggression as a result of homophobia and transphobia.
Cavanagh delves into the seldom-discussed topic of gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex peoples’ bathroom experiences to highlight the developing issues produced by bathrooms being gender-segregated spaces.
Re-emphasizing the topics in her works of Queer Bathroom Monologues and Queering Bathrooms: Gender, Sexuality, and the Hygienic Imagination, Cavanagh brings forth Queer Bathroom Stories, a new play being performed at the Buddies in Bad Times Theatre from May 31 to June 15.
Queer Bathroom Stories is a theatrical representation of in-person interviews and real life experiences depicting the multifaceted stories and experiences of gender and sexual identities, and their intersection with public washrooms.
Excalibur recently interviewed Sheila Cavanagh to find out a bit more about her play:
 
Excalibur: For those who are unfamiliar with the topic of gender-segregated washrooms and their impact, on queer people especially, how would you describe Queer Bathroom Stories? 
 
Sheila Cavanagh: If you are transgender or gender-variant you lack cisgender (non-trans) privilege. In other words, if your gender identity is at odds with the sign on the bathroom door, you are more likely to experience harassment and gender-based discrimination.
For those who are masculine women or feminine men, it is not always comfortable or easy to access a gendered toilet. This becomes a problem at work, at school, and in society at large.
The bladder functions like a leash. If one can’t use a bathroom without others calling security or inquiring about their right to be in the room, your rights are compromised.
 
E: What inspired you to adapt your book, Queer Bathrooms: Gender, Sexuality and Hygienic Imagination, into a play? What are some of the new additions that the audience can expect?
 
SC: Queer Bathroom Stories is a play based on 100 interviews with LGBTQ folks in Canadian and American cities about their experiences in bathrooms.
The interviews were originally conducted for my book, but the most interesting stories were edited out of the book.
Academic publishing lends itself to quotable sound-bites as opposed to unwieldy stories.
I was left with a two-foot high pile of transcripts, full of amazing stories, and I couldn’t let them go untold. The world premiere of Queer Bathroom Stories is based on these stories.
Audiences can expect to hear a range of stories about gender and sex in the can.
Specifically, they will see three talented actors enact all that is aggressive, desirous, disgusting, comic, and intriguing ideas about toilets.
Hallie Burt, Chy Ryan Spain, and Tyson James perform the myriad of ways we navigate, use, redefine, avoid, and are confronted by homophobia and transphobia in the rooms.
Audiences will meet 72 characters as they perform the complexities of gender identity, desire, and hate in the loo.
The stories span from the devastating to the sublime, the traumatic to the passionate, the mundane to the curious, the comic and everything in between.
Audiences will leave knowing there is something inherently erotic and traumatic about bathrooms, something endemic to queer-life worlds.
 
E: What do you hope the audience will take away from the content of the play? 
SC: I hope audiences will be moved to question and challenge their own preconceived ideas about gender, sex, desire, and bodies.
Many trans and gender variant interviewees experienced job-related discrimination when trying to use a washroom at work.
Others chose not to use bathrooms at all because the questions, glares and verbal harassment they received from non-trans patrons took an emotional toll.
I would like audiences to think about why we genderize bathrooms. In most Western, advanced, industrial societies, bathrooms are the last officially gendered space.
It behooves us to question the logic and rationale for gendered bathrooms.
For example, there is no evidence to suggest that gendered toilets decrease violence against women. Quite the contrary!
Enclosed, segregated spaces with one door provide opportunities for entrapment. Fewer instances of violence occur in gender inclusive, open-concept designs.
Gendered toilets are more dangerous for those who are trans- or gender variant because the signs on the bathroom door gives people license to interrogate others.
Finally, I would like audiences to think creatively about how we can redefine bathrooms to include, validate, and celebrate multiple gender identities and sexual orientations.
 
E: As a playwright and as an author, which method of representation, in your opinion, is more effective in raising awareness about the issues of queer/trans people experience in gender-specific washrooms?
 
SC: Both academic and theatrical forums are important, but each genre reaches a different (albeit overlapping) audience. I don’t value one above the other.
It is important to make academic, theoretically, and methodologically compelling arguments for gender and sexual inclusivity in society.
It is equally important to disseminate one’s research in arts-based and theatrical forums to engage dialogue with, and involve, LGBTQ community members.
I am excited by verbatim theatre [research-based theatre, often using interview transcripts] because it animates the boundary between academia and art.
Part of what it means to be queer is to negotiate social boundaries, liminal spaces coded as abject, like bathrooms.
And arts-based research enables us to more fully explore queer life worlds.
For me, it made sense to think about Queer Bathroom Monologues as an antithesis to the book.
The culture and symbolism of the toilet is, like art, impossible to quantify and so it provides an interesting counter or, rather, compliment to the more tangible, geo-social space of the toilet as focused upon in the book.
 
E: How does a bathroom generate a hierarchial relationship between queer and heterosexual people using the same space?
 
SC: Bathrooms have always sorted people by gender, class, race, and disability in North American cities.
We need only remember the racially segregated toilets and water fountains of the American South or the class divisions in Victorian homes [in Toronto] in which servants were given a segregated toilet, often in the basement.
Even today, custodians are [occasionally] unable to use the very toilets they clean, people with physical disabilities are often given their own rooms, which aren’t always accessible, and flush toilets are being built in the non-Western countries to cater to North American and European tourists.
 
E: How do experiences of trans and queer people influence the way they view and understand their individual self, and the self in relation to others?
 
SC: For those who have difficulty accessing toilets without experiencing homophobic or transphobic discrimination, the gendering of bathrooms takes an emotional toll.
But it also takes a physical toll. When one must limit their consumption of liquid, it impacts upon one’s health. Postponing urination for long periods of time also compromises kidney functioning.
This is a serious health issue. It is also a human rights issue.
 
E: Would you say the depiction of experiences in Queer Bathroom Stories can be perceived or understood as performances of resistance? 
 
SC: I see Queer Bathroom Stories as political theatre.
The stage is, in many ways, an ideal forum to perform gender variance and same-sex desire.
It touches people on an emotional, visceral level and compels us to identify with life stories, identities and experiences unlike our own.
Gays, lesbians, transvestites, drag kings, drag queens, and genderqueers have made good use of the stage to make visible what Judith Butler calls “gender performativity” and to unsettle, subvert, and rework the matrixes of heterosexuality, race, and class.
 
Sreya Banerjea
Contributor
 
Image source: Wikimedia Commons
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 
John Babu
Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
$20.5 million.
That’s the sum of money that eight students are suing York for after the March 6 Student Centre shooting.
This amount of money is a sum that I will never personally attain in my lifetime. An amount so large that’s justifiably comparable to winning the lottery.
But it seems so opportunistic of these students to go after one of the largest universities in Canada in such grand fashion. Scrums, press conferences – this has all conveniently turned into a spectacle that is being carefully monitored by major media outlets across Canada.
Don’t get me wrong: York has fumbled the metaphorical football when it comes to safety on campus. The school’s response was delayed at best the morning after, or even the night of the shooting.
Excalibur’s social media accounts exploded with photos, videos and stories about the shooting. We responded well before the school itself, having a full story published before York even sent out an email regarding the incident.
Then, there is the fact that the Student Centre wasn’t, at the time, equipped with security cameras. This would eventually lead to police having to crowdsource videos and images from witnesses, instead of using security footage.
[su_quote]It’s disappointing that students had to hear from our own Twitter account that the shooter was still on the loose the next morning.[/su_quote]
I have defended York countless times, argued that this school is just as safe as any other in Canada. I have argued with colleagues that York is in fact treated unfairly by the media. But after this incident, I am starting to lose the faith I once had for this school.
Safety is a key issue here at York. But still the question remains, is that $20.5 million a justifiable sum of money, or just a quick cash grab? If these eight students win their lawsuit, it is money that could be used to improve safety on campus. This money could go towards securing our campus, hiring more security guards or just improving lighting on campus.
I can’t image the psychological damage involved with being injured during a school shooting, or even witnessing it. As students, we are supposedly immune to gun-violence that is frequently glamorized in movies and television. The life-long impact and trauma associated with experiencing something like this in real life must be truly terrible.
However, things still need to change at York. Students have the right to feel safe on campus, and the school needs to continue to grow and make safety their number one priority. Today, we need to read between the lines of This Is My Time campaigns, bachelor degrees and grade point averages.
Today, we need to place our health and safety before anything else. It isn’t fair that we have to walk through the Student Centre and remind ourselves that though this is a place where we all gather to eat and spend time with friends, this is also a place where tragedy struck.
My condolences go out to the students who were impacted during this appalling event, but the price tag tacked onto it seems grandiose, excessive, and even greedy. I’d like to believe that some things are more important than money.
As for those eight students, this lawsuit feels more like an opportunity for capital gain than anything else. I feel inclined to suggest that what has resulted from this awful event could actually be a unique chance to encourage positive change on campus, and benefit all students here at York.
 
Michael Burton
Editor-in-Chief
 
Illustration by Erika Madsen
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Summer doesn’t have to be boring. While the rush of freedom may be enjoyable at first, everyone begins to experience mid-to-late summer lethargy, the feeling of listlessness and lost time as you count days for school to begin again, because having nothing to do just isn’t cutting it anymore. There’s a lot to do in Toronto this summer. Whether it’s your first time living in the city, or if you’ve been here a while, the Big Smoke has all sorts of hidden gems and great events you may not know about.
Starting with food, Toronto has a reputation for food festivals. Too many, in fact, as one of the biggest criticism the city gets is that all we have are food festivals. That isn’t true, but regardless, there are some great eats.Summerlicious begins July 4 this year, which means Torontonians will have access to great deals at Toronto’s best restaurants. The deals allow you to enjoy delicious multicourse meals at a fixed price at 200 participating restaurants in Toronto. The full list for Summerlicious comes out on June 20.
If you’re the picnicking type, High Park is open all year round with an excellent list of features, including a zoo with capybaras. Go for a picnic and a walk, take in some beautiful scenery, and admire the scenic parkland and the water. It’s a great place to be and very accessible. Bring mosquito spray, though.
The Harbourfront Centre and waterfront also hosts exciting events, which include free movie screenings, author readings, and of course, food.In case you’re a commuter student, reaching there is no problem—it’s super close to Union Station. Keep checking their website for events as they become available.
For all the movie lovers, this next bit is great news! Toronto finally has a drive-in movie theater, located just east of the city in the Port Lands. If you’re willing to mission out, there’s an even better one all the way out in Oakville.
If you’d like to get to know the city a bit more, Doors Open Toronto is a great way to do it. Explore all the places in Toronto you’d never get access to, including the CityTV building and the Winter Garden Theatre. This year’s theme is “Secrets and Spirits,” so if you love mysteries, you’d definitely dig this! You get to do a little bit of legal breaking and entering on May 24.
Of course, all of this is nothing compared to Pride, and this year, Toronto is hosting World Pride 2014, which is actually pretty amazing. If you thought the Pride Week Parade hosted annually is big, just wait until Toronto becomes a hub for all things fabulous.
And for everything else, North by Northeast takes over the city this summer as well. With headliners like Spoon and Danny Brown, as well as a whole lot of art and film going on alongside, this is the young artists’ dream. Go see a concert, go see a movie, then enjoy the many pubs and bars across the city.
Of course, it doesn’t end at just food and festivals. The ROM offers discounted tickets of $14.50 for students, along with the Ontario Science Centre and Gardiner museum that also offer discounts at this time of the year. Ripley’s Aquarium doesn’t offer any student discounts, but it’s worth the full admission price.
This is only a sample of what Toronto has to offer this summer. There’s so much more going on, and even more coming up. Be sure to grab a copy of NOW or head on over to BlogTO to find out more, as well as looking at Excalibur’s own web coverage of a York student summer.
 
Abdul Malik
Features Editor
 
Photo Source: Wikimedia Commons
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
