This list brings you the now-no-longer marginalized voices to your media player! It’s time to broaden your musical horizons with some of the most interesting LGBTQ+ acts out there today, from L to Q! Sex, drugs, music-a-go-go!
L.
The Con by Tegan and Sara 
An emotional rollercoaster of an album. Songs ranging from bubbly and poppy, to poignant and melancholy, the Canadian twin sister duo have been making music for almost two decades. This album, while managing to be sonically beautiful, expresses love songs devoid of pronouns, making it universal for anyone to listen and associate with. After all, everybody has felt love, and everybody’s felt it when it’s gone.
Favourite song: “Dark Comes Soon.”
G.
The Plague by Big Momma:
         It doesn’t matter as much that Big Momma identifies as gay as much as it matters that this gay gangsta-rapper is criminally underrated. Bringing hardcore rappity-rap flows to your ears, Big Momma touches on dark and often morbid issues. The Plague packs such a punch that it manages to flip all of the tropes typically associated with oversaturated phallocentric themes found in gangster rap and flips it on its head. The weather is growing grimmer and darker by the day, so maybe adding this horror-core artist to your music-playing device may not be a bad idea.
Favourite Song: “Denata.”
B.
Fabulous Muscles by Xiu Xiu:
Xiu Xiu is definitely bringing some of the finest avant-garde music to the table, and weirdest at that. Fabulous Muscles is bold in its experimentation and fragmentation of typical lyrical structure, as it documents on lead singer Jamie Stewart’s personal experiences, masquerading behind beautiful, sentient, and original poetry. Xiu Xiu is definitely an acquired taste, but the title track on the album is one of the most simultaneously sad and beautiful songs ever written, revolving around an abusive same-sex relationship.
Favourite Song: “I Luv the Valley, OH!”
T.
Transgender Dysphoria Blues by Against Me!:
Against Me!’s latest effort Transgender Dysphoria Blues is both catchy and the band’s first release since lead singer transitioned from Tom James Gabel to Laura Jane Grace. A lot has changed in the band’s thematic content, however what came off as muffled gender displacement in their old songs transformed into full-blown transgender anthems, both celebrating and facing gender dysphoria. This album catapulted a mainstream act that celebrated the transgender way of life and made some tough-as-nails art out of the confusion.
Favourite Song: “Osama bin Laden as the Crucified Christ.”
Q.
 Thee Official Limp Wrist Discography by Limp Wrist
         Queer straight-edge hardcore bands sure are strange. It’s not because they identify as queer, or because they abstain from drugs, alcohol, or cigarettes. It’s because they managed to form a band where all members identify with these things and managed to play all the instruments required for a band. Often honoured as one of the best hardcore bands of all time, Limp Wrist’s brand of punk is abrasive, played with intense breakneck speed and humor. Thee Official Limp Wrist Discography has over 40 songs but only runs for about 35 minutes. Listen to it on your lunch break, although you won’t be satisfied when its done.
Favourite song: “Does Your Daddy Know?”
Zach Fenech, Staff Writer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Arthur Inkheart was very excited.
“Tonight’s our first dance!” he told Keegan excitedly, springing alcohol from beneath his bed. The boys jittered in their dorm.
“We’ll be each other’s wingmen!” Keegan said sappily as they sipped the alcohol.
Absalom Catholic Academy, although a prestigious boarding school for grades 6 to 12, preserves its social functions for grades 9 to 12. It’s a big deal for first-timers.
When they had enough liquid courage, the boys departed. The dance quickly devolved into a slimy crotch massage, as was the custom of the times.
You’d think Arthur would be more interested in his potential virginity thief. Oh no! There was a drunken train wreck called Keegan to watch.
Like a chivalrous knight, Arthur peeled off his partner and ran to the rescue.
“How are ya bud?” Arthur hollered over the pulsating, mechanical music.
“Good – I’m – I might – be sick.”
Arthur guessed what he said and peeled off Keegan’s dance partner.
The duo passed the teachers who were entranced by the horny horde of teenagers. They were, as the Germans say ‘angepisst’ – oh, they were very angepisst!
Arthur brought Keegan back to the dorm.
“Did ya see her?” Arthur asked.
“Who?”
“That one chick.”
“No.”
“I didn’t either. She kept turning her butt to me. You were on booty duty Keeg.”
“What! Oh, I bet she was real skunky. Arthur, you saved me from a hot mess!”
“Maybe,” Arthur said, lowering him to his bed.
Suddenly, Keegan bear-hugged Arthur, dragging him onto the bed.
“You’re my best friend,” said Keegan, within intimate space of Arthur’s face, lying beneath him in a drunken embrace.
“You’re mine too – now would ya mind –”
“I’m so happy! ‘Cause you are – you are my best friend.” Keegan’s soft hands cherished Arthur’s sides.
“That’s great, but…” Closer and tighter together Keegan towed them.
“You’re my best friend,” Keegan whispered in his ear. They were a kiss’ distance away. Keegan motioned for Arthur’s cheek.
“This is bad,” Arthur swerved his head away.
Soft, warm, honey sweet lips caressed Arthur’s neck as a soft, sensual breeze titillated his face.
“This is worse.”
Keegan’s lips were touching, just touching, Arthur’s neck as Keegan giggled. “Oops.”
“That’s enough!” Arthur jerked away, “Go – good night, Keegan.”
“I’m not even that drunk, Arthur,” Keegan said before he passed out.
Arthur twitched. He tossed and he turned; he turned and he tossed. He could not relax.
So he carved out his heart with a pen and let it bleed unto the page. He wrote:
I can’t relax because of Keegan. Sometimes he gets me so worked up I can’t sleep. You know how some people get you going so much you shake? And your memories of them are so intense they’re all you think about?
Jesus. I just read that last part. Listen, I know how it reads, it isn’t what it seems! God, that makes it seem worse!
Listen, please hear me out. I know how it reads, and I know what you must think of me. Oh, it rattles me. It feels like there’s bugs under my skin!

But listen to me!
It’s more complicated than that. Look at how I love Phoebe. I do love Phoebe. If you put the heat of a June sun, all the innocence of a kid, all the songs the morning birds sing – if you put that into one person it would be Phoebe Belle!

I know I have … things to figure out, but I’m only fourteen! Who’s really done figuring that out at fourteen? It eats at me!

Not that I’m against it.
Tyler Kingston, contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
For the longest time, shopping in the plus-size section of any store left you with minimal options. Skinny jeans became mom jeans, and little black dresses became black ankle-length dresses. Forget finding a just a plain black shirt, because let’s face it, it is not plus-size unless it has a floral design.
“I can remember trying to find an outfit for a semi-formal in high school and only able to shop at one store. This store tailored to women over 40 years old and was terrible,” says Victoria McGroarty, owner of Gussied Up, a plus-size clothing boutique in Toronto.
At one point, you had to sit and wonder, did fashion designers know that there are people whose thighs just don’t fit in a size six dress? Who made this universal rule that plus-size women were not allowed to wear skinny jeans?
“Plus-size clothing has always been a taboo subject among fashion designers. Although the average woman wears a size 14, designers and even regular stores refuse to carry anything above a size 12,” says McGroarty.
When the average woman wears a size 14, it doesn’t make financial sense to ignore this segment of the market, she says.
Based on the terrible conventions that were associated with plus-size women, shopping has become somewhat of a taboo for McGroarty and many others.
“Finding clothes that were fashionable, affordable, and yet still managed to flatter my body seemed impossible,” says McGroarty. “It is assumed that anyone who is above size 12 has given up on all things fashion and prefers to wear matronly cover-ups.”
Stores who only cater to a size chart that stops at a size large greatly limits the amount of consumers that walk through their store on a daily basis. These stores send out a negative message to anyone who cannot fit into their size-eight dresses: you are just not skinny enough to shop here.
This distinction of body types alienates body types that are not the “ideal.”  If men’s stores can make sizes that go up to XXL and women’s store that have sizes starting at XXS, why can’t they make sizes that go up to XXL for women as well?
There is a clear market out there for the larger sizes, yet a lot of the stores won’t carry them, says McGroarty.
The reasoning behind this logic becomes unfair. It creates a binary in the shopping world while simultaneously dictating what certain body types can and cannot wear. If a woman of a larger body-type wishes to wear her little black dress, she should be allowed. She should not be stopped or discouraged by retail stores who say this is just not possible.
This is why it becomes important to pay attention and credit stores that carry clothes that cater to all body types. Stores such as Gussied Up, Forever 21, H&M, and Old Navy all offer clothing sizes that exceed your traditional size large.
“We have spending power but feel completely neglected by the industry. We are curvy, we are beautiful, we want fashion to catch up,” says McGroarty.
Gussied Up offers clothes that go beyond floral prints, mom jeans, and flowy shirts.  They welcome the little black dresses, skinny jeans, crop tops, and pencil skirts. These clothes are affordable, comfortable, and most importantly, fashionable.
The ability to feel comfortable in your body is not always an easy adaptation. While fighting off societal expectations, your confidence may plummet and your own personal critique can make becoming comfortable with your body a tiresome and evergoing process.
However, when you walk into a store and see that bigger sizes are offered, you feel elated. At last, someone has recognized that voluptuous girls deserve to feel beautiful in the clothes they wear and in the way the feel.
The fashion world is developing. It is going from being super inclusive, to exclusive, recognizing that there is not just one body type, but many, and every body type deserves clothes that fit their unique figure.
The world of plus-size shopping does not have to be as intimidating and stressful as it once was. Slowly but surely, the fashion world is opening up the realm to women of all sizes. The nightmares of walking into the shopping mall and leaving empty-handed have turned into magical real-life dreams.
So, go ahead ladies, rock that little black dress or your big comfy sweater. Always know it is you who dictates your fashion worth, no one else.
 
Cristina Maria Lupoi
Contributor
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
For those of you counting down the days to long lectures to come to a halt for the break, the good news is that the end of the first semester is just around the corner.
On another note, you’ve probably been quick to realize that this offers very little relief. The sad and agonizing reality for the majority of us is that the worst is yet to come.
York’s exam period begins Wednesday, December 9th and goes through to the 23rd. You can literally see the panic and stress on all the sleep-deprived faces of students on campus.
Perhaps you’re part of the small percentage of students who aren’t burdened with any exams, but rather a slew of assignments. After all, misery loves the company of end-of-the-term projects, essays, presentations, and assignments.
“I don’t have any final exams this semester but I do have a lot of projects that I think are even more time consuming,”  says Sara Qarizada a second-year graphic design student. “Projects take so much of your time and it’s a whole drawn-out process.”
Whatever your situation may be, there are some things you can do in the upcoming weeks that will make your life a little easier. So listen up. As university students we are no strangers to all nighters. In fact, they happen far more often than anyone would like to admit.
The best thing you could probably do for yourself and for your grade is to set up a schedule.
“It’s important to make a study schedule you feel you can stick to and make sure not to break it,” says Abrahim.
As the old saying goes, motivation is what gets you started but habit is what keeps you going. This applies very well to developing good study habits, he adds.
Reward yourself and take breaks. Not hour-long breaks, but 15 minutes usually does the trick. That way you are able to process what you just learned instead of trying to stuff your brain full of things you won’t retain by the next day.
It’s important to ensure that you have enough study time, enough leeway time, and enough self-care time, says Abrahim.
When it comes to taking the actual exam, too many people make the mistake of underestimating multiple choice exams or tests. The problem is that most of us will learn to recognize instead of actually understanding the information.
This tends to lead us into the mindset of thinking that everything is a trick question and any of these options could be possible. This also means that we take the shortcut and try to recognize the answer by keywords we think will stand out during the exam.
However, when it comes to an application type of question where you’re required to apply whatever concept or idea you learned, you’ll have no idea where to go next. Rather than memorizing, it’s important to actually try to understand the material.
“For the content that you feel you care about, you should try to understand it. Your grades will reflect that and you’ll feel better earning those grades as well,” says Abrahim.
Whether that means looking up an explanation or a YouTube animation to break down the topic for you, make sure you have a good grasp and understanding of the topic at hand.
When someone asks you what you’ve been learning, don’t brush it off like it’s a stupid question. Explaining a concept or theory to someone who doesn’t know will help you understand the material better and help you focus on the key points you need to hit.
Figure out the way you study best: cue cards, notes, reading, mnemonic devices, repetition, speaking out loud, or have sticky notes everywhere.
As for studying in groups, it does not always guarantee that studying will be accomplished, however groups are good for bouncing ideas off each other and testing one another.
“Group versus self-studying can be class dependant. If the material is dry, group studying is probably better but you need someone there to keep the group on track,” says Abrahim.
However, if the material is interesting it might be better to self-study regularly and then only group study for the major tests, he says.
There you have it, what you need to know to survive the next few weeks and come out on top. Good luck, scholars.
 
Jodie Vanderslot
Staff Writer
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
It has been an up-and-down start to the season for the Lions men’s basketball team, who lost back to back games in their season home opener at Tait McKenzie Centre this past weekend, first to the Brock Badgers on Frida,y and then to the McMaster Marauders the following evening.
Before hosting the teams from Hamilton and St. Catharines here in Toronto, the Lions were on the road, losing to the Queen’s Gaels before taking hard-fought wins over Nipissing and Laurentian University. In these games they showcased their offensive ability, quickly rising to fourth place in Ontario University Athletics scoring rankings. The same kind of offense kept them in their games against the Badgers and Marauders, despite both opponents being two of the top teams in the country.
In Friday’s game, both teams were hot from the start, exchanging successful plays and ending off the first quarter with a 18-17 lead for the Lions. In the second quarter the Badgers came fighting back and took a 43-38 lead, despite the Lions’ three-pointers raining down at their end of the court. The second half was similar, with the Badgers taking a dominant lead and the Lions fighting to keep up. In the end, the Badgers took away a 86-71 victory.
On Saturday, the Lions once again had a strong first quarter, narrowly leading before the Marauders pulled ahead in the second quarter to lead by 49-39 at the half. The Lions’ hopes of recovering the deficit were dashed in the third quarter, in which the Lions outscored the Marauders 22 points to 14 but were unable to catch up with their opponents. The final score of the game, largely due to the Marauders’ efficient three-point shooting, was 88-74.
“I feel like those were both games in which we had multiple chances to take control down the stretch and we let them get away,” says new Lions’ point guard Shane Reader, adding that it was good learning experience for the team. “I think our biggest challenge is our complacency. We know we’re as good as any team in the country but we don’t always play our game for a full 40 minutes.”
Reader led the Lions’ effort in both games, recording 16 points, four rebounds, four assists, and three steals on Friday, and adding another nine points and four assists on Saturday. He is currently ranked second in the OUA in assists per game.
Despite tough losses at home, Reader remains optimistic about the rest of the season. “I’m very excited for the rest of the season, as are the rest of my teammates,” he says. “The season has had its share of ups and downs so far but I’m confident that we’ll be able to get things rolling and hit our stride when it matters most in February and March.”
Hassam Munir
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions women’s basketball team fell in their season home opener to some of Canada’s top teams this past weekend. The Brock Badgers defeated their host team by a score of 68-52 on Friday, and the McMaster Marauders proved too much for the Lions the following night, taking them down by a score of 86-45.
“It’s been a challenging season for us thus far as we are still trying to claim our first win,” says guard Ishanaa Seupersadsingh, who is one of the Lions’ top performers. “In saying that, I’m very proud of my team’s effort as we do compete with top teams, and we’ve been in a few very close nail-biter games where we just couldn’t come out on top.”
In Friday’s game, the Badgers dominated at the Lions’ end of the court right off the bat, ending the first quarter with a 22-9 lead. The Lions fought back in the second quarter, outscoring their opponents 16-11 in a team effort that narrowed the Badgers’ lead to 33-25 at halftime. The Badgers, who are ranked the seventh best team in Canada, came out even stronger in the second half of the game, outscoring the Lions in both the third and fourth quarters to take away a 68-52 victory.
The Lions’ Seupersadsingh and Nina Guzina put up a strong effort to lead their team in the tough contest, together scoring 31 of 52 points. Seupersadsingh also contributed two rebounds and two assists to the game, and Guzina scored an efficient 5-of-9 off the floor.
Saturday’s game against the Marauders, who are fourth in the national rankings, turned out to be even more lopsided. The Marauders took a dominant 32-2 lead in the first quarter, and though the Lions fought hard to cut it down during the rest of the game, they failed to do so. Seupersadsingh once again led the effort, putting up a team high 11 points, four rebounds, and four steals. However, the Marauders took the victory with a score of 86-45, leaving the Lions with a 0-4 record so far in the regular season.
Nevertheless, the Lions are looking forward to improving their games and competing, if not always winning, in the rest of the season. However, to do that they will have to overcome the challenges of being a young and inexperienced team guided by a new head coach, as well as developing their offensive ability.
“The biggest challenge we face right now is staying consistent throughout the whole game,” says Seupersadsingh. “Defensively we’re pretty solid, it’s just offence that we need to work on in terms of making it flow more and converting shots.” Guzina feels the same way, adding that improvement in offensive play will be “all about the little things, and taking it one step at a time.”
Come what may, the team appreciates the undying support of the York community. “Every home game the stands are filled with fans cheering us on,” says Seupersadsingh, “it really helps motivate me and pump me up.”
“One of the best things about being a Lion is knowing you have that moral support from your Lion family and we couldn’t be more thankful when they come out,” emphasizes Guzina.
Moving forward, the players are looking to their next two games as an opportunity to end off the first part of their season on strong footing. “I’m very excited to get a win, as these are two teams that we are very capable of beating,” says Seupersadsingh, referring to the upcoming games against the Waterloo Warriors and Laurier Golden Hawks.
Come 2016, the Lions are eyeing the Ontario University Athletics post-season. “There are one or two pieces that have to come together and once that happens I’m very hopeful that we’ll be competing in the playoffs,” says Seupersadsingh.
“I am very optimistic for the rest of the season,” adds Guzina. “There’s still a lot of basketball to be played and I think that people will be surprised to see what we’re capable of!”
 
Hassam Munir
Sports and Health Editor
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions hockey teams were on fire on the ice this past weekend as they won three of their four games, including two shut-out victories and two upsets for their competitors. The men’s team fell to the Waterloo Warriors on Friday by a score of 4-1 but came back the following evening to upset the McGill Redmen, the top-ranked team in Canada, by a score of 3-2.
Meanwhile, the women’s team earned a 4-0 shutout against the Ryerson Rams on Saturday and followed it up with a 1-0 shutout victory over the UofT Varsity Blues, who are ranked the second best team in the country.
The men’s team stepped out onto the ice with determination in Friday’s game, launching the puck towards the Warriors’ net twice in the first two minutes of the frame only to have it hit the crossbar each time. The Warriors dominated the first two periods of the game, with their goalkeeper Mike Morrison turning away all 23 of the Lions’ shots coming towards the net.
Going into the third, the Warriors had a 3-0 lead, but the Lions finally got on the scoreboard when Trevor Peterson took advantage of his team’s 5-on-3 advantage due to penalties and got the puck past Morrison. The Warriors returned the favour, and the game ended at a score of 4-1 in their favour.
Saturday’s game was even more challenging, as the Lions had to face off with Canada’s top team at home. The Lions themselves are ranked 10th, but smarting from the previous day’s loss, scored two goals in the first period in a span of less than two minutes, giving their team a 2-0 lead. The Redmen fought back, pressuring the Lions’ defense, but in the second period they were only able to get the puck into the net once before the Lions followed it up with their third goal, bringing the score up to 3-1. The Redmen then rallied to score once again, leaving the Lions to defend a one-point lead.
Neither team scored in the third period, though the Redmen pushed relentlessly to even up the score and the Lions valiantly defended their end of the rink to keep them from doing so. In the end, the Redmen ran out of time and the Lions achieved a hard-fought 3-2 victory, ending the Redmen’s nine-game winning streak. This was the Lions’ fifth win at home this season and it updated their record to 8-2-3, making them the top team in the Ontario University Athletics West standings.
The women’s team, meanwhile, was even more dominant over the weekend, defeating both of their local competitors in Toronto and not allowing them any goals at all. On Saturday, the Lions brought down the Rams with two goals in the first period and one each in the second and third. It was a spectacular team effort, as nine players worked together to secure a 4-0 victory. Goalkeeper Megan Lee blocked all 25 shots taken at her to keep the Rams scoreless, and perhaps give a preview of her amazing performance the following day.
Sunday’s game was a tight one, as the women’s team battled with the Varsity Blues through all three periods as well as in double overtime, but the score remained deadlocked at 0-0. The game was finally decided by a shootout, during which Lee successfully made the last of her 41 saves in the game, and the Lions’ Dana Somerville and Kristen Barbara both found the back of the Varsity Blues’ net to give their team a 1-0 victory.
Hassam Munir
Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Inspired by true events, Nirbhaya, a play written and directed by Yael Farber, is playing at the Nightwood Theatre in the Distillery District. The award-winning play was sparked by the events of December 16, 2012 in South Delhi, India. A group of six men brutally raped a woman and assaulted her male companion when the two boarded a bus on their way home from the movies. Jyoti Singh, whose name was prohibited from being released by the press at the time of the rape, became known as “Nirbhaya,” the Hindi word for fearless one. Singh later died of the severe injuries sustained from the rape and beatings. Media outlets all over the world covered the assault, inspiring thousands of people across India to break the taboo of silence and discuss the reality of sexual assault, violence, and abuse in India.
Nirbhaya uses the rape of Nirbhaya as the framework for the play, focusing on the experienced sexual violence of five women. As these women take turns sharing their lived stories, Nirbhaya is always present in her white gown, singing and haunting the actors and audience. The five other characters speak of marital abuse, molestation, and violence with the rawness of lived knowledge so that no one in the audience is left untouched or comfortable.
Nirbhaya’s richness and power as a play resides specifically in its unplay-like nature. Yes, Nirbhaya has many formal qualities of a play, a theatre setting, stage, lighting, props, and costumes, yet it rejects the notion of actors performing. These women have performed silence and submissiveness their whole lives, unable to speak of the violence done to and around them. However, when on stage, these women speak without apology or restraint for what they have gone through. As theatre-goers sit in rows, compelled by these horrific and moving stories, they empathize simultaneously with the real experiences.
Nirbhaya documents the specific horrors of violence that many Indian women have gone, and continue to go, through, yet also speaks to the condition of all victims and survivors. These people who have suffered violence, injustice, or indecency have been wounded, but that wound is what lets the light in. The bandage of silence is insufficient and the bondage to social taboos is suffocating. The women have chosen not to be scared by the darkness around them. They are not scabbed in silence, choosing to shine the spotlight on social injustices, allowing for change to occur.
Nirbhaya welcomes other people affected by violence to not mark themselves by the actions of others. Though it may hurt, survivors must peel back their scabs and deal with what lies beneath. Wounds come in all shapes, sizes, colours, and degrees of pain. They’re not discriminatory in that sense. No one can choose how they are wounded, but everyone can choose to allow wounds to fester in hatred, silence, and darkness, or heal in knowledge, sharing, and lightness.
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
I want to tell you,
I want to tell you
But I don’t know how.
Please if I tell you,
Promise me
You won’t leave me now.
It’s a simple phrase to say
Don’t let me lead you astray.
But it won’t make you
See as I see
Hear as I hear
My words will fall like the lame
Don’t tell me something different
We cannot feel the same.
It’s not your fault,
There’s nothing broken.
I don’t know what to say
Because I’m searching for a way
To make you see as I see
Hear as I hear
Fix you so you’ll walk
This lonely path with me.
But there’s nothing to fix,
There’s nothing broken.
So I sit with shut lips,
And I grasp for words far above me.
I want to tell you.
I would tell you,
If I only knew how.
This poem takes its first line from the Beatles’ song “I Want to Tell You” which is about an inability to communicate. This poem continues the theme with a narrator who is impotent in the presence of the subject. It is purposefully written in a vague manner to ease empathy with the narrator’s solitude, but also provide space for open interpretation. The narrator is lonely because of his/her inability to connect with a person of another sexual orientation, superficially on a romantic level, but also on a deeper, empathetic level. This is not stated however, to avoid advocating the stereotype that LGBTQ+ people’s problems solely arise from their sexual identity.
Tyler Kingston, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
In Canada, only one in five people struggling with mental health receive the help they require. Of these five people, it is statistically less likely that a man will report abuse or seek help during a period of distress.
On November 18th, Jack.org at York, a suicide prevention and mental health awareness organization that aims to eradicate the stigma surrounding mental health, invited performer Elliot Maxwell and director Ray Jacildo to perform their multi-perspective show about male sexual abuse. The play, Water Choke, was followed by a discussion among Maxwell, Jacildo, and the audience.
As mental health week took over York on November 16, it seemed like a logical time for second-year sociology student Maya Ameyaw to organize the interactive event for her club.
“Stigma is one of the main things we try to tackle. We hope that people leave questioning the traditional views surrounding male identity, and the very real struggle of men who have endured abuse,” says Jacildo.
Oscillating between four different stories of men struggling with sexual abuse, the performance allowed viewers to identify with a multitude of personalities and struggles. The one-man show emphasizes the stigmas surrounding male abuse that prevent the victims from seeking help, particularly the stigma that men are sexual beings and should enjoy sexual interactions, consensual or not.
In conjunction with stigmas surrounding abuse, the show features themes of suicide, trauma, struggling with identifying as a traditional male, and feeling alone as an abuse victim. With some viewers crying and others holding someone next to them, it was clear that Water Choke was not only an artistic piece, but an influential work of growth and finding help.
“When you see someone who has successfully battled their problems, you realize that things can be different and that there most certainly is hope in overcoming your obstacles,” says first-year undeclared science student Nancy Truong shortly following the performance.
If you or someone you know is struggling with mental health concerns, York provides resources, including Personal Counselling Services. Mental health is not separate from health, and as a community, we can remove the stigmas and ensure people get the help they need.
 
Elite Hasson
Contributor
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
