With the Toronto International Film Festival buzz officially dying down, a York student has decided to go a different route. Elana Emer, a third-year film production student launched Remix Filmhouse,  an online platform to host an online film festival featuring several York students.
“I wanted my work to involve bringing more representation to mainstream media, and I figured the best place to start was online, where there are no rules and the reach is limitless,” she says.
With an affinity for online collectives and an idea in mind, Emer started Remix Filmhouse with her sister, Robyn Emer, who runs their social media accounts, with help from her aunt, Simone Spiegel in the graphics department.
Out of the seven finalists for the Remix Film Fest, six are female filmmakers, and three are of people of colour. The selection process for the films was based on several criteria, including diversity. “As a company that aims to be representative of marginalized groups and all their intersections, we have to make sure that the filmmakers and/or their films reflect those aims,” adds Emer.
One of those filmmakers is Jessica Paquette, a third-year film production student at York. Her film, titled Recondite, is an experimental piece about time and memory, and how the subjects can be arbitrary. An aspiring film producer and director, Paquette found out about Remix Film Fest through classmate Emer.
“Film is such a collaborative industry that it can be very rewarding to celebrate and admire other people and students work. Overall it’s pretty frightening entering an industry like this because the job market can be difficult.” [su_quote]But I’d rather try to get into what I love than spend my life wishing I had tried,[/su_quote] says Paquette.
Other films include the comedy Duvet, dealing with heartbreak and a special duvet, documentary Make Believe about a woman who goes makeup free for a week, and drama Fresh Paint that addresses PTSD through the arts.
Many of the films are of York students, including Katie Thurman, Sabrina Budiman, Michèle DesLauriers and Jason Weston-Wong, as the original call for entries was through York’s film department. As the company and website were launched, submissions were open to the public.
As Remix transformed from a casual idea from a student without a lot of free time or disposable income, into a full-fledged company and festival, the filmmakers involved had been a massive support group and contributor to its success, says Emer.
The films will be viewable on the Remix Filmhouse website, remixfh.com, on October 2 to 4.
Victoria Goldberg, Arts Editor
Featured image courtesy of Elana Emer
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A coffee from Tim Hortons generally contains between 110 to 330 milligrams of caffeine, depending on which size you choose. A coffee from the Starbucks in the Centre for Film and Theatre has even more caffeine, generally between 175 to 410 mg. You love your coffee, maybe you can’t even go without it. But what is all that caffeine really doing for your health?
We all understand why we drink coffee. The caffeine in it increases alertness and reduces fatigue, and thus can help you pay attention in class and stay up late to finish an assignment. Drinking coffee also improves cognitive functions such as decision-making and reaction time. Coffee is an ergogenic aid as well, meaning that it improves performance during long periods of exhausting exercise, including sports such as cycling, running, swimming, and tennis.
But regularly drinking coffee can have long-term effects on your health as well. These have been summarized in Coffee: Emerging Health Effects and Disease Prevention by Yi-Fang Chu of Kraft Foods.
There is some evidence that coffee offers neuroprotection against injury to or degeneration of the body’s nervous system. This also suggests that drinking coffee could help prevent Alzheimer’s Disease. Coffee consumption is also associated with a lower risk of developing Parkinson’s Disease, though the role of caffeine in particular is unclear.
Studies have shown that drinking about three cups of coffee per day can reduce the risk or severity of liver damage and is generally beneficial for liver function. Drinking coffee also seems to be good for preventing the development of Type 2 diabetes.At the highest levels of consumption, the risk is reduced by almost 50 per cent.
There is also evidence to suggest that drinking coffee does not increase the risk of cancer, and in fact decreases it in the case of liver, kidney, breast, and colorectal cancers.
An area where coffee may not be as generous with its benefits is mental health. For example, though coffee consumed in moderate amounts is known to decrease the risk of suicide, overdosing on caffeine increases that same risk. Drinking too much coffee can also cause addiction, irritability, nervousness, and sleep disorders. Excessive caffeine intake has also been linked to symptoms of depression, while suddenly giving up coffee can worsen those symptoms.
So, how do you know if you’re having too much caffeine? Health Canada recommends that healthy adults should have no more than 400 milligrams per day. It is also important to remember that coffee alone is not going to produce the beneficial effects on health described above. A generally healthy lifestyle is key to reaping the benefits of every cup of coffee you drink.
Cedric Cruz, Contributor
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
One in every five Canadians will experience a mental illness in their lifetime. The remaining four will have a friend, family member, or colleague who will face a mental health crisis. Mental health is an essential part of an individual’s overall health. Given these numbers, it is important for everyone to take several simple steps to take care of and remain conscious of their mental health.
Physical exercise is recommended for everyone to keep themselves healthy. In the same way, mental exercise can take many forms but is equally as important. It helps a person cope with the stress that comes with fulfilling demanding responsibilities. For university students especially, these responsibilities generally include studying, employment, and maintaining meaningful relationships with family and friends.
The following are some simple mental exercises that can become part of your everyday life and will benefit your mental health.
A positive attitude is key. Staying energetic, happy, and relaxed, and surrounding yourself with positive people can benefit mental health.
“It puts the mind in a condition to succeed,” wrote Roger Fritz, author of The Power of a Positive Attitude. “It sharpens the perceptions and makes them keener. It gives you a renewal source. It turns you about so that you face toward your goal, toward certainty, toward confidence and assurance, instead of doubt, fear, and uncertainty.”
Exploring new experiences is another great mental exercise. Stress is a common cause of mental health issues, so try to step outside of your comfort zone and explore new places, activities, and ideas. Try to join a new club on campus, or take a different class as an elective. Trying new activities “can be a great stress reliever,” wrote psychologist Dr. Stephanie Smith. “It helps us break out of our normal patterns of behaviour.”
Building positive real-world relationships is also very important. Spend some time away from your cellphone and engage in face-to-face conversations with people who are great listeners and are generally upbeat, positive, and interested in you.
You should always remember to treat yourself. Take some time off to do the things you truly enjoy. Play a sport, watch a movie, read a book, or enjoy a good meal with or without friends.
It’s not difficult to take care of your mental health, but not doing so can have negative consequences for your life. Start doing these simple mental exercises today.
Herleen Sethi, Contributor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions’ men’s hockey team hosted their counterparts from Ryerson, University of Ontario Institute of Technology, and the University of Toronto at York’s annual hockey tournament this past Thursday and Friday.
The Lions defeated the Ryerson Rams on Thursday but lost to UofT Varsity Blues in Friday’s final.
“On both days we worked very hard,” says Lions head coach Chris Dennis. In Thursday’s game against the Rams, the Lions had two goals called back on them in the game, keeping the score at 0-0, and forcing the game to extend into overtime. “Our goalie was very good and got all the pucks out of the net during the shootout,” Dennis adds. The Lions managed to score one goal of their own in the shootout, ending the game with a 1-0 victory and qualifying to face the Varsity Blues in the tournament finals the following day.
Dennis explains Friday’s loss by pointing out that the Varsity Blues are “a very talented team” and that the Lions “were maybe a little bit worn down from the day before with injuries and somebody thrown out of the game.” The player injured during the game was the Lions’ experienced forward Mark Cross, who is also an assistant captain of the team. His teammate Trevor Petersen was removed from the game for a violation.
The Lions did manage to score early in the third quarter, but could not stop the Varsity Blues from defeating them by a final score of 4-1.
Currently in the preseason, the Lions’ men’s hockey team spends its time on the ice, practicing on a daily basis and playing non-conference games with Ontario University Athletics competitors.
Dennis, who has previously served as an assistant coach to the Toronto Maple Leafs and became the head coach of the Lions in June, is keenly aware of the strengths of his team. “I would say that we are a very deep team,” he says. “We have a lot of talent in every position. We have a tremendous work ethic, and a very tight-knit group, and a group that wants to get better.”
As for his team’s goals in this upcoming season, Dennis says that they would like to make the playoffs and “do some damage” in the postseason, but that this goal is not at the top of his agenda. “Where we finish and how we do that is secondary to just getting better and becoming the best team we can be.”
“It’s a good league and there are a lot of good teams, so it’s not going to be easy.” He plans to prepare his team to tackle any obstacles they may face by paying attention to detail and working out off the ice to stay as healthy as possible.
The Lions’ men’s hockey team’s season officially kicks off on October 10, when they face the Laurier Golden Hawks in Waterloo.
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The Lions’ men’s soccer team was defeated by a score of 1-0 by the Windsor Lancers on Saturday, September 26. It was the team’s first loss in the Ontario University Athletics competition in nearly two years, ending a 33-game winning streak which began in October 2013.
The Lions played strong and controlled possession throughout the game. Striker Michael Cox played especially well, coming close to scoring three times in the second half. “I think we created enough opportunities to win the game,” says Lions head coach Carmine Isacco, adding that the team nonetheless remained unable to score and that the Lancers had “one special moment and they capitalized it.”
That special moment came in the 89th minute, when Lancers rookie Jamar Redhead successfully managed to push a cross-pass into the net past Lions goalkeeper Colm Vance.
The Lancers are ranked eighth nationally in a ranking in which the Lions take first place. Though Isacco considers the Lancers a solid team, he does not believe that played the primary role in the outcome of the game. Rather, he emphasized that the Lions were “just a little complacent” and adds that they didn’t do well in the final part of the game.
The Lions had little time to brood over their loss as they were in action again the following day against the Western Mustangs who they defeated by a score of 3-1. Isacco called Sunday’s game a good response from the Lions to Saturday’s loss. “We had a chance to pick it up today. We played against a good Western team who probably played better than Windsor did the other day.”
Isacco points out that moving on from Saturday’s loss is the only way to go, and the team’s focus is now to ensure that they play at their best. “That doesn’t always guarantee that we’re going to win games,” he says. “But it guarantees that we can walk off the field with our heads held high.”
Though his team’s streak is now over, Isacco looks forward to the continued support from the York community.  He challenges York community members to come out to support the Lions for 31 games of any sport in a row, referring to the Lions’ 33-game winning streak which has just ended.
“We hope that they embrace us, regardless,” he says. “We hope that they come out and support us.”
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
