The federal election is only a few weeks away and questions remain as to whether the youth vote will make an appearance this time around.
Federal candidates have had three televised debates to date. However, between topics of economy and foreign policy, debates on student and youth issues were scarce, if at all visible.
Experts claim the last election came down to 14 ridings and approximately 6,201 votes. This year, these same ridings are being targeted by politicians like never before.
Twenty Ontario university presidents made a pledge to encourage the student vote last week. The Council of Ontario Universities made the announcement.
“Democratic societies are sustained by the commitment of all members of civil society to the culture, values, and institutions of democracy,” President Mamdouh Shoukri told Excalibur.
“Regrettably, participation among Canadian youth in recent elections has been disappointingly low. In the 2011 federal election, for example, voter turnout among youth aged 18 to 24 was only 39 per cent.”
“I strongly encourage each of our eligible York students, who are Canadian citizens aged 18 or older on election day, to become informed about the election issues and to participate in this democratic process.”
There will be a special Elections Canada office on campus in the Aviva Centre from October 5 to 8, open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. each day. Students from any riding will be able to vote at this special office.
The York Federation of Students has been working with students across the country on their “It’s No Secret” campaign in an effort to put forward student issues in the federal election.
Additionally, the campaign works to inform students about the logistics of voting, from registering to vote to the various ways students can cast their ballot.
“We hope to encourage students to vote through engaging them about the issues that are important to them in this federal election as well as providing students with the tools they need to head to the polls,” says Chenthoori Malankov, VP campaigns and advocacy.
Malankov says the Fair Elections Act (Bill C-23), a piece of legislation passed by the federal government last year, changes how Elections Canada can promote voting and will create barriers for many people, especially students, to vote in the upcoming election.
Since the summer, the YFS worked to get information about voting registration out to students to ensure they have what they need to vote.
Many argue the new laws will make voting harder for marginalized groups through different restrictions, such as acceptable identification for voting, as the traditional voucher system will no longer be accepted.
Additionally, the bill places the onus on political parties to engage youth and encourage youth voter turnout.
New amendments were added to the bill, as a result of the outrage expressed by citizens. The amendments include an alternative to vouching, allowing a voter without proof of address to sign a declaration and have it co-signed by another voter in their riding.
Different political clubs will be tabling during the YorkFest campus walk, from Conservatives, to Liberals, New Democrats, and socialists.
“As students we have the power to make change,” says Malankov.
“Together we can ensure that student issues and post-secondary education are priorities in this election and beyond.
On October 19, or during one of the many advanced polling days, we as students need to get out and make our voices heard.”
Ryan Moore, News Editor
Feaured image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
 


Now that’s sublte! Great to hear from you.

 York University Community Newspaper 
York’s commuter campus is cursed with being an overcrowded mess, which explains why students join the crowd that forms their bus line as soon as they’re done class. They say that the friends you make in university are the ones you’ll have for life, but if you’re part of such an overcrowded campus, making friends can be hard. That is, until you join a club.
Whether they focus on your major, your future career plans (like say, Excalibur), or simply to pursue your hobbies, clubs are a great chance to meet new people. Student organizations provide a framework for interactions. If you struggle to make conversation, there is always one thing you’ll have in common: the club.
For photography enthusiasts, majoring in visual art and art history may not be an option, but that doesn’t mean you can’t get involved on campus.
The photography club at York is the only recognized organization of its kind on the Keele campus. Formed in 2013, the club aims to encourage learning and exploration of all aspects of photography through workshops, contests, and guest lecturers. Their 11-part workshop series covers topics from art movements of photography, to form, composition, and photojournalism.
“We have different things, we start with presentations for people, to understanding the technical side to photography,” says Laith Zidan, a second-year human resource management student who serves as the events coordinator.
“Anyone can join.”
Events are still being planned for the year. With no prerequisite for skills or equipment, everyone is welcome. “You don’t need a DSLR to take great photographs, just a curiosity and passion for the art of photography” reads the photography club’s website.
Although a DSLR might seem like an advantage, a strong eye for photographs serves better than pricey equipment. With today’s smartphones, Instagram, and Snapchat, content and composition matters just as much as your megapixel count.
It’s time to step your Insta game up.
 
[su_heading size=”21″]Follow Excalibur on Instagram 
[/su_heading]
Victoria Goldberg, Arts Editor
Featured image courtesy of Michael Zusev
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Fourth-year printmaking and photography student Danny Cirne opens his first photography exhibition, Neo-Spaces, offering a glimpse into domestic landscapes that have been transformed through the use of tinted light bulbs.
Inspired by Danish director Nicolas Winding Refn and his specific lighting palettes, the exhibit displays photos that seem to be digitally recoloured. Except Cirne did not alter any of the photos.
“The colours that you see in these images are from the action of switching out regular fixtures with a tinted variation and then documenting that action through timed exposures,” says Cirne. “All colour is coming from the light source. There is absolutely no manipulation in post-production of the intensity to colours nor the appearance of such colours.”
The photographs present the private and intimate locations of a home, subjects, and locations that are not typically documented nor visually interesting.
Originally a printmaking student, Cirne only began to experiment with photography as a medium last year.

“It was actually through print media and using photographs though more
print-related processes that photography found itself in my work. Neo-Spaces essentially has been the first time I’ve used photography as its own medium,” says Cirne.
With the support and assistance of professors, students, and alumni at the visual arts department, Cirne bought a DSLR and began to utilize photography as a part of his studies.
Originally Cirne strived to present a domestic environment in very vivid, almost obnoxious colours. After realizing his photographs in print, Cirne says his plan came to fruition, particularly in the emotional impact that the colour changes bring. Colour palettes can have an impact on a person’s perception, although the science of colour psychology is still being researched. The notion that specific colours can alter moods and behaviours is often used in marketing, branding, filmmaking, and especially photography.
Neo-Spaces is part of an ongoing solo photography exhibition held at the Special Projects Gallery in the Joan and Martin Goldfarb Centre for Fine Arts on the Keele Campus. The exhibit is free and open until October 2.
Victoria Goldberg, Arts Editor
Featured and in text images courtesy of Danny Cirne
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
On March 25, 1988, Sean Michael Leonard Anderson was born. Twenty-seven years, 187 days, three albums, and five awards later, Big Sean performed at the Aviva Centre on Keele campus.
And the people loved it.
Despite Excalibur‘s recent coverage of Big Sean’s controversial past, the York community was not phased. The Aviva Centre was exploding at the seams, with a line wrapping around the entire venue, leaving students waiting in a crowd outside the door.
Wearing white denim shirt and a matching zip-up, Big Sean was centre stage. In a 50 minute set list, Big Sean performed a medley of songs, including “My Last,” “One Man Can Change The World,” and the infamous “I Don’t Fuck with You.”
As a free concert, you can’t assume that the entire audience are Big Sean fans. It was obvious to see from the mindless head-bobbing that Big Sean wasn’t performing to his biggest fans.
Until the last song, “I Don’t Fuck With You.” Let’s say that there is something unsettling about hearing almost 3,000 people chanting such profanities.
His other lyrics might not be interpreted as punny, particularly to an audience that is sensitive to sexual assaults: “I got your dream girl, yeah she actin’ like a ho at that,”, “Stunting on hoes, I stunt with my bros…When all I did was safe sex, latex, the first time I slipped up, wished I had a homemade AIDS test, fuck. But I aint flunk once,” and the entire lyrics to “How Many Times,” describing his romantic encounters as “she fuck me like she want the rent paid.”
It is shocking how the YFS would allow Big Sean to perform to a crowd that is constantly bombarded with consent and anti-sexual assault agenda.
Regardless of his lyrics, his affiliations, or his actions, it is clear that the York community wanted to see him. Big Sean tweeted about the event:

Thank u York University for the luv! I heard there were another 8,000 kids outside that didn’t get in n I’m mad about it!!!
— Big Sean (@BigSean) September 29, 2015

To those students, allow us to say, you didn’t miss much.
In the moments between songs when Sean would address the audience, it felt insincere. He wasn’t grateful or happy to be there. It seemed like he was paid to say that he loved Toronto. It felt fake and downright cheap. He thanked his fans, mother, and late grandmother, saying that if it weren’t for them, he wouldn’t be where he is today.
Big Sean walked back and forth across the stage, without really connecting to the audience. Despite his lackluster performance, a longer set list would have allowed a chance for the crowd outside to catch a glimpse of Big Sean.
It would have been a different performance if a Toronto-based upcoming artist was selected. An artist with a smaller ego might not have brought in this many people, but would at least provide a killer show. A performer must do that, perform. They must make a connection with us and appreciate our time and ears. What Big Sean gave us was a C+ performance when we were expecting an A+.
Alicia Del Ros, Contributor
Victoria Goldberg, Arts Editor
Featured image courtesy of Liam Higgins
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
