The Lions men’s volleyball team routed the Windsor Lancers and Western Mustangs over the past weekend as they kicked off their 2015 regular season. The Lions defeated the Lancers by a score of 3-1 at Tait McKenzie Centre on Friday afternoon, and the Lions put down the Mustangs by a score of 3-2 the following day.
“I feel that the games we played this weekend have shown the coaches, my teammates and I, and especially other Ontario University Athletics teams that we can compete and even dominate,” says Arthur Szwarc.
Members of the York community were there to see it as well. “Volleyball hasn’t ever really been a popular sport here at York,” says Szwarc, “but even at our home opener, we all noticed a lot more fans than last year.” He hopes to see that kind of support throughout the season.
A second-year outside hitter for the Lions, Szwarc excelled on the court in both games. He recorded five kills and nine blocks on Friday and 16 kills, two aces, and nine blocks on Saturday. He was supported by team captain Alexander Duncan-Thibault, a fourth-year veteran among a group of talented but relatively young and inexperienced players.
In his rookie season last year, Szwarc performed exceptionally well, earning OUA all-rookie team honours before making a name for himself on the national stage. He was named to the Canadian U21 team, and represented Canada in the off-season at the International University Sports Federation Games in South Korea and the U21 International Volleyball Federation World Championship in Mexico.
He believes that knowing someone with that kind of experience is on one’s team “gives everyone a mental boost, but more importantly, an offensive boost.” And offence, he says, is the team’s greatest strength.
Moving forward, Szwarc identifies the team’s lack of experience as an obstacle that they will have to overcome to achieve their goals. “We are a younger team,” he says. “This puts us at a disadvantage when facing the older teams. They have more experience.”
However, the team has a lot of momentum to carry over into their regular season. Last year, they finished fourth in OUA standings and won the OUA bronze medal. They then made it to the Canadian Interuniversity Sport championship tournament for the first time since 2005. In this year’s preseason they went 5-6 and won the silver medal at a tournament hosted by Humber College.
And as of Saturday, the Lions are one of only two teams in the OUA so far with a 2-0 record in the regular season. After such a successful opening weekend, Szwarc knows that other OUA teams will be targeting the Lions as a team to take down. “We accept the challenges and look forward to facing every team,” he says.
“Most importantly, this weekend has been a good confidence booster for all of us, and gets us the winning feeling, which then gets us closer to our main goal: nationals.”
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
As October rolled in, the crowd in front of the TV in York Lanes started to get bigger. The topic of conversation in the Student Centre started to change. Students started to skip their classes for a different reason. Blue shirts and baseball caps suddenly seemed a lot more popular.
That all came to an end this past Friday when the Toronto Blue Jays were knocked out of the American League Championship Series in Game 6 by the Kansas City Royals. But though life for baseball fans at York is set to gradually return to normal after the heartbreaking loss, many are proud of what the Jays have achieved this season.
“I personally think that this was an amazing season,” says third-year student Jeff McKeown. Many fans feel that the Jays’ success this season stood out especially because of their failure in recent years. “You think back to all the years of mediocrity and how this team couldn’t get anything going,” says Jaabir Patel. “This year they just took off.”
The season didn’t start off that way though. At the beginning, says McKeown, it was “nothing fancy, a win here and there and a relatively empty stadium.” But things started to change for the better halfway through the season when the Jays acquired blue-chip stars such as David Price, Troy Tulowitzki, and Ben Revere.
“They acquired some great talent and the team’s chemistry was different than it had been for the past 22 years,” says Jessica Habkirk, also a third year student. The mention of the past 22 years was prominent in discussions of the Jays’ performance as they came within two games of clinching their spot in the World Series for the first time since 1993.
“Add some great stats and a knack for clinch situations,” adds Habkirk, “and you’ve got a team that keeps you at the edge of your seat.”
The reaction in Toronto and across Canada was euphoric as the Jays started to pick up their game on their way into the playoffs. “It could be argued that they united a large part of the country and certainly us here [in Toronto],” says Habkirk. “The city was electric with excitement and that fact contributed to their success.”
“The city of Toronto has longed for a dominant team in any sport,” adds Patel, pointing out the poor performance of the Maple Leafs in hockey and the Raptors in basketball in the past decade.
“Now you have the Jays that became the best team in baseball, hands down.”
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The York Lions women’s soccer team finished off their regular season on Sunday with a spectacular 11-0 victory over the Algoma University Thunderbirds at York Stadium. The team has achieved a 15-0-1 record this season, leading the Ontario University Athletics West Division for the first time since 2009. The game was also the final one for the nine graduating Lions players who were honoured before it began.
The Lions dominated possession of the ball throughout the game and put on a clinic offensively. They scored their first goal just five minutes into the game and followed it up with four more by halftime. The momentum then carried into the second half, in which the Lions found the back of the Thunderbirds’ net six more times. One of these was the first goal of the season for rookie Farkhunda Muhtaj, who is considered a rising threat in centre field.”
The Lions’ fifth-year forward Colleen Beesley and fourth-year striker Nour Ghoneim were the stars of the game. Beesley scored five goals in total, including the final four of the game. She went on a scoring spree in the second half, scoring three goals less than a minute apart from each other and doubling her season total of goals scored.
Ghoneim scored a hat-trick and finished the game as the OUA leader in scoring, with 18 goals in 16 games. Ghoneim, who was the OUA and Canadian Interuniversity Sport rookie of the year in 2012 and the OUA West MVP in 2014, continues to perform outstandingly in her career with the Lions.
The nine graduating players honoured included Sarah Wong, described as one of the most dominant midfielders in Canada, and Shannon Wood, who has played in every Lions game for the past five seasons, has been named the OUA West all-star for the past three years, and has excelled in her studies at York.
With a successful regular season now behind them, the Lions look forward to taking their domination on the soccer field to the OUA playoffs which begin in November.
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
