
 


You write so hostenly about this. Thanks for sharing!

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
York is known as a commuter school, and many students are no strangers to the red and white buses that circulate York, which are frequently delayed, overcrowded and overpriced.
Students and faculty are travelling miles upon miles to get to campus, making the daily use of transit a necessity. Despite many students’ growing financial burdens, the TTC continues to increase fares. In 2016, the TTC’s decision to raise fares occurred in the beginning of January. While Metropass prices remained the same, the transit board approved a 25 cent increase to the adult cash fare, a 10 cent increase to the cost of a token, a 50 cent increase to family/day passes and a $1.50 increase to both adult weekly passes and downtown express stickers.
“Like many people, I believe that [the TTC] is very expensive and underdeveloped. Toronto is a big city area-wise, and comparing it to other urban centres such as New York City, London or Istanbul, the subway system needs so much improvement as well as lower fare prices,” says Mert Beloglu, third-year accounting student.
Toronto now has the most expensive monthly pass in Canada, priced at $141.50. The Toronto Star reported that Torontonians will have to ride the TTC more than 50 times per month to make the Metropass worth its price. With the increase in cash fare and the price of tokens, the TTC will still have to address a $30 million deficit through an increase in the subsidy it gets from the city.
While children are allowed to ride for free, there is no discount provided to low-income riders as in many other Canadian cities; Calgary offers a 95 per cent discount to its monthly pass for residents living in extreme poverty. Despite this, the TTC is again considering increasing fares to make up for lost costs, as it claims that it receives the smallest subsidy in North America.
“I am an international student and for me paying about $3.25 for a ride seems stupid. If I have to go to downtown then it makes sense, but sometimes going from one stop to the other [and paying that much] seems outrageous,” says Latika Verma, second-year communications student.
The TTC is beginning to phase out older fare media such as tokens and tickets and move forward with the PRESTO fare card system. Many TTC buses are now accepting PRESTO as a form of payment, however it is still encouraged to bring cash in case of a glitch. The old fare media will be accepted until mid-2017.
TTC users are not happy when it comes to the lack of reliably and inconsistency in their transit conditions. With the winter months approaching, commuters are dreading the delays and tentative bus schedules. Enduring the elements of a Canadian winter only makes matters worse. Waiting for a bus can change from a 10 minute expenditure to 25 minutes; busses seemingly go in and out of service with no warning, and the winding lines in the York Commons are surely a foreshadow of your inevitable sardine-like packing into a bus.
Commuters are left in the dust, wondering if the transit system serves them or the owners.
In 2015, the TTC broke its record of highest all-time total number of riders with 538 million. Kadeem Griffiths, TTC communications advisor, says that they are taking action to increase capacity, such as the automatic train control system coming in 2019.
“The [Toronto-York Spadina Subway Extension Project], which is scheduled to open in late 2017, will have a subway station on the York University Campus and will help with any increased demand for transit for students traveling to and from the campus,” he adds.
With six fare hikes in six years, the unpredictability and unreliability in TTC prices and times are leaving many people looking for alternative methods of transportation. TTCriders, a grassroots transit advocacy organization, is encouraging Toronto residents to stand up against the prices and conditions of the TTC. On October 26, they are hosting an event at City Hall to protest the cost of fares for individuals in need of social assistance, including low-income families, seniors and students.
With files from Arfi Hagiyusuf
 


You’re the grtsteae! JMHO

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The men’s and women’s hockey teams were in action this week, as the men played on Thursday and Saturday, while the women played on Saturday and Sunday.
In Thursday’s game, the men were facing off against the Guelph Gryphons in Guelph. With just under six minutes to play in the first period, the Lions drew first blood with Derek Sheppard’s third goal of the season, assisted by Greg Milner and Trevor Petersen.
Less than three minutes later, York added a goal courtesy of Petersen and assisted by Daniel Nikandrov and Nick Zottl.
Guelph opened the scoring six minutes into the second period to cut the Lions’ lead to one, but York added an empty net goal with under a minute to play, putting the game out of Guelph’s reach.
York goalie Mack Shields was sensational, saving 33 of the 34 shots he faced in the win.
On Saturday, Ryerson opened the scoring with just 10 seconds left in the first period, giving them a one-goal lead they would take into the break.
However, York didn’t have to wait long to respond, as Petersen scored his fourth goal of the season two minutes into the second to tie things up at one.
At the end of regulation, the score was still tied, which meant overtime was needed. However, neither team was able to break the stalemate in the first overtime, meaning we were heading to double overtime.
Just four minutes into the extra extra frame, Sheppard was able to sneak a shot past the Rams goalie to give the Lions the 2-1 win.
Shields was spectacular once again, saving 26 of 27 shots, including five saves in overtime.
With the win, the Lions are now 4-2 on the season and have won their last four games.
Earlier on Saturday, the women played the Brock Badgers at home, but neither team was able to find the back of the net in the first period.
The Badgers opened the scoring in the second period with a flurry of three unanswered goals coming nine, 12 and 18 minutes into the frame, respectively.
With seven minutes left in the game, the Lionesses finally answered Brock’s three goals with one courtesy of Erin Locke, who found the back of the net for the second time this season to end the Badger’s shutout. Unfortunately, that was York’s only goal of the game, and Brock went on to win by a final score of 3-1.
The women played again on Sunday, looking to even out their record against Ryerson.
The Rams’ Ailish Forfar opened the scoring with just over five minutes left in the first period, but less than two minutes later, the Lionesses evened the score with a goal from Leah Hibbert, assisted by Kelsey McHolm and Avery Reeves.
Both men’s and women’s teams won nail-biting games against Gryphons and Rams.
York opened the scoring midway through the second courtesy of Dana Somerville, assisted by McHolm and Taylor Davison.
Despite being outshot by York in the third, it was Ryerson who found the back of the net just after the midway point, evening the score and forcing overtime.
Neither team was able to break the tie, sending the game to double overtime. York was outshot 3-0 in the second overtime, but managed to preserve the tie and force a shootout.
York’s first shooter was Rianna Langford, who beat the goalie and gave York a 1-0 lead. Ryerson’s first shooter missed, but York’s second shooter, Tegan Duncan, also missed.
Ryerson’s second shooter missed again, but a goal from Somerville beat the Rams goalie and gave the Lionesses a 3-2 win.
The men’s next game is Friday at home against Brock starting at 7 p.m., while the women play again Saturday at home against Laurentian at 2 p.m.
 


Cheers pal. I do aprcpeiate the writing.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Casually arranged seats, a lit stage and glittery garments magically transformed Buddies in Bad Times Theatre’s cabaret space for Sh!t I’m in Love with You Again. The musical comedy, written by, directed by and starring Rachelle Elie, with musical accompaniment by Luke Jackson, teased and thrilled audiences from October 18 to 23.
The show started with Elie in a vibrant dress, descending a staircase as she took centre stage. Her gleeful and welcoming demeanor as she made her way through showgoers set the tone for the whole night. Sh!t I’m in Love with You Again was going to be fun, upbeat and relaxed.
No stranger to comedy, Elie filled the room with her sexual jigs and honest storytelling. As Elie glided across the stage and changed her costumes, she shared her love woes and awkward sexual encounters. Her stories of falling in love with a poet and then with her husband, aka “the voice,” resonated with the audience.
The lighting added an important formal element to the performance, following Elie’s every move, adding drama to her stories and illuminating key parts in the show. Even if Elie’s sharp humour and jokes did not connect with all present, the theatrics of the setup—costume, lighting, sound and staging—were aesthetically pleasing.
Elie shares everything in Sh!t I’m in Love with You Again, from her parents falling in and out of love, discovering her own sexuality in adolescence, to getting married, having kids and traveling. This vulnerability, along with guest interactions throughout the show, stressed the importance of love being rooted in communication. The casual and intimate setup could have backfired if audience members didn’t connect with the production, but Elie overcame this with her performance. She maintained eye contact with the audience throughout the night, creating a welcoming environment where people could feel comfortable to laugh, sing along or disagree.
Sh!t I’m in Love with You Again centers around Elie’s energetic performance, but what makes the show special is its message. The comedy show doesn’t shy from diverging from the fairytale story about a man and woman meeting and falling in love. Elie’s one-woman performance shows that, more than anything, love is not about getting your happily ever after.
Elie’s storytelling lets us know that it’s okay to hate your partner at times or to change your mind. It’s okay to leave a relationship that you’re not happy in, as is the case with her mother and father, or try to make things work with your partner as Elie does with her husband. Both are equally acceptable responses to falling out of love.
It’s easy to fall prey to notions of what a relationship, love or partner should look like. Remember that there is no ideal relationship to hold yours up to.
The only measure of your happiness or love is yourself.
When your resolve weakens in February, Elie and Jackson will be putting on a Valentine’s Day Rag Bag Cabaret on February 14. The night promises to dish out music, burlesque, clowns and magic.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Cramped office spaces in the Student Centre and apparent lack of communication see clubs demanding greater transparency in the way space is allocated each year. Over 50 student clubs are housed in the Student Centre, or YUSC, but their office spaces are renewed annually on an application basis.
“Office allocations are determined by an allocation committee comprised of the YUSC Chairperson, YUSC Executive Director, YUSC Executive Officer, YUSC Clubs and Services Representative and YFS President or YFS VP Equity and Services,” reads YUSC’s online statement on club office spaces.
“There are more student clubs and organizations than available office spaces. Since office space is in high demand, it is allocated annually,” the website continues.
Nikessa Joseph, promotions representative for the Caribbean Student Association, or CSA, says her club deserves more space because it has a large and active membership.
“As far as I know, space allocation is based off of membership, events [and] presence on campus. And I feel like not only CSA, but all cultural clubs are somewhat brushed under the rug when it comes to assessing each club for space allocation and renewal,” alleges Joseph.
“I think the process needs to be better outlined and defined. The persons who are in charge of making these decisions [should] follow through with all steps of the process and properly assess each and every club and association, both cultural and non-cultural,” she asserts.
Nirinina Ngartola, vice president of the African Student Association, says the allocation committee should be more flexible with their deadlines and accommodation of new clubs who may not be fully aware of the process. “It’s just really sad when we see a club not having an office space for a whole year just because they missed the deadline the year before,” she says.
“The process definitely needs to be more transparent and less bureaucratic, because we are all students and we are trying our best to keep our club active for our members and us,” she adds.
While clubs with offices press for more clarity and accountability in the space delegation process, other clubs, including Hasbara at York, a pro-Israel advocacy group, have no space at all.
Hasbara president Rena Silver says it has been a difficult process to be granted office space, remarking that club members could really utilize the space if they had it.
“If there were a reason provided or additional steps for next time listed with the rejection, that would likely make it easier for us to understand why we were denied space and how we could attain it for the upcoming year,” she says.
Despite being handed the short end of the stick, clubs continue their efforts to remain active on campus.
“We work as a board in temporary spaces, room bookings, and Internet forums. We use our executives homes to store things we can’t keep at school,” adds Silver.
“We have no choice but to manage.”
The YFS and YUSC did not respond to repeated requests for comments.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
