 
Social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram are some of the biggest influencers in today’s society. With the world becoming much more connected, social media seems to be the glue that holds us together, keeping us connected and aware.
Perhaps this is most clearly seen in the political realm. Twitter updates, Instagram posts and Facebook statuses are allowing us to share our thoughts and opinions. One of the best examples of this is the American presidential campaign. Through the generation of memes and witty tweets from users regarding highly political topics, it appears that there are a lot more people involved in politics online. But does this translate into actual action from posts to polls?
Social media has changed the way politics operates, allowing voters to listen to messages from potential leaders and also engage and interact with their content on a wider scale. Platforms like Facebook and Twitter allow voters to turn into what would otherwise be seen as political jargon into comedic, digestible relief. These platforms play a crucial and significant role in reaching young voters and capturing the millennial generation’s vote.
“When we look at the social media areas frequented by youth, we see it is the same where the meme culture is rooted,” says Andrew Ashley, a second-year political science student and City of Toronto Youth Councillor candidate for Ward 2.
“I remember when I missed the first [American] presidential debate, I saw a meme on Instagram of Hillary and I was immediately excited to watch the debate. So meme culture is a good way of getting youth to watch the political developments,” he adds.
Social media serves the voters as a way of expressing their interests in issues they care about, and in particular, how they’re being handled and how they will be addressed in the future. In recent political debates, voters have used Twitter, Instagram and Facebook to send in questions for candidates. In this bottom-up level of participation, voters’ issues are actually brought to the attention of candidates and addressed in unprecedented ways.
Dennis Pilon, professor in the Department of Political Science, explains that social media is a tool: “It doesn’t do anything on its own, it depends on what people do with it.”
Facebook and Twitter provide vast amounts of political information and reveal many opinions, conveyed in sometimes mocking or comical ways. It is tools such as these that have transformed 20th century politics.
“Relating the political world into meme language and culture does influence voter turnout. We live in a technological and social media world, where the meme culture [hits] home,” explains Ashley.
While social media, and meme culture specifically, plays a vital role in fostering youth engagement with politics, Pilon states that in comparison to traditional forms of voter contact, such as personal contact, social media takes a backseat and should be used as a follow up. In order to foster youth involvement and actual concern in politics, the implementation of political courses must be further integrated into the education system.
Ashley credits Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for recognizing the need for political awareness in youth, creating the Prime Minister’s Youth Council, which will act as a way to integrate youth into politics.
“When youths are more exposed to the political language, there is a higher chance of them becoming more interested in politics. Furthermore, they would be able to understand the terminologies being used on the news. Having these courses also makes youth more aware and [understand] the vitality of getting involved in politics,” says Ashley.
Instead of relying solely on social media as a source of information, we must see it as an asset, not the whole picture. As younger generations take to the polls to cast their votes, we must recognize that the influence of social media is widespread and while it serves as a great source of access to resources, political agendas and current issues, it should remain a secondary source.
 


These topics are so conufsing but this helped me get the job done.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Last week, York launched its Mental Health Strategy, the culmination of a project initiated in 2012 by York’s Mental Health Action Group.
“York has recognized the needs of students and opened up the conversation on how they can better support their students. The first step to destigmatize mental illnesses is to understand and accept that there are students who need support,” says Aarifa Fakih, co-head of York’s Mental Health and Stress Team.
Part of the reason for the Mental Health Strategy was to combat the stigma around mental illness. Mental illness is considered by many to be a taboo subject, and the Mental Health Strategy intends to destigmatize the way we think about mental
illness.
“Having a mental illness doesn’t define who a person is, and asking how you can support someone is one of the most helpful things you can do. Seeking support for yourself, whether you have a mental illness or not, is important in caring for your own mental health as well,” says Eileen Bang, co-head of the Mental Health and Stress Team.
Part of the reason we don’t talk about mental illness is because it is often seen as a sign of weakness. People are often afraid to talk about how they’re feeling for fear of being criticized or told to “just get over it.” This is magnified by the fact that mental illness isn’t necessarily a visible ailment. If you saw someone wearing a cast, you wouldn’t tell them to “just get over it.” However, that is often how we react to mental illness, and stems from a lack of understanding.
Another reason people avoid talking about their mental health is that people suffering from mental illness can fall into blaming themselves for their condition, and can even begin to feel like a burden to their friends and family. This negative perception can cause a person to isolate themselves, which only exacerbates the problem.
Bang believes the lack of understanding of mental illness is one of the main causes of the stigma around the affliction. She feels that people who often don’t know much about mental illness hear the negative things we associate with it and develop an inaccurate understanding of what it is. This in turn causes people to feel ashamed to talk about mental illness, and creates misconceptions that are not addressed.
Fakih feels that students also play an important part in destigmatizing mental illness.
She says that some steps students can take to facilitate an open dialogue on mental illness are to be aware that mental illnesses are legitimate health concerns, to support their friends and colleagues who are suffering from mental illnesses and to be open to receiving support themselves, to keep an open mind and be willing to actually talk about mental illness and what it entails.
The Mental Health Strategy is built around the fundamental principles of leadership, planning and promotion, campus engagement and service delivery. It intends to establish a mentally healthy campus for students and staff by “embedding mental health in the classroom; developing new and improved services; building the skills of community members so they can identify when help is needed and provide direction on when and where to find it; and supporting mental health before help is needed,” according to Mental Health Strategy literature.
“I’m really excited about the recent launch, since the main goal of the Mental Health Strategy is to connect students to resources on campus by making them more accessible. There are so many resources students can reach out to, but if they are not promoted, students will never know where and how to access them. I am hoping that the increased promotion of these resources will encourage students to access whatever support they need,” says Fakih.
 


Thanks for intdnruciog a little rationality into this debate.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Nowadays, there’s an app for anything and everything. Are you lonely or cold and need someone to cuddle with? Do you, for some reason, want to track all the places you’ve used a washroom? Do you find pleasure in popping pimples but have run out of ones of your to own to pop or willing pop-ees? Not surprisingly, there are apps to satisfy all these weird urges and pleasures.
Alejandro Mayoral-Banos, an Indigenous scholar doing his PhD in communication and culture, is using apps to make meaningful connections. When Mayoral-Banos first arrived in Canada from Mexico, he faced discrimination and exclusion. After meeting other Indigenous students at York and hearing their stories of otherness, Mayoral-Banos realized that the struggle of finding and maintaining community, and creating culture and art was something they all shared.
Mayoral-Banos developed an Indigenous app for York and University of Manitoba students to combat this problem. “The Indigenous Friends app is an application seeking to generate safe spaces for Indigenous youth,” he says.
“It aims to provide access to traditional counseling, generate social networking and provide information about resources and events around Indigenous lives. It allows young Indigenous students and community members to build networks for sharing information and supporting other peers in their life journey.”
Crucial to the formal structure and design of Mayoral-Banos’ app is a deep understanding of Indigenous culture and the art of building homes and communities.
“This application was developed through the incorporation of the Indigenous knowledge of tipis within a software development methodology. In the same way you raise a tipi is how you develop an Indigenous mobile application,” he says.
While creating the app, Mayoral-Banos depended on the input and participation of community elders, faculty, staff, alumni and traditional knowledge keepers.
“When a person crosses the door of a tipi, that human being is accepting the protocols of the tipi’s owners in the regard to the behaviours, beliefs and values that must be followed inside such shelter. Therefore, to access this tipi/mobile application, you must follow the protocols within Indigenous Friends.”
The Indigenous Friends app compensates for the lack of physical space and representation for Indigenous people at York and across Canada with a technological space for Indigenous people to connect. Much of Indigenous culture and art centres around community and kin relationships, making it difficult for artists to create when they feel isolated or disconnected from their communities.
Aspiring to bring together various Indigenous people across Canada, the app has the ability to overcome issues of abandonment and loneliness that many teens face. The app can also function as an online gallery; artists can share their creations in a space that aesthetically takes into account their perspectives in its construction.
Art galleries that display Aboriginal art provide a home for Indigenous artists, allowing them to have a voice and educate the masses on Indigenous history and culture.
However, these galleries and exhibits often feature works that are transported away from their place of inception or displayed in areas where they are predominantly viewed by non-Indigenous people.
In such contexts where art becomes a spectacle for others as opposed to an expression of faith or tradition among Indigenous people, we risk preserving the artifacts of a culture without the meaning associated with the objects.
“We have created different [measures] to keep this space safe and free of discrimination and harassment,” adds Mayoral-Banos.
One of these measures is how users sign up for the app. In order for York students to register, users must identify as an Indigenous person and hold a free of charge membership tag from the Centre for Aboriginal Students Services.
The app provides its users with access to traditional counseling through crisis buttons screens that allow them to communicate with elders or traditional counselors.
For Indigenous students who may feel isolated and as though they have no one close by to reach out to, the app features a directory of Indigenous people who are around them. There are chats and public forums for like-minded individuals to share information and engage in conversations.
Mayoral-Banos anticipates that the app will influence hundreds of Aboriginal students in different disciplines who are struggling with their identities. It will provide a space for people to connect and also shape how Indigenous software and hardware methodologies are shaped in the future.
“The largest challenge of developing the Indigenous Friends app was reconciling Indigenous knowledge with technology because the latter has been used several times to colonize Indigenous cultures,” says Mayoral-Banos.
He reports that it was hard to translate the role of animal clans into the general conceptualization of roles in apps. Standardized methods of developing roles in apps are based on administrators and users, whereas Mayoral-Banos’ app infuses Indigenous understandings of roles into the functionality of the application.
“These roles are trying to balance the levels of power inside mobile application,” says Mayoral-Banos. “There is not a ‘superuser’ role, which can do all the actions within the app. The responsibilities and duties are distributed among the users.”
By attacking the form of applications, the Indigenous Friends app ensures that it’s not reproducing problematic structures of oppression. It’s technologically savvy while also showing that it’s possible for communities to exist without blatant power hierarchies.
The app is up and running but is still in its testing phase. People who identify as Indigenous can download the app at the Apple Store and Google Play Store for free.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
York wants to change the way you think about refugees, inviting a starstudded cast to host the Re-imagining Refuge symposium at Glendon last Monday.
Panelists included Liberal MPP Shafiq Qaadri, York President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri, President of Universities Canada Paul Davidson and the Right Honourable Adrienne Clarkson, Canada’s 26th governor general, among other academics.
Shoukri emphasized the importance of discussing the plight of refugees, as it is a meaningful moral and academic issue. York volunteered to host the Universities of Canada event in honour of Canada’s 150th anniversary, which is fitting as York has a Centre for Refugee Studies.
Clarkson presented the keynote address, detailing her experiences as a refugee from Japanese-occupied Hong Kong. She highlighted her experience with education, integration and government policies and spoke about the struggles immigrants face.
Organizer Christina Clark-Kazak said the goal was to think of creative solutions to address issues surrounding the large-scale movement of people.
She also stressed changing the discourse of refugees to think of them as human beings who come with capacity, talent, education and challenges. The discussion of refugees as being a burden is dehumanizing, according to Clark-Kazak.
“They’re coming and bringing huge amounts of talent and perspectives,” says Clark-Kazak.
“We’re doing it for humanitarian reasons, but also as a society benefiting from migration.”
The event ended in a panel discussion called Re-imagining Locally, Nationally and Globally, with Jennifer Hyndman, director of the Centre for Refugee Studies, Loly Rico, president of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants and co-director of the Faithful Companions of Jesus Refugee Centre, and Mary Jo Leddy, founder of refugee shelter Romero House.
Leddy and Hyndman presented different struggles of refugees and migration, including finding affordable housing and places where refugees are allowed to work.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
With the kids trick-or-treating and everyone telling you “watch out for clowns,” Halloween is right around the corner and that means loads and loads of candy, AMC horror movie marathons and you guessed it?costume parties. For those of you in a costume crisis and don’t know what to be, here are a few artsy Halloween costume ideas that play on film, comic book characters, music, television and pop culture.
The Chanels: Any Scream Queen fans? Wear a lot of pastel colours, preferably pink and some fur and bold accessories to pull off the look of the show’s group of mean girls. Add some earmuffs for Chanel #3 and you’re good to go. 
Harley and Poison Ivy: Whether or not you saw Suicide Squad this summer or liked the movie’s villains or plot, most of us can agree that Harley Quinn has inspired many costume ideas this fall. Avoid the already-cliche duo of the Joker and Harley Quinn this Halloween and opt instead for a Poison Ivy and Harley Quinn combination. Poison Ivy is one of Harley Quinn’s love interest in the DC world, and you don’t often see the two paired together on Halloween. Harley Quinn is a fairly easy look to accomplish. Visit any costume store and you will be sure to find her matching set, baseball bat, face makeup and iconic gun. Or, make a DIY project out of it and dye your hair Harley Quinn’s iconic bubble gum colours, put your hair in two pigtails, customize some crop tops and shorts, coat your face in white face paint and slap on some red lipstick. Poison Ivy costumes are a staple at most costume stores. All you really need however is a green dress, green makeup and red hair. Spruce it up with some fake leaves and voila! You and your partner are ready to take on any Halloween party.
Cookie and Lucious: Speaking of iconic duos, any Empire fans? Why not go as Cookie and Lucious this Halloween. Cookie’s look is fairly simple. A generous serving of flashy accessories with a heaping side of fur and you’re good to go. For Lucious, a black suit, slicked back hair, a mustache and goatee will do. 
The Get Down cast: Netflix offers a bevy of characters to choose from with this hit, hip musical drama. Suit up in some bell-bottom jeans, a red jacket and don’t forget to pick your afro to be the groovy Ezekiel. Or wear a red shirt, bell-bottom jeans, a red hat and some red Pumas if you want to be Shaolin.
Archer: You’re never too old for cartoons, especially if those cartoons involve an alcoholic spy and his dysfunctional coworkers. To pull off Archer’s look, it’s more about nailing his demeanor and attitude than getting a costume. Slicked back hair and a black suit are all you need, and maybe a bottle of alcohol as an extra touch. To make this costume come to life, yell “Lana,” “mother,” “phrasing” and other typical Archer phrases. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
