Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of RT
Calls for a boycott rang out during Israeli Apartheid Week as a group representing black graduate students made allegations against Students Against Israeli Apartheid’s guest speaker Rania Khalek, an independent journalist and activist whom they accused of being “notoriously anti-black.”
York University Black Graduate Student’s Collective posted an anti-black racism bulletin on March 23, the same day that Khalek was to deliver a lecture called The Weapon’s Lab: Israeli Apartheid and the Arms Trade. According to SAIA, Khalek was invited to give a lecture on how Israel uses Palestine as a laboratory for weapons and methods of domination and control, which are then exported to other parts of the world.
BGSC’s bulletin calls for a boycott of Khalek’s lecture, stating it is their policy whenever a speaker with a history of committing emotional, social, and or physical violence against groups of black people. However, the event proceeded as scheduled.
The BGSC was not available for further comment.
“Rania Khalek is a well-known supporter of Black Lives Matter and the call for reparations for past and present injustices inflicted on black people in the United States,” says Merate Atare, member of SAIA. “Those who levelled the allegation that Khalek is anti-black, with no evidence, lack a progressive worldview based on mutual solidarity.”
Atare explains SAIA reached out to the individual, but couldn’t come to an agreement.
“We in the Palestine solidarity movement at York will not throw our friends and supporters under the bus, and we stand firmly behind them.”
Khalek has come under fire in the past for allegedly overstating the similarity between the movements for Palestinian and black rights, particular on social media.
In the aftermath of the protests in Ferguson, Missouri in late 2014, for example, Khalek made a connection between the repression of Palestinian protests in Israel and of black protests in the United States.
She faced backlash on Twitter, where she was referred to as “an anti-black, ahistoric troll” and was threatened with violent retaliation.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
The Lions men’s basketball team fought hard all season long for their spot in the Ontario University Athletics playoffs, but just as they were about to hit the court for a post-season play, their season came to an abrupt and disappointing end.
York University Athletics and Recreation announced on the last day of February that an ineligible player had been participating in the games and that all games he had been involved in would have to be disqualified. This included nine regular season games overall and three crucial victories, without which the Lions gave up their spot in the OUA playoffs.
The player, who was not named, had participated in the Canadian Interuniversity Sport at another institution during the preseason and hence was not supposed to take part in the Lions’ games this season.
Prior to the debacle, the Lions had spent the final weeks of the regular season fighting their way through tough games. They lost to the Windsor Lancers by a score of 86-85 and to the Western Mustangs by 81-80. The Lions then edged the Algoma Thunderbirds by 68-67 and finally secured themselves a playoff spot by defeating the UofT Varsity Blues in a huge overtime victory by a score of 97-93.
The Lions lost to the dominant Ryerson Rams by a score of 81-72 in their final game of the regular season, perhaps taking it easier knowing they had already achieved their long-sought goal of making the playoffs. Two days later, on February 29, Athletics and Recreation finally broke the bad news to the team, the OUA, and the CIS.
However, instead of brooding over that, athletes on the team are reflecting on their performance throughout the season.
“I honestly don’t think we reached our full potential as a team,” says guard Shane Reader. “Mostly because of injuries, but we were definitely better than our record showed. We lost a handful of games by three or fewer points that could have gone either way.”
“We did everything well at some point or another,” he adds, “but (we) just couldn’t bring it all together consistently.”
Reader believes that the team needs to especially work on defense, which he says can be done by careful observation of the opponent’s strategy and game planning. “Our offence does need work,” he adds, “but we have enough weapons to score when chances come around.”
Looking forward to next season, Reader says that it will take more than just better defense and a summer of intensive workouts to get the team to where it needs to be.
“The goal for next season is to get a new coach that will help [our program],” he says. “It’s obviously time for a change after six long seasons of backing out in the first round of the playoffs, and you’ve all seen how this season ended.”

Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Farah Isahack, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The subject of illiteracy among women has not been talked about enough and it is time to change that. Adults who are illiterate or have low literacy have been shamed as beings of idiocy or laziness in today’s society, unless they seek to improve themselves or merge into the mainstream education system. In Canadian society alone it is noted that four out of 10 adults’ literacy skills are too low to be fully competent for most jobs in the economy.
Illiteracy rates among racialized women have a critical effect in Canadian society. To be an immigrant to Canada, one must be capable of learning a language outside of their mother tongue, if not English or French, and be able to adapt to the new economic structure in place here.
What many seem to overlook about immigrants in Western society is that a majority are coming from situations of poverty, political upheaval, or social structures that have not allowed them to seek further education.
Literacy is a fundamental right for all, but in regions where agendas of domestication are pushed onto women, literacy and higher-education do not become a priority.
Before jumping to theories, it is important to note the life of a lot of immigrant women and how they have adapted into Canadian society. It has become necessary that women provide the domesticated services they have been trained to do, under the sacrifice of an education. Unpaid domestic labour that goes on in the home is often considered invaluable.
A lot of people in Western society and in our current generation are used to having the ability to read and write. Many cannot imagine what it feels like to look at something and not be able to understand it. You may say, well then go out and learn, but once these women come of age they take the knowledge and notion they learned in their home country and migrate to Canada, and start a new life.
They come here for work and to start a family. You will find a lot of immigrant women and men working in factory settings because more often than not, the job does not require a lot of comprehension for reading and writing, but rather is more labour focused.
Once these women marry and start a family, the structure in the household changes to focus not just on themselves but on their children. These women tend to put themselves second to their children, and education is prioritized for their child. Over time, their notion of improvement gets lost, because they become roped into a routine of work and home life, and the idea for a second chance at literacy is put on the back burner.
But the stigma of women not having that ability is still in place. Women who do not have the skills that modern education provides lose the ability and skill set that they could have had to manage their own income and expenditure. Children of literate mothers are known to be more likely to complete their education.
Does this mean we need to start forcing people to take educational tests and literacy examinations before entering the country? No. That is only fueling the taboo around the whole topic. What needs to be done is accepting the fact that they are people who’ve had to sacrifice more than they’ve had to gain, especially these women.
 This is still an empowerment movement for women. Even though some women may lack mainstream education in Canadian society, they still provide for themselves and their families in the best way that they can. They are not lesser beings because they didn’t get the chance at modern education. You wouldn’t make fun of an individual in a wheelchair, therefore there should be no hatred or fuel for ignorance against women for their disposition.
Instead, please praise them and encourage more women to better themselves and take a second chance at learning. What many miss when they cross paths with a person who is illiterate is the fact that in a society built upon languages and literature, despite them not being able to fully comprehend what is being written, they still made a life and have overcome that barrier. Women who have this trait are no less than women who have the educational means to succeed in life through positions greater than their own.
A factory job does not under any circumstances demean you as lesser than others, because what many forget is that we are all striving towards supporting ourselves and others. These women face this stigma harsher than anyone else, and they still stand strong and make it through a lifestyle that does not accept their lesser implication. So stop shaming them, start praising them, and help them when you can. Take an interest in adult illiteracy because many people have family and friends who are going through this and everyone deserve a second chance.

Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Justyna Korczynski, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Meghana Kulkarni
Caught your professor jamming with earbuds in at York Lanes? Chances are, he or she isn’t listening to their lecture recording. Professors from Schulich School of Business share their musical mantra and songs from their current playlist.
Greg Chiykowski
Finance professor Greg Chiykowski has quite the diverse music selection.
Playlist:
“It Ain’t Me Babe” by Bob Dylan, performed by Jesse Cooke ft. Melissa McLelland
“Gymnopédie No. 1” by Erik Satie
“Just the Way You Are” by Billy Joel
“Carolan’s Quarrel with the Landlady, Michael and Juliana” by Don Ross
“Nessun dorma” from the Giacomo Puccini opera Turandot
Hila Koren-Cohen
Operations management and information systems professor, Hila Koren-Cohen, also has a wide array of music genres.
Music mantra:
“Music is life, past and present. The past (is) for bringing lots of beautiful memories back, (and the) present (is) there for you while enjoying the moment.”
Playlist:
“What a Wonderful World” by Louis Armstrong
“I Don’t Want to Miss a Thing” by Aerosmith
“Imagine” by John Lennon
“(I’ve Had) The Time Of My Life” by Bill Medley and Jennifer Warnes
“Panis Angelicus” by Luciano Pavarotti and Sting
Linda Lakats
Operations management and information systems professor Linda Lakats is also a chameleon when it concerns music.
Music Mantra:
“And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.”
Playlist:
“Bohemian Rhapsody” by Queen
“Stairway to Heaven” by Led Zeppelin
“A Spaceman Came Travelling” by Chris de Burgh
“Rasputin” by Boney M
“Atmostas Baltija” (translation: “The Baltics are Waking Up!”) – traditional Baltics song
Rhona Berengut
Music is a very important part of professor Rhona Berengut’s life.
Music mantra:
“For me, music is the soundtrack of my life. It reflects my moods (happy, upbeat, sad, melancholy, and so on). I love music [that] I can sing along with. My tastes run from pop to country and western, folk music to rock and roll, classical to modern. I will like anything if I can sing along to it
Playlist:
“Moondance” by Van Morrison
“Hallelujah” by Leonard Cohen
“Uptown Funk” by Mark Ronson ft. Bruno Mars
This exploration into professors’ musical tastes reveals how music is truly timeless, and you might have more in common with them than expected.
So what are you waiting for? Talk to your professors about something non-school related and you could be pleasantly surprised with where the conversation leads.
Tweet us,  @excaliburYU 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
