Cynthia Lam, Staff Writer
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
Three members of the Lions wrestling team headed out of the province once again this past weekend to compete in the 2016 Canadian Senior Wrestling Championships in New Brunswick. The team hustled through a very successful tournament, with Maddy Delle-Donne picking up a bronze medal and Gurnek Tak and Alexandria Town both bringing home gold.
Town headed to the tournament fresh from her bronze-medal victories in the 55-kilogram division at both the Ontario University Athletics and Canadian Interuniversity Sport championships. Carrying over the momentum, she easily won all of her matches in the first round.
“I had three matches that day,” says Town. “The first I won by pinfall with a score of 12-0, the second was 13-2, and the last was 10-0.”
She had her gold medal match against Laurence Beauregard of Montreal, which turned out to be an almost instant win for Town. “She wasn’t able to score a single point on me,” Town says. “I finished all of my attacks and countered every one of hers.”
Lions’ rookie Tak also had a successful weekend participating in the Junior Men’s Greco Roman Canadian Championships where he won a gold medal.
“It was my first national competition for wrestling,” says Tak. “The biggest challenge was that I had to go up a weight class and I got completely destroyed in freestyle wrestling. But I came back and won the Greco Roman wrestling championship.”
His final match in the men’s 60-kilogram category was against the Western Mustangs’ Eric Renaud, whom he dominated with a score of 2-0. But Tak is not gloating. “I learned that no matter how good you are, you can only get better,” he says. “There’s no limit to what you can achieve.”
Meanwhile, Delle-Donne worked her way up to a bronze medal in the women’s 82-kilogram category, which adds to her achievements after her gold medal at the Ontario Junior Championships earlier this year.
This marks the end of the season for the Lions wrestling team, which finished off with multiple victories. However, the hustle is far from over for most of the team members.
“I have a new sense of confidence in my abilities and an even stronger sense of confidence in our program,” says Town. “We sent three wrestlers out to New Brunswick and returned with three medals. And to top it all off, most of us are within our first few years of eligibility. It’s all very exciting for the team.”

Tweet us,  @excaliburYU 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Baljinder Kaur, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of 
To share and promote the values of Sikhi on campus, the Sikh Students Association organized Sikh Awareness Week, which took place from March 14 to 17. Students and professors from different ethnicities and religious backgrounds participated in the events throughout the week.
The week began with Bedtime Sakhis hosted by Tejnoor Kaur. The magical evening consisted of Kaur taking the students back to 1469 by recounting the sakhi (story) of the first guru of the sikhs, Guru Nanak Dev ji, while cookies and hot chocolate kept participants warm.
Next was the prayer night. Approximately 20 students gathered in the Student Centre to collectively recite Sri Rehraas Sahib, the evening Sikh prayer, followed by kirtan where everyone sang hymns accompanied by a harmonium and tabla.
The annual Dastaar Day, one of SSA’s most popular events, took place on March 16 in the East Bear Pit in Central Square. Over 200 students and staff had turbans tied and learned its significance in Sikhi. Sikhs wear turbans as a symbol of royalty, to take care of their unshorn hair, promote equality, and preserve the Sikh identity.
“We received a really nice response from students here at York University,” says Sukhman Singh, co-president of SSA. “It was very humbling and inspiring to see people wanting to learn about something new.” Various members of SSA helped make the event a success and ensured all participants had the opportunity to take part.
“I look forward to this event all year,” says Balpreet Gill, a first-year kinesiology student.
“Although I don’t wear a turban regularly, I make sure to get one tied as it makes me feel connected to my roots.”
The week concluded with The Amazing Race: York Edition, an event executed for the first time by SSA. A race with several checkpoints and short Sikhi-related challenges took place at different locations on campus such as the Student Centre, Bethune College, and the Health, Nursing and Environmental Studies building.
Teams of two people were in a race against the clock in search of the locations on the York map, which was turned into the map of Punjab. Each challenge was unique as the location that was associated with it represented a historical event, which had taken place in Sikhi.
Activities at stations included chapatti-making competitions to understand the concept of selfless service and langar in Sikhi. Langar is a community kitchen in every Gurdwara (Sikh place of worship) where visitors are served free food regardless of their background, religion, colour, or caste.
Everyone sits on the floor together to enjoy a free meal, which represents equality. There were eight stations in total and the pair with the fastest time was rewarded a tablet each.
“We were really happy with the turnout of the event especially that so many non-Sikhs participated,” says Simreet Kaur, executive member of SSA and key organizer.
If this sounds like a good time, look out for the celebration of Holla Mohalla, a Sikh festival held at the Scott Religious Centre on March 31 at 5:30 p.m.

Tweet us,  @excaliburYU 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Tasha Ramdehall, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Aaron Fisher
What’s in a story? Stories have a way of connecting us, despite racial, cultural, or national differences. The art of storytelling is universal.
Apparently, Dan Yashinsky and Erin Rodgers think so too. For the past few years, Yashinsky, director, and Rodgers, producer, have worked to bring the Storytelling Festival to the city, which truly lives up to its name. The festival, which will be hosted at various locations across the city from April 1 to 10, gives storytellers centre stage to share their tales.
Storytelling styles vary from place to place, giving the festival a unique element as it brings the globe to one stage with diverse storytellers.
“In African and West Indian cultures, storytelling can be very animated and participatory. In First Nations traditions, the storyteller can be quiet and intimate. The one thing every storytelling style shares is that the teller has to make the listener want to know what happens next,” says Yashinsky.
This year’s festival will be bringing a lot more to the table than previous years. Alongside Harbourfront Centre and TD, the festival will be offering two days of family storytelling. There will also be collaborations with Aga Khan Museum and Ismaili Centre Toronto.
One thing that this festival does is bring the art of storytelling to life in a way that everyone can enjoy.
There is an opportunity for everyone to get involved. Before the festival kicks off, the Storytellers’ Camp from April 6 to 8 will host workshops, performances, and story talks for participants. Festival goers can get face-to-face with some of the storytellers and learn about their art in an intimate setting.
“I am especially excited for the life-changing afternoons with Ron Evans and the Telling Life Stories workshop with the brilliant and multi-award winning author and performer Ivan Coyote,” says Rodgers.
“I was also thrilled to watch attendees who had never told stories before discover their love of this art form. I’ve seen several of them onstage since and it’s been wonderful to see them captivate an audience.”
This year, stories will be closer to home. Storytellers Coyote and TUUP (Godfrey Duncan), will be coming to Seneca College on April 6 at 12:00 p.m. to 1:30 p.m., as part of a co-production with Seneca College’s School of of Arts and Science.
Coyote shares life stories, has won awards for their writing and performances, and has travelled across the globe on tour. Coyote’s most recent work was a collaboration with musician Rae Spoon titled Gender Failure.
TUUP (The Unorthodox, Unprecedented Preacher) brings stories from his Guyanese and African roots and has performed all over Europe, North America, and Africa. Along with his stories, he incorporates music and dance into his art.
Grab a plane ticket and hear stories from across the world, all in one city. For more details visit torontostorytellingfestival.ca
Like us on Facebook,  @excalweb 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
