
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Cynthia Lam, Staff Writer
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
After roughing out a tough season, the York Lions recently made their way to Sault Ste. Marie to compete at the Ontario University Athletics Wrestling Championships held at Algoma University, where they had a honourable weekend. For Alexandria Town and Tyler Tate-Austin, the weekend proved to be successful as they both brought home bronze medals.
“For many of us, OUA is the final and most important tournament of the season,” says Town. “In order to be at peak performance, our coaches modified our training so that we were physically prepared. In the weeks leading up to OUAs our practices were high in intensity. When we train at a high volume we’re more likely to get injured.”
Town gave it her all and took home her second medal in the OUA finals, having won silver last year. This year, she managed to grab bronze in the 55 kilogram category after putting up a hard fight. “Within my pool, I lost a match to the winner of the tournament. The rest of my matches I won pretty easily.”
In the men’s 120 kilogram category, rookie Tate-Austin brought home a bronze medal after defeating teammate Ali Koca for the third-place finish spot. The Lions men’s team finished sixth in the standings.
Many of the other Lions teams came very close to medals, with some coming in fourth, fifth, and sixth place.
“We [have] to be mindful of our weight. All wrestlers weigh in the day before the tournament so we eat and drink very little the night before and the day of weigh-ins. We also sit in the sauna for a bit to sweat off any last few pounds. We all cut weight very well this year,” says Town.
Although not all of the Lions won a medal in their category, they all celebrated a big victory and a very successful season. “The team aspect is so important,” Town says. “We have an excellent team dynamic, keeping each other motivated and supported the entire time.”
The season may be over for the rest of the team, but Town and Tate-Austin will both be heading to the Canadian Interuniversity Sport Championships this weekend to battle it out one more time.
“Thanks to my coaches and training partners, over the past few weeks I’ve made some minor adjustments that should make a big difference in my performance this weekend,” says Town.
Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kanchi Uttamchandani, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of KSA
A highly stimulating contemporary Kurdish issues panel was organized by the politically engaged Kurdish Students’ Association, featuring four prominent minds in Kurdish politics.
The panelists addressed pressing issues facing Kurdistan today and how it relates to their Canadian identity.
Alan Joseph, KSA president, says people are largely unaware of Kurdistan, which he says is not a country, but a geopolitical hotspot nestled between Iraq, Syria, Turkey, and Iran.
“As a Kurd student, I want to spread awareness and the KSA is a platform to get our word out. We are a 20 million strong population which makes us the largest ethnic minority living in a volatile part of the world (the Middle East) who have been oppressed for centuries. The motive behind organizing this panel is to make the York community aware, which in turn can fuel activism.”
Renowned sociologist Hadi Elis took the podium and condemned Turkish state fascism and called for its membership suspension from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
“Turkey is cut off from the rest of the Sunni Arab world and employs police and army force as physical violence tactics to break the Kurdish resistance,” he says.
“Globalization of radical Islam is happening through Turkey which provides intelligence and training to ISIS, a Sunni Arab organization that has primarily targeted Kurdistan, but not Jordan or Saudi Arabia.”
Arien Tahir, president of KSA at the University of Western Ontario, presented on Yazidi persecution, citing the Sinjar massacre referring to the forced captivity of Yazidi women as a prime example.
“Psychological trauma experienced by Yazidi women can be traced back to strategic use of rape as a tool of genocide,” says Tahir. “Yazidis today cannot go home as their homeland is under siege, they have limited access to medical care, and educational opportunities are rare.”
“There is a culture of abject poverty wherein displaced families are living off of donations. This is an ongoing situation where 3,000 Yazidis are missing. The future of the Yazidi community lies in establishing mental health centres and providing security forces so they can go back home.”
Ashna Ali, a Kurdish-Canadian student at Western spoke about her Kurdish identity in Canada, emphasizing that religion does not play an important part of the Kurdish identity, as Kurds are Indo-European.
She also stresses the Kurdish struggle cannot be compared to the Palestinian struggle, as the latter case has only one opponent whereas the former case has multiple opponents.
The panel concluded with a Q&A session which witnessed a heated debate about the Kurdish identity being inseparable from politics, insinuating that the Kurdish identity is inherently politicized given the divisive factions existent within Kurdistan.
Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
