
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The York Federation of Students election results are in and it’s almost a clean sweep, with Student Action taking 21 of 22 seats, including all five executive positions.
LiftYU, this year’s opposition, won a single seat in the School of Arts, Media, Performance & Design.
Next year’s executive team will be familiar to students, with two current incumbent YFS executives moving on to other executive positions.
Chenthoori Malankov, VP campaigns and adovacy, will be installed as YFS President in May, with 3,514 votes out of a total of 6,841 cast for the president’s position.
LiftYU presidential candidate Melissa Calanza took 2,377 votes. Gurdeep Singh Jagpal, independent candidate, had 465 votes, while Eric Desrochers of the Bloc Glendonois had 250.
Two-hundred and thirty-five votes were spoiled.
Mary Asekome won the VP Operations race, tallying 4,047 votes against LiftYU’s Rahual Talwar, who managed 2,172 votes, while 249 ballots were spoiled.
Alexandria Williams, current VP campus life, will be the new VP Equity, with 3,775 votes. LiftYU candidate Louis Dib garnered 1,922 votes, while BG candidate Chloe Warnar-Johnstone had 275 votes. Independent candidate Rodney de Roche has 244 votes and 253 ballots were spoiled.
Rawan Habib will be the new VP Campaigns, taking 3,647 votes against LiftYU’s Anthony Brum who finished with 2,215 votes. BG candidate Alexander Sokol had 361 votes and 248 were spoiled.
Jordan Madeira, with 3,836 votes, overtook Barsha Ghosh, who put up 2,032 for VP Campus Life. Daniel Paterson of BG, took 347 votes and 238 ballots were spoiled.
Turnout for the executive positions was similarly low compared to last year’s election, but improved for several colleges.
Notably, the faculty of education had a mere 34 votes for all candidates.
The new YFS executive team assumes duties May 1.

Tweet us,  @excaliburYU 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of Alejandro Dada
Lions swimmer Haseeb Tariq won a bronze medal for Pakistan in the 100-metre backstroke at the 2016 South Asian Games on February 10th, setting national records on his way to the podium.
Tariq swam the men’s backstroke in 1:02.93 to qualify for the finals. In the finals, he improved on his timing and finished at 1:01.04, but that was not enough to beat P.S. Madhu and Sethu Manickavel, both representing India, who won the gold and silver medals respectively. Tariq also competed in the 50-metre freestyle, the 200-metre freestyle, and the 4×100-metre freestyle relay. In the first of these, Tariq set a national record for Pakistan with a time of 2:01.84. He set another record for Pakistan by swimming his leg of the relay in 54.30 seconds.
“I’m really happy and proud of all my achievements at the SAG 2016,” says Tariq. “To scoop up a medal among some really fast competitors makes me extremely satisfied with all the hard work I had put in prior to the Games.”
Tariq shares the credit with his training at York, where the finance student has been swimming for three years. “Training at York is the sole reason for all my achievements,” he says. “Coming back from the trials just a month before the actual Games, I did not really think I had more room to improve in such a limited amount of time, but it did end up helping me a lot.”
The South Asian Games, which are held every other year, feature athletes from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka competing in a variety of sports. The 12th South Asiam Games were held in Guwahati and Shillong, India.
“This was my second opportunity to represent Pakistan,” says Tariq. “It’s always a proud moment to hear your name with the name of your country. However, there was a greater responsibility for me to do well as we were competing against our neighbour countries and had a reputation at stake.”
There is often more than just a reputation at stake in any relations between South Asian nations. Tensions between Pakistan and India in particular have been rising in recent months, but Tariq believes that events such as the Games are a way to dissipate those tensions to some extent.
“Such events improve relations,” he says. “Going into the Games, I thought the Indian public would be hostile toward us Pakistanis, but I was stumped by their welcoming nature. Such events are really important to erase misconceptions about other countries.”
Tariq believes that the Lions competitive club for swimming should be turned into a full-scale varsity program, but he encourages members of the York community to try swimming. The pool is “a great place to make some good friends,” he says.
“Swimming definitely makes me focus more on school and of course, physically, it’s the best sport to play in my opinion as it engages all of your muscles, keeping you fit and active.”
Tariq quickly returned from South Asia, bronze medal in hand, to represent his university in the Ontario University Athletics championships in London. There, he made it to the final round of the men’s backstroke, in which he came in at 13th place, and in the 50-metre he broke his own York record to set a new record of 26.63 seconds.
In the future, he hopes to compete in the upcoming 2016 FINA World Swimming Championships in Windsor, and in the 2020 Summer Olympics.
Tariq has made Pakistani students at York proud. “We are extremely happy to see our member Haseeb Tariq accomplish such a milestone and set a record for others,” says Muhammad Nisar, president of York’s Pakistani Students Association. “We encourage him to work harder and accomplish all the goals that he wishes to succeed while representing himself as a proud Pakistani.”
Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The 2016 YFS elections are upon us and Excalibur is here to bring you news and notes from the campaign trail. Over the next month, you can expect to be approached by student politicians on campus soliciting your vote. We have organized an accessible, all-in-one elections hub on our website to help you make sense of the various candidates, their campaigns and their promises.
 
Stories:
2016 YFS Elections Results
2016 YFS Elections Results Summary
Let the YFS games begin
Student cash at stake as opposing slates set to clash in next week’s elections
2016 YFS Candidates 
 Provincial data reveals dwindling voter turnout as hopeful politicians hit the ground running
York student union nomination period begins, new candidates emerge
What student issues are important to you?
Summary of 2016 YFS Platforms
Debates:
YFS Presidential Debates
 YFS VP Campus Life Debate
YFS VP Operations Debate
  Important Dates:
Nomination period: Jan 20 at 10:00 a.m. to Jan 29 at 4:00 p.m.
All-candidates meeting: Jan 29 at 6:00 p.m.
Campaign Period: Feb 1 at 8:00 a.m. to Feb 12 at 4:00 p.m.
Voting Period: Feb 9 at 9:00 a.m. to Feb 12 at 4:00 p.m.
Executive Positions (one for each position):
President
Vice President Operations
Vice President Campaigns and Advocacy
Vice President Equity
Vice President Campus Life
Director Positions (one for each constituency position)
Faculty of Liberal Arts and Professional Studies Director
Faculty of Education Director
Faculty of Environmental Studies Director
School of Arts, Media, Performance and Design Director
Lassonde School of Engineering Director
Faculty of Science Director
Schulich School of Business Director
Faculty of Health Director
College Director Positions:
New College Director
Calumet College Director
Founders College Director
Glendon College Director
McLaughlin College Director
Bethune College Director
Stong College Director
Vanier College Director
Winters College Director
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Robbie Ahmed, Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Visual Aids
At my first month at the Alliance for South Asian Aids Prevention, it was hard to orient myself and process what was happening around me. I saw a South Asian man next to me eat Indian food with his hands, a man that looked a lot like the ones my family would invite over for dinners, except for the fact he was queer, just like me. 

That image stirred an emotional reaction in the bottom of my stomach. I had two images before my eyes that I could not reconcile: queerness and my own culture.

Last time I remembered being at a South Asian gathering, I was carefully dodging aunts in the hallway who bombarded me with numerous questions regarding marriage, short hair, and lack of saris in my wardrobe.

This time though at ASAAP those aunts instead asked me about my preferred pronoun and talked freely about queer issues. Never would a young South Asian queer transboy imagine such a place existed.

These days, I run a queer program at ASAAP called Lassi, yes, just like the South Asian drink, except that it is a support space for young queer South Asian men who like men from ages 16-29.

During biweekly Lassi sessions, young queer South Asian men gather together to socialize over games, music, and food. These men can be desi and queer at the same time.

There is, however, some controversy on why spaces like Lassi, exclusive to only queer-identified South Asian men, still exist.

When so many open queer support groups are sprouting up in the vast city of Toronto, why have one only for queer South Asian men?

When a South Asian individual comes out as queer, they find themselves not in conflict not only with their family, but also with their culture and identity.

Every tradition and every cultural practice they were taught are all challenged by a simple announcement of one’s queerness.

It is hard to reconcile those aspects of oneself when one is taught to believe that queerness does not exist outside of the Western culture.

ASAAP was created when a South Asian couple passed away from AIDS-related illnesses and were not able to get resources and treatment due to linguistic barriers and stigma within South Asian communities regarding HIV/AIDS.

Similarly, these South Asian youth feel deep isolation and shame regarding their sexuality and identity.

With culturally specific groups, these men can freely share their love for South Asian culture, songs, dances, literature, and food once again, as well as find resources and support with a reduced cultural or language barrier.

Youth can also seek confidential one-on-one peer support where they can freely ask questions regarding sexuality, sexual health testing, or just personal concerns. They will be respected for their identity and not be turned away due to their sexuality or gender identity, which is a great concern for many South Asian queer youth.

Lassi also strives to provide free TTC tokens to groups in regions such as Scarborough to help attendees come to the space, regardless where they live in Toronto.

There is definitely a need for cultural-based programs such as Lassi to reduce this isolation and stigma, to help young racialized youth embrace their cultural traditions, find pride, and have a familiar support space to the one they thought that they have lost and one that looks and feels a lot like their home.
Like us on Facebook,  @excalweb 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
