Illustration by Jasmine Waridharma
 
…and we’re back. Did you miss us already?
Excalibur took a short break but we’re back at it again with our first issue of the 51st volume. 
This year, Excalibur is experiencing quite a turnover in regards to staff and vision. As for myself, I started as a contributor to the news section, applied for features editor, which incidentally, I didn’t get, was offered a deputy copy editor position, interviewed for arts editor, then promoted to executive editor (online), and now enjoying my throne as the editor-in-chief. This was all done within 18 months. 
This is not to brag. Excalibur is an amazing opportunity to get involved with your school, meet new people from all walks of life and disciplines and gain some real-life skills without the judgement of a professor or internship. Many students are either not aware of Excalibur as a publication, or those who are tend to avoid getting involved.
We’ve never been able to pinpoint why many students are so scared of us. Perhaps it is the political nature of news stories, our physicalities that intimidate readers or our dashing good looks. Regardless, it is your paper that you pay for with a levy. 
Excalibur, much like America, is the land of opportunities. Like our neighbours down south, Excalibur and the York community offers a diverse plate of opinions, expressions and anger. 
As journalists, we follow the heat and report on it. As fellow students, we can understand the relevancy of certain stories over others. As fellow humans, we share your curious yet apathetic nature.
You may have noticed that in past issues, we were very critical of York as an institution, held YFS accountable for its actions and overall tried to sniff out what was stirring in the pot. That is what journalism is about. However, it’s important to remember where we come from. York is a vibrant school and I’ll admit it, some voices overpower others, leading to consistent themes in our stories. 
We want to challenge that. We want to listen to the little voices. Perhaps the quietest have the most to say, perhaps they have nothing to say at all. Excalibur is your paper and we want to hear your voices, opinions, likes and dislikes. Help us out. Like us on Facebook. Tweet at us. Email us. Drop by the office and yell at my face. The only way that Excalibur can continue to thrive as York’s largest student newspaper is if we continue to report on stories you care about.
So let’s chat. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
