Alexia Lawson, Arts Editor
Featured images courtesy of Humans of York U
Since its launch in 2010, the popular Humans of New York blog featuring street portraits and interviews has catapulted in popularity beyond the Big Apple. It has inspired many others of its kind, each leading a new trail as it gives voice to the community it represents.
Meet alumnus Mohammed Khan, and third-year kinesiology student Amina Khan, the photographers and writers behind the Humans of YorkU Facebook page. The brother-sister duo founded HOYU in November, which has grown to have a following of over 1,600, capturing the vitality of the York community.
Like many initiatives, the idea for HOYU was inspired from failure. Mohammed describes a day when he and a friend spontaneously walked around campus, asking to take photos of people. “We tried it but it wasn’t a success initially,” he says. Camera intimidation played a big role.
That same evening, as Amina and Mohammed ate poutine at Hero Burger, Mohammed shared the story of the failed attempt. Amina was ecstatic.
The two began to plan their ideas and establish objectives, one of them being to share York in a positive way, contrast to the flack it often gets.
“It is a goal of ours to shed a more positive light. I feel it’s a reflection of my brother and I,” says Amina. “We both like to see the good in things.”

As siblings, the two grew up close and were very artistic, making them the perfect duo for this project. “We both grew up sketching, painting, and all that, so it was a really cool opportunity for us to be able to collaborate on a project,” says Mohammed.
The page has since featured over 30 people, with stories ranging from everyday norms to more personalized ones. Amina and Mohammed set up these interviews in one of the two ways: either pre-arranged, or after spotting a student doing something interesting on campus, they would approach them, tell them about the page, and ask to interview them.
Far from seeming unreachable, the Khans are open to featuring anyone. “We give everybody who shoots us a message an opportunity to be on the page,” says Mohammed. “We don’t like to pick and choose.”
Their openness in including everyone stems from their philosophy that everyone has a story to share.
“A lot of the time I get this reaction where the person will ask, ‘Why do you want to interview me? I have nothing interesting to share’,” says Amina. “But that’s the beauty with what we do. Something can be really ordinary to someone else, but there’s something so beautiful that can come out of it. Even things as simple as, ‘I’m late for my class.’ Everybody can relate to that.”
HOYU has also been a learning curve for the founders as they often address sensitive topics. In recognition of Black History Month, the page shared stories and perspectives on race, inequality, and privilege.
“It was really interesting because we went out and asked questions about race, equality, and blackness and all these things were really new for my brother and I,” says Amina. “It’s just not something that people talk about so easily.”

However, the experience has been rewarding as Amina describes with gratitude.
“Normally people have to go through things to gain a new perspective. I’ve gained these perspectives without going through these experiences. For me, that’s been so enlightening and powerful and something that I really cherish,” says Amina.
A lot of their technique is inspired by Humans of New York founder, Brandon Stanton, whom they describe as an incredible person. They refer to his video on how to approach and interview people. There they learned techniques such as crouching to be less intimidating if you’re taller that the interviewee. Their compact Sony camera with interchangeable lens also works in their favour.
“It’s really good to shoot with because it’s less intimidating. It’s smaller, so people aren’t overwhelmed when you have that bulky thing in your face,” says Mohammed.
HOYU isn’t the only one of its kind at York. Other HONY-inspired pages abound, representing faculties and colleges, including Humans of LA&PS, Bethune, Calumet, Glendon, and its main contender, Humans of York University. However, the Khans did not see these as a hindrance to having their page. They found a distinct voice, particularly through their photo quality and content. While Amina was not aware of the other pages at the time of their launch, Mohammed credits them for being 50 per cent of the motivation to launch HOYU.
“I was looking at the quality of the photos and thought, this is not doing our university justice,” says Mohammed confidently.

However, some were concerned about the new page’s presence.
“I remember the day we launched the page and made it public. Someone asked me, ‘Did you ask these other pages if you could do that?’” says Amina reflectively. “We still respected those groups and wanted them to be able to share their content, but we didn’t want any of that to stop us from doing what we’re doing.”
HOYU is also finding ways to stand out from other HONY spin-offs that represent Ontario universities such as Western and McMaster through interviewing professors, TAs, and York community members. One post shares a photo of a child named Jaejin, captioned, “I caught him having a light snack by Vari Hall, probably to energize for a three hour lecture.”
Amina and Mohammed have taken a more anonymous role, hoping that their content will speak and inspire. “Our biggest thing is for people to enjoy the content, enjoy the stories, enjoy the faces that they see around York,” adds Amina. “Spark conversation with the people that you see in the hallways or the classrooms. Talk to them, because there’s so much you can learn from them, and surely things they can learn from you too.”
HOYU has brought a “human-like” element to the campus, as it gives voice to narratives not often spoken.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alex Kvaskov, Assistant News Editor
Fossil Free York, a group representing students, staff, and faculty, is planning to submit a proposal to the York University Advisory Committee on Responsible Investment, calling on the university to divest from fossil fuels.
Their demands include freezing new fossil fuel investments in the endowment fund immediately, divesting from the top-200 fossil fuel companies by December 2017, divesting from any companies that produce, refine, transport, or sell fossil fuels and reinvesting in the low-carbon economy by December 2018.
“We believe that York’s investment policies should reflect the university’s commitment to sustainability. Right now, York is invested in an industry whose business model is driving climate change,” says Jennifer Mills, FFY member.
To submit the proposal, FFY had to gather over 300 signatures of support from the York community. The proposal gathered over 500 signatures.
“Our proposal also has to make the case for divestment,” says Mills.
“In it we outline the environmental, social, and financial reasons why York should not be investing in fossil fuels. For example, fossil fuel usage affects local communities, both through the extraction process as well as through the effects of climate change,” she adds.
According to Mills, fossil fuel companies are not a good investment in the short-run due low oil prices. She adds that they are also a poor investment in the long-run, as governments implement more stringent policies on climate change and carbon pricing.
The proposal also details why engagement hasn’t worked with fossil fuel companies.
“Acquiring new reserves is central to their business model so companies aren’t very responsive to the idea that we need to keep some oil in the ground,” says Mills.
She claims York lacks transparency around the shareholder engagement process.
Although some say divestment is too political, it sends a clear message, and passive investment choices are just as much a political act, says Mills.
Janice Walls, York media, says there is a “very specific” process that applies to proposals for consideration by YUACRI.
York was unable to provide a more detailed statement because there is a procedure that has to be followed for all submissions to the YUACRI.
“The whole point of the process is to provide members of the York University community the opportunity to make representations, including evidence and rationales that support their proposals,” says Walls.
“We would not pre-empt that process by responding to claims you say they are making, before they have even presented their full submission.”
YUACRI will review submissions and make a recommendation to the Vice-President Finance and Administration on what further action, if any, should be taken, according to Walls.

Like us on Facebook,  @excalweb 
 


I am not sure this issue is that easy. What if York invested in car companies? i wonder how many people pushing york to not invest in these companies really strive to live a sustainable and off the grid life? Do you all strive to consume less, live on solar power and grow your own food?

 York University Community Newspaper 
Tatiana Prisiajny, Features Editor
Proud of her Ghanian roots, Akua Agyemfra came to work expecting her shift to go smoothly like any other day, only to be called into her manager’s office and told to go home because her hair was deemed inappropriate for the workplace.
That day, her natural hair was in a bun, which she didn’t see as problematic. Her previous workplaces did not have an issue with a bun.
“When I was told to leave I was so humiliated and shocked, I could not even cry. All I could think was I have to do something about this because I know I’m not the only one,” says Agyemfra.
During her interview, management never specified that her hair could not be put in a bun.
“I was told that I’ll be making enough money to do my hair every week, as if I do not have student loans and bills to pay.
“My hardworking paycheques aren’t going to be given back to my hairdresser every week to satisfy my employer,” she says.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms grants the right for people to express themselves freely, so the rule itself is problematic, according to Agyemfra.
She claims Jack Astor’s management, which has been under fire for imposing discriminatory dress codes in the past, told her to “dress like you’re going to a club, not coming from one.”
Jack Astor’s could not be reached for comment.
“A simple ‘sorry’ would have went a long way. I have not heard from Jack Astor’s since the incident,” adds Agyemfra.
“I do not want future generations to face what I’m facing 20 years from now. Not only is it humiliating, but it is totally unfair,” she says.
Corporations are marginalizing their potential employees, and this is simply unacceptable. On top of that, men do not have to deal with situations like these, claims Agyemfra.
“This type of discrimination should not be an issue in 2016. My hair has nothing to do with my work ethic,” she says.
“I’ve gone to other Jack Astor’s locations and the waitresses had their hair up in tight top knots and buns. If a stylish up-do is allowed, why was I sent home? What made my hair different? My hair was collected, my edges were laid and neat. I am allowed to take out my extensions. My scalp has the right to breathe too.”
Agyemfra wants people to stand up for themselves when they feel disrespected or degraded. In her view, this not only surprises people by the impact they make, but also becomes an inspiration to others.
Recently, the Ontario Human Rights Commission has called for an end to sexualized dress codes that discriminate against female and transgender employees.
“Employers must make sure their dress codes don’t reinforce sexist stereotypes,” says OHRC Chief Commissioner Renu Mandhane.
“They send the message that an employee’s worth is tied to how they look. That’s not right, and it could violate the Ontario Human Rights Code.”
These codes persist across the restaurant industry, despite human rights decisions that have found them to be discriminatory and may make employees more vulnerable to sexual harassment, contribute to discriminatory work environments, and exclude people based on sex, gender identity or expression, and creed.

Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alex Kvaskov, Assistant News Editor 
Students returning from reading week were greeted by the ninth armed robbery in what seems to be a crime-ridden school year.
Toronto police are investigating after a York student reported an armed robbery off-campus, west of Boot Terrace and The Village.
The student was approached by three suspects, one of whom produced a handgun and took the student’s wallet and cell phone, according to the bulletin.
One suspect was described as a short-haired male, six-feet-tall, 23 to 25 years of age, 150 pounds, wearing a “college-styled” leather jacket with red accents, pink sunglasses, and blue jeans.
The other two suspects were described as male, five-foot-eight, dressed in dark clothes, blue jeans, and ski masks.
No injuries were reported.
The bulletin is the eighth issued this year for armed robbery and ninth for robberies overall. The pace of reported robberies has dropped in the winter term, with one robbery a month, down from two per month in the fall term.
Robberies, armed and unarmed, have been occurring close to once a month throughout the past school year.

Like us on Facebook,  @excalweb 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kanchi Uttamchandani, Staff Writer
Although York has a sexual assault policy, concerns persist that the policy discriminates against victims.
Mandi Gray, founder of the Silence is Violence coalition, says while York’s policy uses progressive language and claims to be “survivor-centric,” the problem is a lack of institutional procedure and critical reflection upon the process following a disclosure of sexual assault.
“York continues to fail students, faculty, and staff who report sexual assault. The policy is not the problem, the lack of procedure is,” says Gray.
Gray says reporting cases of sexual assault often leads to dead ends, and remarks that institutions encourage reporting because they want to appear competent in addressing issues of sexual assault.
“However, anyone who has experienced reporting to any institution, whether that is the university, security services, the police, or their workplace, more often than not, experiences of sexual violence are minimized, silenced, and ignored,” she adds.
“I understand some may find that reporting is central to their healing process, but for most, reporting sexual assault will merely prolong the experience of violence and create additional psychological, emotional, and financial hardship,” says Gray.
Samina Sami, executive director of Community Safety Department, says a working group of students and staff are engaged in addressing sexual violence collaborated on the development of the policy, which was approved by York’s Board of Governors last year.
That process recognized the importance of survivors’ experiences and included consultations with members of the community, service providers, and other groups, according to Sami.
“York’s stand-alone policy recognizes the role universities can play in addressing sexual violence, in supporting survivors, and in raising public awareness about this societal harm,” says Sami.
The Sexual Assault Awareness, Prevention, and Response Working Group’s foremost commitment, guided by a survivor-oriented mandate, is to ensure the voices of our community are heard in the discussion and to ensure that survivors are properly supported, with all options outlined clearly,” she adds.
Some of the procedural options that have been examined include a single point of contact for reporting and supporting survivors through the process.
York continues to develop the Active Bystander Program, which aims to raise awareness about the issue of sexual violence and show community members how each and every person can contribute to prevention of sexual violence, has been piloted to key groups on campus to positive feedback, according to Sami.
“York aims to meet the needs of survivors and to provide care and support throughout their process, recognizing that the needs of a survivor immediately following an experience of sexual assault may be different than their needs over time,” says Sami.
“The decision of what services to access and when is up to the survivor. Regardless of their access point, all services are able to make referrals and connect them directly with other on-campus or off-campus resources,” she adds.
At this point in time, York has implemented 85 per cent of the safety recommendations stemming from the METRAC Safety Audit.
In the meantime, York’s working group is reviewing all existing policies and procedures related to sexual violence, with a view to meet or exceed the new legislative and regulatory standards mandated by Bill 132, which received Royal Assent on March 8.

Follow us on instagram,  @excalphotos 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Kanchi Uttamchandani, Staff Writer
York grad and former host of CBC’s Q Jian Ghomeshi has been acquitted of four counts of sexual assault and one count of choking to overcome resistance.
Following the court’s decision, the hashtag #IBelieveSurvivors went viral all across Canada.
Judge William Horkins denounced the credibility of the three complainants by referring to their testimonies as “manipulative and deceptive,” suggesting the evidence failed to prove the allegations beyond a reasonable doubt.
In a media statement, the Toronto Rape Crisis Centre says Ghomeshi’s trial has sparked a heated debate about sexual assault, consent, and survivors’ disclosures, casting light on the nonexistence of “consensual sex.”
“Consensual sex is just called sex and unconsensual sex is called rape,” says Deb Singh, a counsellor at TRCC.
“In Western society, it is more likely there will be repercussions socially and legally, if you steal a digital device of some kind, than if you sexually assault someone,” she says.
“Survivors reap deeply negative repercussions when they report sexual violence, socially, politically, and legally, so it makes sense that survivors may take long periods of time to report, if at all,” reads the statement.
“We can also see the ‘danger’ in reporting when we know that the legal system allows for survivors to be counter-charged with assault or defamation after the initial report of sexual assault.”
“After a trial in the Ontario Court of Justice, in full public view, Mr. Ghomeshi has been rightly acquitted of these charges,” states a press release from Henein Hutchison, the law firm representing Ghomeshi.
“Notwithstanding the unprecedented scrutiny and pressure, the case was determined on the evidence heard in a court of law. In our system of justice, this is what must happen in every case regardless of who is accused or what crime is alleged. This is precisely what occurred in this case,” concludes the statement.
Nevertheless, not all agree that justice has been served. The TRCC highlights flaws within the legal justice system.
“But because we live in a culture of rape in where women and trans people are oppressed by sexism, patriarchy, and rape culture, the legal system powered predominantly by men benefits from not believing survivors even if they are telling the truth 98 per cent of the time,” says the TRCC.
Accordingly, seeking remedies through the legal system has not decreased the occurrence of sexual assault. TRCC suggests survivors would be motivated to come forward if there were more successful outcomes.
Mandi Gray, founder of the Silence is Violence coalition, concurs.
“The verdict of this case is not surprising to feminist activists or anyone who has reported sexual assault to the police. I think the extent of media coverage provided Canadians with important insight into what to expect if you decide to report,” says Gray.
“The standard of proof required for a conviction in a sexual assault trial is near impossible in most circumstances and our criminal justice is not designed for crimes of gendered or sexualized violence. I have little hope that the media coverage of the Ghomeshi case will do anything to change this,” she adds.
York students weighed in on the verdict with a mix of outrage and fear about the verdict’s implications.
Third-year political science student Zhala Rahim says she is afraid of the precedent the case has set.
“I am even more afraid that women will be even less likely to report sexual assault because victims are often forced to relive their trauma in the courts because of double victimization,” says Rahim.
Ghomeshi is set to face another trial on a separate charge of sexual assault in June.

Tweet us,  @excaliburYU 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
