 
There are those who read the entire Ikea manual before building a desk, and there are those who consult the manual throughout the entire process. We Are Wolves is neither. Ditching the typical way of forming a band and finding success, this indie punk group from Montreal is anything but cookie-cutter.
Consisting of vocalist and bassist Alexander Ortiz, keyboardist and backup vocalist Vincent Levesque and drummer and vocalist Pierre-Luc Bégin, We Are Wolves has evolved from its beginnings in the visual arts.
“We met in art school where we were studying visual arts and we just applied the same process to music,” says Levesque. “We didn’t really know how to play music at first, so it took a while for us to kind of get started.”
For some, the connection between visual arts and music might not be immediate, but for Levesque and his bandmates, it was natural. A painting, for instance, is comprised of many elements such as paint, brushes, brush strokes, canvas and vision coming together for a single effect, just as music involves different sounds, instruments, paces and beats coming together for an effect.
“The process is pretty much same,” affirms Levesque. “We approach music as a whole composition […] We tend to develop our own skills our own way since we are not graphically trained, but the palette of possibilities is defined by what we are and what we look at.”
As is the case with many bands, the image that We Are Wolves paints for its audience varies greatly from what the band first looked like 15 years ago. At first, Levesque describes the band’s sound as raw, distorted, wild and loud, perhaps like an abstract impressionist painting with chaotic colours and strokes.
At first, an expressionist painting may not appear to have any order or forethought, but like the combatting sounds of We Are Wolves’ beginnings, there’s a method to a madness.
Now on their fifth studio album, there are still traces of that initial chaos and rawness in We Are Wolves’ sound, but one may describe Wrong as a modernist piece. The elements of punk and passion that We Are Wolves is known for in the Montreal and international scenes are still present, but the brush strokes are more reformed and the sound unified.
Traces of the band’s visual arts background still persist in its title. We Are Wolves, a matrimony of community and art, speaks perfectly to the ethos of the band. “The way we used to try out band names is that we would make stencils and spray them on T-shirts,” recounts Levesque. “We went to shows, we liked band merch, so we decided to just try it out on the shirt before actually adopting it. At some point, Alex, our singer, came up to the rehearsal with a T-shirt that said ‘we are wolves’.”
Once you pick a band name, it sticks. “You kind of only get one try at it,” laughs Levesque. “The idea of community, since there was no way we could impress with our musicianship, was all based around having the people on stage and sharing a moment of community and intensity.”
We Are Wolves will be stopping by Toronto on December 10 at the Baby G and Hamilton on December 11 at The Casbah.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The men’s and women’s volleyball teams served Trent a pair of losses this weekend in Peterborough.
The Lions swept the games as the women won 3-1 and the men won in straight sets on the road.
In the women’s game, the Trent Excalibur opened the match strong in a closely contested first set, which they won by a score of 25-22. However, in the second set, the Lionesses took a 25-21 victory to tie the game at one.
In the third set, the Lionesses showed why they’re the queens of the jungle in a dominant 25-14 victory that gave them a one-set lead.
This meant Trent would have to win the fourth set to force a fifth. However, the Excalibur were unable to pierce York’s armor, as the Lions would go on to take the set and the match by a score of 25-18.
Celeste Witzell lead the Lionesses in scoring with 14 points, 11 kills and a service ace. Melissa Monkhouse was second in scoring with 10.5 points and eight kills, while Sarah Williams scored 10 points to go along with her eight kills.
With the win, the women are now 3-3 on the season, and tied for third-place in the Ontario University Athletics, or OUA, East standings with Queen’s.
The men’s game was dominated by the Lions, as the Excalibur failed to reach 20 points in any set. Lions took the first set 25-19, and then the second and third sets by scores of 25-15.
It was a solid performance across the board for the Lions, with a joint effort from all team members. York’s Spencer Dakin Kuiper lead all players in scoring with nine points, six kills and a service ace. Andrew Shotbolt and Amir Paknahad tied for second in scoring with six points each, while Toure Nwakwesi finished with 5.5 points and three kills.
The men, who lost their first two games but have now won three-straight, are now tied for third in the OUA East division with Nipissing.
Both teams will be back at home next weekend, as they’ll be taking on Queen’s on Saturday and then Royal Military College on Sunday. The women’s games will be at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m., while the men will be playing at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., respectively.
 


It’s great to find an expert who can exialpn things so well

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The Lions basketball teams were back in action at Tait McKenzie this past weekend. The men were looking to extend their winning streak to three games, while the women were looking to get their first win of the season.
First up were the Lionesses, who were handed back-to-back losses by the visiting Waterloo Warriors 67-55 on Friday and the Laurier Golden Hawks 87-57 on Saturday.
The Lionesses struggled early in the first against Laurier, as the Golden Hawks soared out to a 26-12 lead. York bounced back in the second, matching Laurier’s 15 points with 15 of their own, but still went into half-time facing a 14-point deficit.
The Golden Hawks extended their edge in the third, heading into the final quarter with a 57-41 lead. It proved to be insurmountable, as the Lions were unable to recover, and Laurier went on to win 87-57.
Shauney Fischer led the Lions with a double-double, scoring 13 points and 12 rebounds. Katrina Collins-Samuels also had 13 points to go with six rebounds, four steals and one assist.
Instrumental in Laurier’s victory was forward Kaitlyn Schenck, who ended the night with 30 points, five rebounds, six steals and three assists.
Saturday night ended in losses for both teams. The men were looking to extend their two-game winning streak after an 83-78 defeat of Waterloo on Friday, but unfortunately fell just short with a 74-67 upset by the Golden Hawks.
The first quarter was closely contested, with York holding a one-point lead after 10 minutes.
In the second, Nana Adu-Poku came off the bench to score seven points, and Jayden Frederick added six to help York extend their lead to a comfortable ten-point margin to close out the half.
Julio Vazquez nailed a pair of three-pointers in the third, helping the Lions extend their lead further, and the third quarter ended with the Lions in front 52-46.
However, the Golden Hawks were not going down without a fight. After a flurry of three-pointers and free throws, the Golden Hawks stole the lead with just 32 seconds left in the game. The Lions were unable to take back the game in its dying seconds, and were handed their first loss of the season.
Laurier’s huge 28-point output in the fourth allowed them to steal the game, as they outscored the Lions by 15 points.
Both teams will be looking to bounce back from their losses on Saturday when they take on the Lakehead Thunderwolves in Thunder Bay.
 


Now I’m like, well duh! Truly thanufkl for your help.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Oral storytelling and the rich myths that have resulted from this ancient practice are something that many cultures around the world lay claim to. Whether it be fairy tales, fables or parables involving tricksters or princesses, many of us grew up on folktales from around the world.
The beauty of folktales is that they are always changing and are reborn with every retelling. Joanna Chapman-Smith, York graduate and singer, adds her own touch to folktales from around the world. She weaves narratives from Canada, Africa, the United States, Asia, Europe and New Zealand into a fantastic album about Elon, a young inhabitant of the imaginary City of Stone.
Her latest release, Elon and the City of Stone, beautifully merges storytelling with lyricism. The tracks in the album switch between songs to Chapman-Smith sharing stories about Elon.
“One by one, I was inspired to create the 12 songs on this album, then finally decided that writing a new frame story to string all the songs together would be the best way to present this collection,” shares Chapman-Smith.
Not only does the album draw content from diverse oral histories, but the form of the album mimics the tradition of retelling as well.
“My understanding of the shape and form of a story helped me to communicate […] all the ideas and feelings I wanted to express through song,” notes Chapman-Smith. “I have also changed my vocal delivery of songs a great deal, bringing in more expressivity, reflective of speech patterns.”
In Western culture, our understanding of fairy tales is greatly influenced by popular revisions from the Brothers Grimm or Disney films. Disney and the Grimms put their own spin on these tales, like the worldly cultures these tales originated in, yet their takes receive more note than other versions.
Elon and the City of Stone works against the monolithic fairy tale by paying tribute to cultures around the world that have provided us with the range of stories, with narratives throughout the album that run contrary to popular retellings.
“I was inspired to write songs based on folktales when my love of strange stories from beyond the Disney lexicon was kindled in 2008.
“The tales I was reading and discovering were so rich, expressing strong and unfamiliar messages, yet were so familiar and contained all the archetypes I recognized from more mainstream media,” shares Chapman-Smith.
Canonical fairy tales raise questions of cultural appropriation that Chapman-Smith tries not to repeat with her album. For one, she started off by researching hundreds of lesser-known and popular folktales. The album does not blindly take these stories out of their context and use them as a means to the album’s end. Each fairy tale is credited in the album release.
“I often feel like a post-modern cosmopolitan baby, and I have struggled with this question a great deal in the straight telling of tales during my live shows,” says Chapman Smith on how she deals with questions of cultural appropriation.
“Having grown up in Toronto, studied a great deal of contemporary music and with my own ambiguous heritage, I move between my various cultural influences in my work.
“Even when I pay homage to my [New Zealand] roots, there is the conflict of British colonialism in my lineage there, so it is hard to get away from questions of power and voice as I approach my influences.
The ultimate judge as to whether or not these songs, or any other cultural or artistic practice, respectfully deals with cultural artifacts is the culture itself.
“I truly feel that when I write a song based on a tale, I am re-imagining the story enough through my own lens to do it justice, to point listeners toward the original and to create my own work from my own mixed-up-cultural perspective.”
Elon and the City of Stone was released on November 11 and launched on November 20 at Hugh’s Room, where listeners had the chance to draw their own conclusions from Chapman-Smith’s electrifying performance. The story of Elon is one of magic and allure that adds to the changing body of folktales.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The Presidential Search Committee remains the talk of the town. This time, York professors are lashing out at the Board of Governors, York’s top decision-making body.
The Presidential Search Committee will make a recommendation to the Board, who will then vote to appoint York’s next president.
In an open letter, English professor Agnes Whitfield claimed that private sector interests dominate the current Board. She alleged that this has both demoralized full- and part-time faculty and caused the enrolment crisis, as well as what she described as general academic disarray.
“The present Board does not have the legitimacy to undertake, let alone control, the present presidential search process,” said Whitfield.
According to Whitfield, the Board plays an essential function in ensuring the public accountability of a university. It’s responsible for overseeing the financial health of the institution, approves settlements in collective bargaining and supervises procurement practices, among other functions.
“It is imperative that the Board of Governors represents a broad cross-section of citizens and can bring to the university a rich and diverse perspective.” She alleges the current Board is not representative as per York’s own by-laws.
Meanwhile, the York University Graduate Students’ Association, or YUGSA, is calling on the Board to block Provost Rhonda Lenton from being ratified as York’s next president, should the committee recommend her. They demand the current search committee to reopen its search for shortlisted candidates with significantly higher community input.
According to The Globe and Mail, the York University Faculty Association conducted a poll that showed that 58 per cent of respondents would not support the appointment of Lenton.
“The Presidential Search Committee appreciates the importance of this decision as it impacts the future of our university. That is why the Committee has taken every effort to ensure we gather feedback and consult with York’s diverse community,” says Rick Waugh, chair of the Search Committee. Waugh is also the current chair of the Board of Governors, and sits on the Board of the York University Development Corporation and the University Senate.
“I can share that the process is well underway and, at the moment, no decision has been made. Interested candidates submitted their applications in confidence and it is important that I preserve the integrity of this process,” he says.
Waugh adds the Committee’s decision must adhere to the Principles Governing the Search Committee and these principles, established in 2005, clearly lay out a transparent, consultative and fair process for the selection of the new president.
“Inevitably, times of change can create a feeling of uncertainty. York has a bright future and is on track to be both financially sustainable and a progressive, vibrant learning and research institution,” says Waugh.
Despite York’s assurances, YUGSA says the Board’s corporate composition is at odds with the university’s commitment to social justice and is so removed from academic processes that it should not be picking the next president.
Current president Mamdouh Shoukri is leaving in 2017.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Young Professionals in Foreign Policy Toronto at York U hosted their first speaker event by hosting the Honorable Senator Pamela Wallin at McLaughlin College’s Senior Common Room.
Wallin discussed her international affairs experience and Canada’s role as a peacekeeper.
After 9/11, then Prime Minister Jean Chretien appointed her as Consul General of Canada in New York. She discussed her role on the Special Independent Panel on Canada’s Future Role in Afghanistan.
She mentioned the fact that it is difficult to tell the difference between the “bad” and “good” guys. Moreover, intelligence gathering is more important and difficult than ever before, and migration is a major issue, according to Wallin.
Hoda Rabie, vice president of Young Professionals in Foreign Policy Toronto at York U, says the organization is hosting speakers with experience in foreign policy and diplomatic deals, regardless of their background.
“We focus on the actual work and experience of each individual and we think it’s important to get people involved in foreign policy matters,” she adds.
Rabie says students should become informed and be aware of Canada’s foreign policy and hear it from the experts who are working in the field.
“People should stay informed about foreign policy because it affects everyone, not only [people] in Canada, but in the world. They should come out and see how people participate in making the country better in foreign matters.”
Political science student Andrew Vittas was happy to be attending the event, saying that he learned many technicalities. “Like anyone else, I get my news from The Globe and Mail,” adds Vittas.
Second-year psychology student Antara Dhruba says the event was very educational for her. “As someone who is not in political science, my knowledge is very limited about international development or politics. When the senator was talking about Middle Eastern affairs, it was very enlightening because I didn’t know anything about it before,” she adds.
Wallin has previously worked as a journalist, entrepreneur, diplomat and is currently a senator from Saskatchewan.
 


I’m imepessrd. You’ve really raised the bar with that.
Thank you very much for your comment! Stay tuned for more events and workshops in foreign policy. You can find us on facebook: http://www.facebook.com/YPFPYorkU

 York University Community Newspaper 
