Featured image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
 
Shorts, sundresses and sandals cover the racks of retail stores while the summer sun shines. As the temperature rises, the influence of the heat is perhaps most clearly illustrated in women’s fashion. Whether that be a casual dress or a fun beach outfit, summertime sunshine will guarantee a lot more skin and a lot less layers.
Summer styles allow for more freedom and less conservatism in both prints and colours. Aztec, African and Native American prints and clothing style inspire much of the clothing worn in this season. 
Perhaps this is most clearly illustrated through the clothing worn at the Coachella Valley Music and Art Festival, hosted in Indio, California. Fashion is as big of a part of the festival as the music, with retailers such as Forever 21 and H&M introducing lines inspired by the festival.  
With the temperature increasing, we can finally shed the layers, don the flowery print and embrace the assortment of shorts, dresses and sandals the warm weather brings. But with the rise of femininity, expression and exposure in summer clothing, out come the critics. 
In name of propriety, individuals have criticized celebrities and public figures solely on the basis of the amount of fabric they have on. These figures include but are not limited to Kim Kardashian, Amber Rose and Blac Chyna.
The issue, reprimanded by those who believe summer fashion is too suggestive and exposed, push an agenda of slut shaming. This agenda is not new – society has long held the viewpoint of women either wearing too much or too little as problematic, putting women in a difficult box to navigate. Women play a difficult balancing act, maneuvering between “prudeness” and “sluttiness” as constructive guidelines that society has set for what is appropriate. 
To imply that a woman’s T-shirt dress or exposed legs, is incentive enough to imply the want of sexual advances is ridiculous on the bases of consent. Further, there is a prevalent idea that the exposure of a woman’s body cannot be based off of convenience or conscious choice, but rather the intent to seek and gain attention.    
Fashion is the freedom and flexibility to express identity and creativity. Remember consent and etiquette this summer, not only when choosing what to wear but also when you are critiquing what others are wearing. If you cannot understand why the young lady in the mall is wearing a crop top and short shorts, it is none of your business. Don’t worry about her choices.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image by Sarjoun Faour (Flickr)
Students, activists and legal scholars came together to discuss the Ghomeshi verdict, the accessibility of the criminal justice system for sexual assault survivors and exploring alternative options for survivors.
“The York Federation of Students in partnership with Samina Sami from the Community Safety Department at York University thought it was important to put together a panel and healing space for survivors and community members,” says Chenthoori Malankov, YFS president.
“This was accomplished by providing educational awareness on the judicial implications of sexual violence, if survivors choose to engage in that path, and how we as a community can be supported,” she adds.
Malankov acknowledges that many students are unaware of York’s sexual assault policies and other supportive resources.
“We have always partnered with the Sexual Assault Survivor’s Support Line and Leadership (SASSL) during Frosh Week and have conducted presentations for students on how to create safer spaces for folks on campus. And more importantly we are committed to engaging in conversations on how to create consent culture on campus,” she says.
Malankov emphasizes the need for youth to be at the forefront of the movements to combat sexual and gender-based violence and to recognize that racialized and indigenous women are left out of the narrative.
Freeyelle Mehari, an organizer with the Canadian Federation of Students, concurs on the issue of underrepresentation of women of colour and Aboriginals in the reporting of sexual assault cases.
“When black women come forward, we are not believed. We’re fighting against this narrative that exists in society, especially in pop culture that black women are hyper-sexualized and willing participants,” she says.
“It’s assumed that we are always wanting, willing and able,” she adds.
Mehari also cites the poor relationship between black people and law enforcement along with the pervasiveness of white-centric services as potential reasons of under-reporting.
When it comes to addressing this issue, Mehari says institutions, especially in practice and in their policies, must address factors other than sexism that contribute to sexual violence. Organizing against rape culture and promoting consent on campuses without a commitment to deconstructing complex ways that race, gender, physical ability, religion, age, economics and sexual orientation influence how survivors and their communities experience rape.
“Second, our colleges and universities need to create survivor-centric and trauma-informed systems that encourage reporting,” she adds.
“We need to believe survivors when they come forward. We need to provide them with culturally sensitive support.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
