 
Donald Trump’s election win isn’t the only thing keeping scholars awake at night. Concerns about climate change, including rising global temperatures, brought York academics together for a conference last week.
The scholars made climate change predictions by contrasting today’s world to Hollywood movies. Their first example was represented by a Mad Max scenario, which may occur if there is a lack of global cooperation regarding environmental issues. Other theories predicted an eco-friendly society called an ecotopia, similar to Denmark’s low-technology, high-cooperation approach.
Lassonde School of Engineering professor William Colgan explained that “in terms of social impact, it’s really impacting sea level rise in a few ways we might not expect.” One phenomenon is the melting of Arctic glaciers, which increases sea levels. A lesser-known effect is the displacement of water from one location, which was once held by gravitational force, causing sea levels to rise disproportionately in other areas.
Colgan put emphasis on firn, the top layer of an ice sheet that represents the transition between snow and ice. Meltwater, the water released from melting glaciers, may be stored in this layer of firn, and it is important for scientists to find out how much and whether it impacts rising sea levels.
The panelists also spoke about greenhouse gas emissions, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane gas. These emissions contribute to the greenhouse effect, which traps heat inside the atmosphere and causes global temperatures to rise.
The panelists highlighted various Canadian food production industries as contributing to climate change, especially their use of inefficient refrigerators, large transportation networks and energy consumption.
Environmental studies professor Rod MacRae explained that a significant amount of natural gas, also a GHG, ends up in nitrogen fertilizer for agriculture.
Other scholars present had conducted studies in the Arctic and northern Alberta to learn more about climate change.
Lassonde professor James Whiteway and his team explained how his team flew over northern Alberta to measure levels of aerosol and its effect on air quality. Lassonde researcher Alec Casey showcased his team’s method of measuring Arctic sea ice to establish a baseline thickness and see how it diminishes, as well as to test the accuracy of satellite imagery in measuring ice thickness.
Knowing where ice is melting isn’t only about rising sea levels, but people living in the Arctic need to know where it is safe to travel, explained Casey.
To tackle climate change, some people are trying to use less energy. But environmental studies professor Christina Hoicka said that despite these attempts, the way we use energy is pre-determined by how our society is set up spatially, and only a drastic change in these spatial factors would cause a huge reduction in energy consumption.
In fact, public policy has failed to reduce energy use, as every global region, with the exception of Russia, used more energy in 2005 than in 1990.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
York students are shitting on the university for the crappy experiences they face in campus toilets.
One user by the name fidgeeta posted an entry titled “Scott Library trauma” on the r/YorkU subreddit, describing her experience as “volatile.”
“In a fit of desperation to use the toiletry unit in the girl’s washroom at Scott, I checked every stall to find the ‘cleanest one’,” read the post. “However, when I arrived at the last stall because every other stall was completely atrocious, I saw something absolutely un-seeable.”
The culprit was a mound of excrement on top of the toilet.
u/fidgeeta did not reply for comment, however she is not the only one engaged in critical conversations about the state of York’s washrooms.
A Facebook group titled Bathrooms at YorkU, used for locating the cleanest washrooms at York, has over 400 members.
York spokesperson Barbara Joy says custodial services work 24 hours a day in three shifts. Most monitoring occurs between 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday to Friday.
Students can submit requests for service via a self-service portal. “The customer service team receives verbal and electronic requests from the community and initiates the work order or service request,” says Joy.
Meanwhile, Work Control Centre staff use two-way radios and beepers to promptly address emergency repairs and maintenance.
“The issue, however, is during high-traffic hours when the washrooms are extremely congested and the availability of the cleanliness staff is not adjusted for the increased traffic,” says Mazhar Iqbal, second-year iBBA student.
Knowing that a certain washroom isn’t kept clean, students will head to newer and cleaner ones, and in turn, soil them as well, he adds.
“I saw a very disgusting bathroom. Garbage was all over the floor, including toilet paper and feminine hygiene products. The worst part was one of the toilets was disgustingly messy and there was an actual piece of feces on the toilet seat,” says a second-year anthropology student who wishes to remain anonymous.
Campus Services and Business Operations’ custodial services is responsible for maintaining the cleanliness and attractiveness of all interior areas of the campus’ academic and administrative buildings, according to Joy.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
With final exams around the corner, many of us are reminiscing about a simpler time when we were younger and living stress-free lives. During these difficult times, studies have shown that reading can help reduce stress levels. But with so many textbooks, course kits and mandatory readings to do for class, no one wants the added work of picking up a novel to de-stress. 
Quarter-life crisis does exist and sometimes it takes the simplicity of a story to regain and re-establish our mindset. So if you find yourself feeling overwhelmed by the stack of readings you have yet to finish from this semester, confused if you’re even on the right path or you find yourself longing for your carefree childhood days, here are some popular children’s books to help alleviate your stress and remind you of a few important things you’ve probably misplaced throughout the years.
When the message is so important and so deceptively simple, it can be hard to understand but children’s literature has the tendency to write for adults. 
Ish by Peter H. Reynolds, has a great message for creators of any medium. This story is recommended by Michelle Pham, assistant co-ordinator at the Wiggins Childcare Centre. The story illustrates that not everyone will be able to understand or resonate the way you do certain things, but do not let their opinion deter you from your passion. Ish, “encourages process over product in creativity,” says Pham. 
Reynolds’ story inspires creativity, belief in one’s own ideas and perseverance. The young boy, Ramon, is criticized by his brother about his artwork, and although the criticism makes him consider giving up his passion altogether, he learns that you don’t always have to get it right or make it perfect. Sometimes “ish” is enough, so long as you’re doing it and it makes you happy. 
In the tale The Heart and the Bottle, by Oliver Jeffers, Jeffers tells a story about dealing with loss and overcoming it. Understanding and handling a loss at any age is difficult. We often want to protect ourselves from getting hurt and in doing this, we may unconsciously close ourselves off to the people closest to us and avoid taking risks by putting our heart away to keep it safe. However, sooner or later our emotions have to be addressed and dealt with. The thought-provoking tale will make you reflect on how you’ve handled your own losses and struggles in life.
The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry is recommended by Emre Koçak, a  third-year psychology student. The Little Prince reminds us that our state of mind is everything, and even when we think we understand something, there is always more to learn. First published in 1943 and recently adapted into a film, the timeless story is a book for children and for grown-ups. Filled with simple truths, it takes us back to how we used to see the world in light of our innocence. With a sense of wonderment and joy, the possibilities are endless, but somehow with age we lose this effortless ability to really live and take in the world around us. “Our society builds stories over stories of what should be in the world and who we should be in it,”says Koçak. Our mindset is flexible, we just have to choose to see things differently. “[There are] so many lessons in such a small book,” adds Koçak.
Where the Sidewalk Ends by Shel Silverstein. “Where the Sidewalk Ends,” “Listen to the Mustn’ts” and “The Missing Piece” are poems from Silverstein’s collection Where the Sidewalk Ends. Silverstein imparts some of his many life lessons in the form of lighthearted, easy-to-read poetry. As a child, they’re silly rhymes, but re-read as an adult and there is depth to his words and wisdom behind them.
Zero by Kathryn Otoshi. This book, published in 2010, has a powerful message that is always relevant. Finding the value in others is often easier than finding the worth in yourself, which is what Zero is learning to do. The characters are numbers, and Zero explores issues of value and self-worth, and like the rest of the numbers, she wants to count in more ways than one. It can be hard to think positively if you feel empty inside, if you’re constantly comparing ourselves to others. “Those numbers have value. That’s why they count […] But how could a number worth nothing become something? Zero feels empty inside.” wrote Otoshi in Zero.
Childhood is often lined with imaginary worlds, make-believe games and stories we probably didn’t appreciate enough when we were younger. While the majority of university students have literally outgrown the definition of child, many of the messages and stories in children’s literature ring true to the adult world. Perhaps these stories were trying to prepare us for the vast opportunities and responsibilities that adulthood is plagued with, or maybe the intent was that we would carry these stories with us well into our university career and far after. There really are still some things from our childhood we just can’t seem to kick, and maybe that is because we shouldn’t.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Real Food, Real Jobs activists organized a rally to stop the alleged intimidation of Aramark workers on Tuesday afternoon.
In a post in the Rally Against Cafeteria Worker Intimidation Facebook group, activist Brandon Hart claimed management has intimidated several workers from the Central Square cafeteria and suspended one worker for allegedly being “too loud.”
“This suspension is a direct response to these workers being active with their union and building connections with other students, faculty, staff and community members,” claimed Hart.
Meanwhile, the coalition has partnered with community groups like OPIRG York and the York University Graduate Students’ Association to express their concerns to York president Mamdouh Shoukri about the treatment of cafeteria workers, and to discuss lack of healthy and affordable food options on campus.
York spokesperson Barbara Joy says the university is aware that Aramark workers have expressed concerns about their employer, pointing out that Aramark is responsible for all aspects of employment and labour relations in connection with its workforce.
“We expect all suppliers comply with applicable laws, including the Employment Standards Act and the Ontario Human Rights Code. Aramark’s employees are unionized and have various avenues available to them if they experience issues in their workplace,” she says.
Previously, the Real Food, Real Jobs coalition delivered a petition with over 1,000 signatures collected from the York community to the president’s office, requesting a meeting with him.
“We aren’t even sure if you are getting the message. If you are, why are you ignoring this incredibly important issue that has thousands of community members concerned? If you are not, you need to investigate why you aren’t receiving information from your staff,” reads an open letter signed by Real Food, Real Jobs and addressed to President Shoukri.
Joy explains that correspondence sent by Aramark employees to Shoukri was received and forwarded for response to the director of YU-card, food and parking services, as his department is responsible for some of the food services at York.
“A response was sent to Aramark employees on October 26. We are not aware of any direct written complaints by Aramark employees, however, given that the employees are not York employees we would encourage the individuals to share their concerns with their union for appropriate action,” says Joy.
Aramark spokesperson Karen Cutler maintains the company continues to negotiate in good faith with the union and are working toward a new agreement.
“We do not negotiate through the media or third parties,” says Cutler.
“We respect the integrity of the collective bargaining process and consider negotiations private,” she adds.
“While I cannot comment on any specific incidents, any resulting actions were not related to the current labour negotiations,” asserts Cutler.
She says that as an employer of more than a quarter of a million people, Aramark operates everywhere with the highest regard for all of its employees, and, in doing so, maintains full compliance with labour agreements.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
A$AP Nast, formerly known as New York Nast before he joined the hip hop collective A$AP Mob, is the lesser known but equally talented cousin of A$AP Rocky. Nast’s quick-fire, multisyllabic verses stand out on the Harlem-based group’s mixtapes. With his east coast flow, witty lyricism and features on numerous albums, it’s hard to imagine why this talented MC has not yet dropped a debut project of his own.
A$AP Mob dropped their debut album titled L.O.R.D. in 2013 with Nast’s leading single “Trillmatic” which featured Wu-Tang Clan’s Method Man. More recently, Nast put out a track along with A$AP Twelvy and Rocky entitled “Presidents,” which makes an apparent tribute to Brooklyn native Nast’s “The World is Yours.”
Nast consistently keeps his music 90s east coast slang and that bleeds into the production of his music as well. Nast’s lyrics make it clear that he’s trying to bring back the iconic sounds and flows of the 90s rap scene that legendary New York rappers such as A Tribe Called Quest and the Wu-Tang Clan made rap fans fall in love.
Nast’s music is characteristically entertaining and insightful. His lyrics reflect on the environment that he and his crew have navigated through in order to get to where they are today.
Of course, Nast talks about lighter, less serious subjects like how he always wears designer clothing and jewellery. Some of the greatest rappers of all time, including the Notorious B.I.G., Tupac and Jay-Z have all talked about materiality in their music, but are still considered to be lyrical and musical geniuses. They are still respected because beneath that layer of superficiality, they all managed to balance it out with a great deal of introspection about their respective lives. To listen to Nast’s and other artists’ life perspectives is inspirational as they show how it’s possible to overcome hardships and succeed.
A$AP Nast is a rapper to look out for. Every feature he puts out is shaping him into a better solo artist and member of the A$AP collective. He has huge potential and at this point, has proven that he is capable of cooking up a debut album of his own. As we wait for Nast to drop a solo album on us, his crew mate A$AP Ferg recently stopped by in Toronto on November 27.
 


Englhitening the world, one helpful article at a time.

 York University Community Newspaper 
