As they close in on the Ontario University Athletics playoffs, both of the Lions basketball teams are starting to play like it’s clutch time. Though both the men’s and women’s squads fell to the Queen’s Gaels on Saturday, the Lions managed to keep it together and stayed in the games until the shot clock expired.
The women’s team lost by a score of 87-75, and with the scoreboard reading 62-59 when the smoke cleared, the men’s team was just narrowly edged out by the Gaels.
The women’s matchup was the Lions’ annual Shoot for the Cure game, in which all proceeds from the contests, donations, and silent auction are donated to the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. It was also the struggling team’s first home game of 2016.
The Lions put up a strong fight all the way through the game. The team was carried by a trio of Ishanaa Seupersadsingh, Jackie Koudys, and Sandra Nagowska. Each of them played more than 20 minutes in the game and contributed at least 12 points to the team’s effort. Seupersadsingh, a senior guard, leads the Lions in scoring with an average of 12.8 points per game so far this season.
The game, played at Tait McKenzie Centre in front of an exhilarated crowd, featured several brilliant basketball plays. Some of these contributed to the Lions’ strong 24-14 lead at the end of the first quarter, a lead they managed to maintain by halftime despite a comeback attempt by the Gaels.
In the third quarter, the Lions’ momentum was starting to fade away and the Gaels did not miss the opportunity to take the lead. Though the quarter ended with the Lions still up by four points (58-54), in the fourth quarter the Lions’ defence collapsed as the Gaels came out in full force, scoring more than 30 points to win the game with a score of 87-75.
Later in the day, the men’s game was even more competitive. The Lions held onto a narrow lead over the Gaels throughout the first quarter, but by the end of the first half the score stood at 27-26. Jayden Frederick made a great play in the first quarter, scoring a layup in a high-intensity situation and following it up with a block at the other end of the court.
The third quarter was action-packed. The Lions put on a showcase of great plays, including a long shot from behind the arc and a buzzer-beater. However, the Gaels came fighting back, taking a two-point lead for the first time in the game. They built on this lead in the intense fourth quarter, but the Lions kept the game close.
Nathan Culbreath of the Lions put up a basket in the final minute of the game to narrow the lead down to 60-59 for the Gaels, but the Gaels then got the opportunity to shoot a pair of free throws, both of which they nailed. That sealed their victory and a tough loss for the Lions.
Both the men’s and women’s teams played considerably better at home on Saturday than they have on their long road trips over the past few weeks, which may be a sign of a strong run into the upcoming OUA playoffs.
Both teams stand at fourth place in the OUA East rankings.
Hassam Munir, Sports and Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Sonya Grytskevych
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
There is a scene in Quentin Tarantino’s latest film, The Hateful Eight where a person gets raped. The movie does not gloss over this scene. It is drawn out to an uncomfortable length as every painful detail of the character’s rape, torture, and subsequent murder is half shown, and half narrated to the audience. The only thing that stops the scene from being unbearably cruel is the fact that the victim is a person who makes his money hunting down black people. For some, it might be satisfying to see a racist murderer get his comeuppance, but for the audience I watched it with, and myself, it was not. It made my skin crawl and my stomach churn.
The common, answerless question about life on Earth is, “Why do bad things happen to good people?” Throughout most of Tarantino’s filmography runs the related question of “should bad things happen to bad people?” Despite his reputation as someone who fetishizes violence, Tarantino always makes sure to show its negative consequences in deceptively subtle ways.
Consider 1977’s Star Wars, where the good guys are in danger of having their base destroyed by the bad guy’s giant battle station known as the Death Star. Their response is not to evacuate the base, or to deactivate the Death Star’s weapons system, but rather to send people to blow it up and everybody onboard. And so, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, and Chewbacca explode the giant machine, kill hundreds of thousands of enemy soldiers, receive medals for their work, and every child watching the movie learns that mass murder is a happy thing.
Whether or not the destruction of the Death Star is ethical is up to debate, seeing as how it had previously been used to disintegrate an inhabited planet, but I think most would agree that the unflinching glee with which our heroes commit the act is disturbing to say the least. So how did director George Lucas and his team know that people would not react to the scene with the slightest discomfort? Simple cinematic techniques, such as making the bad guys wear masks so audiences feel less compassion for people whose faces they cannot see, and by making sure the faces that are seen are old and ugly, in contrast to our young, attractive protagonists.
Tarantino does not use these empathy-dampening tricks. In Django Unchained, there is a scene where the protagonists snipe a wanted killer and is punctuated with the killer’s son running up to his fallen father like Simba in The Lion King. In Kill Bill, there is a scene where the heroine maims and massacres a bunch of gangsters trying to kill her and ends with a reminder that many of them are teenagers, in over their heads. In Inglourious Basterds, Tarantino juxtaposes the slaughter that Brad Pitt’s heroic character inflicts on Hitler’s soldiers with Hitler’s own propaganda that celebrates the slaughter of Americans. Thus, Tarantino compares himself to Joseph Goebbels and his audience to the Nazis, sitting in a movie theatre and cheering on violence against other human beings.
And of course, in The Hateful Eight, he makes sure that the audience gets to see every flutter of emotion and pain in the villains’ faces before they meet their demise, and this difference is the only thing that makes his characters “anti-heroes” and Lucas’ characters “heroes.” The Hateful Eight is for adults while Star Wars is for children because The Hateful Eight is honest.
At one point in the film’s near three-hour runtime, Tim Roth’s character explains the difference between justice and revenge, or “frontier justice” as he calls it. He explains that the difference between a murderer getting hanged after being found guilty in a court of law and the family members of a victim dragging the murderer into the snow and hanging them. The latter feels good and the former does not. Justice delivered for the sake of emotional satisfaction “is always in danger of not being justice.” People delight in the climax of Star Wars and, therefore, it is not justice.
Nowadays, it seems like every day we read about some new and fresh atrocity committed by people against people. Do not let this make us forget the importance of compassion and that just because something feels good does not mean it is the right thing to do.
Jimmy Zhao, Staff Writer
Featured illustration by Sophia Goshulak
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A PhD student faced her alleged rapist last week for the first time since the incident. The trial begins February 1.
Mandi Gray, who started Silence is Violence, a coalition combating sexual violence on campus, spoke to Excalibur about the experience and what she thinks will happen at the trial next week.
When CUPE 3903 held a party on January 31, 2015 following the strike vote, Gray alleges that she was raped by Mustafa Ururyar, the union’s chief steward.
“I reported to the Toronto police on February 2, 2015 and on February 15, 2015 my attacker was arrested and charged with one count of sexual assault and subsequently released on bail,” says Gray.
Ururyar is currently facing a sexual assault charge and was part of the CUPE 3903 Executive Committee until he was confronted about being charged with sexual assault, to which he voluntarily resigned last February.
Gray went to court last week because the accused put in a third-party records application. While not an enjoyable experience, Gray says it nonetheless provided her with an opportunity to see what the criminal trial will be like.
“That was the first time I saw him since the assault happened last January,” she says.
“I think it’s important for the York community to know [his name] considering he will more than likely be returning [as a] TA and be a student at York following the trial.”
“Just like most cases of acquaintance rape, I don’t anticipate he will be found guilty,” says Gray. “Not because I think the assault didn’t happen, but because our justice system is not set up to prosecute cases of sexual violence.”
“The likelihood of him being found guilty is quite small, statistically. That’s the reality of acquaintance and intimate partner violence.”
Last year, York became the first university in Toronto to establish a policy on sexual assaults. However, critics argue that by simply issuing a policy, administrators may not take the time to listen to the people most vulnerable to sexual assault. Discussion continues on the lines between policy and implementation.
Gray wrote an open letter to York President Mamdouh Shoukri criticizing the policy, citing that there are “no resources for students or employees available regarding the procedural aspect following a disclosure to York University faculty and/or staff,” and that it remains unclear how perpetrators will be held accountable.
The trial is from February 1 to February 3 at Old City Hall, 60 Queen Street West.
Ryan Moore, News Editor
 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
