Featured image courtesy of BlogTO
 
It’s been a historic run for the Toronto Raptors in the 2015-2016 season. They finished with the most wins in franchise history, with over 50 games under their belts,finally making it past the first round of the playoffs for the first time since 2001.
This marks the third straight season the Raptors have made the playoffs, and each year fans have congregated outside the Air Canada Centre to watch the games on the big screen.
In 2014, the Raptors made it to the playoffs for the first time since the 2007-2008 season. It was a surprise for many of the fans, as people were expecting them to tank with the hopes of getting a lottery pick. They even traded away the franchise’s best player Rudy Gay.
However, the players that the Raptors got in return for Gay ended up becoming a core group of guys that led Toronto to a new franchise record in wins in each of the past three seasons.
After a six-year playoff drought, fans were excited, gathering in what is now affectionately known as Jurassic Park to watch the games.
When people first started going to Jurassic Park, it was just a screen, a camera and occasionally a DJ. Nowadays, police close off the street and fans would cram into the fenced-off area to cheer on their home team.
Occasionally, there would be people outside handing out T-shirts for the early birds. In the 2014-2015 season, the team made it to the playoffs again and looked even stronger than the previous year’s team. Jurassic Park became a more popular place to watch the games.
People would hand out T-shirts every game, along with white rally towels to wave when the camera was pointing at them.\
This year, Jurassic Park is almost like an outdoor sports bar. There are food and drink tents, games, prizes and even a faux-locker room where fans can take pictures in their favourite players’ stalls.
Each year the upgrades have gotten more extravagant and the atmosphere is incredible. As someone who has attended games both inside the ACC and outside in Jurassic Park, I can honestly say I prefer the atmosphere outside.
The people seem to be more passionate and there’s more comradery because everyone is free to walk around instead of being confined to an assigned seat.
The Raptors are playing Cleveland Cavaliers in the Eastern Conference Finals, and if you’re a fan of basketball, you should definitely make it a point to watch a game in Jurassic Park.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image by Michael Zusev
Nearing enrollment windows, students often find themselves on websites like Facebook in search of recommendations for good courses to take. Bird courses are a popular term used by students to describe courses that are considered easy, meaning a light workload and course content that guarantees an A. With around 20,500 members and people communicating on it everyday, “Bird Courses @ York U” is a well-known Facebook page in the York community used to find courses of this nature. This page is one among many outlets available for students to do their research. Third-year administrative studies student Amarpreet Dhami says that she found her bird course on a site called birdcourses.com.
In the summer of 2015, Dhami was able to take the popular bird course called THEA 1520 – Acting for Non-Majors – which she claims she thoroughly enjoyed. She states that although there was more written work than she expected, she believes it was a fairly easy class and considered it a GPA booster. That being said, even though the class was just intended for the grade, she benefited from it. “This bird course in particular allows you to experience and develop skills you would not in another course,” such as public speaking.
Aleksandar Lukac, a part-time theatre instructor who has been teaching at York for the past 20 years, knows that students consider his class a bird course. However, Lukac believes that bird courses like Acting For Non-Majors have a lot to offer despite their reputation of being lightweight. 
“This misconception of [Acting for Non-Majors] being easier is because it’s not heavy on theory, but it’s heavier on practicum,” states Lucak.  Because the course is targeted toward non-majors, it is more relaxed, hands-on and physically active than the theory-based classes students are used to. Acting for Non-Majors is a well-designed class that, like many other classes at York, requires students to learn theory, write exams, do assignments and abide by guidelines and deadlines. Participation is also key, which means attendance is required to get a good mark. With these safeguards in place, students are able to learn a lot from this class, which includes the acting process, theatre theory and how to publicly speak with confidence and elegance.
Both Dhami and Lukac state that there is a misconception about the nature of bird courses, and agree that there is a shock factor for students when they see that there is a lot of work to do in a bird course like Acting for Non-Majors. Ultimately, bird courses may be just considered easy because they are a swift change from theory-based courses. A bird course status does not guarantee an A, but it can be an opportunity for new challenges and a change of pace in your academic career.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
