 
After Donald Trump was announced as the new president of the United States, social media users expressed their outrage and shock at the election results. On the day of the election, I was scrolling through my Twitter and Facebook timelines to see what people were saying. Most had similar thoughts: How did this happen? How did he win?
Many users seem to think that Trump’s victory was due to the rich, middle-class, white South. Even The Guardian seems to concur.
Trump’s views played an important role to his campaign. He continuously preached acceptable racism, with talk of building a wall and refusing to let refugees into the country. These seemingly extremist views took the world by storm, and even those who were not American citizens were outraged by his statements.
“How can you vote for someone who does not like the majority of the American people? [Much] of the population includes blacks, Latinos, Muslims and Asians. It scares me to think that Muslims […] will be extremely marginalized and oppressed in one of the most powerful nations in the world,” says second-year criminology student Medina Torlak.
According to political science professor Rodney Loeppky, white Southerners were just one facet of the win. It’s actually the electoral colleges that played a huge role in Trump’s victory. “It is the strategic basis on which presidential campaigns are arranged in the United States, and it dictates how and where campaign finances are directed,” he says.
Electoral votes are the core of the election: the candidate with the most electoral votes, based on the majority for each state, is named president, even if the results do not agree with the popular vote, which totals all votes across the country.
“Conversely, it has a considerable effect on voter turnout, with those states understood to be locked in for either party witnessing depressed participation rates,” says Loeppky.
Since Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton actually won the popular vote, people want to see a reform of the electoral college system.
“[It] would both enhance participation and lead to more just outcomes. But whatever I think, the task of eliminating or even altering the electoral college is gargantuan, because it would require an extensive constitutional amendment, which is exceptionally difficult even in the most opportune circumstances. The current political terrain in the United States is anything but opportune, and the possibility for reform, absent a mass movement, cutting across all social classes and regions is zero,” says Loeppky.
With Canadians on social media touting their citizenship and chastising Americans over this complex system, it is important to acknowledge reality. The current electoral system in Canada has also come under fire for not being equitable, leading groups like Lead Now to introduce a campaign to promote a more equitable voting system.
“[The electoral] college effectively is a first-past-the-post system, taken to a state-wide level. It creates all of the same problems in terms of representation, voter turnout and apathy, [as well as] limited party participation. We like to scoff at the electoral college in the United States, but our own electoral system operates on basically the same principles in the election of our legislatures and government.
“The move to reform would probably need to erupt at the local level in both jurisdictions. Major electoral reform requires accurate understanding on the part of those affected—voters. And from the standpoint of the major parties, opening up the system to a more proportional reflection of actual votes will not benefit them. As such, campaigns around electoral reform are often imbued with inaccuracies, misleading statements or even outright falsehoods,” says Loeppky.
History plays an important role in how these voting systems are constructed. Originally, electoral colleges were implemented to protect the voice of rural voters. Similarly, first past the post was created to protect voter representation and provide voters with a direct link to their representative. When looking into electoral system reform, it’s important to ensure representation and equality are included, as well as basic principles of democracy.
Ultimately, Trump won fair and square. To blame the electoral college on his win is unfair, because every president elected before him also won with this system. Although some of Trump’s supporters are viewed as radical racists, people still believed his rhetoric could actually help the American nation—not by building a wall, but by expressing the truth that most Americans were afraid to voice, which could possibly make America great again.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
You’ve probably noticed an increase in the number of guys rocking facial hair over the last few weeks. While these blossoming beards and mustaches could be a sign of an influx of hipsters on campus, a more likely reason is Movember.
Movember, which first launched in 2003 in Australia and came to Canada four years later, is best known for raising funds towards prostate cancer research and awareness for men’s health. Aside from prostate cancer, Movember grazes topics such as testicular cancer and men’s mental health and suicide prevention, according to Cassandra Tatone, PR specialist at Movember Canada.
“In Canada, men die on average six years younger than women for no biological reason. It’s incredibly important to get men talking about their health and about tough issues, encouraging them to get checked and also funding programs to aid in research that will help these issues in the future,” says Tatone.
By signing up at Movember’s site, supporters can raise funds for their own campaign or support others while growing a mustache, which serves as a symbol for men’s health awareness. However, you don’t have to be able to grow a mustache to participate; women and children can also participate in Movember by participating in a fitness challenge called “move” or hosting a Movember event, adds Tatone.
Movember events range from board game tournaments and trivia nights to galas or spin events. “There are so many ways to have fun and fundraise for the cause,” says Tatone.
The money raised goes to over 1,200 Movember programs across 21 countries.
According to the Canadian Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer for Canadians, affecting one in eight men.
“When a man turns 40, he should get tested yearly during his annual physical, especially if there is a family history of the disease. Many men do not do this; many men do not have an annual physical at all,” says Michael Connor, a Faculty of Health professor.
Symptoms that could be indicative of prostate cancer include changes in bladder habits, such as the need to urinate often, especially at night; inability to urinate; interrupted urine stream; a sense of incompletely emptying the bladder; burning or pain during urination; blood in the urine or semen; and painful ejaculation, according to Connor.
The main risk factor for prostate cancer is familial history, but Connor says there are other factors to consider, including “a diet high in fat and dairy products, a diet high in red or processed meats, being overweight or obese, […] exposure to high levels of testosterone, tall adult height, exposure to pesticides [and] occupational exposures.”
Getting tested for prostate cancer is extremely important. “Early detection may improve the chances of successful therapy. It can be a double-edged sword, as no test for prostate cancer is 100 per cent reliable, and false positive results can lead to unnecessary treatment,” he adds.
Connor advocates for Movember. “As someone engaged in prostate cancer research, I like to think I participate all year in a small way. I do participate in the awareness campaign by growing a poor moustache, and I donate to prostate cancer research during ‘Movember’,” adds Connor.
According to Tatone, the most important takeaway from Movember is that men are dying at a young age. “To stop this, we need everyone to join the fight. Find someone you know who is participating in Movember and donate to their Mo Space, leave an encouraging comment and support the men in your life,” she says.
 


These topics are so confisung but this helped me get the job done.
One or two to rebermem, that is.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Globally, horizons are closing in, and the cause isn’t global warming. For baby boomers, the educational and occupational possibilities seemed endless, but for today’s millennials, occupational prospects don’t seem to be so bright. Our horizons aren’t as bountiful as they may have been 50 years ago. The culprit is in part the structure of formal education, and the resulting thousands, maybe millions, of students and recent graduates struggle to find meaningful employment and maintain hope in a sluggish economy.
My Millennial Life follows five 20-something year olds as they navigate through post-secondary education, the job market and expectations versus the reality of Canada’s dismal economy. Writer, director, producer and film professor Maureen Judge shows millennials that they’re not alone and that the issue of unemployment is institutional and epidemic.
A veteran of documentary and film, some of her notable works include Unveiled: the Mother Daughter Relationship, Living Dolls and FLicKeR.
“I wanted to make sure, first of all, that this film wasn’t just me, that the voices in the documentary were the voices of the young people who were in it,” shares Judge.
The documentary provides viewers with various perspectives covering a range of experiences and emotions that millennials may be going through. Hope, Emily, Meron, Mark and Tim dispel myths associated with millennials that they’re lazy, dumb or uneducated. As the documentary opens, there has been a 58 per cent increase in the percentage of 25 to 29 year olds with post-secondary degrees or diplomas since 1981, yet nearly half of them are unemployed or have temporary or dead-end jobs. The problem is not young adults, but the disconnect between education, conversion and careers.
Judge was moved to create the documentary while reading about what was going on in Spain and Greece in regards to the high unemployment rate among 20-something year olds and wondering what the cause of this was. Shocked, Judge turned her scrutiny towards Canada and the United States and was puzzled at what future, if any, was left for millennials.
“At first I thought, of course, my children are special. It’s not going to affect them,” admits Judge. “This isn’t their life. But as I started talking to young people, having interviews and just going with them to work, I realized that of course my kids are of their generation, just like how I’m of my generation.”
Judge’s trigger for creating the documentary highlights an important point of discussion for millennials and older generations: the fact that there isn’t enough discourse happening between the two. Judge hopes that by providing young people with a canvas to tell their stories, more informed discourse will result in better odds for young adults.
“I’m a big believer in education and the more education the better […] But as a boomer, we really promised education, but with the education, we also promised jobs. We also promised promotion. We promised a whole lifestyle and the thing is, those expectations were given to my kids and everybody’s kids. Those expectations aren’t being met. They’re not not being met by young people; they’re not being met by us.”
My Millennial Life is broadcasted by TVO and offers students an honest opinion that their liberal arts programs may not be giving them. Interested students, educators and the general public can attend the free screening of the documentary on December 1 at 6:30 p.m. at the Toronto Reference Library. Alternatively, the film is available for streaming on TVO’s website. Judge will be available after the screening for a Q&A session.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Although York takes pride in being a global university with over 6,000 international students, it remains insensitive to their unique needs. We select courses in June, but it’s a fair bet that the first snow of the year will arrive before the final exam schedule. For some students, York’s tardiness can mean being unable to return home or having to pay a pretty penny to do so.
This is on top of the already-ridiculous fees international students cough up.
Yes, I know that professors warn students at the beginning of the year against booking flights during the official exam period and that I shouldn’t have done that. I realize that strict exam guidelines are meant to prevent students taking advantage of the system. But I don’t see why York can’t release schedules in advance.
International students like myself face a double whammy as we scramble to arrange our flights—often booked months in advance to avoid holiday season price inflation—and pray to heaven that our exam schedule doesn’t clash with them. Imagine my dismay when the most dreaded of scenarios came to pass.
One fine afternoon last week, with a tap of the “Enter” button on their computer, a nameless administrator in the Faculty of Health condemned me to weeks of anxiety and one particularly hellish night of negotiating on the phone with my airline to postpone my flight.
York, riddle me this: why do you release exam schedules this late? Not to put too fine of a point on it, but it’s ridiculous having to choose between writing exams and seeing family. Lest anyone accuse me of being unprepared, know that I booked my ticket all the way back in August, but the exam schedule threw a spanner in the works.
Besides the recognized reasons of illness, disability and religious grounds, students are unable to sit out for exams for other reasons. But how do students in unique situations secure accommodations? The prospect of having to deal with the bureaucracy of faculty, advisors and academic petitions is too daunting for most of us.
To fix this, York must create a consistent and accessible way for students facing exam conflicts to voice their concerns. Students should not be discouraged or held back just because their reasons do not align with the established guidelines for negotiating an alternative exam schedule.
And I’m not the only one. Speaking with my friends and peers in other faculties, I get the sense that York’s regulations are not uniform and there seems to be no consensus among faculties about exam-writing rules. We need a system that works for all students: one that is flexible, standardized and accommodates students’ needs.
Whoever said “if it ain’t broken, don’t fix it” was definitely not referring to York.
So, fix it, York.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
