Featured image by Alexia Lawson
Meet Jeff Bierk, a Toronto photographer who documents both beauty and tragedy in Toronto’s neighbourhoods with junkies and homeless people being the subject of many of his photographs. While the raw and honest elements of Bierk’s work might mistake him for a street photographer, his work strongly differs from this practice. He is currently featured in the Scotiabank CONTACT Photography Festival, an annual month-long festival held throughout the GTA in May. Bierk has two shows on display, Top Left and 10 Blankets, the latter of which has been praised as a must-see of the festival. Excalibur had the opportunity to attend the opening night of Top Left on May 13 and interview the man behind the powerful images.
From making photographs to displaying them, transparency and respect remain principles in Bierk’s work. He has developed a collaborative practice where the subjects of his photographs are recognized as collaborators, with profit splitting being one way to demonstrate this. This perspective comes from Bierk’s understanding that without the labour that his collaborators put into daily life, none of the photographs would be possible. He also offers accessible public viewing of his work by displaying them on streets, perhaps a response to the widening of class gaps and digital divides.
Consent has been another cornerstone of Bierk’s recent photography. Bierk explains how he used to take photographs of homeless people, who he refers to as “precariously housed,” sleeping on hot air grates on the corner of Queen Street East and Victoria Street.
“I used to do it without consent,” describes Bierk. “Those images, without consent, mark a big transformation in my way of making photographs because I was operating without a lot of thoughtfulness. I had entitlement where I wanted to capture the honesty. I [felt I] had the right to photograph you and use your body to tell my story.” 
Bierk’s journey has not come without hardship. Tragedy has influenced much of his work.
“I experienced three deaths at a pretty young age. My parents and the person I fell in love with died,” says Bierk with both strength and sadness.
Bierk’s parents were both artists, so as a child, he was exposed to their art from a young age. His father was a painter and even taught him how to take photographs.
“I was seeking connection to my father and my mother through trying to become an artist and make photographs,” he says.
For the majority of his life, Bierk battled with a drug addiction, though he has been sober for four years. 
“I was really into photography and then I got really into drugs. So I checked out of the world for a long time,” says Bierk.
Photography has been a mechanism to cope with his addiction. “I think seeking quick interactions with strangers was a way for me to connect with my addiction and connect with the kind of excitement I felt when I was doing drugs – being in places I shouldn’t be in, seeing these secret places we don’t see unless we’re involved.”
Beauty might not be the word dominant culture would use to describe his work but Bierk begs to differ. 
“At the core, it’s about honouring a kind of beauty that I see, though it is not a dominant notion of what is beautiful,” explains Bierk. Bierk believes narrow perceptions of beauty are why his portraits are mischaracterized as street photography.
“You show portraits of people and automatically have it lumped into street photography,” he says.
Bierk’s work is refreshing and his story is one that adds dimension to conversations of street, candid and beauty photography, pushing conversation of what it means to be homeless. For more information on Bierk’s shows and other photography events throughout the month of May, visit the Scotiabank CONTACT Photography Festival website.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image by Alexia Lawson
 
Summer is finally here and many students are enjoying the lack of responsibilities associated with time off from school.
One particular benefit that summer brings is the freedom to sleep in. With tuition costs constantly rising, more and more students are forced to try and balance work and school to ensure they can pay their fees. This balancing act often forces them to give up certain aspects of their life, and one of the most common things sacrificed is sleep.
The National Sleep Foundation published a study in February 2015 that stated people between the ages of 18 and 25 should be getting between seven and nine hours of sleep each night, while people between the ages of 14 and 17 should be getting eight to 10.
People who don’t get more than six hours of sleep on a nightly basis have been found to be clumsier and less focused.
Clete Kushida, director of Stanford University Center for Human Sleep Research, found that people who aren’t getting enough sleep often have trouble focusing, impaired depth perception and slowed reflexes.
Not getting enough sleep on a nightly basis can also lead to other more serious health concerns, including weight gain. When your body doesn’t get enough sleep it starts craving high-calorie foods to make sure that you have the energy you’ll need if you’re going to be awake longer. Another side effect is a lower immune system, leading to difficulty in fighting off illnesses. According to a 2009 study, people who get less than six hours of sleep each night are three times more likely to develop a cold. They also have a harder time recovering from illnesses such as the flu.
Probably the most frightening side-effect of lack of sleep is the increased risk of heart disease and stroke.
According to Atlanta cardiologist David E. Montgomery, people who don’t get enough sleep put more pressure on their heart, which leads to a higher risk of heart-related illness.
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in North America, with one in four deaths linked to it. A recent study found that people over the age of 45 who got six hours of sleep or less on a consistent basis doubled their chances of stroke and heart attack, and are more likely to experience heart failure.
So the next time you’re up late and Netflix asks if you’re still watching, hit no and go to sleep.
 


I highly recommend meditation at least twice a day for at least 20 minutes each session. It is hard at first, but after a few months of effort it gets easier.
It does a lot to help get a better night sleep and just helps you have a clearer peaceful mind throughout the day. There are many resources online to help, I recommend focusing on your breath but the Mantra method works for other people, find what works for you. And remember, you can meditate walking to class, riding your bike, just quieting your mind and not thinking all the time about things you do not need to think about.   Think when you need to, live in the moment and quiet your mind whenever you can and you will have a much better sleep and life.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image courtesy of Ariella Sibony
 
York’s Inclusion Committee and President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri have come under sustained attack by national media in recent weeks, as Jewish organizations allege the committee is “stacked” with anti-Israel faculty.
In an interview with the Canadian Jewish News, or CJN, Shoukri said inclusion is a broad campus issue, and the committee’s membership needs to reflect that breadth.
“To be clear, this committee was not formed as a result of any specific incident, but rather to bring together York scholars to advance our shared goals of strengthening York’s commitment to building an inclusive and diverse campus through collegial dialogue that nurtures the respectful exchanges of ideas, and supports and prepares our graduates for success anywhere,” said Shoukri to CJN.
Not everyone is convinced.
Rena Silver, president of Hasbara at York, says the Inclusion Committee not only consists of a majority of individuals with anti-Israel leanings, but also includes some outright hateful individuals.
“I was privileged to attend a meeting with a couple of administrators for Jewish campus leaders recently where it seemed York’s administration understood that there is no way this committee can be effective at dealing with anti-Semitism on campus,” she adds.
She hopes for a vetting process and the inclusion of campus leaders “who know best that line between legitimate discourse of the state of Israel and anti-Semitism.”
Following his interview, several Jewish groups sent Shoukri an open letter calling for the removal of members “with a record of publicly promoting BDS and other anti-Israel initiatives.”
“We were disappointed to see comments that we felt were condescending to the concerns of our community and dismissive of the concerns of our students,” reads the letter.
The letter acknowledges Shoukri’s “commitment to combat bigotry and enhance inclusion” and claims York administration under Shoukri has failed to address a “growing sense of alienation among Jewish students on campus.”
“We remain alarmed by the seeming disregard of York University’s administration to recognize and confront anti-Semitism on campus,” it states.
The groups were also “astonished to learn that almost half of the members appointed to the inclusion committee either support boycotts, divestment and sanctions (BDS) or have been publicly critical of Israel.”
The letter was signed by B’nai Brith of Canada, The Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs, Friends of Simon Wiesenthal Center, Hasbara Fellowships Canada, Hillel Ontario, StandWithUs Canada and UJA Federation of Greater Toronto.
“These organizations may represent their members, but in no way can they claim to represent, or speak for, all Jewish communities,” reads a letter co-signed by Independent Jewish Voices Canada, Toronto and York chapters, International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network – Canada, United Jewish People’s Order Canada and YorkU Jews Against Colonialism.
“The Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs (CIJA)’s statement assumes that ‘anti-Israel activism’ is equivalent to anti-Semitism, which diverts the focus away from criticism of the Israeli government’s record of human rights violations and breaches of international law,” says Samuel B. Halévy, spokesperson for Independent Jewish Voices York.
“Independent Jewish Voices’ presence on campus, which is comprised of Jewish and non-Jewish students working together, is evidence that inclusion is possible outside of political Zionist-led narrative,” he adds.
Groups such as CIJA do not represent the entirety of the Jewish population, as there are other Jewish-led groups, both on- and off-campus, that understand the Israeli government’s motives and  advocate for the human rights of Palestinians and equality of all peoples in the region, says Halévy.
Shoukri said this “discrepancy” of views in the Jewish community is because there are students and faculty at York who support the Palestinian causes and who are critical of policies of the State of Israel.
“Some of this criticism is part of a legitimate political dialogue, while part of it can be seen by some as a cover for anti-Semitic sentiment,” he said.
While York is in a good position to protect and support academic freedom and freedom of expression, and to draw the line when it comes to hate or other forms of discrimination or intimidation, the emotional aspects of an issue may affect some students and can make them feel uncomfortable or unsafe, according to Shoukri.
“[T]he mostly unfair targeting of York by several Jewish organizations and individuals – perhaps in their zeal to combat anti-Semitism, which I can understand – has had a negative effect on some of our young students and has contributed to making them feel worried and victimized,” he added.
Previously, Shoukri said that while acting within the limits of the law, vigorous yet respectful dialogue and exchange of ideas can be deeply enriching to the academic life of an institution.
“I believe it is the responsibility of those with strong views on any debate to act in a way that does not demonize and threaten others or make others feel unsafe,” he said.
Indeed, the balance between freedom of expression and ensuring that all members of a community feel safe in sharing their views without intimidation is a subject worthy of discussion in a collegial environment, according to Shoukri.
“We have zero tolerance for anti-Semitism or other forms of racism, or the advocacy of hate and violence by any group or individual,” he added, “however, it is understandable that there will be individuals who may feel challenged by some ideas.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
