After losing to the U of T Varsity Blues last week, York’s football team was determined to turn things around against the Carleton Ravens on Saturday.
Unfortunately, the Lions were unable to do so, falling to 2-3 on the season in front of their homecoming crowd.
York’s poor defence proved to be a major factor, as Carleton opened the scoring early in the first quarter with two quick touchdowns.
York quarterback Brett Hunchak was unable to generate much offense, throwing for just 159 yards and completing only 13 of his 30 pass attempts, along with a pair of interceptions.
York opened the scoring in the second quarter with a touchdown courtesy of Kadeem Thomas, which cut the Ravens’ lead in half.
The second quarter was marred by sloppy play, as neither team could do much aside from throw incomplete passes.
Eventually, the Ravens answered York’s touchdown with a field goal by Michael Domagala, which added another three points to their lead.
Just before halftime, Carleton scored their third touchdown of the game on an eight-yard pass from Jesse Mills to Kyle VanWynsberghe with 23 seconds left in the quarter, increasing the Ravens’ lead to 24-7.
The Ravens added another touchdown five minutes into the third, giving them a 31-7 lead.
By the end of the third quarter, the Lions appeared to have given up, and the Ravens continued to pile on the points en route to a decisive 50-7 victory.
“One of the problems is that we have so many talented football players that are just trying to carry the program on their back,” says head coach Warren Craney.
“I think we are hesitant sometimes and we’ve got to do our job [better]. Everybody has got to do their job and we [have to] execute faster,” says first-year running back Khaliel James, who had 57 rushing yards on 10 carries.
The Lions managed just 274 total yards to the Ravens’ 675. They are now seventh in the Ontario University Athletics and have lost their last two games by a combined deficit of 70 points.
It doesn’t get any easier, as two of their next three games are against second-place Ottawa and fourth-place McMaster. The Lions hope to get back to their roaring ways next week when they take on the Gee-Gees in the nation’s capital.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
You wake up every morning with two options: to go to class or not to go to class. You run down your list of excuses and seemingly valid reasons as to why you don’t really need to go, but can you really afford to skip?
University is an investment and it’s probably the four most expensive years of your life. It is also an opportunity that many are denied. Your parents or maybe even your keener friends will all tell you: go to class, study, get your degree. You will be talked to, advised and directed, all in the hopes of attaining the highest possible GPA your mind can muster.
Under the Faculty of Liberal Arts and Professional Studies, the estimated tuition as provided by Student Financial Services for a full-time course load is about $7,312, and almost double for an international student. Schulich School of Business’ undergraduate tuition for a full-time course load is $9,671.70. For 36 credits in a first-year undergraduate program in the Lassonde School of Engineering, tuition is $12,661.20. So roughly one lecture works out to be about $50 to $60, depending on your program and courses. Is that worth whatever you’re missing class for?
As attendance wanes through the semester, many students do not realize that the momentary relief they feel when they decide not to go to class is equivalent to an actual sum of money. Just because you do not see the waste physically happening doesn’t mean it’s not occurring.
When you decide to skip a class, a portion of your tuition is going down the drain. This also has a domino effect, potentially lowering your GPA, reducing the value of your degree and damaging your professional relationship with your professor and TA.
“Skipping classes is equivalent to not seeking or getting value […] for the tuition fees that you have paid. Falling behind in classes can add up exponentially in that skipping two classes can add up to more than double the impact of skipping one class. The same is true of presenteeism—where the student is in class physically but not mentally,” says Amin Mawani, professor of accounting and program director at Schulich.
Most students’ use of the internet during classes is irrelevant to the actual material being taught. We tend to disappear into the online world even if we’re present in the classroom. This is especially true in large lectures and introductory courses when we’re literally one face out of hundreds. In a crowded room, you feel smaller, it’s easier to fade into the background and escape into your own little universe. If you’re doing this, you’re attaining little, if any, information, much like if you weren’t in class at all. Listening to lectures in the background is not equivalent to learning, nor is it utilizing the resources we have so easily available.
“Just because you can skip class, doesn’t mean you should—you’ve made a decision. University is the opportunity to develop thinking for yourself, so put your mind to this and ask yourself, why am I skipping? Is it because I want to be entertained and I am finding the class to be boring? Or is it really more than that?” adds Joel Goldberg, chair of York’s psychology department.
Mawani points to research studies that identified student non-attendance patterns as signs of academic struggles, underlying mental health concerns such as depression and anxiety, over-influence from peers, alcohol and drug problems, family problems or mixed feelings over career direction. Skipping classes, particularly close to exam time can be more stressful than useful, especially because it can hinder academic performance.
“Research has shown that students with significant stress and anxiety are more likely to do poorly in their studies and more likely to drop out of their degree programs. Affected students are also likely to have higher rates of health service usage and lower or delayed prospects of sustainable employment,” says Mawani.
“If you consider that missing classes is really a sign of a more serious concern, then seek out help from one of our counsellors on campus. We are here for you,” adds Goldberg.
We all have a common goal: to graduate with a degree. The most effective way for us to achieve this goal is if we are active participants in our own learning. University is an opportunity and it boils down to a matter of respect: respecting the opportunity you have been given to attend school, respecting the professors and TAs who are there to aid in your education and respecting yourself and your future.
Make the most of your time here, but not at the cost of your education.
 


lmao, that’s the same shit i was thbobing.Bniky Womack is one delusional dude too. If you ever get to read his autobio, please do. Not taking away from his skills though b/c he sang across a couple of decades.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
York’s field hockey team was able to get back to their winning ways after a loss to U of T last Saturday, as the Lionesses swept this weekend’s games with victories over Waterloo and Western.
Saturday’s game was a dominant performance by York, who shut out the Waterloo Warriors by a score of 4-0.
Michelle Per opened the scoring with her second goal of the season just three minutes into the game on a corner. Seven minutes later, Ravneet Kalkat scored her first goal of the season to give York some insurance. Sydney McFaul netted her first goal of the season in the 23rd minute, the Lions’ third goal of the game, off a corner. Right before the half, Mikhaela Slavin scored her first goal of the season. All four of York’s goals were unassisted.
That would be it for the half, as the Lionesses would take a 4-0 lead into the break.
Neither team was able to find the back of the net in the second half, and York went on to win the game 4-0.
The women were back in action bright and early on Sunday when they took on the Western Mustangs at 9 a.m.
This game was much closer, but York still managed to escape with the victory.
Defender Shanella Fernando opened the scoring 13 minutes in with her first goal of the season—unassisted—to give York a 1-0 lead. Neither team could get through the other’s impenetrable defense, and York would ride their one-goal lead all the way to their third victory of the season.
York is now third in the Ontario University Athletics with nine points. The Guelph Gryphons are in first with 12 points, and are undefeated so far this season. In second is U of T, also with 12 points. However, the Lionesses have a chance to hand the Gryphons their first loss of the season when they face off next Saturday.
York has a busy week ahead of them. After facing Guelph on Saturday, they’re back home to face McGill on Sunday before squaring off against Guelph again on Wednesday.
You can catch Sunday’s game against McGill at 12:30 p.m., while Wednesday’s game against Guelph tips off at 7:30 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The York University Faculty Association, or YUFA, is increasingly concerned that faculty may be forced to restrict their definition of research. In a statement posted to its website, YUFA questions York’s commitment to enhancing the university’s standing as a research institution.
For example, editing journals or collaborating with graduate students may not be considered active research. Writing books, as opposed to journal articles, may also be weighted differently.
Another concern is the elimination of Graduate Assistant, or GA, positions. What was once considered paid research jobs for graduate students will now have to be done on a volunteer basis for those without the external funding for GA support.
YUFA president Richard Wellen says most faculty are hired to do research and teach, and that those who teach must have a teaching load competitive to other universities.
Wellen is concerned with the way the research program criteria is being implemented. “The administration is saying ‘if you don’t agree now, then we’re not going to let you participate in this program for this year’ and […] that’s the worst thing that’s happened. [They] are using that to pressure the department to agree to much stricter criteria than is reasonable,” he says.
The “star system” is a term describing the concentration of research support in a narrower group of faculty members, according to Wellen.
“This describes the process whereby a university decides to recognize only a relatively few ‘stars’ who deserve support. This model creates divisions and competition within departments so that many faculty will stop doing the little, important—but under-recognized—things that don’t allow them to score points, like spending extra time with students, working on committees in their departments, editing journals and peer reviewing articles for journals,” he adds.
“YUFA strongly believes the research release program has to be broad and inclusive, and we believe that’s what the intention of the collective agreement provision is as well,” says Wellen.
Barbara Joy of York media says the university expects ongoing dialogue between departments and deans about qualification criteria consistent with language in YUFA’s collective agreement.
“Agreement on eligibility criteria has already been reached in various departments and faculties and, given an opportunity for further consultation, there is an expectation that the criteria will be confirmed in the remaining units,” she adds.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
When immigrants leave their countries, they desperately pack with them parts of their homeland so as not to lose their customs and traditions. Physical trinkets and diaspora communities resemble their homelands, but some people, including Salman Rushdie and Vijay Mishra, would argue that there is little merit in such reproductions. The homeland exists in an immigrant’s mind, and as such is as tangible as their thoughts.
All this isn’t to say that people should not bother with maintaining their culture and way of life once they leave their native lands. As the ROM’s Art, Honour, and Ridicule: Asafo Flags from Southern Ghana exhibit demonstrates, one can never completely transfer a complete way of life into a new land, but it’s the effort and struggle to do so—the product of such labour—that is important.
Art, Honour, and Ridicule: Asafo Flags from Southern Ghana presents artifacts, flags, ceremonial headgear and musical instruments relating to the performative arts of the Fanta militias. The exhibition is co-curated by Silvia Forni, ROM curator of African Arts and Culture, and Doran H. Ross, former director of the UCLA Fowler Museum of Cultural History. The Asafo flags found in this exhibit represent the creativity, colonial history and trade of Southern Ghana. Many of the motifs found on the flag are recurring, such as wild animals, union jacks and the Ghanaian flag itself.
To mark the exhibition’s opening on September 3, a series of speakers are scheduled for appearances, including Ghana’s High Commissioner to Canada Sulley Gariba. Gariba spoke of the exhibition’s important homage to the Asafo tribes of Southern Ghana, but also to its relevance to Ghana’s diaspora community in Toronto.
Many Ghanaian-Canadians born to immigrant parents do not have access to such relics or knowledge of their history. The collection of artifacts offers them a point of entrance into their country. Though it may not be possible to replicate Ghana in its entirety for children of its diaspora, or communicate the entirety of its culture through the brevity of an exhibit, that isn’t to say we should not try. Every act of remembrance and homage, through the handmade slippers, commemorative T-shirts or vibrant Asafo flags, ensures that a country’s way of life is not lost in translation.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
