
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Students are reporting mixed reactions after Ontario New Democratic Party leader, Andrea Horwath toured York’s Keele campus.
Backlash ensued on social media after a photo was posted to the Students Against Israeli Apartheid Facebook page featuring Horwath meeting with York Federation of Students executives and a “SAIA member.”
Rena Silver, political liaison with Hasbara at York, says it was distressing seeing Horwath meeting with students associated with movements such as Israeli Apartheid Week, which Silver describes as dangerous behaviour.
“Without being privy to the exact details or context of this meeting, Hasbara at York can say that it is of the firm understanding that hateful movements such as Israeli Apartheid Week which serve no purpose but to demonize and slander Israel slow potential peace processes.” 
Willem Hart, president of Campus Conservatives York University, wants an Ontario free of discrimination.
“But it gives me pause to think of what this secretariat would look like practically, given that Horwath is promoting this policy to students whose goal is to marginalize and alienate Jewish and Israeli students with their advocacy for the BDS movement,” says Hart.
“Horwath and the NDP should take a less ambiguous stance on this issue. BDS has no place in an Ontario that welcomes everybody,” he adds.
In a phone call with Excalibur, representatives for Horwath say the MPP wasn’t aware of any SAIA members at the meeting, while the purpose of the meeting was to discuss anti-racism initiatives.
“The Jewish community at York is home to a diversity of political opinions,” says Manisha Joshi-Vijayan, second-year English student, and the SAIA member allegedly featured in the photo.
“The York chapter of Independent Jewish Voices, for example, advocates for equal rights for Israelis and Palestinians. So we shouldn’t confuse criticism and peaceful action against the racist policies of a state for an attack on an entire people,” she adds.
Previously, a coalition of Ontario MPs voted to condemn Israeli Apartheid Week. The YFS famously endorsed the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement in 2013.
Last March, Toronto hosted the 11th annual Israeli Apartheid Week.
Alex Kvaskov, Assistant News Editor
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Juno-nominated jazz trio, Myriad3, graced York last Thursday in the Martin Family Lounge in Accolade East. Composed of Chris Donnelly on piano, Ernesto Cervini on drums and percussion, and Dan Fortin on upright bass, the group shared equal ambition and exuberance in performance, bringing their beautiful and exciting sound to the uplifting contrast of overcast skies and the York subway construction behind them.
Hailing from Toronto, Myriad3 formed accidentally as a self-proclaimed “twist-of-fate” which had brought the trio together in 2010. Each member brought forth awe-inspiring talent, performed with the utmost intricacy, providing the modestly crowded room of York students a one-of-a-kind show.
Myriad3 was nominated for Jazz Album of the Year: Group at the 2015 Juno Awards for their sophomore release, The Where. Their debut album, Tell, was released in 2012. If that wasn’t ambitious enough, Myriad3’s pianist, Donnelly, released a collection of renditions of the group’s music in the style of 8-bit chiptunes in Tell((Chip)), bringing the worlds of classical jazz and the nostalgia of Nintendo Entertainment System together, colliding in a beautiful harmony.
Although jazz is often associated with being soothing and soft, intensity was not devoid in their performance. The ambiance and emotion of the trio’s sound hopped from moments of vigorous intensity, often guttural, bassy transitioning, to intoxicating soothing smoothness.
The performers also treated the audience with an original rendition of Canadian jazz pianist Oscar Peterson’s arrangement of a Duke Ellington piece, which showed exuberance in everything that is in the spirit of the Jazz ethos.
The trio even dabbled in some modes of performance art, where the audience broke out into unbridled applause, when Donnelly lead a synchronized rest and queued his fellow bandmates to break the silence by sniffling; a flawlessly executed move that led to the audience’s amazement.
This could arguably be recognized as the highlight of the performance.
The modestly crowded room enjoyed the jazz outfit’s timing, both speeding up and slowing down tempos and resting pauses, and showing the different streams of consciousness of playing amalgamated into a single, unified form.
The instrumental renditions were not without sentimentality either. One of the group’s songs “Little Lentil” was titled after Cervini’s then unborn child, who was the size of a little lentil. A twinkle sounding beautiful lullaby-esque jazz ballad was reminiscent of the charm of a child’s lullaby, mixed with the thickness of layered artistry found in jazz.
Although the performance was instrumental, Myriad3 managed to conspire laughter as Fortin’s hosting showcased his sense of humour. Pressing on issues of the current state of the Canadian dollar, and the terrifying rising price of cauliflower, brought more personality to the silent moments between renditions, arguably just as entertaining as the music.
The show’s greatest moments however were surely seen from the beginning of the performance until the end. It was seen in each member of the trio’s moods while playing. The looks of joy, unobstructed focus, and dedication on each of their faces showed the genuine love each member had for the performing arts and music alike.
Zack Fenech, Staff Writer
Featured image courtesy of Myrid3
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
