 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
In the first century AD, Soranus, a Roman physician, prescribed tragedy for his manic patients and comedy for those who were depressed. The ancient Greeks considered libraries to be “healing places of the soul.”
Literature is a worldwide phenomenon that developed differently over time and regions, but there is one concept that unifies them all—the belief in the power of words and poetry to treat and heal people.
Aristotle discussed the concepts of using poetry for both insight and catharsis, referring to its ability to condense and state things that we usually would not speak of in daily conversation. Sigmund Freud wrote: “Not I, but the poet discovered the unconscious.”
He was a keen advocate of symbolism, which is used quite widely in poetry and its ability to refer to the much more abstract concepts of thought in an almost tangible form.
Poetry is still being used as an effective tool in cognitive therapy for helping patients cope with their psychological issues, having been found to be effective in treating elderly people who suffer from dementia.
In an article published in the Journal of Poetry Therapy, Marvin Wexler found that in older populations, memorization of poetry has been shown to prevent dementia and slow down the onset of Alzheimer’s.
Rhymes and jingles are more effective because their cadence is easier for the elderly to pick out and remember. In nursing homes, the act of regularly reading poetry to seniors and having them participate in rhymes and songs generally had a positive influence on subjects who exhibited symptoms of mental illness.
Writing poetry from the point of view of a person’s mental illness as if it were a person allows them to view their depressogenic beliefs in a more detached manner. This is not to say that poetry in and of itself is enough to aid in complete healing and full recovery, but rather that it promotes better mental health.
Poetry also helps the elderly recall past experiences, in turn helping them with memory and integration.
For a person with Asperger’s Syndrome, an autism spectrum disorder, who is more of a visual thinker, poetry can be used to help them visualize communicative issues through metaphors. This helps them understand and act upon matters that they can improve on.
Many of us memorized poems in our early years and for good reason: poetry has been shown to improve children’s reading capabilities, memorization abilities, development of potential for self-expression, as well as an understanding of rhythm and bring about emotional intelligence.
Poetry provides the antidote to a culture that is constantly racing against time and discarding anything found to not be useful. At a time where the aged are being put in nursing homes and left behind, it serves as a soothing balm in its need to be slowly read in order to be absorbed and understood, its deep philosophical approach to life and its relevance to the vast array of emotions these elderly have experienced throughout their lifetime.
“When I read poetry it unlocks a different part of my brain. The reason being is that I have to look within to understand what the words mean,” says Fatema Ali, a third-year biology student. Poetry can help make logical and figurative connections, forcing them to actively think, which may help with memory disorders and impaired reasoning.
Some say that poetry is now becoming extinct in a culture where modern technology is being consumed at an increasing rate. But if one looks at the other side of the coin, the influx of technology, especially mass communication and social media, has greatly expanded the extent to which poetry can be shared and read. Social networking sites such as Tumblr and Instagram have many accounts completely dedicated to poetry. In a way, social media is both the problem and the answer, as it is now much easier to access poetry online and virtually anywhere.
The beauty of poetry as a promoter of mental health stems from its volatile nature. It can be imbibed and etched into one’s memory, yet developed and produced in a simple form by someone who desires to create it. It can also function as a powerful symbol through metaphors and conveys stories in its own unique form.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
When you step into an art show, it’s like stepping into another world.
That’s what Marcia Villeneuve evokes with her art show Surreal Spaces. Recipient of the 2016 Willowdale Group of Artists Painting Award, which is awarded to distinguished upper-year visual arts students at York, Villeneuve is adept in creating beautiful stories through paint.
Stepping into The Gales Gallery, one isn’t quite sure what to feel as the installations are disorienting. As visitors enter the room and move from art piece to art piece, Villeneuve’s brilliance becomes evident as the space transports visitors from reality into a delightfully surreal world.
At first glance, the magical aura of Surreal Spaces appears to be contradictory to the minimalist style of Villeneuve’s art. The exhibit features only a few paintings slapped up onto blank white walls. Surrealist artists typically make use of unexpected juxtapositions, surprising elements and shocking reworkings of mundane objects.
Villeneuve cleverly achieves the contradiction between philosophy and dream, and expectation and reality through the critical engagement of space.
For Villeneuve, surrealism takes on a different meaning, symbolizing what is not normal.
“I like to put objects in a space that doesn’t make sense or where they don’t really belong there,” says Villeneuve.
“Like with all the dark images, giving them properties that they wouldn’t normally have. You’d never see a rainbow tree that’s glowing at night.”
“I get most excited about painting things that look realistic but have a surreal element,” shares Villeneuve. She sparks surrealist interest by playing with what visitors expect to experience when they enter Surreal Spaces versus what it is, resulting in a duality of transformation.
The stripped-down style of the exhibition forces visitors to engage more intimately with each work. The brushstrokes, colour scheme and subject choice become emphasized in the cumulative masterpiece that is Surreal Spaces.
Even though all the paintings share a realistic theme, no two are alike. Every painting is unique because of its complex colour patterns and where it takes you. Each painting tells its own story, but depending on the eye of the beholder, that story changes.
The three paintings all together, referred to by Villeneuve as a triptych, is a final realization of months of hard work.
“This triptych represents the places I call home. My entire life I have been moving back and forth between Toronto and North Bay. While they’re very different spaces, they have some similarities, including very similar beaches, so I chose to connect these two cities with an image of a beach in the centre panel.
“I wanted to add a surreal element by making the spaces look connected as a whole while also playing with the different times of day,” said Villanueva.
Surreal Spaces ran until Thursday, January 26, but those unable to experience the exhibit in person can visit Villeneuve’s website for an online gallery.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Some families bond over sports, some over movies. But one thing that is known to bring people together is food. Whether homemade or takeout, dining has a way to fill our stomach with grub, our hands with new foods and our memories with new experiences.
That’s where Tinuno restaurant hopes to thrive.
Hailing from the northwestern Luzon region in the Philippines, Gerald Aquintey, co-owner of the restaurant, says the name Tinuno came from its direct translation from his native language of Ilocano, meaning grilled.
Most Filipino restaurants are usually takeaway, while Tinuno encourages customers to dine in because of their unique eating style called Boodle Fight.
Boodle Fight involves using your bare hands to eat food spread out on banana leaves. It has roots from the Filipino military, as utensils were not offered to their soldiers during Boodle Fights. Water jugs were placed on each sides of the banana leaves spread for soldiers to use to wash their hands before and after their meal. The term fight in the word indicates that every man is for himself during the feast, which means that you try to eat as much as you can before the food runs out.
The spread includes white rice, grilled foods and fruits piled on top of a banana leaf. It is usually set up on a long table where everyone has a space and a chance to eat as much as possible. Filipino soldiers do not start eating until they are signalled to do so.
However, in Tinuno, the setting is much calmer and relaxed. Once you enter, you are greeted with a smile and are shown to a table with banana leaves spread out. You will not be forced to eat with your hands, however you are encouraged to do so. There is no signal to follow, and people do not fight each other for the food. Tinuno simply follows customary restaurant protocol where waiters bring your food to your table and place it decoratively.
The restaurant’s setting also successfully invites you in with its historical pictures of Filipino elders, Filipino traditional clothing, a definition of Boodle Fight and soldiers actually eating in Boodle Fight style.
Interestingly enough, the restaurant was actually a laundromat before its Boodle Fight.
“All the laundry started to break down, so we decided to convert it into a restaurant because it would have cost the same amount of money for us to replace the equipment,” says Aquintey.
“The Boodle Fight was actually accidental. It wasn’t supposed to be part of the business; we were supposed to be just a take-out place. Then, a couple of [customers] requested to do Boodle here, so we did that for them, and from there, it just got big.”
The combination of grilled food and the Boodle Fight resulted in quite a successful restaurant.
“The Filipino [student association at York] has come here a couple of times already,”says Aquintey.
“So have [the Filipino student associations from] Ryerson and U of T.”
Quickly gaining popularity, Tinuno was able to expand their space.
“We took over one of the rooms in the second floor. We might even take over the whole building, we’ll just see how it goes,” says Aquintey.
With their popularity, they were also invited to be one of the food vendors for the ASEAN Festival at Ryerson, an event celebrating Southeast Asian cultures, including the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Laos and Thailand.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Every year since 2010, Bell Canada hosts a campaign with the primary goal of creating a conversation about mental health in Canada.
In 2012, 2.8 million Canadians over the age of 15 reported symptoms consistent with one or more mental health illnesses or substance use disorders, according to Statistics Canada.
Many who live with mental illnesses are not vocal about their conditions because of the stigma they fear they may face.
The Bell Let’s Talk campaign was created with these notions in mind, and aims to educate the public on the magnitude of the problem and how they can become active listeners and supporters.
Bell will donate 5 cents towards mental health initiatives for every text, tweet or Instagram post that includes the hashtag #BellLetsTalk and for every view of their official Facebook videos. People can also participate through Snapchat by using the Bell Let’s Talk geofilter.
All proceeds are donated to various relevant organizations within Canada.
“I feel like Bell Let’s Talk is more of a means to publicize than actually raising awareness. I had heard of a thing called Bell Let’s Talk but had no idea what it meant or wanted to achieve. The donation part might be legitimate but in my opinion, it isn’t effectively named. The aim of trends is to educate people who were unaware of the issue. The “ALS Ice Bucket Challenge” effectively describes what it sets out to do, whilst also raising awareness. When you hear about it, you’re curious and want to find out what it is. When you hear Bell Let’s Talk, the first thing you think is that it’s probably another one of Bell’s events.” ? Samandeep Singh | 20 | Software Engineering
“It is important to realize that mental health is every bit as important as physical health. The isolation of mental illnesses from physical conditions like having the flu only serves to perpetuate the notion that people should be ashamed for wanting to care for their brain—their entire body’s command centre. Influential organizations should make further attempts to emulate the #BellLetsTalk campaign that fights to end the stigma while raising millions for important and necessary research.”  ? Yun Lin | 21 | Human Rights and Equity Studies
“Bell Let’s Talk brings awareness to issues that people don’t take time to address in their daily lives. We become so engulfed in our schedules, sculpting that perfect life, that we become lost in our stress and anxieties. We forget to take care of ourselves and take a minute to reflect and acknowledge what causes the stress in our lives and what affects our mental health. Often we suffer in silence and become unknown to those around us. It is important to talk to someone. Make yourself heard and reach out for help. I think that the Bell Let’s Talk campaign helps drive these principles home.” ? Suman Dhillon | 21 | English and History
“Raising money for small organizations, or well-known organizations, doesn’t provide enough funding for it to make a positive impact. Focusing on one day does raise a type of awareness, but it just serves to promote Bell as a company. The marketing strategy and distribution could be managed [more efficiently] to provide a better mental health awareness day.” ? Chris Muradyan | 20 | Administrative Studies
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The provincial government has introduced a ban on the use of arbitrary carding, also known as street checks, by police in Ontario.
The ban, which took effect on January 1, will prevent Toronto police from collecting personal information from anyone who is not under investigation.
Police will still have access to historic data, however, and have defended the practice, stating that database-logged information could help identify possible witnesses or suspects in future investigations.
This has faced controversy over claims that much of the data would now be classified as having been obtained illegally.
Critics believe carding violates Section 10(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which states anyone detained by police has the right to “instruct counsel without delay.”
Often, people are not informed of this right by police and not aware that they are not obligated to provide personal details if not under arrest or investigation.
Ontario’s Community and Safety Correctional Services Minister Kevin Flynn has stated the regulation was drafted following a consultation with the public on how to improve police interaction.
“These new rules protect the rights of people who are not under investigation while also laying the foundation for more positive, trusting and respectful relationships between police and the public,” said Flynn to the CBC.
Along with Flynn, Ontario’s Anti-Racism and Children and Youth Services Minister Michael Coteau believes the ban will prevent systemic racism within the justice system.
Police are now banned from carding anyone for being present in an area with high crime rates nor due to racial bias.
According to a report by the Toronto Star, 25 per cent of the carding data between 2008 and 2011 related to young black men, even though only 8.3 per cent of Toronto’s population is black.
The report also found that within 72 different patrol zones, the number of young black men carded exceeded the number of young black men living in those locations.
Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair believes the reason for this is that carding statistics apply to both residents and people simply present within those areas.
Sandy Hudson, co-founder of Black Lives Matter Toronto, does not believe the ban is enough to prevent racial profiling.
“Where these rules apply—and where they don’t—doesn’t change anything about carding. A police officer can always say they are investigating a particular crime,” she told the CBC.
Police are still able to gather personal information during routine traffic stops, when someone is being arrested, detained or when a search warrant is executed.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Mental illnesses cannot be perfectly encapsulated in words. Every breath is a cliffhanger. Not knowing what is causing these emotions is like being lost without a map. The ground is like sand, shifting under each step, ready to give way. You’re taking shots in the dark, looking for solutions anywhere—through anything. But treatment is tentative and you just want the feeling to stop. The feeling that it is always all or nothing. It is physically and mentally draining and it gets easier to sink and shatter under the weight that is holding you down, pulling you down.
There are some illnesses you cannot see, and often with mental illness, there is no clear visible ailment. Due to this lack of perception of immediate and physical harm, there is a stark contrast that exists between the care, treatment and understanding that is applied to mental as opposed to physical illness. There are a number of reasons why individuals may suffer with their mental health and a number of treatments available to those seeking relief. However, mental illness and mental distress extends over a wide variety of people.
As the number of those suffering from mental health problems continues to grow, the introduction of therapy animals, or animal-assisted therapy, progressively integrates itself into the field of mental health.
Therapy animals are used in a number of settings, from hospitals to schools and even in the home.
In a therapeutic context, animals may help provide and induce comfort and companionship for people who may feel scared, overwhelmed, lonely, depressed, experiencing PTSD, anxiety or are in pain, with few to no side effects.
Petting an animal can release hormones and endorphins in your body, such as oxytocin and serotonin, which have a calming effect, helping to lower blood pressure and stress levels. People want to connect with other living things, and human-animal interaction is a form of nonjudgmental social support.
This form of treatment alone could be enough for some people experiencing new symptoms of a mental health problem that they wish to combat, or it can reduce the amount of medications an individual coping with mental illness may need.
Although therapy pets are most commonly dogs, almost any animal can be considered an emotional support animal and registered. Whether through pet ownership or registration of a certified service animal, these relationships may offer an antidote to the plethora of symptoms that present themselves. From rabbit to guinea pig, hedgehog to cat or horse to parrot, this form of therapy is an inclusive approach that fosters connections and serves to benefit individuals both physically and emotionally.
Animal companionship is often viewed as an informal source of comfort and relief, however, it is time to credit this relationship for all that it is worth. Animal-assisted therapy is an undervalued form of treatment because of its informal nature and simplicity. While the list of benefits for this alternative treatment is ever-growing, the list of side effects that are common in pharmaceutical drugs continue to persist. If there is a potential for hope and less invasive and threatening treatment options, let it exist.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

At one point or another, almost everyone has been in “the zone.” It’s a great feeling. Everything you do clicks: your awareness sharpens and your movements become natural—free-flowing, yet precise. You feel unstoppable. In the field of positive psychology, this is what is known as a flow state.
When implemented via meditation, it is a way to take your craft to the next level.
First introduced by Dr. Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi in his exploration of the phenomenon in Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience, a flow state is most easily described as a completely focused state. Much like how a musician focuses on only the next few notes of their intricate technical piece, or how a painter loses themselves in the blending of their colours, the key to enter flow is to focus on nothing else but the immediate task at hand.
Oftentimes, flow states are achieved when the challenge of the task aligns perfectly with one’s current skill level.
Some keystone features of flow states include a loss of reflective self-consciousness, a sense of personal control, deep harmony and peace with the environment. Studies also show that the promotion of such mind states lead to lower levels of depression and anxiety.
However, prospective artists need not dive into a creative frenzy to enjoy these benefits themselves. At the heart of the flow state is actually one of the oldest and most empowering practices known to man: what is known in Buddhism as mindfulness meditation.
One of the central motivations behind Csikszentmihalyi’s research was the question of what exactly inspires long-lasting happiness. It wasn’t money or possessions, nor was it dependent on relationships. It was being in flow, and the longer you find yourself in this state, he concluded, the happier you are. In essence, this is the practice of mindfulness meditation: keen interest in your immediate here and now. Dancing, acting, painting and many other forms of art inspire healthy daily and mental patterns.
It should come as no surprise that positive psychology research also finds a direct correlation between a daily practice of meditation and improved artistic capability—promoting a whole host of mental benefits, including: enriched relaxation, greater emotional stability and clinical aid for mental disorders such as anxiety, depression or attention deficits.
Daily meditators find that when writing, listening to music or creating art, they often lose themselves in the moment, becoming so absorbed in their work that it feels effortless, like one fluid act. This is because they have trained their mind to disconnect from their incessant stream of thinking. At its core, meditation functions to reduce irrelevant—oftentimes unwanted—thoughts by promoting internalized attention.
The next time you engage in any activity—artistic or otherwise—heighten your consciousness.
Before you know it, you will have entered into one of the most fruitful, pleasant upward spirals that will not only create some of your best work, but will also keep you in tune with your mental state.

At one point or another, almost everyone has been in “the zone.” It’s a great feeling. Everything you do clicks: your awareness sharpens and your movements become natural—free-flowing, yet precise. You feel unstoppable. In the field of positive psychology, this is what is known as a flow state.
When implemented via meditation, it is a way to take your craft to the next level.
First introduced by Dr. Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi in his exploration of the phenomenon in Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience, a flow state is most easily described as a completely focused state. Much like how a musician focuses on only the next few notes of their intricate technical piece, or how a painter loses themselves in the blending of their colours, the key to enter flow is to focus on nothing else but the immediate task at hand.
Oftentimes, flow states are achieved when the challenge of the task aligns perfectly with one’s current skill level.
Some keystone features of flow states include a loss of reflective self-consciousness, a sense of personal control, deep harmony and peace with the environment. Studies also show that the promotion of such mind states lead to lower levels of depression and anxiety.
However, prospective artists need not dive into a creative frenzy to enjoy these benefits themselves. At the heart of the flow state is actually one of the oldest and most empowering practices known to man: what is known in Buddhism as mindfulness meditation.
One of the central motivations behind Csikszentmihalyi’s research was the question of what exactly inspires long-lasting happiness. It wasn’t money or possessions, nor was it dependent on relationships. It was being in flow, and the longer you find yourself in this state, he concluded, the happier you are. In essence, this is the practice of mindfulness meditation: keen interest in your immediate here and now. Dancing, acting, painting and many other forms of art inspire healthy daily and mental patterns.
It should come as no surprise that positive psychology research also finds a direct correlation between a daily practice of meditation and improved artistic capability—promoting a whole host of mental benefits, including: enriched relaxation, greater emotional stability and clinical aid for mental disorders such as anxiety, depression or attention deficits.
Daily meditators find that when writing, listening to music or creating art, they often lose themselves in the moment, becoming so absorbed in their work that it feels effortless, like one fluid act. This is because they have trained their mind to disconnect from their incessant stream of thinking. At its core, meditation functions to reduce irrelevant—oftentimes unwanted—thoughts by promoting internalized attention.
The next time you engage in any activity—artistic or otherwise—heighten your consciousness.
Before you know it, you will have entered into one of the most fruitful, pleasant upward spirals that will not only create some of your best work, but will also keep you in tune with your mental state.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
The flags at York’s Keele and Glendon campuses were lowered to half mast last week in remembrance of Dr. David Bell, professor emeritus of environmental studies.
Dr. Bell, aged 72, died of pancreatic cancer on January 10 at the Kensington Hospice in Toronto.
Born April 14, 1944, Dr. Bell was an ardent scholar who, after attending Glendon College, went on to receive his PhD in political science from Harvard University.
After a short teaching spell at Michigan State University, Dr. Bell returned to Ontario, where he took up a teaching position at York. He served as Dean of Graduate Studies before becoming the Dean of the Faculty of Environmental Studies.
A staunch advocate of sustainability, Dr. Bell’s drive for environmental education was recognized with a number of awards throughout his lifetime—notably, the 2014 Canadian Network for Environmental Education and Communication Award and The Green Toronto Award for Leadership in Sustainability.
Marilyne Lambert-Drache, the associate vice-president international at York and former colleague of Dr. Bell’s, emphasized his passion for education in an interview with the Toronto Star.
“I saw him giving lectures two times to undergraduate students and he was an incredible communicator,” she said. 
“He radiated that passion and students were absolutely mesmerized by this tall man with a big smile and just listening to every one of his words. It was really wonderful to witness that,” she added.
In addition to his academic pursuits, Dr. Bell was an active jazz musician and also founded the women’s soccer team at York in 1984. He held the role of head coach until 1997, guiding them to an Ontario Women’s Intercollegiate Athletic Association silver medal in 1988 and a bronze in 1990.
After retiring from York, Dr. Bell went on to become the chair of the Board of Learning for a Sustainable Future, a non-profit organization dedicated to changing the Canadian education system to include sustainability education in its curriculums.
He also became chair of the Board of Directors of Parc-Downsview-Park and served as a consultant to universities, G8 summits and governments in Canada, China and Jamaica.
Dr. Bell’s family have requested that donations in his name may be made to the Wallace McCain Centre for Pancreatic Cancer through Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, or the Kensington Hospice in Toronto or Learning for a Sustainable Future.
The Learning for a Sustainable Future has established the Dr. David V.J. Bell Memorial Fund to continue his legacy in support of world change by empowering children.

 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
