Alexei Muravsky | Staff Writer
Featured Image: What should you be listening to this week? | Courtesy of Fatema Ali
This time of the year always means dreary days and longer nights. To lighten up your days during the autumn, here are some new songs sure to lift your mood. From Wyclef Jean to Dvsn, I’ve compiled a playlist that will make you ponder life, but also put you in the mood to get down and groove.
NF, “My Life”
The Michigan-based rapper NF continues to open up about his life on his newest album, Perception. The song “My Life” speaks to his sister about her substance abuse, which made it difficult to connect to her at a higher level. Nevertheless, his love for her is present as he continues to raise her up and motivate her to live a better life—all the while, taking listeners on a crisp, flowing wave over a hypnotizing and enchanting beat.
Giggs, “The Essence”
Nathaniel Thompson, famously known as Giggs, continues to produce much for the world stage. Hailing from across the pond in London, England, his roots are easily recognizable and represented in his distinct sound. “The Essence,” which comes off of his most recent mixtape, Wamp 2 Dem, follows an introspective line of thinking, expanding on the situations he’s faced, the work he had to put in, and the chance breaks that enabled him to get to the position he’s in now. The production lets his story roll easily, giving you a glimpse into his life before fame.
Clairmont The Second, “Stories”
A Toronto native based in the Weston Road area on the west side, Clairmont The Second brings a refreshing sound to the Canadian hip hop landscape. “Stories,” a track from his second album, Lil Mont from The Ave, pulls us into his hectic life. Its smooth flow over a hard beat paints a picture of the ups and downs of life—after overcoming one challenge, a new one arises.
Wyclef Jean, “Double Dutch”
No introduction needed—Wyclef Jean has blessed our audio experiences from his days with The Fugees and now to his independent projects. His most recent work, Carnival III: The Fall and Rise of a Refugee, does not falter under this reputation. The song “Double Dutch” builds on themes of survival, whether through illegal means, or by surviving the illegal acts governments impose on their populaces. The beat will bring you back to childhood with its cadence of two skipping ropes used for Double Dutch. Infused with a deeper message, you can’t help but enjoy this masterpiece.
Damian Marley, “Here We Go”
Damian Marley released his fourth solo studio album earlier this year. Despite having a bit of a gap between his last collaborative project, not to mention his last solo project, he brings forth every ounce of energy into this one, reminding us that he’s still very much in the game. “Here We Go,” the first song after “Intro” on the album Stony Hill, establishes this with a masterful blend of both production and characteristic wisdom. Using his signature style, he paints a picture of where he personally finds flaw in the music industry today and why his resurrection is very much necessary.
Sabrina Claudio ft. 6lack, “Belong to You (Remix)”
Sabrina Claudio’s most recent album About Time deals with the interlacing of time and love. She graciously includes a bonus track expanding on her original track “Belong To You,” which she remixed with the help of 6lack. While the original track tricks you into thinking she’s talking about someone else and then tying it back to herself, the remix gives the impression that love takes two. They expertly mesh their voices together in consideration of the piece’s rhythm. You realize that you can’t help but start moving—and vibing to it—effortlessly.
Jhene Aiko ft. Big Sean, “Moments”
Jhene Aiko’s most recent album Trip literally takes us through a trip through what has been going on in her life. She tells us about the present, catches up with her past, and how she looks forward to potential future ventures. This is elevated further through an intoxicated perception, as many of her songs allude to on the album. “Moments,” a collaboration with Big Sean, takes the concept of a love song with an air of honesty and relatability. With Big Sean enhancing it with his word play, all over a beat, the song is made easy on the ears—and dance moves.
Dvsn, “Mood”
The Canadian R&B duo Dvsn, comprised of Daniel Daley and Nineteen85, dropped “Mood” on September 5, which is a nod to their debut album, Sept. 5th. The song has an excellent use of diverse piano melodies and extended vocals, making you feel as though you’re falling deep into a heavy, blissful dream.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Nilou Alizadeh | Contributor
Featured image: Smoothie? Energy drink? Caffeine? No, just Kombucha. | Courtesy of Pexels
Imagine an alternative to your everyday coffee, pop, tea, or energy drink—a refreshing, sweet drink that may offer multiple health benefits—kombucha. Kombucha is a drink made from sweet black tea, fermented with yeast and a bacteria culture.
Kombucha only recently become a mainstream beverage and can be found in health-food, grocery, and some convenience stores across Canada. One Regina café even offers kombucha on tap as an alternative for those who are health-conscious.
The origin of kombucha is unknown, but it has been around for thousands of years, praised as an “immortal health elixir.” Throughout the 20th century, scientists in Russia and Germany investigated this mysterious drink after noticing that entire regions of their respective countries appeared to be immune to rising rates of cancer. The reason? Kombucha.
The drink is especially prominent in the East, including in China, Russia, and Serbia, where it is known for its health benefits. Some of these include an increase in energy, a strengthening of the immune system, improved digestion, weight loss, reduction in high blood pressure, decreased chance of heart disease, and the lowering of one’s chances of developing various cancers.
The drink is rich in antioxidants, B-vitamins, and glucaric acids, and is also credited for reducing or eliminating the symptoms of fibromyalgia, depression, and anxiety.
There is, however, one element produced during the fermentation process that further sets kombucha apart from your everyday energy drink—alcohol.
Kombucha contains a small, yet measurable percentage of alcohol. A single bottle can contain an alcohol level of 0.5 to 2.5 per cent. While it may be easily sold and accessed, some demand that kombucha be registered and regulated as an alcoholic beverage, only to be sold in facilities licensed to handle alcohol. Due to this controversy—and as a measure of caution—a number of chain food stores, moreso those in the United States, will require patrons to show proof of age before allowing them to purchase it.
There is, however, a mixed reaction from those who have tasted it. Nathan Abdool, a fourth-year Kinesiology student, notes its alternative taste, and Negar Almas, a third-year Political Science student, raves about its texture. Both suggest more people should try kombucha and form their own opinions of the drink.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Staff Writer
Featured Image: Dr. Devine and Dr. Yonder present new research on real estate investment. | Courtesy of University of Guelph
Dr. Avis Devine, a Schulich professor in Real Estate, was awarded the 2017 Nick Tyrell Research Prize for her recent paper. The paper, entitled “Decomposing the Value Effects of Sustainable Real Estate Investment: International Evidence.” Her co-author is Dr. Erkan Yonder, an assistant professor of Finance and Real Estate at Ozyegin University in Istanbul, Turkey, who is a co-recipient of the award.
Devine comments that she does “the majority of her research on the financial implications of green and environmentally certified real estate investment.”
Her goal in this line of work, “is to inform the industry of the operational details of environmentally conscious buildings, so as to encourage greater investment in the field.”
Yonder says: “From a corporate perspective, real estate and Real Estate Investment Trusts are unique.” To him, environmental sustainability can be achieved through green real estate.
“Real estate is essential for the environment—it can aid in attempts to decrease resource consumption and daily carbon dioxide emissions,” he states.
Both of these researchers attempt to study the implications of sustainable infrastructures on the real estate market, as well as the implications of such buildings upon potential buyers.
“Green certifications, such as LEED and Energy Star, maintain a certain level of environmental efficiency and sustainability for real estate,” says Yonder.
The paper investigates the impact of investment on the value, performance, profits, and costs of producing environmentally-conscious real estate, concluding that the way to sharpen awareness within the industry is through entailing standards on environment-based reporting.
Both researchers analyze the benefits of sustainable infrastructures on a social, economical, and environmental level.
“Our findings demonstrate that these institutional investors buy and hold more of the stocks of real estate companies with sustainable investments. Thus, greenness in real estate investment is equivalent to both environmental and business maintenance,” comments Yonders.
“My co-author, Dr. Erkan Yonder is also an early career academic with a background in real estate finance and specialty in sustainable and environmental real estate research. We find that we collaborate quite well, as we both have complementary research strengths. We intend to continue co-authoring in the future in this field of study,” adds Devine.
“This is wonderful news for Schulich and the Brookfield Centre in Real Estate and Infrastructure, as well as for Dr. Avis Devine,” says Dr. James McKellar, a fellow professor at Schulich.
“Her research also reinforces our ongoing commitment to sustainability, and her work is rapidly gaining international attention both in academia and within industry.”
With international and national appreciation, both professors from different universities are well-praised for their work in environmental sustainability through the examination of sustainable real estate.
Both Devine and Yonder plan to further their work within this field of research.
 


Congratulations Dr. Devine and and Dr. Yonder! 

 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured image: Lions Archery is looking for new members: do you have what it takes to get a bullseye? | Courtesy of Suju
Imagine yourself playing a sport—any sport. What do you picture yourself doing? When many of us think about playing sports, the first thing that comes to our minds are the highly active motions of running, jumping, dodging, or tackling. Although plenty of us find comfort in these strenuous motions, there are several others who would rather put their energy into something that requires less stress on the body—perhaps, something that requires more emphasis on mental focus, calmness, and form.
“I’ve been doing archery for four or about five years now,” says Charles Objero, a fourth-year psychology major and executive member of the York Lions Archery club. “I started all the way back in high school—it’s kind of funny how I got into it. Back then, my girlfriend did archery as an after-school club and I’d normally wait for her. The coach saw me just sitting there and offered me to come try out and shoot. Ever since then, I was hooked.”
The Lions Archery club consists of students who have taken an interest in the unique and satisfying sport of archery. With their practices held in an indoor shooting range located in the Tait McKenzie Centre, the objective of the group is to help members learn the basics of archery and develop their shooting skills in a friendly and accepting environment.
“We welcome everyone regardless of their skill level. In the very beginning of the year we start off as a recreational sports club, gradually becoming competitive to get ready for the IUAT (Inter University Archery Tournament), which is held around the middle of March. Our club provides coaching and all the equipment necessary for everyone to start shooting,” Objero adds.
“We normally focus on the Olympic recurve style of shooting. Our practice times are Mondays from 8:00 p.m to 10:00 p.m., Wednesdays from 6:30 p.m to 8:00 p.m., and Saturdays from 12:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Our practices run in the evening to accommodate those who have classes in the morning. Attendance isn’t mandatory if you join. People can come in freely, whenever their schedule permits them—however, I highly encourage members to come to all practices to get themselves ready for the competition. We hold two in-house competitions—one near the end of November and one around February—here at York, which are only open for club members. It’s to promote competitiveness and help archers improve their skill.”
When looking at it in the realm of athletics, archery is not quite seen as a conventional sport. Rather than putting incredible amounts of stress on several parts of your body, archery requires a more focused approach, emphasizing a still calmness over a variety of constant fluid motions, being similar to hockey or basketball. Much like the purposes of yoga or meditation, archery is used as an agent of inner peace for students who need an outlet for their stressful, demanding lives as university attendees.
“Archery has been beneficial to me because it’s a really good stress reliever; you shoot your stress away. For me especially, it helps me clear my mind and has helped me find inner peace,” Objero says.
Instead of looking at it as a part of the realm of athletics, Objero sees archery in a different light, one closer to the realm of creativity and aesthetic.
“It’s like art for me. Shooting an arrow is similar to painting your target on the canvas. It promotes the mentality that nothing is ever perfect and there is always room for improvement.”
When looking toward the future of the club, Objero has ambitious hopes for a sport that eventually breaks out of the “competitive club” title in universities and becomes something much bigger.
“Archery is a growing sport. Most of the universities in Ontario have their own archery club. All the universities are helping each other to make archery an official OUA varsity sport, rather than just a simple sports club. So hopefully in five year’s time, we’ll be an official OUA Varsity sports team,” he continues.
So, if you are ever craving the nickname of Hawkeye or Katniss amongst your friend groups, or are simply looking for an outlet to relieve the stresses of university, the Lions Archery club always has its doors open. The target is a blank canvas, waiting for you to paint it with your arrow.
All waivers and information on practice times for the York Lions Archery club can be found on their Facebook page, Lions Archery. They are always looking for new members, so make sure to give them a try before the season ends! 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
