 
The men’s hockey team was looking to build on their Ontario University Athletics, or OUA, success this year at the U SPORTS championship in New Brunswick this weekend.
After beating the Golden Gaels in the Queen’s Cup championship last weekend, the Lions were hoping to add another banner to the rafters of Canlan in the form of a national championship. Standing in their way: the University of Saskatchewan Huskies.
The Huskies outshot the Lions 13-7 in the first period, but neither team was able to beat the opposing goalie.
In the second, the Lions were outshot again, 14-10, but rookie goalie Mack Shields was able to preserve the shutout through 40 minutes.
Things were pretty chippy in the first and second periods, as the two teams accounted for 38 minutes in penalties, including a 10-minute misconduct each for checking from behind for Saskatchewan’s Jordan Fransoo and York’s Connor Hale.
In the third, it was the Lions who turned up the pressure, outshooting the Huskies for the first time in the game, 7-4. However, Saskatchewan’s goalie was up to the task, keeping everything out of the net and forcing overtime.
In the extra frame, there was only one shot taken. It was by the Huskies, and it managed to beat Shields and find the back of the net, ending the Lions’ hopes for a first-place national finish.
Despite the loss, Shields was sensational, living up to the rookie of the year award he won earlier this month, stopping 31 of 32 shots.
Despite the low scoring, neither team was lacking chances, as the Lions went zero for five on the power play, while the Huskies went zero for seven.
The Lions can continue to build on their success next year, with both leading scorer Derek Sheppard and rookie of the year Shields eligible to return.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
One Lion is looking to evolve into a Tiger-Cat, Alouette, Argonaut, Redblack, Roughrider, Blue Bomber, Eskimo, Stampeder or a Lion, but of the black-and-orange variety.
The CFL regional combine was this weekend, and York’s Adam Adeboboye—affectionately nicknamed Bobo by his teammates—was the only Lion invited to attend.
“It was a great experience; at the beginning of the day I was a little nervous because I didn’t know how well I would do compared to other guys and with all the scouts watching. But through the whole experience I just had fun and relaxed as much as I could,” says Adeboboye.
The regional combine is less in-depth than the national combine, with potential draftees performing drills for the scouts, such as the 40-yard dash, pro agility drills, the vertical and broad jump and one on ones.
“I didn’t feel any extra pressure to perform even though I was the only Lion invited. I saw it more as motivation because I wanted to show everyone that we are very talented at York,” he adds.
Of the 43 participants of the Ontario combine, only five were invited to the national one taking place next weekend in Saskatchewan, including Adeboboye.
Although he hopes to make his dream of playing professional football a reality, Adeboboye doesn’t have a specific team he would like to be drafted by.
“I just want to keep playing. If I do get drafted I would just be grateful for the opportunity to keep playing,” he says.
No matter what happens, Adeboboye will not be returning to play for York.
“I have enjoyed every minute being a Lion. York has been my home for five years, despite my long travel from Scarborough. I […] had some great coaches who helped me grow and pushed me to become who I am.
“I have made some great friends on the team, some of whom I would consider my brothers.
“It feels like yesterday that the fifth-year guys were telling me this. I am glad that I had such a great time; there were hard times, but to say that I made it through and with some of my friends, it’s something that will stay with me forever.
“The brotherhood that I was a part of, the change that I was a part of, I wouldn’t trade those experiences for anything because they shaped me,” he says.
Adeboboye will look to convince scouts of one of the nine teams to call his name on draft day—May 7 of this year—Friday in Regina.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
If you’ve noticed that you don’t really use the majority of the apps on your devices anymore, you’re not alone. People are using apps less frequently, and the majority of the ones still being used are predominantly social media related.
For users, this simply means extra storage space. For app developers, it’s becoming a landscape of cutthroat competition in an already-saturated field.
Zalmy Karimi, a fourth-year business administration student and CEO of ZKDEV, saw this as an opportunity. Armed with the business knowledge he received at York and his autodidactic coding skills, Karimi found the emerging popularity of chatbots as a potential successor to the throne once ruled by mobile apps.
Chatbots are interactive computer programs that can execute actions based on human-like conversations, usually in instant-messaging format.
Chatbots have been around for quite some time in the tech world, but they did not gain prominence until the rollout of improved artificial intelligence.
The chatbot that Karimi has developed is called Set.o.
“Set.o is a music-recognition chatbot within Facebook Messenger. Send Set.o a six to eight second recording of any music around you and the bot will instantly recognize the song,” he says.
“Set.o connects the user’s recordings to a database of 40 million music fingerprints to identify a song all without having to navigate out of [Facebook] Messenger. That means there’s no need for another app to take up space in your phone at all,” adds Karimi.
When asked what makes his chatbot unique in its own right, Karimi highlights the simplicity and functionality of Set.o.
The bot represents the growing trend of businesses and tech companies migrating from apps to interactive chatbots. As people use fewer apps, known as “app fatigue,” various companies are implementing chatbots on platforms like Facebook Messenger as a new means to reach out to potential and current customers.
You may have already interacted with one, as plenty of companies use chatbots to process some customer service interactions.
“I believe that [chatbots] can be merged together into a simple, conversational interface. I hope to build different chatbots that are valuable additions to a conversation interface rather than just individual apps,” says Karimi.
For those interested in emulating his early success in the tech industry, Karimi has some advice: “Know your audience. The days of ‘build it and they will come’ are long over. We are now in the days of, ‘research it, determine a target market, build it, test it and then market it’ to gain some traction.”
 


so basically it’s a chatbot of Shazaam. i guess that might be compelling.

 York University Community Newspaper 
