Abdeali Saherwala | Staff Writer
Featured Image: Dr. Kusno is to be the fourth director of the York Centre for Asian Research. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The York Centre for Asian Research (YCAR) has welcomed Dr. Abidin Kusno as its new director. He has replaced Dr. Philip Kelly as of July 1.
The purpose of YCAR is to create a “community of York researchers who are committed to analyzing the changing historical and contemporary dynamics of societies in Asia, understanding Asia’s place in the world, and studying the experiences of Asian communities in Canada and around the globe.” They have an inter-disciplinary membership, which “includes faculty, students, and other research associates from across the social sciences, humanities, health, education, creative and performing arts, law, and business,” according to YCAR’s website.
Before coming to York, Kusno was the Canada Research Chair in Asian Urbanism and Culture at the Institute for Asian Research at the University of British Columbia. He has completed a undergraduate degree from Petra University in Architectural Design and Engineering, and a master’s and PhD in Art History from SUNY Binghamton.
His academic work draws from a range of fields, including urban studies, history, politics, cultural studies, architecture, design, and geography. His research holds a primary focus on Indonesia in particular, and he is fluent in Bahasa Indonesia and Hokkien.
“Guided by the best practices that have been cultivated by the previous director, Dr. Philip Kelly, and the YCAR team, I hope to maintain YCAR’s reputation as a home for critical and engaged research,” said Kusno.
“All are welcome to visit YCAR, meet our associates, and get to know about all our events and initiatives at our annual meet and greet event, which is coming up on September 28,” he added.
Nabeel Ahmed, a second-year master’s student in Environmental Studies, researcher and graduate associate at YCAR, and a student associate at the City Institute at York University, is delighted to learn about the appointment of Kusno.
“It really helps that Dr. Kusno is the director, as I know he is interested in urban issues, just like I am.”
According to Ahmed, “Dr. Kusno is an excellent replacement, and I’m glad that he is leading YCAR. I know that he is open to a wide range of ideas, and in my past experience with him, he has been very supportive.”
Kusno was designated as a full-time professor for the Faculty of Environmental Studies in 2015, and will be YCAR’s fourth director.
Dr. Kusno is thrilled for research opportunities that are currently taking place in YCAR, and those that will take place in the future.
He said: “I am looking forward to continuing YCAR’s work of place-making for researchers working on Asia and Asian diasporas.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured Image: York wins their first Argo Cup in five years by a score of 41-16. | Basma Elbahnasawy
There was a murder reported at Alumni Field on Saturday afternoon. The police were not called, despite an abundance of witnesses, as the victim turned out to be the U of T Varsity Blues’ Red & Blue Bowl winning streak.
The main suspect was our very own football team—the Lions—as they orchestrated a 41-16 blowout to capture the Argo Cup.
The Lions were led by quarterback Brett Hunchak, who finished the game going 19 for 27, with 244 yards and three touchdowns.
The game began on a low note for the Lions, as U of T sent defensive pressure while the Lions were pinned deep in their own end, which resulted in an 11-yard safety less than two minutes into the game.
However, this was the Blues’ only lead of the game, as York managed to score a field goal five minutes later off the foot of kicker Dante Mastroguiseppe, his first of two successful attempts.
It was in the final three minutes of the quarter when the floodgates opened, as York blocked a punt in U of T territory, which set the Lions up in excellent field position. On the ensuing drive, Hunchak found receiver Alex Daley, who finished the game with 94 receiving yards and a single touchdown, for an eight-yard major.
York kept the pressure coming in the second quarter, as running back Jesse Amankwaa capped off a seven-play 100-yard drive with a two-yard touchdown, giving the Lions a 15-point lead. The drive was highlighted by an incredible Eli Manning-esque maneuver by Hunchak to avoid a sack before finding Daley for a 59-yard bomb, bringing the Lions deep into U of T territory.
On U of T’s next drive, the Lion defence decided to get in on the scoring, as they strip-sacked Blues quarterback Connor Ennis, then jumped on the loose ball and returned it to the house.
This gave the Lions a 22-point lead in a half that featured York’s most dominant performance all year on both sides of the ball.
The second half began with a discouraged U of T squad that saw their quarterback woes continue, as they allowed a turnover on downs after a sack and a failed third down conversion.
The ensuing drive by York failed to build upon their success in the first half, as a completed 10-yard pass from Hunchak was quickly turned into a forced fumble, courtesy of Austin Rosbrook, which was recovered by U of T at their own 32-yard line.
The following drive began with a 40-yard pass from Blues quarterback Clay Sequeira, and ended in a Sequeira touchdown run after six plays and 78 yards. The U of T quarterback completed 10 of 19 passes with 225 passing yards, a touchdown, and an interception.
Fortunately for the Lions, these mistakes were corrected in the fourth quarter, as their first drive lasted over five minutes and took 10 plays to finally reach the end zone, via a 17-yard pass to Adam Adeboboye for the touchdown.
Rather than playing dead in the final minutes, U of T fought back on the next drive with an 85-yard bomb to Jaykwon Thompson on the first play of the drive.
However, it was too little too late for the Blues, as York’s offensive prowess proved too much for the U of T defence, who allowed one more touchdown and a field goal in the last three minutes of the game. This made the score 41-16, which would end up the final, giving York their first Argo Cup win since the 2012 campaign.
“It was great,” commented Adeboboye after the game, who finished with 140 yards rushing and two touchdowns. “We knew what we wanted to do and we wanted to show that we know who we are and that we can play and compete against other teams.
“I really wanted this. I woke up this morning and said, ‘I can’t leave this field until I have a victory today,’ so I made sure of it.”
The next game is on September 30, and features a 3-1 McMaster squad that defeated York 64-2 last season. Kick-off is at 1:00 p.m. in Hamilton.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured Image: I started writing because I needed a way to trace back the conclusions I would jump to, to ease the noise inside my head. | Rowan Campbell
Do you remember when computer games consisted of minesweeper flags, solitaire, and pinball? Occasionally, I would dabble and entertain myself with Paint—however, I found myself gravitating rather heavily towards the pinball game. I was so intrigued that, no matter how hard I would strike the keys that triggered the tiny little pegs launching the minuscule ball, or how soft my fingers pressed against the keys as if by reflex, that tiny ball would still go at it’s own speed.
Sometimes, I would hit the keys ever so slightly and that little ball would be sent launching, ricocheting off everything. Lights flashing and sounds blaring, it would look in desperation for a place to settle for just a brief moment—but it was always shuffled back again across the screen.
Passed on to the next bumper, frantic to try and relieve itself, placing the burden elsewhere. My smashing of the keys or gingerly pressing down on them didn’t really matter—it seemed to happen whether I wanted it to or not; a random shuffle of codes.
That’s kind of how my thoughts are.
My thoughts are spring-loaded, ready to launch in any direction. My mind is a machine that I struggle to control with feelings that I’m trying to triangulate and settle. In the moment it feels like I’m doing my best, but almost seconds afterwards, I can think of a hundred and one different ways that this scenario could have played out in an alternate way.
There are times when I feel like I am progressing forward, only to find myself being launched in a completely different direction without warning. I’m disoriented and knocked off my initial course—yet somehow, I’m still in motion.
Anxiety tells me lies I have to talk myself out of believing. It weaves stories and spin webs that I find myself trapped inside. My thoughts play on a loop and I begin to believe in my own convictions.
I’m under pressure and can hear everything inside me echoing against the shell of my body—it’s a game inside my head.
I started writing because I had more thoughts than I knew what to do with. I needed some way of expressing myself, because I couldn’t make the words I needed to say come out of my mouth—I couldn’t articulate them in speech, or make them fit into a conversation with coherence. So I remained quiet for an extensive time, because I felt like I had no way to convey all the things I wanted to say, or make the thoughts bouncing around in my head make sense to anyone else.
On paper, though—I am loud.
Expressive writing comes from our core. It pulls from experiences and gives you a means of letting everything out. It is a chance to allow yourself to be openly vulnerable. It is deeply personal and emotionally charged with lengthy descriptions and heavy thoughts. It is writing without barriers, without regulation or care if it comes out right, just so long as it comes out. Grammar and punctuation come after—just let the words and thoughts pour out, until you’ve said it all.
Expressive writing grants you complete freedom—it can be about anything. It can be seen in the hundreds of notes on my phone, containing scrambled sentences or paragraphs among paragraphs that would run on for too long.
The truth is, I’ve probably written about you. You might find yourself in traces of the words or amongst some sort of metaphorical message that got left behind. You might notice that the fine details have fragments of your being attached to them. I may have buried my feelings and your sentiment deep in the hollows of my words that fill pages and cloud the screens.
I write to fill in the blanks, to build the bridges I need to get over.
I started writing because I needed a way to trace back the conclusions I would jump to, to ease the noise inside my head. Through writing, I found understanding and honesty.
I stumble into perspective and composure only after writing out my thoughts and trying to narrate the dialogue playing in my head.
Writing is my solace, my safe space—my therapy.
Above all, writing is an outlet—while it is turbulent, it is also the calm in the storm. It is about acknowledging your emotions and giving them meaning. You recognize your scars, the tears, joy, and pain, giving it a reason—and in that, you find it’s purpose.
Amongst the chaos, you are the one that’s in control.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Ayesha Saleem | Contributor
Featured Image: Affordable housing close to campus can be a struggle, but we shouldn’t have to compromise our health. | Courtesy of Flickr
As many students return to York for the fall semester, concerns about grades, classes, internships, and part-time jobs all rank high in the minds of students—however, a new concern seems to be taking precedent.
In the Village, and the GTA at large, a new, albeit tiny problem has emerged for many students living on or near campus—pests. To be more specific, bed bugs and cockroaches, infesting residences by the thousands.
Being a student is hard enough; worrying about cockroaches running around or bed bugs crawling up your side shouldn’t be added to your list of troubles. Between working, going to classes, having a social life, and living on their own, many students lack the time and resources to deal with these infestations.
“We found the bed bugs because the problem was so bad and they were just everywhere. We didn’t notice at first, but during the first night after moving in, dozens of them started crawling out from the baseboards,” explains Alix Best, a third-year Psychology student.
Many view these unwelcome house guests as a minor nuisance, overlooking the truly damaging physical and mental issues these pests can present in a person’s life. Not only do they create an unsanitary and unpleasant living space, but recent research has shown a deeper, psychological issue that exists when it comes to dealing with these pests in our lives.
Bed bugs, though known to be harmless as they do not carry transmittable diseases, can still prove to be far more than a mere annoyance to the person hosting them. These bugs are known to be nocturnal, coming out at night and often biting humans. They are extremely small—one centimetre at the largest—but they feed on human blood and the blood of other mammals. They’re brown in colour until they’re finished feeding, when they bloat and turn red.
“Our landlord never mentioned anything about bed bugs before we moved in, he didn’t know they were there because the previous tenants never reported any bug problems. But once we found them he got an exterminator first thing the next morning, who had to perform four different spray treatments to get rid of them,” says Best.
Though their bites provide little to no threat, they can leave behind itchy red bumps all over the body. Other health issues resulting from a bedbug bite include allergic reactions—in which case, the affected should immediately seek a doctor, otherwise it can lead to serious infections if the person treats the bite under non-hygienic conditions.
Further, serious mental health issues resulting from an infestation can include insomnia, psychosis (in severe instances), and depression. Insomnia is caused by bed bugs biting and keeping a person awake for a majority of the night, causing a severe lack of sleep, and red bites can often lead a person to become paranoid and/or depressed.
A much more common and terrifying pest known to inhabit many homes is the cockroach.
This ugly bug thrives in environments that are dark and humid, attracted to unsanitary spaces, uncovered garbage, leftover food that is not properly packaged, and dirty dishes.
Cockroaches are drawn to places where they have a constant source of food, and are often found hiding in corners or crack in the walls.
These pests are especially dangerous, as they are the cause of many health issues for humans for a variety of reasons—the primary one being their unhygienic state.
Cockroaches leave droppings, skin, and even saliva wherever they go—and worse yet—are carriers of transmittable diseases, so their bites can prove to be fatal if not properly checked.
They can spread viruses such as E.coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Streptococcus, can contribute to other various infections, and can create further complications if one’s immune system is already compromised. Cockroaches have also been known to cause health problems relating to asthma and allergies. The impacts on one’s mental health includes increased anxiety and sleeplessness, both of which can lead to depression, and aggravate existing mental health conditions that an individual may have.
The best way to avoid these pests is to always ensure that a clean space is kept, no garbage is left uncovered, all food is put away, and surfaces are wiped and sanitized on a regular basis.
These bugs thrive in unsanitary conditions, so maintaining a clean home means keeping them far away. Unfortunately, when tenants move in—most often in older buildings—cockroaches are already permanent residents, and require regular sealing to “control” the problem.
Any form of housing in Toronto is expensive, which is why when challenges such as this occur, they shouldn’t be brushed under the rug. York apartments, such as the ones on Assiniboine Road, where cockroaches are known to be a problem, cost between $854 to $1,639 a month. In the Village, where bed bugs are also quite common, the average price of a room is about $500 to $800 a month. Off-campus living—in particular, much older apartment buildings in the city—are known to be on the bed bug and pest control registry.
Though not discussed often enough amongst the masses, pest infestations can have serious mental and physical implications on a person’s health. It is vital to make efforts to keep your living space as clean and hygienic as possible, and visit the doctor for frequent checkups. The best way to control this situation is to either alert a landlord as soon as suspicion of bugs arises, or call a professional exterminator to handle the problem in an effective manner.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
