Basma Elbahnasawy | Multimedia Editor
Featured image | Rowan Campbell
Imagine being in the driver’s seat, when in the blink of an eye, you find yourself unconscious. Eventually, as you try to figure out your surroundings through the smashed windows and inflated airbags, you come to realize that another vehicle forcefully collided with your car. You are left to gasp for every breath and attempt to regain consciousness while your head remains resting on the steering wheel.
This is how it feels to go through a mental trauma in life. You think you are in control of the steering wheel, thinking you have your life under control, until you realize that the car—your life—is not always solely controlled by the driver. You are shocked, hurt, and simply unable to function mentally. You feel it is obvious that you are suffering, that you are fighting to survive—but no one around you seems to notice.
You notice that there are repetitive mental health awareness advertisements, encouraging you to get help. “Don’t stay silent!” “Let’s Talk!” they repeat. You are finally convinced and grab the phone to dial a nearby mental health professional.
The phone rings and just when you are about to hang up, someone answers. You realize that they are willing to help, but they just throw you on the waiting list, the duration of which could take a month or more. You realize that you are nothing more than a number on a file. Hesitant to ask for the price of a session, you convince yourself it is important. “$150 an hour,” they respond casually.
You realize that, as a university student who balances two part-time jobs and five courses, soon you will have to ask yourself: “Can I afford spending $150 an hour every week?” It is almost a week’s salary for a part-time worker on minimum wage.
It is at this point that you start to realize that the advertisements are all a show, without much national action behind them.
Sometimes, you don’t want to talk to an unknown volunteer on the other end of the line—sometimes, you want to have a transparent conversation with someone who can look you in the eye and help shape your life.
It is even more difficult to come to realize that children have to go through this equivalent experience. “There is a risk that the mental health of children and youth can deteriorate while waiting for service, but little is done to monitor wait time trends and their impact.” This is a comment made by the Auditor General in a 2016 report, regarding the way the Ontario Ministry of Children and Youth Services responds to the issue.
We get it—mental health awareness is important, but we need to move on from the advertising and actually realize that Canadians are put on a waiting list over, and over, and over again. Instead of using our resources to produce awareness campaigns, we should be creating a provincial plan to ensure the mental well-being of the citizens of Ontario.
Canadians understand the importance of mental health care, but it seems that perhaps some of our government officials need to get on the same page.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: SafeTALK and ASIST provides necessary education on how to treat those contemplating suicide. | Courtesy of Pexels
We too often hear of others missing the warning signs for suicide: we didn’t notice, they never said anything, invitations for help are often overlooked, and our awareness of an issue doesn’t come to light until later.
It’s time to increase our awareness and develop our alertness.
SafeTALK was developed in 2006, and has since spread and been implemented in over 20 countries around the world. Participants are trained through videos, group discussions, scenarios, and learning and engaging in the practical steps to help an individual in distress.
York launched a Mental Health and Wellness strategy last year, which included building capacity to not only support York community members, but also train and educate them in mental wellness. SafeTALK (which stands for Tell, Ask, Listen, and KeepSafe), is part of a university-wide suicide prevention strategy. It is designed to increase participants’ ability to identify people who are having thoughts of suicide, and confidently engage with and ask them about suicide.
The course is available through Mental Health and Wellness at York to students, faculty, and staff—free of charge. It is a three-hour training session, in which you will receive certification upon successful completion. The next available course is offered on December 5, from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
The purpose of the course is to train individuals to notice and respond to active situations effectively, defuse a situation and provide resources for further help.
“Last year, more than 400 people on campus were trained in safeTALK, and this year we expect to train more than 500,” says Janice Walls, advisor and deputy spokesperson for York Media.
York also offers a LivingWorks Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training (ASIST) course. This is a two-day interactive workshop that builds upon the knowledge and understanding of suicide and suicidal behaviour, and teaches the skills to intervene when a person is experiencing suicidal thoughts. It aims to prepare participants with the ability to provide suicide first-aid intervention upon certification.
Although safeTALK and ASIST are two separate programs, ASIST is much more in-depth and detailed, meant to complement and parallel safeTALK.
Individuals are taught to work with those considering suicide, mitigating their feelings of being overwhelmed and stressed. ASIST involves creating a safety plan to avoid danger and prevent suicide. This training is also no-cost—however, due to the large demand and interest in this program, training sessions at York are now full until summer.
These programs are in place to teach awareness and vigilance, moving beyond common tendencies to miss or dismiss suicidal behaviours. They educate individuals on how to effectively perform suicide first-aid, and perhaps even save a life.
SafeTALK and ASIST offer important avenues in providing assistance when people need it most.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured image: A pair of late comebacks resulted in three points this weekend in Ottawa. | Courtesy of York Lions
Having lost both games last week to Waterloo and Windsor, the Lions men’s hockey team looked to get back on track this weekend when they took on the Carleton Ravens and Ottawa Gee-Gees in the nation’s capital.
First up was an 8-3-2 Ravens team that defeated the Lions by a score of 4-0 last season. This year yielded a different result, as the Lions managed to comeback late in the game and earn the victory in a shootout.
The game started out very much in Carleton’s favour, as seven minutes into the first, Raven Evan de Haan beat Alex Fotinos to draw first blood for the Ravens, assisted by Jared Steege.
York had a chance to tie the game up two minutes later, when Raven Adam Chapman was given a two-minute penalty for goaltender interference on a close play at the net. The Lions were unable to capitalize on the opportunity, however, and instead promptly gave the puck away 24 seconds later to Raven Josh Burnside, who made a nifty pass to Dalen Hedges, who then fed it to Travis Douglas for the goal.
York was given another opportunity five minutes later when Brett Welychka was called for a hooking penalty, once again putting the Lions on the powerplay. This time, the Lions made no mistake, as Josh LaFrance made a great individual effort to put one past Ravens goalie Francois Brassard to cut the Carleton lead in half.
After a scoreless second period that saw Carleton outshoot York 12-7, the Lions looked to the final frame in an attempt to tie the game up. With one minute left in the period, the Lions were in dire straights, and on the verge of losing their third-straight game. With an extra attacker, the Lions used superb puck to manufacture the chance they were looking for, as Justin Bean received a pass from Colton Vanucci and blasted it past Brassard, tying the game up with just 38 seconds left in regulation.
After overtime solved nothing, the two teams looked to the shootout to decide a victor. After a scoreless first round, both Trevor Peterson and Welychka found the back of the net, tying the game up once again.
Looking to grab the lead, Lion Derek Sheppard made a crafty move around Brassard and successfully wristed the puck into the net to give the Lions a 2-1 lead. It was up to Steege to extend the game—but he could not outsmart Fotinos, as the Lions goalkeeper made a clutch stop to give the Lions the victory.
The next game against the Gee-Gees was almost a carbon copy of the Ravens game, as York fell behind early when an Ottawa power play led to a goal by Gee-Gee Médric Mercier midway through the first period.
Things looked even worse for York in the second period, as the Gee-Gees got the best of Fotinos and scored two goals within a two-minute span, first by Brendan Jacome in the second minute, and second by Eric Locke in the fourth minute.
Down 3-0, the Lions failed to throw in the towel despite the discouraging score. Eight minutes into the second period, York finally got on the board when Bean made an individual effort and put one past goalie Anthony Brodeur for the goal.
Just a minute later, York cut into the Ottawa lead once again when Kyle Campbell received a pass from Sal Filice, and sniped one past Brodeur to cut the lead to a single goal.
Down one goal heading into the third period, York was looking to complete the comeback and did just that in the sixth minute, when Andrew Doyle netted his second of the season, assisted by Jack Goranson and Campbell.
As per usual, the rest of the period and overtime solved nothing, so it was up to the shootout once again to decide the winner.
Unfortunately, the result was not one the Lions were looking for, as they failed to beat Brodeur on all three attempts. Connor Sills scored the only goal for Ottawa, but that was all they needed to take the victory in Saturday’s matchup.
The Lions look to end their semester on a high note this weekend when they take on the Laurier Golden Hawks at home on Friday, and the Ryerson Rams downtown on Saturday.
The puck drops at 7 p.m. for both games.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: Three York students were selected as winners of #MyExperienceYU photo contest. | Courtesy of Gurpreet Singh, Mathurayine Kandasamy, and Chelsea Gomes
This week, York revealed Gurpreet Singh, Mathurayine Kandasamy, and Chelsea Gomes as the first-, second-, and third-place winners of this year’s #MyExperienceYU photo contest.
York received over 700 photo applications on Instagram and Twitter with the hashtag #MyExperienceYU for a chance to win $3,000. Photos showcased a range of scenes, from the educational travel experience York offers, “from designing and building your own metal sculptures, to interning as a project coordinator at Shanti Uganda, or discovering tech giants like Google, Twitter, and Silicon Valley,” says York Media Chief Spokesperson and Director Barbara Joy.
A Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering Master’s candidate with Lassonde, Singh won $3,000 for his photo of himself and his colleague, Zahra Vaziri. In the picture, they are working on a Sun Tracker, a piece of equipment that the two Lassonde engineers were testing in preparation for a polar sunrise arctic campaign Singh would later participate in.
Fourth-year Schulich iBBA student Kandasamy won $1,500 for her photo of herself by the Cathedral Caves, with a sunset backdrop, in the South Island of New Zealand during her semester abroad.
Fifth-year Glendon iBA student Gomes won $500 for her photo of herself as a Red Cross volunteer organizing donations for distributing food for earthquake victims, which took place during a week-long event, “Salvando el Planeta” (Save the Planet) that she attended in Mexico on exchange.
“The contest was designed to bring experiential education at York to life, by showing a multitude of opportunities through our students’ perspectives,” says Joy. “Whether it’s in the classroom, the workplace, or the community—locally or globally.”
Singh adds the photo that won him the top prize had been uploaded to his Instagram about a year earlier, taken by his colleague Bobby Ngo.
“It was so spontaneous. I didn’t even know he was taking a picture!” The photo was taken before Singh would take the same equipment for his arctic campaign, in “Eureka, Nunavut, 80 degrees north—the farthest North you can go in Canada.”
Singh believes with Experiential Education, students get the chance to apply everything they learn in lecture. “When you’re in the field, it’s like you’re a hundred times better of a person: your brain explodes with new ideas, which you can try out in your new surroundings.”
He notes travel makes for an especially enjoyable part of the experience.
“Just going to the Arctic, I was obviously going to go from point A to point B—but just going from point A to B fills you with enormous passion and curiosity,” he says. “You know? Like, ‘how’s the land going to be? What are we going to do when we land? Will there be any wolves?’”
Kandasamy believes the reason why she placed in the top three was because her “photo captures the essence of travel: marvel.”
She shares that for her, the best part about #MyExperienceYU was “the ability to put both current and prospective students in the shoes of those actively learning through experiential education.
“Experiential learning pushes you past your comfort zone, for a type of learning that goes beyond just academics, helping with personal growth.”
Kandasamy shares that the experience has helped her better understand which professional path she wants to take. Before her exchange, she was “going down a more conventional path—one I thought was the only way.
“Traveling and meeting lots of individuals helped me realize that there’s much more to life than the regular nine-to-five everyone is in a rush to attain.”
Kandasamy told herself she would try to enrol in the Las Nubes York course if she won as one of the finalists, to “acquire more valuable experiences through education.”
Gomes hopes her photo will inspire other students to partake in experiential learning, and help others in need, abroad. “During my internship in Uganda, I was able to work closely with children every day,” she says.
“Although it was rewarding at the time, I did not learn its deeper value in my education until I returned to the classroom at York, where I was better able to understand concepts and visualize situations with children.”
Gomes says experiential learning has also changed her comprehension of international studies. “Before going to Uganda and Mexico, I had heard several negative perceptions of those countries,” she shares.
“I am thankful for having the opportunity to live in them, as now when I refer to these countries in my academic work, I have a perspective about them that I would have not as easily encountered through online research.”
“There are currently no contests planned in the near future for Experiential Education,” Joy reports, “but we received such a fantastic response, and close to 12,000 votes on the photos.
“That is definitely something we’ll look into in the upcoming year.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
