 
York’s Advisory Committee on Responsible Investment has voted to recommend divestment from fossil fuels and arms manufacturers.
The decision comes after the committee, or YUACRI, examined two major proposals submitted by YU Divest and Fossil Free York.
YU Divest, a coalition of York students and alumni, has called for York to make a lasting commitment to divesting from five large arms manufacturers for their alleged complicity in human rights abuses due to war.
Fossil Free York called for York to divest from companies whose involvement in the extraction, processing and transport of fossil fuels means that they directly contribute to climate change.
They also state that investment in fossil fuels risks becoming “stranded” as the market for them becomes less viable.
Chenthoori Malankov, president of York Federation of Students, stated that the York community understands the link between human rights and climate justice.
“We are excited about the possibility that York could be a global leader in promoting these values and in helping build sustainable, ethical economies of the future,” she said.
Richard Wellen, president of York University Faculty Association, has hailed YUACRI’s decision as a historic moment for York.
“The university is now poised to align its investment practices with its institutional values of sustainability, social justice, equity and good governance,” he said.
“The Board of Governors should implement these recommendations as soon as possible.”
Previously, YU Divest was lobbying the Board of Governors against any future investment in companies such as BAE Systems, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Textron and Amphenol. As of December 2016, York did not hold any investments in those companies.
Zena Gopal, vice-president campaigns of the York University Graduate Students’ Association, added that it commends YUACRI for its commitment to participatory and democratic policymaking.
“We look forward to its continuing efforts to develop policy that represents and enacts values of the York community in the coming years,” she added.
The decision has faced some criticism from the York community, as many feel it acts as a means of promoting the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions policy against Israel.
Steph Baker, political liaison for Hasbara at York, says that Hasbara does not approve of YUACRI’s recommendation for this reason.
“It does not accomplish the key objectives of responsible investment,” says Baker.
Baker feels that it gives the impression that Israel is a more dangerous country than it is, and that the topic is best addressed through dialogue.
“It causes students to take these ideas as a given, instead of it being open to discussion,” says Baker.
YUACRI seeks to integrate environmental, social and corporate governance considerations in the investment management process and ownership practices of York’s $413 million endowment fund.
They will now prepare their recommendations for the York administration to consider.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
A poster caused quite the commotion when it made its way onto social media.
The event being promoted, a CPR and Emergency First Aid Training course, was offered by the York United Black Students’ Alliance, or YUBSA, for a $30 registration fee. The poster included the customary details, followed by a statement that the event is “catering to black students only.” According to YUBSA, the event went well and participants were happy to have received the training.
The poster garnered a strong reaction on social media, with many pointing out the wording, which they claim is discriminatory towards other racial groups that may have wanted to participate.
According to YUBSA, they have received several messages on social media as a response to the event poster, acts which the YFS have condemned as cyberbullying. The attacks allegedly included YouTube and Facebook comments, as well as direct messages to their Twitter page.
Many of the messages were racist and explicit in nature.
YUBSA released a statement in response to the comments, saying that their efforts to offer reduced-cost training were met with resistance and anti-black racism.
“Do not confuse our duty to give back to our community with the notion that we are imposing limitations or restrictions to others,” reads the statement.
Some were quick to point out that other groups on campus, including York First Aid, provide similar medical training courses.
According to YUBSA, the poster’s wording was generalized to include all black students, even those who are not officially YUBSA members.
One post on the York University Class of 2019 Facebook page has garnered more than 100 comments, with students discussing the validity of having a “black students only” event.
The controversy even escalated to some students being publicly attacked as white supremacists, but many posts were later taken down.
In a public statement, YUBSA proclaimed that as black students, they were faced with resistance for wanting to provide support for black community members, when allegedly other service groups and cultural organizations do this as well.
YUBSA was not concerned with responding to the social media uproar.
“Our concern was our intent,” says YUBSA.
“The university must make a genuine commitment to challenge racial injustice and social inequalities on this campus,” they add.
Founded in 1996, YUBSA was the fusion of African Student’s Association, the Caribbean Student’s Association and the Black Caucus Association.
“As a Pan-African organization, YUBSA’s mission is to provide services that will foster the self-empowerment of students of African descent academically, financially and socially on the York University Campus; as a politically motivated association, YUBSA embodies a mandate to fight racial discrimination and systemic racism on the York campus as well as the wider York community,” reads the YUBSA description on the YFS website.
 


I really wish there were more arlcetis like this on the web.
Maybe there is a reason why these people impose this kind of announcement, other groups are doing this to them as well. formal first-aid training are imposed in order for a person to be considered “suitable” to carry out that role.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
What a year.
Correction: what a shitty year.
2016-2017 at York saw continuing declining enrollment with tuition still rising by up to 3 per cent; the food sucked so much that we topped the list of worst Ontario post-secondary institutes for food safety; a petition was created for a disappointing sandwich; food service workers went on strike and a new incoming president received letters of no-support even before she was announced to take over the position.
But I guess the year didn’t suck that much. The food services workers that went on strike settled with Aramark, including an agreement that within a year, no worker will be making less than $15 an hour; the Bachelor of Administrative
Studies program has been officially renamed as the Bachelor of Commerce thanks to a student petition; Bethune is introducing a course to help equip student leaders to address sexual violence and the men’s Lions hockey team won their first Queen’s Cup in 13 years.
And that’s just what Excalibur reported on.
There are countless issues, concerns and voices that we didn’t cover—and it’s a damn shame.
York is a widely diverse and immensely passionate community and I recognize the opportunity— and responsibility—that is bestowed upon student journalists. We strive for the truth while jumping over hurdles, avoiding lawsuits and finishing our assignments for class.
Excalibur has been nothing short of a ride with many wonderful and terrifying stops along the way. I have learned more about myself and grew as a person and a journalist in more ways that I could have anticipated from a measly student club. I have also seen the true passion within activists, the hurt souls of marginalized groups and even the ugly sides of people’s characters.
But most of all, I have learned that you can’t please them all. The truth, this imaginary ideal that journalists strive for, is not always pleasant. As a journalist, if you are pleasing everyone, then you are probably not doing your job right.
However, if you’re ignoring certain voices, or simply not including them in your paper, then you are also failing at your job.
Journalism is hard, particularly at a school that does not have a dedicated journalism school to teach us these valuable skills of interviewing, transcribing, oxford commas and managing hateful emails.
All I can wish for is that in spite of all of this, there are some of you who read Excalibur, appreciate the efforts of the editorial team and maybe become inspired to contribute.
It is immensely difficult to reflect the student body without the student voice. So please, don’t shy away from the challenge that may be Excalibur; speak up, and let your voices be heard.
Excalibur is always willing to listen.
 


In the coaitpcmled world we live in, it’s good to find simple solutions.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Whether it be about the complications that arise from mental illnesses or the lack of treatment offered on university campuses, we need to talk about mental health.
You can usually see the implications of a physical ailment, however when it’s our mental health that is suffering, it’s harder to see and much more difficult to explain.
In September, 66.8 per cent of York students reported to have felt overwhelming anxiety within the previous 12 months. Nearly 49 per cent of students had felt depressed to the point that it was difficult to function regularly and nearly 12 per cent seriously considered suicide.
Earlier this month, Jack.org held their annual summit in Toronto, which saw 200 post-secondary students attend and discuss what mental health means on their campuses. The organization developed in 2010 as a movement when Jack
Windeler, a first-year student at Queen’s University, committed suicide due to mental illness. Their vision is “No More Silence” about mental health.
The summit discussed the importance of access to mental health services on campuses and how there is often a lack of communication, resources and programs available for individuals in need. Many campus services are overwhelmed with students and are not properly equipped to deal with a large capacity or long-term treatment options.
“It’s evident that universities are overwhelmed. There’s a huge increase in students wanting and needing to access mental health services,” said Fred Wagner of the Canadian Mental Health Association.
Jack.org is about creating dialogue and networking; by ensuring that young people are better able to care for themselves, they are further encouraged to support their peers.
“When it comes to the more serious, long-term mental health conditions, the community and the university really have to come together to support that student,” said Wagner.
The aim is to empower students to get involved with their campus resources health advisory committees to ensure that help is available to all students who need it and that students know how to access these resources, as well as establishing dialogue around universities’ academic policies and how they affect mental health.
Students can play a significant role in how universities approach and handle mental health. Mental health problems exist beyond Bell Let’s Talk Day, and these illnesses aren’t present exclusively during exam periods.
Maintaining one’s mental health is a continuous process, which is why Jack.org has created contact-based education and peer-to-peer outreach programs that are designed to teach students that we all have mental health, we all need to care for it and, most importantly, we need to talk about it.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
