Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Toronto law firm Aird & Berlis will support the winning startup with capital and legal services. | Trina Turl
Last Tuesday, Toronto law firm Aird & Berlis (A&B) announced a new award launched, in collaboration with York, that will support the most successful startup venture to come out of Innovation York’s LaunchYU AccelerateUP program. From now until January, the three front-runners—Lyofresh Technologies, CellFace, and KPI Ninja—will compete to win their legal support.
The A&B StartupSource Market Entry Award will reward the winning startup with $12,500, and the equivalent worth in legal services.
Over the past six months, A&B Partner Randy Williamson, who is also on York’s Board of Governors, and Director of Innovation York, Sarah Howe, collaborated to create the framework for the competition.
“At A&B, we want to help support the next set of great Canadian companies in the GTA and beyond, and university accelerators are a wonderful place where these companies will develop,” Williamson says. “We think that York students and those from its surrounding community participating in LaunchYU will bring unique characteristics to their companies, and we believe this will help them flourish.”
Innovation York’s entrepreneurship unit includes LaunchYU, an entrepreneur-support program that offers additional alternatives. One alternative is the summer accelerator, AccelerateUP, which accepts 20 ventures every year through a competitive process, guiding an intensive 20-week program wherein they learn to build, grow, and scale their ventures. In July, five of those ventures are awarded $3,000, and another three, $5,000, at the end of the program.
“During our LaunchYU Graduation and Launch Day on Tuesday, the recipients of the $5,000 were selected,” says Howe. “Those three will receive mentorship through Innovation York in the fall, and then a final winner will be selected in January to win the A&B StartupSource Market Entry Award.”
The three winning ventures were: Lyofresh Technologies, CellFace, and KPI Ninja.
Lyofresh develops a new freeze-drying technology, which initially aims to commercialize to food processors, says Nicholas Steele, president and CEO of the venture. “Our technology is significantly more efficient and faster than existing freeze dryers, while being priced at a far lower capital cost. This addresses a need for existing freeze-drying users for increased output from these machines.”
Steele believes Lyofresh can address larger societal issues of food security and waste, by scaling this technology to avoid food waste everywhere in the food system where waste occurs; from the consumer, grocer, distributor, and farm. “According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), food waste is a $1 trillion dollar globally economic, social, and environmental problem, and we believe that we can play a part in the solution.”
CellFace develops 3D cell culture technology that provides a reliable, highly customizable, and biologically relevant environment for stem cell study, drug discovery, and toxicology research. “There is a need for a reliable source of cells for the pre-clinical stage of the drug discovery process. An emerging method to produce the desired cells is to use stem cells and transform them into the target cell,” Howe adds.
There is no accepted platform to turn stem cells into desired cell types in an efficient, cost effective manner, without chemicals. Cellface provides stem cell researchers with a highly customization technology that directs the fate of stem cells using only physical features in a biologically relevant environment.
KPI Ninja helps hospitals manage and analyze their data so they can make better, evidence-based decisions to improve health outcomes of their patients, shares Founder Vimal Sharma. “Hospitals do not have enough analytical capabilities, and because the data is distributed in silos, hospitals’ IT teams spend a majority of their time collecting and reporting the data, rather than analyzing it.”
“Our web-based solutions make their job simple, efficient, and affordable. By empowering the decision makers to recognize patterns and trends in their data, our solutions help hospitals create a better patient experience and improve care quality.”
This is the first time York has joined with A&B in a project like this. It will run for four years, awarding a total of four prizes, with the law firm contributing over $100,000.
“As business and strategic advisers helping early-stage companies navigate legal challenges through the consultation of the various winners of these awards, we’ll be able to analyze and assess where these companies are, and how fast they can take advantage of these services,” comments A&B Associate Corporate Lawyer, Graham Topa—one of the A&B co-directors in the project.
His Co-Director, Associate Daniel Everall, clarifies the legal services that the winning venture will receive. “Some winners may have an urgent need to organize and arrange their internal structure, and we would then likely be providing shareholders’ agreements and employment advice,” he notes. “Other winners may urgently need to commercialize their product and we may then be focusing on licensing arrangements and their intellectual property protection.”
“We are pleased to support the manner by which York will select the winner of the Aird & Berlis StartupSource Market Entry Award, but we believe it is appropriately left to LaunchYU and its leadership to evaluate the companies it’s mentoring, and select the winner,” Williamson states.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured Image: McAdams, Weisz, and Nivola’s great performance, alongside Leilo’s artistic directorial moves, are conveyed through the eye-opening film Disobedience. | Courtesy of TIFF
If you’ve watched The Notebook, Mean Girls, The Vow, or Spotlight, then you probably already know who Rachel McAdams is. She plays a leading role in all of these films, and has become one of the most commonly referenced actors for her role as Regina George in Mean Girls.
McAdams is a Canadian actor and alumna of York’s Theatre program, where she earned her bachelor’s degree in Fine Arts. A majority of people see her as one of Canada’s finest and most influential actors today. Her talent has awarded her nominations for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role, a BAFTA Rising Star Award, and many more.
McAdams displays her astounding craft to us all once again with her new TIFF film, Disobedience. The film is based on the novel of the same name by Naomi Alderman. It follows two Jewish lesbians, who become caught in their community’s grapple with its traditional expectations in an ever-changing world. They are ultimately imprisoned by social conventions set by their religion, and the story follows the women’s liberation.
“It’s such a fascinating exploration, which was part of the reason why I was so drawn to the film, because it’s a community that the world knows so little about. They’re so tight-knit, which is such a beautiful part of it,” McAdams explained when asked how she immersed herself in the Jewish culture. “I hosted a book club focused on the book that the film’s based on, and I cooked traditional Jewish meals.
“It took me all over London at the time, because I had to go to the deli, bakery, and local supermarket—they were all welcoming, and no questions were too taboo to ask, which was amazing. The experts on the Jewish community that worked with us on the film were also incredible. They shared information on the culture and their homes when we were filming there,” she added.
The York alumna’s talent is portrayed in a particular scene when she expresses her love for Weisz’s character and finally accepts her sexuality. In a single close-up shot of her face, we see the despair and struggle in trying to find herself in a society that is continuing to try to change the way she is.
Disobedience’s complex themes allows the audience to examine how we all impose social expectations onto others. The film conveys the ultimate arbiter for unhappiness and hate—acceptance and open-mindedness.
Both McAdams’ and Weisz’s characters underwent a massive imprisoning ordeal towards individuality and freedom.
It wasn’t only through their breathtaking acting that made the hardships feel authentic—but the vivid directorial moves and diegetic sounds also added much to the film. Close-ups, establishing shots, and high-angle shots are but some of the camera angles that make Disobedience personal and vulnerable, especially during intimate scenes between McAdams’ and Weisz’s characters.
Sebastián Lelio, the director of the film, described how he’s able to portray the meanings of the movie through the actors’ facial expressions.
“It’s the nature of the film from the script, and how it’s quite informative. It has structure that allows scenes to become like music; how you’re watching the movement and how it resonates with the words, feelings, and tone of the film. You become hypnotized with the rhythm of the movement if you think of the film’s goal towards one final image,” he added.
The film’s fluidity and moving message allows the audience to ponder the ways in which they have influence upon others.
Disobedience gives everyone something to think about every night; how some are still too afraid to be themselves, and that as a society, we play a role in that with societal conventions. We all become hypnotized in the way we view what is ‘normal’ and what isn’t, and the film demonstrates how that could disappear—by letting go of all of our expectations.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
