Featured image | Rowan Campbell
The holidays are finally here! Read on for some of the best the season has to offer.
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
I’m not a huge fan of Christmas—however, there is one Christmas tradition I do enjoy: the 12 Barz of Christmas. Twelve Barz started in 2003 as a gathering of friends before everyone left for the semester. Since then, it’s grown into one of the biggest bar crawls of the year, taking place in 40 cities across North America. Participants get a tshirt that gives them access to five bars during the night, and are split into teams, which determine which bars they will attend. There are also tasks on the shirt that must be completed, including: “dance off,” “sing a Christmas carol,” and even “kiss a random.” In addition to the tasks, patrons must also do 12 shots throughout the night that range from straight whiskey, to specialty drinks such as a broken down golf cart. It’s a great chance to escape the stress of exams and meet new friends—or potential flings.
Emilie Miranda | Executive Editor, Online
One event you can count on to bring excitement (and maybe some good old-fashioned stress) during the holidays is the annual IIHF World Junior Championship, which brings together the best international junior hockey talent for a two-week tournament where anything can happen. This year’s event is being hosted in Buffalo, so no 4 a.m. game starts, and runs from Boxing Day up to the gold medal game on January 5. It’s a great opportunity to see the next big NHL stars before they’re even drafted, as well as cheer about something with family and friends over the break. Besides, you know that’s all that’ll be on TSN over the holidays, regardless.
Munirul-Haq Raza | News Editor
My Christmas, in recent years, has revolved around catching up on reading about interesting topics, such as physics, history, or anthropology. I also love playing video games, watching holiday movies, spending some time with my mom, going to a variety of Islamic-themed events that happen near the year’s end—most of these are done while listening to hip hop and jazz. Most of my holidays are spent gaming, but I enjoy adding in the rest of these activities, so I feel at least be somewhat productive.
Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
I don’t think I am the only student (I seriously hope not, anyway), who each year, time and again, finds himself in a dire back-and-forth of work and play, amid arguably the most decisive window of the semester.
Be it—ill-advisedly—starting episode one of Game of Thrones for the first time just before midterms, or confidently assuring myself I’ll rise extra early post-nightout Sunday morning to finish the term paper due at 11:59 p.m. that evening, or sifting through a sea of Wikis and Ted Talks, educating myself on all courses (other than the only ones I really need be learning), it seems that procrastination has become the one true activity I cannot wait to dive into immediately.
Naturally, for play-prone students like myself, the winter break is simply music to the ears—at last: a genuinely appropriate time to finally enjoy the things I love, with the people I love. Never has there been a more fitting time to take a break from taking a break.
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Every year, my family and I follow this Filipino tradition called “Nochebuena.” It’s a Spanish word referring to Christmas Eve and translates to “the Good Night.” It’s a big feast that happens at midnight on December 24. My family and I spend the whole day prepping the food, cooking, cleaning the house, and wrapping presents. By 8 p.m., all the chores are finished, and everyone goes to their respective rooms to either sleep or relax until the large feast begins. For Filipinos, Nochebuena is our most important tradition. It celebrates love, gratitude, family, and God.
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
My favourite part of Christmas would definitely have to be the gift-stealing game my family plays on Christmas Eve. How it works: everybody puts a gift of a similar theme in the centre of the room and gets a number. We start in numerical order, and if your number is called, you can either take a gift from the centre or steal another person’s gift. I personally love the risk of taking from the centre, since gifts can range from a mini air-hockey table, to PGA Tour 2004 for Playstation 2, to a spicy Italian sausage. It’s a fun game, and I look forward to it every year.
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
I usually tend to go overboard on Christmas, trying to come up with new and interesting ways to get the people in my life as excited as I am. From the Christmas movies to wrapping presents, I love everything Christmas—but mostly, I love the snow. When it finally does decide to snow, my whole mood changes, and I feel like it is only then that the cold becomes slightly more tolerable. I love cracking the ice that lines the edges of the sidewalk, walking around my neighbourhood, and looking at the lights while it’s snowing—it makes me feel like I have a clean slate, which puts me in a more positive mood.
Basma Elbahnasawy | Multimedia Editor
What makes Christmas time extra special are the decorated streets, jolly spirit, and varieties of comfort food; the kind that feeds your soul—I am looking at you, Chimney Stax. The Toronto Christmas Market is the cherry on top of the Christmas cake when it comes to Christmas activities. It is also notorious for its lighted signs, which create amazing background lighting for an Instagram photoshoot. If you enjoy strolling through a wonderland of lights with live Christmas music playing in the background, then the Christmas Market is a must-see this holiday season. It will be open until December 23, so make sure to check it out while you can!
Anna Voskuil | Copy Editor
Nothing beats family traditions—especially when it comes in the form of a black-and-white classic called It’s A Wonderful Life. Every year, on a cold, quiet Christmas Eve, my mother, sister, and I would light up the fireplace, mix up some hot cocoa, and reminisce in a story that never grows old.
The simple story of George Bailey, a tired man who screams to the world “I wish I’d never been born!” only to witness what a world would be like without him in it, we watch how he heartwarmingly begins to honour and appreciate everyone dear in his life, and how important he truly is to everyone in his community—a wonderful reminder for us all. So, for all of you reading: this winter season, never forget, no matter how you are feeling—you are always worthy, and you will always be loved.
Rowan Campbell | Creative Director
My favourite thing about the holiday season is the cold weather and the wintery atmosphere. Despite my body’s high proclivity to getting sick, I’ll gladly take the risk for the chance to breathe in the crisp, fresh air, and kick through untouched snowbanks. Also, there’s nothing like coming home after a long day in the snow and drinking hot chocolate with my family under twinkling lights, as the smell of evergreen and pine wafts through the air. I love Halloween for the spooky atmosphere, and I love Christmas for the same—the pursuit of all things cozy, comfortable, and lovely.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured image: York’s third-year Performance and fourth-year Choreography classes created a series of dances that centralizes on self-expression. | Angelica Babiera
As the lights darken, the seats fill up and all sounds in the theatre diminish, the audience anticipates the first dance with hushed excitement. They’re eager to see their fellow classmates, friends, family members and fellow York community members on stage to perform a dance created by the newest full-time faculty member, Freya Olafson.
Performing at the McLean Performance Studio on November 23 to 25, the third-year Performance and fourth-year Choreography classes performed Dance Innovations: Up Rising.
The performances reflects the artistry and integrity of the York students, faculty, and staff. It is dedicated in loving memory to Professor Emerita, Penelope Reed Doob and alumna, Selina Margaret Twum. Up Rising features original new dances created by York students and faculty of all levels in the Dance program.
Olafson borrowed methods from her work over the past ten years to guide students in their performances. “I used methods to generate movement material from my various works over the past 10 years, AVATAR, HYPER_CPA [Consistent Partial Attention], in order to guide students through a collaborative process. The work emerges as a movement study that engages the mutability of the individual performers in relationship to ideas of and self-expression in the digital world.”
The entirety of the performance emphasizes the cycle of the ups and downs in life. Each piece has its own unique and innovative choreographic structure that captures the essence of raw, human experiences—how to cope with our own struggles, while simultaneously trying to get back up.
Up Rising: Series A consists of nine pieces in the span of an hour and a half. These short dances all encompass the passion and dedication the students and faculty poured into these performances. From themes of grounding their own self-expressions in the digital world in the first piece, “Being and Becoming,” to believing the negative thoughts in their minds in the seventh piece, “Apperception,” there’s a dance that can speak to all of us on a deeper level.
“We have had weekly rehearsals to create and prepare the work for performance: every Wednesday and Friday, for two hours. Although this is the time we work together in studio, there are many more hours outside of studio for me in preparation for the work,” Olafson explains.
“The piece was completely assembled as of November 15. After that date, we started to rehearse it to make it strong, and integrated throughout the 12-minute work.”
“Our student choreographers delved into a wide range of concepts and subject matter with curiosity, daring, wit, and rigor; igniting and directing generous interpretations of their creative imaginings,” says Julia Sasso, the Artistic Director of Dance Innovations 2017.
Up Rising: Series A showed a strong fury throughout the dances, demonstrating the challenges that one faces with self-identity and the restrictions of social conventions. Olafson intuitively choreographs these innovative and raw performances, capturing the essence of pain, happiness, and artificial emotions that all stem from the digital world. The audience feels this dramatically, marking the show’s remarkable success.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: York’s self-help and wellness app is your new aid. | Basma Elbahnasawy
Stress, anxiety, and depression are common for university students, yet there are no mechanisms for students on-the-go to monitor their mental health status.
Mental health issues are on the rise, and so are the costs and wait lists associated with accessing mental health care. However, over the past year campuses across North America have been implementing WellTrack, a self-help app designed for students.
Last week, York introduced the app, launching it to students just in time for exams, when stress and anxiety are heightened.
WellTrack is designed to help students cope and monitor their stress and anxiety levels, as well as depression status, before they require further intervention and services. The app is a primary form of prevention, meant to keep you on track and in pursuit of a healthy lifestyle and self-care habits. WellTrack features different videos, relaxation and writing exercises, and mood tracking tools designed to raise awareness of your mental health state.
York’s Student Success Centre began slowly introducing the app to students, with the expectation that it will support and improve student life.
“York’s Health Education and Promotion office, which is part of the Student Success Centre, has done a slow launch of the tool over the last few months, averaging around 400 active users, and the data shows almost 60 per cent have gotten better after using the modules,” says Janice Walls, advisor and deputy spokesperson for York Media.
The app delivers interactive therapy to students, faculty, and staff through a computer, tablet, or smartphone. Individuals can create and employ their own modified version of care, addressing the issues they want to tackle.
“It’s definitely better than the other ones out, which are similar. It’s a nice app layout and design, and the zen room thing is nice!” says Mustafa Murtaza, a fourth-year Biotechnology student.
In order to create a customized course of therapy, each user will be asked to take a survey. Twice a day, they will be prompted to interact with the app and assess their mood.
WellTrack will ask you to keep track of where you are and what you’re doing when you experience certain thoughts or feelings—either positive or negative. It monitors unhelpful and devastating thought patterns.
“The tool was created out of a need for counselling (in all aspects of life, not just on campus). This provides an alternative to face-to-face counselling for those individuals who can benefit from an online tool. WellTrack courses are similar to what an individual would receive if they were receiving Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy (CBT) with a counsellor or clinical psychologist,” says Walls.
CBT is a practical form of psychotherapy, in which individuals are able to develop skills and strategies for becoming and staying mentally healthy, whilst combating day-to-day struggles. CBT is problem-focused and goal-oriented, functioning by addressing the relationship between thoughts (cognitions) and behaviours, and how they influence each other.
Behaviour can be redirected through techniques such as self-monitoring, activity scheduling, and exposure regulation. This involves recognizing what feelings and emotions one may experience during certain situations.
“It will enable them to access some services, on their own time and in their own way,” says Walls.
WellTrack is a part of York’s mental health strategy, designed to keep students’ mental health status in check while implementing primary prevention techniques such as: guided therapy, self-management competencies, a meditation zone, a thought diary, and activity schedule for stress, phobias, anxiety, and depression. It provides therapy with a counsellor, teaches relaxation techniques, and includes a virtual zen room.
“The mental health strategy emphasizes the need for us to focus on our institutional structure, mental health awareness, self-management competencies and coping skills, a supportive campus environment, as well as access to mental health services. Focusing on these areas will ultimately improve the mental health of our entire campus,” adds Walls.
WellTrack is a strategy for prevention and means of coping with the daily stresses and hardships individuals may be experiencing on their own.
With limited access to resources and long wait times, the app is intended to reach students in a way that may not otherwise be possible.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
