 
Following seven instances of hate graffiti in the past month, a Town Hall meeting was called at York’s Glendon campus to allow students and staff to raise their concerns to administrators and police.
The “Town Hall for Safety, Security, and Inclusion” on March 24 saw York’s Community Safety Department address the nature of the incidents, as well as measures, protocol and services in place.
The event followed a joint statement issued by York President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri and Vice-President Academic and Provost—and recently appointed President Delegate—Rhonda Lenton on March 23 that addressed the “anti-Semitic, anti-Black and Islamophobic hate graffiti and threats” found at various locations at York’s Keele and Glendon campuses.
“We condemn all acts of hate, and we embrace diversity as the very foundation of our institution,” read the statement.
Earlier in the month, swastikas were found drawn on a chalkboard in the Victor Phillip Dahdaleh building and several threats have appeared in a Glendon washroom—three leading to evacuations.
No arrests have been made and the incidents are currently being investigated as acts of mischief.
“We think one person is responsible for this and he is desperately attempting to get attention,” said Toronto Police Service Constable Victor Kwong.
At the Town Hall meeting, Glendon Principal Donald Ipperciel discussed the incidents and reassured students, urging them to stay united.
“The campus has been inspected by Toronto police, and they have declared it safe,” he said.
“Let’s respond to these criminal acts with a united voice. Let’s respond to negative messages with positive messages. Let’s disempower hateful ideas by reaffirming our beliefs in diversity and inclusion.”
Some students, however, stated that the university should have reacted more quickly to these incidents.
Nasra Mohamed, a Glendon student, commented that she no longer feels safe on campus and wants to see security tightened.
“A lot of people want you to call this place your home, especially if you live on campus, but I don’t know if I can consider it that right now,” she said.
Natalie Swanton, a York student, stated that she feared the threats would turn to action.
“It kind of makes you worry to come to school now. If it were to be true, it could kill or injure many people, so you definitely don’t want to take that lightly,” she said.
Ipperciel stated that staff and faculty were not trained adequately to respond to these events, which is something he wants to change.
He also added that the university’s communication protocol strategy will be reviewed.
“We have to do better,” he said.
In the meantime, students are encouraged to contact The Office of Student Affairs (Glendon) or The Department of Community Safety if they become aware of any hate-graffiti or any messages that promote hate.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
A public video posted by the York United Black Students’ Alliance has caught the attention of thousands after an interaction between a black student and a loss prevention officer left the student with an ankle injury.
York United Black Students’ Alliance, or YUBSA, have condemned the Shoppers Drug Mart in York Lanes in a public statement posted on their Facebook and Twitter.
The video in question shows a man lying on the ground outside the store screaming with his foot at an awkward angle, surrounded by onlookers and security guards.
The incident occured at 9 a.m. on the morning of March 24, and according to YUBSA’s statement accompanying the video, the officer tackled the student for unknown reasons, leaving his leg “twisted at a 90 degree angle.”
According to Constable Victor Kwong, Toronto Police Service attended the scene after a loss prevention officer, or LPO, attempted to arrest a suspect for attempting to steal a bottle of pop.
This runs contrary to YUBSA’s original claim that instead of calling Toronto Police Service, or TPS, and following procedure, the loss prevention officer executed “their own brand of justice where they had no jurisdiction to do so.”
Constable Kwong added that the incident escalated after the suspect punched and choked the plainclothes officer, which resulted in a struggle.
It has also been reported that as the suspect attempted to break free, he allegedly tried to kick out the legs of the officer so he could get away, and that this is when the ankle injury occurred.
Kwong confirmed that the student was later treated in hospital for the injury and released.
He also said the loss prevention officer will be taking time off from work as a result of facial and throat injuries sustained in the incident.
The 25-year-old student faces four charges, including assault, theft under $5,000, possession of property obtained by crime and assault with intent to resist arrest.
In their online statement, YUBSA claims that LPOs are “not paid to place their hands on folks who come in and out of the stores they are hired by.”
However, according to the Ontario Ministry of Community Safety & Correctional Services’ “National Use of Force Framework,” security personnel are authorized to use force as long as they act on reasonable grounds.
If an individual is actively resistant or assaultive, it is acceptable to use physical restraint or hard force if deemed appropriate by the officer present.
They are, however, left criminally responsible for any excessive use of force in these circumstances.
After reviewing security tape footage, police say they have completed the investigation into the arrest.
“As we got a chance to look at the tapes, it becomes clear that race did not play a role here. It was simply the actions of one individual,” said Kwong.
“We can unequivocally say that the loss prevention officer did his job properly.”
Vice-President of External Communication for Shoppers Drug Mart Tammy Smitham said that the company will conduct a thorough investigation.
“We never encourage physical interaction between loss prevention representatives and individuals in our stores,” she said.
Some have voiced concerns over the York University Development Corporation policy, which dictates that York security hold no jurisdiction in incidents regarding private retail properties.
This meant that when university security arrived, they could not assist or utilize their training.
YUBSA called for a conversation on the policies and asked the York community to boycott Shoppers Drug Mart.
“We encourage York students who stand in solidarity with the student to boycott Shoppers and demand accountability by the aforementioned bodies implicated in the student’s injury,” says YUBSA, in light of the closed police investigation.
In a statement issued on March 25, York stated that acts of violence are not tolerated and that policies related to private security were to be reviewed.
“We want to be clear that our first concern is always for the safety and security of York students and community members,” read the statement.
“We are awaiting further details and will not presume the outcome of any investigation.”
The video has been viewed by tens of thousands of people and shared hundreds of times, including by news outlets and Black Lives Matter Toronto.
 


This “boycott declaration” is why no one takes Black Lives Matter seriously.  Why do they defend criminals?  The man in this article (regardless of race) was shoplifting.  He was restrained.  The thief PUNCHED the person apprehending him and twisted his own ankle in the process.  And we boycott the STORE he was stealing from?  Are you serious bruh?  Smh.  So dumb.
Life is short, and this article saved valubale time on this Earth.

 York University Community Newspaper 
