Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: Meditation can help with both physical and mental illnesses. | Courtesy of Pixabay
For many, “meditation” is a word that evokes feelings of resistance, skepticism, and distrust. Those unaccustomed to its benefits may dismiss the practice, perceiving it to be too esoteric, for necessitating accompanying spiritual or religious faith, or as being nothing more than preachy navel-gazing for hippies.
Meditation was markedly popularized in the height of the “psychedelic era,” after all—a divided age of war and Flower Power, the Civil Rights Movement, and an urgency to contribute to a post-Industrial Revolution society. Memorable instances, like the Beatles going on record advocating for its practice in 1967, with their immersive studies with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi—Lennon’s disatisfaction of which later inspired “Sexy Sadie”—only further fueled the black-and-white labels regarding those “chasing enlightenment.”
Since then, research investigating a particular type of meditation—mindfulness—has grown considerably prevalent within several medical fields.
Today, studies and practitioners suggest mindfulness plays an extensive role in helping assuage difficult mental disorders—most notably, depression.
Three York Professors in particular—Dr. Paul Ritvo, Mark Cummings, and Dr. Noah Wayne—stand by such findings, featuring mindfulness as a pivotal tool in their own respective fields of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and kinesiology.
“Mindfulness and meditation originated from spiritual disciplines—especially Buddhism,” Ritvo, a clinical psychologist and the co-principal investigator of the Healthy Student Initiative, a York mindfulness student club, acknowledges. “But basically, what cognitive-behavioural therapists are doing now is studying what insights can be learned from those methods, and reading secular versions of them that are science-based.”
Cognitive therapy, he says, when paired with mindfulness, is indeed effective for promoting positive mental health, cultivating greater emotional intelligence, and ebbing the suffering of painful feelings.
“One of the reasons we feel there is a connection is the relaxation effect that is inherent in meditation, which actually has a physiologically-based mood elevation effect.”
Nevertheless, “meditation is so much more than just a thing you can do to ‘relax,’” continues Wayne, well known for his mindfulness-centered kinesiology course, “Survey of Meditation Practices Ancient & Current,” in the York mindfulness community.
“We know that meditation leads to a number of great benefits, including: increased attention, better concentration, better working memory, improved immune functions, higher-quality sleep, greater emotional control, better overall happiness, decreased anxiety, and decreases in depression relapse rates.”
That last one is of particular interest for cognitive therapists such as Ritvo, who notes mindfulness meditation practices have now even been adopted by the British government as regular prepaid health services.
“The same is happening here in Ontario in a more gradual way.”
Cummings, a York Kinesiology professor, notably recognized for his own “Relaxation: Theory & Practice” course, also coordinates much of his work toward the relief and positive physiological changes incited through mindfulness, in addition to other attention control strategies.
“Neurochemistry of chronic stress is virtually indistinguishable from the neurochemistry of depression,” he says. “If you put a person under chronic stress long enough, if they don’t have solid coping strategies it can actually cause depression.”
Having worked with a number of students, patients with mental illness, athletes, and those in addiction recovery before, the complementary works of Cummings, Ritvo, and Wayne all collegially demonstrate and advance such strategies so others may feel more present in their own daily lives, to be less upset by stressors, and stay poised, level-headed, and effective when pursuing both their personal and professional goals.
That being said, Wayne stresses that if someone is diagnosed or considers themselves to be actively depressed, they should reach out to a qualified healthcare provider, rather than relying solely on any mindfulness techniques.
Cummings echoes this statement. “Those with depression have to connect with a professional, or at least someone they can trust,” he says. “Then, if they want to use meditation to complement other treatments, it’s possible to do that.”
“This can be helpful for people who struggle with depression, by providing the skills to approach problematic and depressogenic thoughts,” Wayne adds.
“Imagine emotional or physical pain, or a craving, represented by a drop of dark blue ink,” Cummings often relates the value of mindfulness to the unpracticed with a visual metaphor.
“If you drop that drop of dark blue ink into a test tube of water, it will muck up the water and make it murky—having a great impact.”
In his work, he expounds the psychological concept of a narrow attention field—a heightened emotional state, in which one perceives negativity to be vastly more overwhelming than it really is.
“If you take the same drop of blue ink, however” he continues, “representing emotional-physical pain, and drop it into a bath full of water—a broader attention state—it hardly affects it at all.”
Cummings likens mindfulness to working flexibility exercises on the mind. Regular practice is like regularly training physical flexibility. With time, the meditator’s attention will stretch further, and their sense of awareness will deepen.
But “it’s not just narrow,” Ritvo notes. “Narrow is a relative term.
“Depression is dominantly negative.”
With his own patients, Ritvo often clarifies the value of mindfulness, “which is a completely secular method,” differently, by breaking it down into three recognized benefits: thought substitution, reframing, and attention control.
“Cognitive therapy is basically a way to re-examine one’s thinking, and look for ways to correct and substitute better thoughts for less-effective and adaptive thoughts.
“This may be achieved via the practice of reframing,” he adds.
“We all have adverse events in life every day,” Ritvo notes. Reframes occur when meditators study adverse events through their learning potential. “‘They happened for a reason,’ in other words, and there is something to learn from them.”
Ritvo believes that when people learn from their hardships in this way, their ability to handle negativity in the future will be stronger. For a person with depression, “this may begin to cultivate a sense of mastery, as opposed to a sense of helplessness—leading to the third important aspect of CBT: learning the ability to move attention.”
“Instead of feeling helpless, which sometimes happens in being obsessionally preoccupied with something, you feel like you’re actually able to use your attention as you feel it works best.”
This ability, then, further proves integral in breaking free from what Cummings refers to as negative habitual loops—the same ability Wayne similarly believes serves merit for patients with depression who are starting to make progress, but who still occasionally relapse into depressive episodes.
According to Wayne, mindfulness helps others understand that thoughts are not inherently negative, nor positive. Rather, the judgment one places on them influences how strongly they will react.
“When we learn to refrain from judging ourselves and our thoughts and to accept things the way they are, approaching our thoughts objectively, we are better able to choose a more productive response or course of action,” Wayne says.
In his teachings, Cummings sometimes further elucidates this idea of simply being present with one’s thoughts, emotions, and the de facto details of the moment, with one of its oldest and most recognizable adages, from Chinese sage Lao Tzu: “If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.”
The three York scholars emphasize this one endgame alone—deepening the intuitive feeling of presence—is a profoundly simple way to start feeling relief from accrued, painful emotions.
“When you talk about being present, those things don’t really mean anything to most people,” Cummings admits. “People don’t actually know what you’re talking about; but if you get them to do some really simple exercises, they actually start ‘getting it.’”
Ritvo, Wayne, and Cummings agree mindfulness meditation—or “mindfulness of breath”—is the simplest, most direct way of feeling immediate stillness and peace within the body and mind.
“Really, just start sitting,” Wayne says. “Be okay with sitting alone in a room with your eyes closed, and pay attention to your breath.”
Cummings often elaborates by telling his students to focus on a more specific aspect of breathing. In gently inhaling through the nose, “notice the coolness of the oxygen as you go.”
He asks them to consciously deepen the pause after inhalation. Then, in slowly exhaling through the mouth, “there are actually more receptors up on the lips, so they feel more warmth of the air.”
To further heighten this feeling of stillness, he then has students engage the big receptor areas in the body, starting from the motor cortex. “We get them to rub their fingertips lightly together, feeling those sensations; to wiggle their toes, too—just slowly breathing in cool, and breathing out warm.”
In letting those soothing sensations naturally arise, “very quickly, it will move them into the present,” Cummings says. “The person will get pretty quick relief.”
Despite the pleasant feelings such calming exercises may produce, however, Ritvo admits the CBT community still does not have the data that allows therapists and kinesiologists to ascertain how much good—and what kind of consistency of success—is accomplished when people regularly meditate at different times and durations.
“What we do know, from researching people who have meditated over 10,000 hours, is that the practice accumulates.”
In beginning, to “get it”—to start feeling those initially-subtle, placid sensations—with continued practice—learning meditators begin to gradually experience them on a deeper level.
Their level of awareness begins to broaden; they no longer feel as caught in the middle with their problems. In particular, people who tend to be more emotionally volatile or unstable begin to feel less as though they are on the receiving end of the same pain they previously felt, which is what Ritvo refers to as learned helplessness.
A shift in attention begins to take place—an expansion of consciousness. Objective self-observers no longer feel as trapped within the small dark blue ink drop of disquieting emotion. Instead, their attention shifts into the now, growing more aware of the deeper, still water that lets them simply be.
“Attentional control is basically what meditation is; you feel like you can put your attention where you want it to be” Ritvo clarifies. “As you change your brain, it develops a capacity for further change.”
He points to the 2004 10,000 hours of meditation study, Long-term meditators self-induce high-amplitude gamma synchrony during mental practice, saying, “the practice one might do between one and 1,000 hours will be different from the practice one does between 1,000 and 2,000 hours; and 3,000 and 4,000 hours, and so on.”
Ritvo shares further clinical experience from his own office, verifying that mindfulness meditation can also directly address biophysical problems. “I can’t mention any names, but I have one patient who came in with tachycardia,” he says. “An out-of-control heart rate going up to 120 or even 140 beats per minute, which is really kind of a terrifying trance.”
Under the guidance of his team, this patient was able to establish a two hour-a-day mindfulness practice. After several weeks of regular practice, the patient’s heart rate is now under control.
“It is actually getting to a rate considered especially healthy—below 72 beats per minute.”
Ritvo goes on to say such transformations via mindfulness are not that uncommon.
In a recent Harvard study, Mindfulness practice leads to increases in regional brain gray matter density, he describes the average meditation time across subjects was about 25 minutes a day—conducted for 16 weeks. At the end, the focus group experienced actual changes in brain tissue. “Not just mood and anxiety; but actual changes in the tissue of the brain.
“In less than four months, they changed, and in a healthy direction.”
In treating mental disorders such as depression, Ritvo continues that therapists can guide people from a negative state, to neutral, and eventually positive states. “Neutral feels a lot better than negative, as far as the pain of depression goes.”
Largely striving towards the positive end, the three York scholars further concur meditation offers additional positive psychology benefits for the world as a whole.
“Mindfulness, by its nature, cultivates empathy and compassion in meditators towards themselves and towards others,” says Wayne. “If everyone in the world meditated and embraced the empathy and compassion mindfulness fosters, the world would be a more compassionate place.”
“If you can bring yourself into balance, you’re more likely going to act and respond to other people in more balanced ways,” adds Cummings. “If you recognize that everything is connected, then you’re probably going to act in more responsible ways—to the environment, et cetera.”
Ritvo mentions another 2015 study, Mindful attention reduces linguistic intergroup bias. He continues: “When people do meditate, they become more socially skilled; they actually become less prejudiced, more open-minded, and less likely to pick up on negative details and blow them out of proportion when interacting with other people.”
He suggests many international conflicts are the result of such prejudice: the stereotyping of one group by another.
“If that aspect of people relating to other people could be changed in a positive way, it’s very likely that we would see less conflict of the kind that’s obviously so upsetting now in the news.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured image: Adam Corrigan Holowitz shares his thoughts on how to make it big in theatre: with drive, passion, and trusting in the journey. | Courtesy of Michael Coghlan via Flickr
“In terms of making theatre, for me the reason I do it is it connects me to the collective wisdom of humanity. When I work on a play I hear the voices of my ancestors. Theatre gives me the comfort, hope and knowledge that I need to live a balanced life in this world. Theatre is a spiritual practice for me,” says Adam Corrigan Holowitz, a third-year Theatre student at York.
Holowitz’s drive and passion contributes and connects back to the pride of York. He’s one of the talented students that makes York a creative, intuitive, and beautiful place for students.
Holowitz began his theatre career and journey at three years old, as his father was the composer for a production called “The Wind in the WIllows” at the Grand Theatre in London, Ontario. From the beginning, he has always had a knack for the profession.
“What fascinated me about theatre when I was very young was that in one room, on one stage, so many worlds could be created from one play to the next,” says Holowitz.
“As I grew up, I saw as much theatre as I possibly could. Perhaps surprisingly, I know some people who work in theatre who don’t actually see that much theatre. I have never been one of those people; I relish the experience of watching theatre. I find it is one of the main ways I learn about my craft. I think my desire to be the spectator at the theatre has led me towards dramaturgy, directing, and writing. I like being part of the creation of the work, and I like being the eye seeing the work develop.”
In the seventh grade, Holowitz was involved in a variety of independent theatre projects in the London area, where he received an early theatre education from the actors he worked with. In the ninth grade, with some support of his theatre mentors, he found a theatre company in London, AlvegoRoot Theatre, which focuses on developing plays about the local area. Ever since this, he has been working on developing plays of his own.
On top of this, York’s Theatre program has helped him enhance and improve his craft. Its resources and size has given him the platform to create innovative plays, while simultaneously giving him the knowledge necessary for handling the responsibilities that an artist, storyteller, and theatre-maker must follow.
“Not a lot of undergraduate programs offer the variety in areas that York does. From acting, production, design, playwriting, dramaturgy, or devised theatre, the options mean that there is a place for a diverse group of Theatre students with distinct skills and interests,” says Holowitz.
“For me, it has been the ideal place to train, because I have been able to train in dramaturgy and devised theatre. New play dramaturgy is my passion—I describe it as the practice of working alongside the playwright in the development of their work. I have been able to learn from exception Professors like Judith Rudakoff, who teach Playwriting and New Play Dramaturgy.”
Holowitz’s experience and education in theatre gives him the confidence to make plays that are both enjoyable and informative. He shares just how to make it in the world of theatre: “trust in the journey. Theatre is an unpredictable world, and if you have a fixed idea of where you are going to go and what you are going to do, then working in theatre will be hard and not that fun.
“If you embrace the unpredictable with a good sense of humour, if you love the work you are doing—whatever that may be—and most importantly, believe in the creation of theatre, then you are set for success.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured image: Do YOU have what it takes to be York’s next cheerleader? | Courtesy of York University Cheerleading
In this month’s competitive team spotlight, we sat down with York Cheerleading captain and English & Professional Writing major Karley Lamb to talk about the team, the process of becoming a York cheerleader, and how it has affected her university life.
What is the typical process of becoming a York cheerleader? What types of relevant dance/cheerleading backgrounds do you usually get from applicants? How did you get started?
The typical process to become a York cheerleader begins with tryouts, which begin at the beginning of the school year with fall tryouts. We also host a March “Try-It” Day and summer training for athletes who would like to [try] the sport out, and get some extra training in over the summer break. 
Many athletes who try out have dance, gymnastics, or cheerleading experience. We also have athletes who have no experience at all who do very well on the team. While experience is obviously helpful, an athlete’s overall athleticism and potential to learn is important. 
I started with York cheerleading before my first term at York began. I had sent an email in March of my grade 12 year, asking a few questions about the team and letting them know that I was interested. I had done competitive gymnastics for years before, different types of dance off and on while growing up, and I had been on my high school cheerleading team for four years. I was invited to a summer training day in July of 2015, and then I tried out in the fall and started my York cheerleading career. 
How long has the York cheerleading team been around?
I believe the team started in 1997. The previous coach, Corby Anderson, had been a big part of the program along with his wife, Stephanie Anderson, for many years. When I joined the team, I met Stephanie, but she was beginning to become more active in other parts of the cheer community. I was coached by Corby and an alumna cheerleader, Christie Peddle, who had graduated a few years before I had arrived. The team has always had a big focus on bonding as a team, and working hard to improve as a team in the cheer community and as a program at the university. Last year, Corby retired from coaching. Andrew Francis, a cheerleader and coach at Limelight Cheerleading Allstars, is the current coach. 
How has your university life improved as a result of being on the cheerleading team?
My university life would be so different if I weren’t a part of this team. It keeps me active and gives me a break and an outlet for school stress. I’ve made a lot of close friends on the team and it’s given me opportunities and connections outside of the university as well. This year, I started cheering at Limelight Cheerleading Allstars, and I’ve gotten to know more people and continue improving my own skills. 
As the captain, it also gives me something else productive to work on when I need a break from school. I love organizing team fundraisers and team bonding with everyone, as well as supporting the school community at events and sports games.
What is something we might not know about being a cheerleader?
Something many people might not know about being a cheerleader is that it’s a sport that can be hard on your body and requires a certain amount of athleticism. We are a competitive team, so we train twice a week to prepare a routine for competitions around Ontario, and many years we are able to compete in the United States as well.
What advice would you give to someone who is interested in cheerleading?
For anyone who is interested in cheerleading, I would say: be prepared to work hard, because it does take a lot of dedication and commitment, but it is one of the biggest parts of my life—I love it. It’s hard work physically and mentally, and it takes many hours to perfect different skills, but it is so much fun and it’s an experience that you will be so grateful for.
If you’re interested in joining the York Lions Cheerleading Team, you can reach them via email at: yucheerleading@gmail.com.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Hammad Motiwala | Staff Writer
Featured image: TLE is based on the principle that technology can radically transform education. | Courtesy of Pexels
A strategic research study, led by York’s Faculty of Education Professor Ron Owston, finds that inquiry-based learning (IBL) positively impacts student learning, increases student and teacher engagement, improves student autonomy, and promotes more in-depth opportunities for learning.
“Inquiry requires more than simply answering questions or getting a right answer. It espouses investigation, exploration, search, quest, research, pursuit, and study. It is enhanced by involvement with a community of learners, each learning from the other in social interaction,” noted Guided inquiry: Learning in the 21st century.
The study was commissioned by Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board as part of the Ontario Ministry of Education’s Technology and Learning Fund. The study looked at the second year of the five-year initiative of Transforming Learning Everywhere (TLE).
The study focuses on instructional practices in classrooms, accelerated by digital tools in order to improve problem-solving, critical literacy and thinking, and the knowledge and skills required for the modern era. By doing this, it aims to increase engagement in students and teachers alike.
“TLE is all about creating innovative learning environments for students that are essential for them to succeed in the 21st century,” said Owston.
IBL moves forward from practices that involve students being passive recipients of knowledge.
“Our research looked at IBL, and how the use of technologies in schools (such as iPads) can facilitate development of digital literacies, critical thinking, and lifelong learning skills for students. The findings were very encouraging, as we saw evidence of students learning new skills and changed teacher practices, despite some initial implementation issues,” said Owston.
TLE is based on the principle that technology tools, along with an effective pedagogy of transformative teaching and the rich support of technology—can radically transform education.
The paper Transforming Learning Everywhere: A Study of the Second Year of Implementation, of which Owston was a principal investigator of a research team, adds: “Pervasive research and emerging policy frameworks in and outside of Ontario indicate that TLE is not only on firm theoretical ground, but forward-looking. In our review of the literature, we found that the integration of IBL with one-to-one iPad use offers significant opportunities to increase student engagement and the development of literacies and learning,” adds Owston.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
