Hammad Motiwala | Staff Writer
Featured Image: New members of the SRP Advisory Committee were announced October 11 in introduction of the future plan. | Courtesy of the Faculty of Health
On October 11, Robert Haché, vice-president of research and innovation, opened the floor to the York community at the Strategic Research Plan (SRP) forum. The event was held in the Senate Chamber, in the Ross Building, with students, faculty, and staff all welcome to share their thoughts on the matter.
At the forum, Haché formally introduced the members of the SRP’s 2018-2023 Advisory Committee.
“I am pleased to announce the members of the SRP Advisory Committee,” he said. “I look forward to working together with Committee members to develop a new SRP that embodies our values and vision for York research and innovation, and provides direction for accelerating strategic research planning initiatives across York over the next several years.”
York Professor Celia Haig-Brown is set to fill the position of associate vice-president of the Committee. The Committee includes 17 prominent members, both within and outside of York, including Donald Ipperciel, principal of Glendon College; Jeremy Laurin, president and CEO of ventureLAB; and Theodore Noseworthy, Canada’s research chair of Entrepreneurial Innovation at the Schulich School of Business; among others.
Over the past 10 years, research at York has grown at a considerable rate; with one of the highest growth rates in the publication of research and scholarship in Canada, and a near doubling of research income earned. York has been recognized for their research endeavours by earning a top-10 ranking among Canadian research universities.
York has an institutionalized vision when it comes to research, which is focused on building a stronger understanding of the human condition, the world, and employing knowledge gained in the service of society.
Examples of accomplishments wherein York’s researchers have played a leading role include: The discovery of the Higgs boson and the exploration of Mars; changing the way we think about bullying, aggression, and violence; developing new approaches of carrying out health care; discovering new insights into the brain development of children with autism; a comprehension on how bilingualism would be able to delay Alzheimer’s disease’s onset; and countless more that can be viewed in York’s research history.
All York students are encouraged to share their thoughts on the SRP consultation process at York. Moreover, students can tweet their thoughts on the matter, using the hashtag #YUResearch.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image: Need ideas for what to do this Halloween? Nostalgic about Halloweens of years gone by? Read on. | Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
Halloween is definitely one of those holidays that grew on me more as I got older. I was never a big fan of trick-or-treating, but now that I am old enough to experience the adult side of Halloween, I’d have to say that it’s now one of my favourite holidays.
There’s nothing quite like a Halloween party. Everyone is dressed up—usually in a costume that attempts to show off their assets—the weather tends to be at the perfect temperature—not too hot, but not too cold (there’s no such thing as too cold when you have alcohol), and people seem more willing to come out of their shell—perhaps because of the extra security a costume provides.
Emilie Miranda | Executive Editor, Online
If you feel odd about trick-or-treating into your 20s or are discouraged by the fact that Halloween is on a Tuesday this year, then it’s time to turn to your T.V. or favourite streaming service for an annual lineup of spooky movies and shows.
Potentially the most anticipated Halloween show is Stranger Things’ second season, with all episodes scheduled for release on Netflix on October 27. Not only are there the usual creepy movie marathons courtesy of channels like AMC, but Netflix has gifted us access to blockbusters such as Paranormal Activity, The Grudge, and Silent Hill, not to mention past Halloween episodes of shows like Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Friends, and The Office—or you can binge the first two seasons of comedy-slasher remake Scream. So grab some friends, some food, and settle in for a night—or weekend binge—of some terror.
Rowan Campbell | Creative Director
What I enjoy most about the Halloween season is the weather and the aesthetics—in particular, the Halloween decorations that people put up all over their houses. In all honesty, I could spend forever hanging out in a Spirit Halloween store!
Munirul-Haq Raza | News Editor
My friend’s birthday just so happens to fall on Halloween, so a few friends and I tend to hang out together for it. A few of us take the opportunity to cosplay, as opposed to donning your standard Halloween-type costumes, and our parties tend to include cosplay performances. They also tend to include art, as I have recently gotten more into visual art, so I take every opportunity I can to build on my craft.
Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
To quote an astute and beloved cult classic on malicious females: “In the real world, Halloween is when kids dress up in costumes and beg for candy. In Girl World, Halloween is the one night a year when a girl can dress up like a total slut, and no other girls can say anything else about it.” Amen.
For many children, Halloween is a spooky time of outrageous costumes, dark rooms with flashing bright lights, smoke machines, and people jumping and screaming. Now, fast-forward 15 years and replace that haunted house with a club, and you’ll find that not all that much has changed for the typical college student.
So if you’re looking to bust out your most provocative outfit and tear up the dance floor, Toronto’s vibrant nightlife will have everything you’re looking for this Halloween.
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
For me, Halloween means going to Canada’s Wonderland’s Halloween Haunt with my sisters and friends—it’s the perfect combination of fear and adrenaline. There’s the thrill of not knowing when the actors are going to pop out and terrify you. It’s also fun to laugh at your loved ones when you see them scared out of their minds, since you know they’ll soon return the favour.
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
I love scary movies. As a child, I used to wake up in the middle of the night and sneak downstairs to watch them with my dad. I would be terrified, but that never deterred me from doing it. I continuously watched them, even once I had entered my teens, more so than I had Disney movies.
I also love recruiting people to watch them, as well as the suspense; the anticipation of waiting for something to jump out, or a revolutionary plot twist that may or may not have been obvious from the start. Good or bad, I adore watching them. My favourites are always changing, and while I can appreciate the classics such as The Shining, The Blair Witch Project, and Poltergeist, the one I will always recommend is The Conjuring.
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
I haven’t done this in years, but I absolutely love scaring the living daylights out of unsuspecting children who expect treats, but end up getting tricked. One time, I even got a friend of mine to tie me to a chair beside the front door on Halloween, wrapping duct tape over my mouth. I would be playing dead, until a trick-or-treater showed up to grab some candy. This is when I’d ‘wake up,’ holler at the top of my lungs, and shake in my seat. Let’s just say we did not give out as much candy as we had originally planned that night.
Anna Voskuil | Copy Editor
There’s one story that haunted me in childhood, which still continues to do so today: a boy asks his lover why she won’t take off the ribbon around her neck. She repeats, year after year: “One day, you will see why”—and once they grew old and grey, she finally removes the ribbon—only for her head to fall clean off.
Being a writer, naturally I love telling and listening to bone-chilling stories—whether it be reading through Creepypastas, or when my young cousin eagerly listens to my retellings of favourite urban legends, such as Japan’s infamous “Kuchisake Onna” (or “Slit-Mouth Woman,” in English) tale. There’s something truly relishing about these stories—how they fix themselves into the deepest, darkest corners of your mind, keeping you wide awake, just so you’re sure you didn’t see a tall, dark figure looming over your bed. Who knows—perhaps you just weren’t looking hard enough.
Basma Elbahnasawy | Multimedia Editor
When I think of Halloween, I think about candy. Halloween is the only time during the year where it is acceptable for strangers to offer free candy to children. Considering I’m now 21, going trick-or-treating would be slightly questionable. However, when I was a child, October 31 was one of the most exciting nights of my life. Let’s be honest—what other time during the year do you get to dress up as someone other than yourself and ask strangers for free candy? Despite the fact there are there are countless amusing events for adults during Halloween, in all honesty, nothing beats the feeling of dressing up and going on a quest for candy on Halloween night.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: This Halloween, don’t be tricked by sugar-heavy treats. | Victoria Fung
We all have our favourite Halloween candy—that one treat we trade our friends and younger siblings for, the one we ration and save for perhaps longer than we should.
It’s common knowledge that most of these candies are saturated with sugar, which can take a toll on one’s physical and dental health—however, if you do wish to indulge, there are a few health-wise choices you can make.
Milk Chocolate M&M’s contain four grams of fat and 11.5 grams of sugar, whereas peanut M&M’s, on the other hand, contain 4.7 grams of fat and 9.1 grams of sugar. Kit Kats may contain less fat—three grams—but they also contain seven grams of sugar.
When it comes to chocolate, dark is a better choice than milk. Dark chocolate contains antioxidants that strengthen your heart and cognitive function.
When it comes to candy bars, Snickers is the way to go, as opposed to Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups. Reese’s contains more protein, but also 6.5 grams of fat and 10.5 grams of sugar, whereas Snickers weighs in at four grams of fat and 8.5 grams of sugar.
Another well-loved treat, Starburst, contains 20 calories and 2.75 grams of sugar per piece. The hassle of unwrapping each individual candy will also prolong and delay consumption. Skittles consist of high levels of sugar—16 grams—as well as corn syrup and food dye, while Sour Patch Kids candies are each coated with citric and tartaric acids, and loaded with 13 grams of sugar—that’s more than one Krispy Kreme Glazed doughnut.
Sugar candies tend to be lower in calories than candy bars, though sticky and chewy candies are worse for the teeth.
For people with food allergies, the holiday can prove a bit more challenging. Many types of candy given out are either filled with nuts, or made unattractive with “may contain traces of” on their labels. Most packaging now aims to be safe and, as allergies are increasingly more common and growing in severity, individuals tend to be more conscious of their customers.
For vegans with a sweet tooth, treats such as Twizzlers, Rockets, Airheads, Sour Patch Kids, and Skittles—to name a few of the most popular—are all vegan-friendly.
In terms of shelf life, chocolate tends to last for a year, or sometimes longer—however, the texture of the chocolate will change, making it dry and difficult to chew. White spots may also begin to appear. This is the fat or sugar that has risen to the surface—a term known as “fat blooming,” which is caused by fluctuations in temperature and humidity. To avoid this whitening, it is best to preserve candy in a cool, dry place.
Treats with nuts or peanut butter will have a shorter expiration date, whereas those such as Starburst are able to last longer due to their consistency,. The general rule of thumb is that a year should be the limit for preservation.
At times, there’s no way of avoiding a sweet tooth. While there may not be any real healthy choice when it comes to Halloween candy, moderation and consciousness are key—just because a candy is small, doesn’t mean it’s calorie- or fat-free. Be sure to choose wisely!
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexei Muravsky | Contributor
Featured image: No betta fish were harmed in the making of this collection. | Courtesy of AMPD
Siamese fighting fish, or Betta splendens, commonly known as betta fish, are a highly territorial and aggressive species that live primarily in Southeast Asia.
Fourth-year Visual Arts student Renée Moulelis’ A Collection of Betta Fish exhibit has brought this species’ exciting energy into the fold of The Gales Gallery, located in the Accolade West building at York.
Her inspiration occurred serendipitously, but was acted on with industriousness. It all began when Moulelis came across a few high-resolution images of betta fish. Feeding off of the visual stimulation they evoked, the collection has grown to a series of 30-plus paintings since 2015.
“I was initially drawn to the imagery of betta fish because of the amount of detail I envisioned I’d be able to capture when painting them,” Moulelis explains.
“In the process of creating the large-scale paintings, I noticed that the normally small bettas’ forms and colours started to take on very abstract shapes and spaces.”
Moulelis’ ability to take a magnifying glass to an impossible event in nature—that of a frozen betta fish stuck in time and space—gives viewers a unique opportunity to truly observe and understand its structure.
Several of the fish were aggressively flared, reminding the viewer of their nature, and creating a perplexing juxtaposition between those that seemed to have a calmer demeanour.
However, looks can be deceiving, especially when such beautiful and fluid movements are draped behind the elaborate patterns found in their fins and scales.
The initial intention focused only on creating five large-scale oil paintings, but since then 33 more pieces have joined her body of work, adding a wide variety to the already-dynamic original paintings.
Variety grew from different concepts and with it the materials used to set these concepts up in the public eye. While the entirety of the collection is done in layers of oil paint, these layers are painted over diverse sets of backgrounds, including canvas, plexi-glass, glass, mirrors, and light bulbs.
Live betta fish were also exhibited among the paintings, enabling the viewer to compare the natural with the unnatural, providing a perspective between the living reference and its artistic representation.
Moulelis mentioned that her education at York helped her realize the career options she has as an artist. Her intention after university is to work as a matte painter and texture design artist in movies, and video game development.
She has found classes within her program that point her toward the specific career choice she wishes to pursue.
Her biggest artisitic influence was her high school art teacher—who not only taught her the various technical skills needed to become a professional, but also the mindset necessary to thrive in the industry.
Moulelis encourages other artists to be aggressive when it comes to the production of their art—as well as in critiquing their personal work—in order to be confident that they are producing the best version of their ideas to the public.
The gallery was well-received, due to its hyper-realistic style which tricked viewers into thinking the paintings could be photographs.
Moulelis’ skill is on display with every vibrant swish of a tail, dive, and interaction the fish have.
To muster such a high level of precision and accuracy for such a large volume of work is indeed a feat in and of itself.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Staff Writer
Featured image: Jane and Finch native receives award after accomplishing leadership in several youth programs. | Courtesy of Toronto Sun
Two weeks ago, Toronto Argonauts offensive lineman and York alumnus Jamal Campbell was the recipient of the Toronto Urban Hero Award in the Sports Category. Having been volunteering in his community on a consistent basis as a member of the Argos over the past year, he received an award that is dedicated to individuals who strive to celebrate community heroes for their inspiring work, leadership, and good deeds towards the city.
Those considered in the Sports Category are chosen for their tireless support of local athletes or sports groups, and who dedicate themselves to enhancing the lives of others through the joys of sport and active living.
From there, nominees are then judged on their lasting impact, their purpose as role models or inspiration for others, and the challenges they’ve overcome to influence their neighbourhood.
“It’s an honour to be recognized for my contributions to the neighbourhood that I love and call home,” said Campbell on the award. “I’m proud to say I’m from Jane and Finch, and I hope that my voice and the platform I’ve been given as a member of the Toronto Argonauts can continue to have a positive impact on younger generations.”
Campbell’s first opportunity to play football came at the age of 15, when he became one of the first participants in the Argos Level the Playing Field program at his old high school, C.W. Jefferys. As a native resident of Toronto and the Jane and Finch area, he has always had a strong connection to his roots.
Before he stepped on the gridiron, however, Campbell had a love for another sport in high school.
“Basketball was my first love,” he wrote in his Canadian Football League (CFL) feature article, “Crossroads.”
“Without the Argos’ Level the Playing Field program, I would have never found my way to the gridiron.
“The Argos were very supportive during those early stages of our program. They followed that assembly up with equipment for our team, tickets to see them play, and one-on-one coaching from their players.
“What I liked about football was that I could go out and hit someone without getting into trouble. For many of us, it was a chance to compete in a new environment and in a different way than basketball.”
After a successful high school run, bringing the attention of several university scouts across the province, Campbell was given the opportunity to represent his own neighbourhood on the gridiron, when York gave him a call presenting their interest.
“The fortuity at York was a unique one. They were in the process of recruiting a large class with the goal of rebuilding the program, and it presented me the chance to stay home,” Campbell said. “I was tired of hearing all the negative talk about Jane and Finch, and I saw this as my chance to make a change.”
It was in 2016 that Jamal was given the opportunity of a lifetime—a selection into the third round, 22nd overall—of the 2016 CFL draft by the Argonauts. He has played 20 games for the team since being drafted, including 12 in the current season.
Despite the rigorous schedule of being a professional football player, Campbell has remained involved in his community in a number of ways, such as a participation with after school programs, Boys and Girls clubs, and one-on-one mentorship with younger students. Programs he has worked on include flag football, Safe Contact Clinics, and Huddle Up. It is in these environments, such as the 10th anniversary of the Huddle Up program, where his inspirational story of uphill battle and commitment is shared with students in an attempt to raise awareness for bullying prevention.
“Jamal is an outstanding young man, and it comes as no surprise that he received this recognition,” stated Argonauts General Manager Jim Popp. “We’re proud to see our players make a difference in the communities in which they live and play.”
Despite growing up in a neighbourhood infamously known for its violence and crime, Campbell conquered those setbacks with the help of football, and is now giving back to his childhood community by guiding local children in how they can defy the odds as well.
“I grew up here and never left,” added Campbell. “This community has taught me lessons that I couldn’t have learned anywhere else, and I wouldn’t trade my experience for anything.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured Image: Striker Joey Cicchillo finished the game with a goal and an assist. | Courtesy of York Lions
The Algoma Thunderbirds stepped into the Lion’s Den Saturday afternoon hoping to survive against two York teams that have been playing their best soccer of the season.
The men’s team was looking to distance themselves from the rest of the OUA West division.
The result in the men’s match was a dominant 6-0 victory by the Lions, highlighted by a hat trick from York forward Milan Beader, who scored his first goal in the first five minutes of the match off of an assist by Steve Kloutsouniotis.
Thirteen minutes later, midfielder Christian Cavallini gave York some insurance in the form of his 12th goal of the season, which is the third-most in the OUA.
Rather than sit back and coast, York kept their foot on the gas, as Beader added two more in the half to complete the hat trick. His second goal came in the 22nd minute via an assist once again from Kloutsouniotis, and he netted his third in the 42nd minute, which was assisted by Joey Cicchillo.
The Lions completely dominated Algoma for the entire half, as they outshot the Thunderbirds 14-0.
Much like the first half, the Lions controlled the pace in the second half, dominating possession throughout the final 45 minutes.
In the 69th minute, York extended their lead when striker Cicchillo netted his second of the season off a pass from Adam Parda in the front third.
Parda was rewarded for his generous play in the 83rd minute, when he found the back of the net himself, via an assist from Sergiu Anton, for his first goal of the season.
Goalkeeper Quillan Roberts was relatively untested for the entire match, as he only had to make a single save en route to his third clean sheet of the season.
The 6-0 victory is York’s largest victory of the season, and increased their hold on first place in the division.
The women also dominated their matchup Saturday afternoon, defeating a floundering Algoma team that has now dropped 13-straight games.
The scoring started in the 16th minute, when York midfielder Christina Morelli netted her third goal of the season off of an assist from Stephanie Lamanna.
York controlled the ball for most of the first half, outshooting Algoma 14-0.
The women put on even more pressure in the second half, scoring in the 55th minute via midfielder Ashley Nater, her fourth of the season.
Kendra Saxton tacked on one more in the 66th minute of play, giving the Lions a 3-0 lead, which would become the final score.
Goalkeeper Tamara Orlando recorded her second clean sheet of the season, saving three shots in the victory.
York outshot the Thunderbirds 34-3 in the match, a season best for a Lions team that has now won their last three games.
Next week the Lions finish their regular seasons against the Windsor Lancers at Alumni Field. Kick-off is at 1:00 p.m. for the women, and 3:15 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
