Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
Featured Image: Many players around the league took a knee during the national anthem this past Sunday in defiance of comments by President Donald Trump. | Courtesy of Sgt. Wolfram M. Stumpf
This past week, several players across the NFL decided to take a knee during the national anthem, a protest that began in August 2016 by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, Colin Kaepernick.
During a 49ers preseason game on August 14, Kaepernick elected to sit on the team’s bench during the American national anthem—though it wasn’t reported by the media until two weeks later.
Kaepernick explained that his decision to sit during the anthem was a demonstration intended to shine a light on the injustices black people and people of colour face in America.
“I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of colour,” he said. “To me, this is bigger than football, and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street, and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.”
The week following Kaepernick’s protest garnered high media attention, and he was joined by teammate Eric Reid. The two men knelt on the sidelines during the anthem, as opposed to sitting. Kaepernick explained that he decided to take a knee as a way to participate in the anthem and show respect while still making a statement and expressing his opinion.
Since then, many players have joined Kaepernick’s cause and elected to sit or kneel during the national anthem.
Kaepernick’s decision rubbed many fans the wrong way, and he was often met with boos and jeers when he would take the field. However, it wasn’t only the fans who didn’t appreciate Kaepernick’s actions—he is currently a free agent, despite the fact some teams clearly lack an NFL-level quarterback.
Kaepernick has a career winning percentage of 0.483, a career completion percentage of 59.8, and a career quarterback rating of 88.9. To put things into perspective, Josh McCown—0.301, 59.5, and 78.7; Blake Bortles—0.271, 58.8, and 80.2; Brian Hoyer—0.470, 59.8, and 84; and Mike Glennon—0.286, 60.5, and 83.9—all have lower career-winning percentages and ratings, with only Glennon having a higher completion percentage. Yet they all find themselves with not only a job, but a starting job in the league.
Although many players have taken up Kaepernick’s protest since last August, the majority of players still stood for and participated in the anthem—that is, until President Donald Trump decided to weigh in on the subject.
Trump, speaking at a rally in Alabama on September 22, said: “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out. He’s fired!” referring to players who took a knee during the anthem (this is coming from the man who chastised Barack Obama via Twitter for getting involved in the debate over Washington’s team name, rather than focusing on bigger issues).
In response, many team owners and league executives spoke out in defense of the players and condemned Trump’s comments.
“Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness,” said Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross.
“We must seek to understand each other and have civil discourse, instead of condemnation and sound bites. I know our players who knelt for the anthem, and these are smart, young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone.
“They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together. We can all benefit from learning, listening, and respecting each other. Sports are a common denominator in our world. We all have the responsibility to use this platform to promote understanding, respect, and equality,” he continued.
“The callous and offensive comments made by the President are contradictory to what this great country stands for. Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens, in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice,” added 49ers CEO Jed York.
“We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world. The San Francisco 49ers will continue to work toward bringing communities, and those who serve them, closer together.”
Green Bay Packers CEO Mark Murphy also weighed in, saying: “It’s unfortunate that the President decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL. We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences.
“They have achieved their positions through tremendous work and dedication, and should be celebrated for their success and positive impact. We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good. As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely.”
On the Sunday following Trump’s comments, almost every team playing made some sort of statement in defiance of them. Some players took a knee, some linked arms, others sat on the bench, and some refused to take part in the anthem at all.
Many of the team’s owners were also on the sidelines, arm-in-arm with their players in a display of support and solidarity.
“I think Trump approached the situation in an unprofessional way, which lead to an appropriate response by the players, who all felt personally attacked by his language. I, for one, disagree with kneeling and not being out there, because, regardless of what the President says, you should still respect your country.
“But I understand their reasoning in response to his words,” says Matthew Fernandez, a fourth-year Biomedical Sciences student.
“I believe the players are justified, and I applaud Colin Kaepernick for exercising his constitutional right,” says Justin Hagley, third-year Political Science student.
“I don’t think it’s taken away from the actual on-field product of the NFL, but I think the current climate of the league, following those protests has given athletes probably the greatest opportunity in sports history to make a political statement, especially after this Sunday’s huge number of protests,” he adds.
Hagley feels Trump was only trying to get a response from the crowd and didn’t foresee the response it would garner from the players, or the effect it would have on the league.
“I think these anthem protests are only going to get bigger in sports, moreso since NFL owners are now participating. Bruce Maxwell, catcher for the Oakland Athletics, was the first MLB player to protest this past weekend as well—so athletes are no longer going to ‘just stick to sports.’”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Cedric Cruz | Contributor
Featured Image: York BioBlitz focuses on bringing together community members and experts in the field to identify species living at the Keele campus. | Basma Elbahnasawy
On September 22, students and researchers came together at York’s Keele campus for BioBlitz, a global initiative that fosters community engagement with experts to discover and learn more about the various wildlife that co-exists alongside us.
The objective of this event was to record and identify wild animal and plant diversity on campus using the iNaturalist app. The information gathered was then used to update databases. The sessions were facilitated by expert researchers in the field of biology, ranging from graduate students to faculty members, intent on giving them a genuine taste of field research.
There were 258 observations made and 126 species were identified, ranging from a multitude of mammals, fish, arachnids, mollusks, insects, plants, and birds.
“I had such a wonderful time volunteering for BioBlitz’s bird group. My favourite part, hands-down, was holding a Red-breasted Nuthatch in my hand—one of the most breathtaking experiences ever. My teacher’s assistant suggested I volunteer for BioBlitz after taking an entomology course over the summer, and I’m so glad that I did,” says Adam Retsinas, a fourth-year Biochemistry student.
“The turnout was fantastic—BioBlitz was incredibly engaging for the students, and I could tell a lot of them had fun! For running their first year, York BioBlitz did an amazing job! I want to congratulate everyone for their work,” he adds.
“The purpose of BioBlitz is to engage all York community members and give them the chance to get outdoors, learn something new, and connect with nature,” said Amanda Liczner, a PhD student in the Department of Biology, in the Faculty of Science.
She continued, “some people may be surprised to find that urban environments, such as the York campus, are home to many species of plants and animals.”
The York BioBlitz website is currently asking participants to send them any pictures they would like to share.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Hammad Motiwala | Staff Writer
Featured Image: York’s Career Fair was a chance for students and job recruiters to connect. | Hammad Motiwala
On September 21, York held its annual Fall Career Fair at the Victor Dahdaleh Building, garnering the attention of passionate, eager students and career recruiters alike.
Job seekers of all kinds—part-time, summer, internship, or full-time—approached the occasion suited-up, prepared, and carrying themselves beyond their own expectations.
“It has been a wonderful investment of our time. We’ve seen plenty of amazing students, many of whom came in wearing suits, appearing quite serious about the next step in their careers, whether they’re seeking an internship or a full-time position,” says PFAFF Automotive recruiter Patty Ruggia.
“I would say that I would come across about four or five rock stars today—this doesn’t mean that they will all be hired tomorrow, it all depends on what they’re looking for. For instance, if somebody is interested in getting into sales, I would recommend that they take this route, and they may come back to me in a year,” Ruggia adds.
All students had a chance to explore and enlighten themselves on a variety of industries, organizations, job criterion, and internship programs, giving them an opportunity to connect with employers and representatives face-to-face.
The Career Fair gave students the opportunity to demonstrate and hone their interpersonal, communication, and professional etiquette skills.
“It’s really helpful. You get to know a lot and you know what to work towards more than anything.
“Prior to this, I didn’t know that if I needed an internship, I had to take certain courses. I checked out the opportunities here, and they had criterion and internship programs that I didn’t even know about,” says Mihika Choudhary, a second-year Business Management student.
“It’s great seeing a lot of young people come out, dressed well and well-prepared, and it’s amazing to see many of them viewing it as an interview, as it is truly like a first-step towards one. So overall, it’s an excellent experience,” says Jakob Cormier of Automotive Resources International.
York’s Fair also gave recruiters a convenient way of meeting with students. Employers were able to promote their organization, increase awareness of their brands, and provide information regarding available opportunities within their company.
“It’s been marvelous—everybody has been so amiable. At York, the email is quite self-explanatory—you know where to go, who to talk to, and your table’s always reserved. It’s very well-organized,” says Nigel Philip of Bell Technical Solutions.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alicia Del Re | Contributor
Featured Image: The perception of clowns has changed drastically over the years. | Courtesy of CinemaBlend
On September 8, the latest movie adaptation of Stephen King’s novel IT was released in theatres, and made $123.1 million on its opening weekend at the box-office, which broke countless records.
IT is not your typical horror movie—here, we find a mixture of vivid art with pure disaster, and fantasy with nightmare. King is a well-praised master of the horror genre, and director Andrés Muschietti shows astounding expertise at turning IT into a film that shows us King’s beautifully twisted imagination.
The film follows seven children and their misadventures with a terrorizing eponymous being—known as Pennywise. As it progresses, the group faces their personal demons and fears that Pennywise creates. Although it is a horror film, IT still streamlines the themes of coming-of-age, mortality, and death. The audience witnesses how the children lose their innocence once they encounter the clown, becoming more mature in the process.
The box-office hit is not only popular due to King’s extravagant storytelling skills, but also because of the “clown culture” that has been on the rise since last year. This is a trend where people wear clown costumes and scare people in the middle of the night with weapons. News outlets and social media followed this trend that became a global phenomenon.
Now, with the release of the film, people are dressing up as the sinister villain, Pennywise, and attending screenings.
The perception of clowns has changed drastically over the years, upsetting the perception originally intended for clowns—a symbol of joy and innocence, not fear. Parents would often rent party clowns for their children’s birthday parties, as it was entertaining to see a person with a colorful wig, white-painted face, red lips, and a big red nose blowing up balloons and turning them into animal shapes.
Nowadays, clowns are viewed as ugly, weird, and creepy, because of certain stories and movies that show them in such a light. Thanks to this, several young children are now petrified of clowns.
Movies like IT are “bad publicity for clowns across the board. It kills business, it really does,” said Alan Sloggett, who has been performing as a clown for 30 years with his characters Hot Stuff the Clown and Dotto the Clown.
Medina Torlak, a third-year Criminology student at York, says: “IT was terrifying, yet also unexpectedly funny. The clown should be feared, yet there’s a humorous touch to him as well, most so when he utters ‘these gazebos are bullshit,’ playing as a comic relief—but clowns are still jarringly scary for me.
“Even before I watched IT, I have always been terrified of them. There’s something eerie about the general nature of clowns, especially when you see old pictures of what they used to look like—they resemble something out of a nightmare.”
IT is a movie that will keep your eyes glued to the screen from start to finish. You’ll be sitting at the edge of your seat, jittering as you hold on to see what will happen next.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
