Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured image: The men hope to end their losing streak this weekend in Kingston. | Courtesy of York Lions
It was a tough week on the court for York this weekend, as the men’s and women’s basketball teams failed to obtain a victory in both their matchups against the Western Mustangs and Windsor Lancers at home.
Looking to build off last week’s success against the Laurier Golden Hawks and the Waterloo Warriors, the Lions women’s basketball team played host to a 4-3 Western squad that they had defeated last season by a score to 48-41.
The first half of the game was a battle of the guards, as Lion Chante Clarke and Mustang Mackenzie Puklicz scored 10 and 11 points respectively, with Puklicz draining three of four triples to start the game.
After a first quarter that saw the Lions lead by a score of 15-14, the Lions began to take a clear lead due to a strong rebounding effort on the offensive glass, as they tallied eight second-chance opportunities compared to Western’s zero. This allowed the Lions to increase their lead.
Despite having shot 37 per cent from the field—five per cent less than Western—York took a 34-25 lead into the break.
The third quarter saw an explosion of offense on both ends, as both teams managed to score over 20 points in the frame.
Holding a 56-46 lead going into the fourth quarter, the wheels fell off for the Lions on both ends of the floor. York allowed the Mustangs to score a staggering 27 points in the frame, while only being able to muster 11 points themselves. In a half that saw the Mustangs shoot 58 per cent from the field, York only hit on 25 per cent of their shots. While Western had three players score 10+ points in the half, only one Lion, Lindsay Shotbolt, was able to score in the double-digits, as she recorded 15 points in the half.
The result was a 73-67 victory for the Mustangs, who were led by the performance of Puklicz, who fell just short of a double-double with 29 points and eight steals in the win. Shotbolt and Clarke scored 19 and 16 points respectively in the loss.
After a 70-63 loss to Western on Friday, the men looked to snap their five-game losing streak on Saturday against a 2-5 Lancers team that had defeated the Lions last year by a score of 83-78.
The Lions got off to a hot start in the game, outscoring the Lancers 20-12 in the first quarter. Leading the way was Lion Gene Spagnuolo, who netted 14 points on 5 of 6 shooting in the first half.
Despite stumbling on the offensive end in the second quarter, the Lions managed to go into the half with a four-point lead thanks in part to their defense, which limited the Lancers to just 26 per cent shooting in the half.
The Lions continued this effective defensive play in the second half, but failed to create many scoring opportunities down the stretch, as they only managed seven field goals on 37 attempts in the half.
The one bright spot for the Lions was guard Prince Kamunga, who scored 18 of York’s 25 points in the half.
Despite poor performances on the offensive end for both teams, the difference in Saturday night’s game came down ball handling, as the Lancers outscored the Lions in points off turnovers 23-9.
The result was a 65-61 victory for the Lancers, who handed York their sixth-straight loss on the campaign.
Both teams look to end their semester on a high note before the break, as they take on the Queen’s Gaels in Kingston on Wednesday. Tip-off is at 11 a.m. for the women and 1 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Munirul-Haq Raza | News Editor
Featured image: Is it a scam? | Basma Elbahnasawy
Rakshitha Dheenadhayalan, a fourth-year Economics Major and international student, recently claimed to have been the victim of fraud involving a fake immigration official.
On November 23, 2017, Dheenadhayalan says she received a phone call from an individual who claimed his name was Jim Rosen, who claimed to be from the Immigration department.
“York is deeply concerned for our student community following the recent spate of fraud targeting international students in Toronto, and we are monitoring the situation,” says Diana Ning, associate director at York International.
“We would like to remind our students that a government agency would never contact international students by telephone to demand immediate payment.”
Rosen then claimed to have an arrest warrant for Dheenadhayalan, and informed that she should cooperate and not involve anyone else, or else she would face arrest and deportation.
She then spoke to another man allegedly named David Anderson, who claimed to be the manager. He told her to expect a call from the police. A few minutes later, she got a call from someone claiming to be from the police department, who she alleges told her to pay $3,000 for a lawyer.
Doing as she was told by Anderson, Dheenadhayalan then made a series of wire transfers via Western Union and iTunes gift cards. She was told to make more payments to the Ontario Court of Justice via iTunes, and to wait at home for the local authorities to sign the relevant paperwork to close the case.
However, when she returned to her home, Dheenadhayalan received another call from Anderson, telling her because it was the evening, she would have to wait until the next day for the authorities.
The following day, Dheenadhayalan alleges she was told that her case was approved, but in order for the Supreme Court to release documentation, she was told she must pay the remaining $2,000—$1,200 through Western Union and $800 via iTunes. As the hours passed, nobody arrived to her home with the paperwork. She tried to call Anderson, but the call did not go through.
Fearing that something was wrong, Dheenadhayalan googled the Immigration website and realized there were numerous warnings about scams. Following her shock, Dheenadhayalan filed a report with 31 Division (at 41 Norfinch Drive) the following day.
“I provided the police with all the details; which included the receipts, showing all the payments that were made. The police mentioned that the chances of getting the money back are very low; however, they will try their best to track the individual,” adds Dheenadhayalan.
Maijura Ra, also a fourth-year Economics student, says: “Hundreds of people continue to be affected by various fraud cases. It is unfortunate that it is the most vulnerable whom are targeted (seniors, students, international students, et cetera).”
“We would like to urge international students to stay connected to the campus community, by visiting the York International Student Office, meeting student leaders and counsellors, and learning about services available to students, both on- and off-campus,” Ning says.
“Students are also asked to be cautious about protecting their personal information and not make hasty decisions but instead, reach out to university support staff for advice.”
Rares Pateanu, an Information Technology (IT) professor at York, says: “As someone who has spent over 35 years in progressively more senior roles in IT, I am deeply aware of the enormous change IT has brought into our lives. Unfortunately, as my student Rakshitha Dheenadhayalan has recently experienced, not all those changes are positive.”
“In my courses, I often emphasize how important it is for all of us to be aware of the potential pitfalls of technology, and to be ever so vigilant in defending ourselves against the many fraudulent activities perpetrated on people by unscrupulous use of technology,” he adds.
“I think it is a very important topic that still does not have sufficient exposure, particularly in the student population. Students often think they are too savvy regarding technology matters to be taken in by fraudsters.”
Ra says: “Many stories do not become publicized due to privacy concerns. However, I believe it should be mandatory to share such stories in order to bring out awareness.
“This could have happened to anyone.”
With files from Rakshitha Dheenadhayalan
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Adeela Asghar | Contributor
Featured image: Here are some tips from your fellow undergrads on how to keep yourself motivated and hit the gym. | Courtesy of Pexels
We all know how crucial it is to get a daily dose of exercise—whether or not we’re willing to make time for it is a different story. Health Canada recommends 150 minutes of moderate- to vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity per week for adults aged 18-64. Despite exercise being so important for our health, there’s always an excuse we make for ourselves for not doing it.
Many individuals often provide the reason for not exercising as lack of motivation and enjoyment. Let’s face it—an elevated motivation is a key determinant in whether you will exercise or not. Having a high drive and sense of pleasure can help you exercise consistently, get you in shape, and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
If a lack of motivation and enjoyment are what’s keeping you from staying healthy, here are a few tips of encouragement to stay active, as told by your fellow Yorkies:
“I believe by setting and tracking your goals constantly, it will help you stay motivated constantly. Your goals do not have to be achieving certain body percentage, as many factors such as genetics, environment, and culture can affect our ability to gain or lose body weight,” says Karam Ali, a second-year Biology student.
These goals can range from going jogging for 50 to 60 minutes daily, to performing intense workouts for up to 20 minutes, or cutting down your six-mile running time by a few minutes. If you work out to attain these goals on a regular basis, you are less likely to stop when you know you can easily achieve your goals.
Extrinsic motivation pulls more weight in your workout regime than you might think. Looking up to others plays an important role in keeping you motivated, so if you’re struggling to find inspiration, your answer may lie in online motivational quotes.
“I would suggest using inspirational quotes to help you get motivated, because if you see someone successful, it will motivate you to be the same,” says Shahrukh Afza, a fourth-year Social Work student.
Post them around your house to remind you of your goals, and that if a certain person can attain their goal, then so can you.
“I suggest finding buddies to go to the gym with. I often go with my friends from university, which helps me stay motivated and exercise regularly, especially when I don’t feel like it,” says Zainab Kham, a second-year Biomedical student.
This will help you enjoy your exercise and work out harder, as you will have someone with similar goals to you.
“Going to the gym with someone is always fun and can be used as motivation to help you stay active,” he adds.
The particular person does not have to be your friends or family—it could be anyone you know, including someone from your neighborhood, co-workers, or people you stay regularly in touch with online, which will help you push your limit everyday and encourage you to stay on track and pursue a healthy lifestyle.
Take time out to go to the gym.
“After some time, it become a habit and you just don’t feel right if you miss out on gym days. That also helps to bring me back to the gym if I have to stop during midterms, or other times when I am really busy,” says Ahsan Al Lawati, a fourth-year Kinesiology and Health student.
“I want to build my body and stay healthy. I’ve also noticed that I feel a lot better and am better focused on my studies when I work out, so I make it a point to take time out and go to the gym.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: The event benefitted filmmakers, photographers, models, and further new talent alike. | Courtesy of Antonio Garcia Photography
Friday November 17 marked the opening of the third annual Open World Toronto Film Festival (OWTFF)—held in the Alliance Francaise Spadina Theatre, just north of the Maddy—lacing together a celebration of aspiring Toronto film talent, musical performance, multimedia coverage, and international filmmakers sharing their lessons from the industry, for the industry.
“Students are young. They are fresh,” says Sabine Mondestin, OWTFF president and founder. 
“What I love is to be able to give them that platform to be able to experience the festival feel, to be able to know what it is like to showcase their film and to have that experience. We have granted free access to all university and college students.”
Upon entry, festival-goers could not help but notice the red carpet laid out before them with an OWTFF backdrop ringed by a wave of fluttering flashes as photographers and videographers captured the night’s invited talent. Downstairs in the basement, a professional makeup studio was assembled to have everyone feeling celebrious.
“I attend so many other events in Los Angeles,” Mondestin explains. “What I really like there is that feeling of ‘Oh my God, I’m a star!’ so I really want to give students that same treatment. [The filmmaker’s] film is there, and they get the star treatment: the paparazzi-style pictures—this is something that people like.”
Mondestin says she uses this unique framework to also recognize new photographers. “[Student photographers] don’t all have careers, but they are talented. They send us their portfolios and say: ‘I really want to take pictures in front of the red carpet.’”
Over the course of three days, the festival featured 17 films and provided a space for directors, producers, actors, models, film reviewers, and multimedia professionals to all network and share their processes. Screened movies were selected from submissions to FilmFreeway and the official OWTFF website.
“We’ve been travelling around and, you know, Canada is a bit behind on this compared to Los Angeles,” says OWTFF Director Steve Lareau. 
“Over there they really know how to market their movies, but here—not so good. We are inspired quite a bit by Los Angeles in this business model.”
The 2017 film selection featured short student films, documentaries, animated shorts, music videos and experimental films from Toronto, New York, Japan, and Turkey. Films included The Kidnapping of a Fish, Poison in the Water, The Oasis Affair,  Nights of Contrition, Princess Eun Hwa, The Box, Voice of Grace, Frapuccino, Approaching, Finding Hope, and Echo Park Blues.
“There have been lots of movies we’ve seen over the years that have been excellent, but we think that even more people should see them—to bring some light to those talents,” adds Lareau. “Every year, as soon as we’re done with a festival, we start to find new talent for next year, and we really try to find those little diamonds.”
The festival further featured a conference, moderated by Alina Christensen, on financing and filming in—and co-producing with—China alongside James Nan Guan, a Chinese producer who has worked on films such as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Drago, among others. 
Christensen, a York Theatre alumna, says she was particularly impressed with Nan’s eagerness to share his knowledge. “It was clear to me that despite all the experience he has, he was still very humble and passionate about cinema, wanting to connect with likeminded artists here in Canada.”
Nan forecasted that the Chinese film industry will soon surpass Hollywood’s.
“The Chinese population is much greater [than America’s],” Nan noted on stage, speaking with her. “Toronto’s is three million; Beijing’s, 23 million. If even 10 per cent of China sees a movie, that’s already more than all of Toronto.”
“He answered every question with confidence and in plenty of detail, and he even threw in some humour too,” Christensen adds. “His charisma kept the audience attentive and focused.”
OWTFF further invited critics and reviewers to offer feedback to the featured talent.
“Film festivals offer a great opportunity for young filmmakers to network and meet industry professionals,” says Maziyar Khatam, a Toronto filmmaker who had his own movies screened. “It’s a good chance to have your film screened in front of an audience and to receive feedback on your work. 
“The technical aspects of [OWTFF’s] films—the cinematography, editing and music—were astounding. My favourite film from the festival was Bakemono, a 48-minute Japanese experimental film.”
This is the festival’s third year running. “We try to add one day every year,” Lareau mentions. “The first year we did one; the next year, two; and this year, we did three.”
“It’s easy to remain in your university bubble, especially at a school like York which is located away from the downtown core and where everything you need is on campus,” Christensen notes. “It’s a really good idea to get out there and begin creating a network outside of your own school, which allows you to meet industry professionals as well as other students.”
After all, this is what Mondestin aimed to create.
“The main thing we want to accomplish is to showcase talented filmmakers who have the talent, but don’t have the name,” she says. “It’s hard to get into festivals if you don’t have a name. 
“And I’m all about glamour.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Akashdeep Singh | Contributor
Featured image: Logic’s track “1-800-273-8255” raises much-needed awareness on suicide. | Courtesy of Pitchfork.com
With the release of his latest album Everybody this past May, 27-year-old rapper Logic (born Sir Robert Bryson Hall II) touched upon a variety of issues such as politics, social media, race, and most importantly, suicide. His song “1-800-273-8255,” the title itself being the phone number for America’s National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (NSPL), portrays a conversation between an individual who has called the lifeline and the operator on the other end, who tries to convince the former why they shouldn’t take their own life.
Such sensitive topics such as suicide must be approached carefully, and it’s rare to hear mainstream songs grappling with the issue. However, Logic has attempted to promote awareness and create discussion regarding the struggle between life and death due to feelings of isolation. 
Inspired by conversations that he’s had with fans who have told him that his music has saved their lives, the rapper created a song specifically for that purpose, which has had a tremendous effect on mainstream music’s landscape. With assistance from two other talented artists, Alessia Cara and Khalid, “1-800-273-8255” quickly became his most influential track to date.
The track has seen incredible success, with over 100 million views on the official music video, and nearly 350 million streams on Spotify. Combined sales and streaming numbers for the track gave Logic his first-ever platinum record, which would later become triple platinum, and would then go on to break into the Top Three on Billboard’s Hot 100. It was recently nominated for two Grammy Awards, for Song of the Year and Best Music Video.
But this isn’t the only impact that the song has had. In the weeks following it’s release, the NSPL saw a 27 per cent rise in calls and an additional 400,000 visits to their website over the following months. During the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs), Logic performed the song live and had many survivors of suicide join him on stage for what became an emotional and powerful display of unity and hope. It showed us that we aren’t alone, and that unity is crucial for someone experiencing suicidal thoughts, or other serious mental health issues. Soon after this performance, the NSPL saw a 50 per cent surge in calls.
Logic has proved that music doesn’t need to sound a certain way to grab the attention of its listeners, that it can simply be a positive message that can go a long way with others. This song alone is an excellent example of who the rapper is as a person. He’s best known for his motto: “Peace, Love, and Positivity,” as he strives to use music as a platform to show others that they aren’t the only ones struggling, and that there is always a light at the end of the tunnel—remember: “It can be hard, It can be so hard, But you gotta live right now, You got everything to give right now.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
