It’s normal to be uncomfortable with someone entering your personal space. As humans, we all have different tolerances for what we deem as acceptable and unacceptable levels of proximity that stem from our understanding of intimacy. Regardless of how chummy or distant we can be in interactions with strangers, the idea of entering personal spaces becomes sticky when nudity is introduced.
S h e e t s. is a new Toronto production written and directed by Salvatore Antonio that explores what happens when a group of random strangers occupy a single hotel room. The indie production runs from March 24 to April 9 at The Franco Boni Theatre in Toronto.
S h e e t s. plays with how nudity is commonly used in the performative and media arts. Nudity often functions as a shock factor or some form of sexual release or allure. Antonio’s production steps away from that by normalizing the naked body as performers Prince Amponsah, William Ellis, Danny Ghantous, Taborah “Tabby” Johnson, Dayle McLeod, David Reale, Alice Snaden, Tyler Stentiford and Jennifer Wigmore interact with one another.
Antonio never doubted the essentiality of nudity in S h e e t s. to the story, as it reveals the personal truths of the performers, but also notes that there is so much more work and artistry behind the naked bodies.
“In this day and age where so many of us maintain a shuttered focus, whether it’s looking down on the pavement or into our phones, this play asks us to look up and see each other and perhaps discover a connection or similarities,” says Antonio.
Nudity plays into this idea beautifully as audiences are forced to see performers as they are. Shedding their clothes symbolically represents a removal of barriers between physical and emotional intimacy that persist in today’s society.
Playing with space is essential to create intimacy between the performers and the audience.
“I spent a year in various hotel rooms by myself for work reasons and in that time, became hyper aware of the energy of these places,” shares Antonio.
“I started imagining the people attached to some of these energies. I then became interested in exploring the idea of intimacy after a workshop with the late Adrian Howells entitled Intimacy in Performance.”
Antonio’s vision and studies translate into S h e e t s.’ use of theatrical space and lighting.
“We keep the audience about seven feet from the action and the bed on three sides. The audience is lit and therefore implicated in action,” says Antonio.
It’s common for audience seating to have no lighting. In the context of a production that bares it all, emotionally and physically, lighting the audience invites theatre goers to do the same. The setup may seem daunting and in your face, but it allows the audience to get into the folds and crevices of S h e e t s. in a truly immersive experience.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ne touche pas, in case you didn’t understand the warning in English. It’s socially understood that the artworks on display at exhibits, galleries and museums are for visual consumption only and not to be touched. The multimedia showcase Ne Touche Pas brought together the larger-than-life, bold, experimental and quirky pieces that were definitely only there for the eyes. Nineteen talented visual arts students were featured in this exhibition with their works displayed at Gallery 1313 in Toronto between March 15 and 26.
Though Ne Touche Pas was an end-of-the-year juried exhibition, the student artists were selected from the open house exhibit of the same name that took place on March 8 at York. The open house was coordinated by professors Zeke Moores and Marc Couroux in collaboration with the Visual Art Student Association.
The selected works for Ne Touche Pas covered a spectrum of genres from print, sculpture, painting, drawing, time-based and photos. Each collection that comprised the exhibit had its own voice, yet they all worked in unison as they all, in some form or another, explored process and medium.
One such artist who achieved this feat with her sculptures was Malina Sintnicolaas. Her sculpting work focused on surface and texture and what can be achieved by layering images and meanings.
Her sculptures posed an interesting juxtaposition. Sintnicolaas captured delicate, earthy images with a harp and heavy material. It added contemporary interest to the age-old convention of artists sculpting nature because the audience is made hyper aware of the disconnect between subject matter and art piece.
The print works of Danny Cirne were also worth noting. Cirne’s pieces were composed simply and may not have been as compelling as the surreal paintings of Leah Borges, but with some consideration, the beauty of the prints revealed themselves; they were reductionist, dealing with shapes and colours. The abstract minimalism effectively employed form and colour to remove itself from realist work such as Sintnicolaas’ sculptures, but the openness of the prints almost made them relatable. It’s possible for two observers to regard one of Cirne’s prints and be reminded of vastly different things.
Both Sintnicolaas’ and Cirne’s works, in different ways, worked with the title of the exhibit Ne Touche Pas. The play on medium and subject matter in Sintnicolaas’ sculptures made us want to physically experience the contradiction. Cirne’s simple prints played with form and shape on a flat plane in place of physical shapes.
It may be that an observer’s desire to physically touch an artwork comes from a need to sensually connect with artwork. We can go to exhibits and see, hear and smell an installation, but actual physical contact between observer and artwork is limited. Ne Touche Pas, by insisting we do not touch, opened up a dialogue on how we can enter artworks in new ways.
 


I read your post and wished I’d writetn it

 York University Community Newspaper 
Featured image: Kathleen Taylor sets an example for all aspiring individuals who wish to excel professionally, regardless of gender. | Courtesy of YFile
In August of 2013, RBC senior management selected her to be the Chair Designate. She had previously been a member of RBC’s audit and risk committees, as well as the human resources committee.
Taylor also served as the second-ever president and CEO of Four Seasons Hotels and was named Corporate Hotelier of the World in 2011 by HOTELS magazine for her work.
David O’Brien, the RBC chair who Taylor has replaced, feels her leadership will help take the bank forward.
“I am confident that the board will continue its focus on creating long-term value for our shareholders and our clients,” he said.
Throughout her career, Taylor has been recognized for her achievements. In 2016, she was named a Member of the Order of Canada for her role in the hotel and financial services sectors, as well as for community engagement, including her contributions as chair of the SickKids Foundation.
She was also awarded the Pinnacle Achievement Award at York’s Bryden Alumni Awards in 2012 for distinction in her field and as a global leader.
“Katie is one of my heros. An extraordinary role model in many respects. We chose her for the Hennick Centre Award [in 2011] because she exemplifies the benefits of a joint legal/business education. She’s also been a generous mentor for many and tireless advocate for advancing the role of women,” remarks Edward Waitzer, chair of corporate governance jointly at Schulich and Osgoode. Her numerous accolades over the years shine a spotlight on her as a devoted role model in her field.
As an exceptional independent worker, Taylor is serious about having her own unique ways of working effectively and strategically to ensure that the companies are in reliable hands when she is in charge.
Living in Toronto, Taylor also has a background in real estate development. She sets an example for all aspiring individuals who wish to excel professionally, regardless of gender.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Very few instances test a government’s power more intensely than an act of terror.
In times like this, leaders of the attacked nation have the duty to sympathize with the afflicted, but also to reassure their public that it is still safe.
The media and the press, meanwhile, are placed in just as difficult a situation: entrusted with the responsibility to inform; however, they are unable to do so without also promoting the terror group’s main message.
With the latest terrorist attack in London, where Khalid Masood, a 52-year-old previously dismissed as a peripheral figure by MI5, drove a car over Westminster Bridge through dozens of pedestrians and stabbed an unarmed police officer, reporters were forced to evaluate their ethics yet again.
Before being gunned down, Masood killed four others and wounded over 30 more. Through its Aaamaq news agency, the Islamic State group said that he was a “soldier of the Islamic State.”
In response to the attack, Prime Minister Theresa May said in a House of Commons speech that “as generations have done before us and as future generations will continue to do, [today we] deliver a simple message: we are not afraid, and our resolve will never waver in the face of terrorism.”
“We meet here in the oldest of all parliaments because we know that democracy and all the values it entails will always prevail. Those values—free speech, liberty, human rights and the rule of law—are embodied here in this place, but they are shared by free people around the world.
“This was an attack on free people everywhere.”
Observing the use of London’s media by government officials to communicate with the public reveals what the priorities of leadership are in following a terror attack.
“I think the coverage of Wednesday’s Westminster attack is instructive in this regard,” says Wade Rowland, communications studies professor at York.
“First, of course, the leadership has to ensure that the public are fully informed, and reassure them that measures are being taken to ensure their security.
“Hence, extra police were highly visible in London after the attack, even though the attacker was dead and he had no apparent accomplices.
“The media are in a very difficult position when it comes to covering terrorist acts. There is an obvious obligation to keep the public informed, and to ensure that fact takes precedence over rumour.
“But the very act of providing coverage is what makes a terrorist act complete and effective.”
One popular saying in journalism urges journalists “to afflict the comfortable, and comfort the afflicted.” In the distressed times and heightened sensitivity that follow a terror attack, however, one cannot help but question which of the two sides is exploited more—and in which of the two cases it is more profitable to do so.
“Terrorism is theatre, and it requires an audience to have the desired impact,” says Rowland.
“The media, to some degree, determine how large that audience will be. Coverage beyond what is necessary to keep the public fully informed serves the terrorists’ purpose rather than the public interest.”
“The prime minister was among lawmakers near the Commons at the time of the attack, and was quickly ushered away by security officers and driven back to Downing Street,” reported Jill Lawless and Danica Kirka of The Associated Press.
“The attack unfolded near some of the city’s most famous tourist sites, including the London Eye, a large Ferris wheel with pods that overlook the capital. It was halted after the attack, stranding visitors in the pods, with an aerial view of the attack scene.”
On CBC Radio’s Ottawa Morning the day after the attack, former BBC broadcast journalist Robin Lustig joined host Robyn Bresnahan to discuss the details.
“What a terrorist wants is maximum publicity,” said Lustig. “By choosing a place where he was likely to kill and injure people from many different countries, he was ensuring that right across the world, his actions would receive publicity. It was no coincidence that that was the venue he chose.”
Government officials are not the only parties tasked with immense responsibility on a day of terror; journalists and broadcasters, too, must struggle with the ethics of reconciling reporting that which ought to be known, and that which only further afflicts the already afflicted.
“Had the Westminster attack been merely a tragic traffic accident, perhaps caused by mechanical failure or the driver’s illness, it would still have merited coverage,” adds Rowland.
“But the Toronto Star gave it page one and several full pages inside, and CBC led their newscasts with it for more than 24 hours. This seems to me clearly excessive, and thus a gift to the terrorists.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Breast implants, facelifts and earfolds are no longer a mystical dream, as people rush to alter their natural bodies in search for the so-called “perfect body.” Cosmetic surgery can be performed on any part of the body and focuses on enhancing an individual’s appearance utilizing surgical or medical techniques.
Cosmetic procedures have been mentioned in the news recently, particularly whether they should be covered by government health plans like OHIP, which was created in 1972 and covers medically required health care services, including family doctor visits and eye exams for those who qualify.
There is a certain social stigma surrounding cosmetic surgery—the belief that the public will view the individual who has gone under the knife as self-conscious and incapable of accepting who they are. However, with the rise of social media, people are sharing their stories and experiences about cosmetic surgery.
But does this stigma, or the “normalizing” of this procedure, impact policymaking? Realistically, policymakers should not be taking personal experience or views into account while creating safe and accessible policies; this interferes the bias-free rationality required for such decisions.
OHIP does cover certain cosmetic procedures if it involves reconstructive facial plastic surgery after trauma or facial malignancy, such as a facelift or forehead lift if there is facial paralysis causing severe facial deformation. Nose operations addressing issues interfering with breathing may be covered, as well as eyelid surgeries that aim to correct vision impairment.
More controversial procedures like breast reductions may only be considered for OHIP if their current condition interferes with daily activities; the same goes for bariatric procedure for weight loss. If the person has a body mass index above 40 and they have failed previous medically supervised weight-loss programs, the procedure may be covered as it impacts their daily functionality.
On the other hand, policymakers have enacted policies that break social barriers. Such can be said about OHIP’s decision to cover previously approved sex reassignment surgeries as of March 2016.
Cosmetic surgery of any sort is a personal choice, so why should we care at all about someone enhancing their breast size? It is relevant considering that $10 billion was spent on cosmetic procedures by Americans in 2011.
On the other side of the border in Canada, surgeon visits among millennials seem to be more common. According to The Plastic Surgery Clinic in Toronto, 40 per cent of their patients are under the age of 30 and they have even provided breast augmentation for patients as young as 16 years old under special circumstances.
In 2010, Canada ranked 15th in the world as the most popular place for such procedures.
The beautiful individual on the magazine cover does not resemble how every beautiful individual should be, considering beauty is in the eye of the beholder and in this case, the beholder is you.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
On March 23, the Glendon School of Public and International Relations, along with EU Consulates in Toronto and the Canadian International Council, hosted a debate on the new Canada-European Union Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, or CETA.
The debate speakers consisted of Nicolas Chapuis, French embassy ambassador in Canada; Angella MacEwen, senior economist at Canadian Labour Congress; István Mikola, minister of state for Security Policy and International Cooperation in Hungary; Candace Sider, vice-president of regulatory affairs of Livingston International; and Jakob Von Weizsäcker, member of the European Parliament for Germany.
Of the five speakers, four of them were in favor of CETA, which is set to take effect by April of 2017.
CETA was first signed in October 2016 and later approved by the European parliament on January 24, 2017. By February 15, the European parliament had adopted the trade deal, which will lead to the application of the deal.
Von Weizsäcker stated he had voted yes for the agreement.
“What we need is free and fair trade. [CETA] offers freer and fairer trade, but it isn’t absolutely free,” he said.
While many of the speakers agreed with CETA being a progressive and fair deal, MacEwen disagreed, sparking a real debate and raising issues on how the environment, public services and workers would be affected by the deal.
MacEwen stated that CETA leaves Canada’s public services vulnerable, doesn’t hold corporations responsible for environmental damage and doesn’t protect workers.
“That is something a progressive trade deal would have,” she said.
According to the Government of Canada and EU consultants, CETA is the first progressive trade agreement between the two governing bodies.
It has been proposed as a test in response to the protectionist Trump administration that could affect free trade globally. CETA will enhance the economic relations between Canada and the EU, as both entities share similar values.
The trade agreement has made it a goal to eliminate 99 per cent of EU tariffs on all Canadian goods, strengthen jobs and enhance the political, economic, social and cultural values to be more progressive.
CETA will increase the trade of cheese and will reduce the prices of foreign automobiles and wine.
“We certainly believe the CETA agreement is a good agreement to Canada; it allows Canada to grow and enhance trades. While there are risks, the benefits are better,” said Sider.
The CETA debate is the last of the series of Glendon Global Debates.
 


Thanks for writing such an eatseso-und-rytand article on this topic.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
As President and Vice-Chancellor Mamdouh Shoukri prepares to bow out of higher education, he had one last message to give the York community.
The March 23 Last Lecture saw Shoukri reflect on his 10 years at York. He offered words of advice and hope for the university as it moves forward under the direction of newly appointed President Delegate Rhonda Lenton.
Shoukri began by noting how the lecture was a great opportunity for him to reflect on the challenges he had faced, the lessons he had learned and the incredible people he had the opportunity to meet and work with.
He noted that in an age of information and innovation, with students connected to devices and technology, universities are needed possibly more than ever before.
“It is the role of education to help us interpret and give meaning to this flood of information,” said Shoukri.
“You are making an excellent investment by being at university; preparing yourselves for careers that will be complex and constantly evolving.”
Following his introduction, he spoke about the two qualities he feels drive success and enrichment—integrity and empathy.
“Integrity implies consistently acting on the basis of clear moral and ethical principles, irrespective of the circumstances one is subject to,” he stated.
“It can be used to address increasingly polarized political viewpoints. Leaders with integrity can shape the future of our societies by changing the conversations we see taking place.”
Shoukri feels that the ability to put oneself in another’s shoes is key for breaking down barriers.
“Empathy is essential for understanding and thriving in […] constant change,” said Shoukri.
“It is lack of empathy that threatens achievements with the growing polarization in the world.”
He also stated that it is a quality that has been threatened at times, and needs continuous nurturing and protection.
Shoukri also noted that a broad-based education is important to provide the missing link between science and action.
He then reflected on his time at York and the achievements made during his tenure.
“I have been a President that has wanted to move York closer to its destiny. A future that has been planned since our first years as a university,” he stated.
“Today our student body has grown […] and our campuses are remarkably diverse. This is one of our greatest strengths.”
From the new Costa Rica and Markham campuses, to the new student centre and long-awaited subway, Shoukri feels that York is closer than ever to achieving its vision and believes that it is poised to take a greater role in the higher education landscape.
After a number of thanks and acknowledgements, Shoukri stated that it has been an honour for him to serve the York community.
“The important part is to not only be part of change, but to help make that change,” he said.
“Embrace the change […] and continue to ensure that York lives up to its reputation as Canada’s most progressive university with some of the most dedicated, innovative and talented people,” added Shoukri.
President Shoukri will hand over the role to Dr. Rhonda Lenton on July 1.
 


Wow! Great to find a post knkcniog my socks off!

 York University Community Newspaper 
According to a recent study, Marvin Gaye may have been more right than he thought when it comes to sexual healing.
A robust sex life has been linked to several health benefits, including a stronger heart, a slimmer waist and a decrease in the risk of developing prostate and breast cancer.
The benefits aren’t limited to the physical variety, either. A satisfying sex life also has benefits on a person’s mental health; sex releases endorphins that can help prevent depression and improve a person’s mood, as well as reduce stress.
Though sex can provide many health benefits, studies indicate that North Americans are having less of it on an annual basis.
According to a study by Jean Twenge, a professor of psychology at San Diego State University, Americans are having sex nine times fewer per year than those from 10 years ago. That number is nearly double—16 times fewer—for couples who were married.
Twenge isn’t sure what’s causing the decline, but speculated people could be too busy to get busy.
According to Twenge, the plethora of potential at-home distractions in the form of devices and media streaming services could be more alluring than sex—putting a freeze on Netflix and chill.
Although people are having sex less frequently, the average adult is having sex approximately 54 times a year, while couples who are married or live together are having sex 51 times a year.
According to a recent study by Amy Muise, an assistant professor of psychology at York, having sex once a week is “optimal” to achieve maximum happiness.
Muise found that couples who have sex more frequently have a better sense of well-being.
“Sex is associated with feeling more satisfied in a relationship,” she said.
However, according to Muise’s study, the benefits of having sex once a week don’t increase for couples who engage in the activity multiple times a week.
A study from Carnegie Mellon University found that couples who find themselves having sex less frequently could benefit from scheduling time to be intimate.
“I still think that couples could benefit from a bit of outside encouragement to have more sex,” said George Loewenstein, psychology professor and author of a related study from Carnegie Mellon University.
“When a couple has been together for some time, the mere presence of the other person, even unclothed, ceases to be exciting or arousing,” he said.
This doesn’t mean couples can’t still enjoy their sex lives, they just might need to make more of an effort to do so, added Loewenstein.
 


Always rehiesfrng to hear a rational answer.

 York University Community Newspaper 
After leading the Lions to the Queen’s Cup and leading the league with a 1.78 goals-against average and second-best Ontario University Athletics, or OUA, save percentage of .930, Lions goalie Mack Shields was named the OUA Rookie of the Year.
“I was really honoured. Any time you get acknowledged for the work you put in a season is very rewarding. I think any time a goalie wins an award […] it’s a testament to the team in front of him, and in my case it was no different,” says Shields.
“I had a great group of veteran defensemen who helped me get adjusted to the league and did a lot of little things only a goalie can appreciate.
“The way our team bought into Coach Dennis’ game plan also played a big part of my success this year; he is the back-to-back Coach of the Year for a reason,” he adds.
The first-year administrative studies student, who played for the Medicine Hat Tigers of the Western Hockey League last year, joined York this past summer in the hopes of improving on their second-place OUA finish last year.
“My first season at York was a great experience. I met some great people and was able to win a championship. It is a bit of an adjustment focusing on school after playing junior hockey, where your whole mindset is just strictly on hockey, but York has some great programs and personnel that made the transition really smooth for me,” says Shields.
Shields says winning the Queen’s Cup was definitely the highlight of his year: “It’s not every year that you get to win a championship as big as the Queen’s Cup and represent your school at the national level.
“It was an amazing experience. I have played in some big games and in front of crowds as big as 17,000 before, but I can’t think of a game that had an atmosphere as fun as that night’s game.
“We worked so hard all season long with the goal of winning the Queen’s Cup, and to finally throw my gloves off at the end of the game and celebrate with my teammates as champions is something I will never forget,” says Shields on playing in the OUA championship.
Despite falling in the first round of the national championship, Shields valued his time in the tournament last weekend. “We took my hometown University of Saskatchewan into overtime, and played with them the whole time. I think it did wonders for our team to know we can compete with one of the top teams in Canada,” he says.
Shields is looking forward to returning to York, defending the Queen’s Cup and hopefully leading the Lions to a national championship next spring.
“I’m looking forward to going through the whole process again. It is a process to win a championship and I think that’s important for our mindset for next season: to realize you don’t win unless you stick to the process all season long.
“We have a relatively young team and everyone is dedicated and wants to win, which creates a great atmosphere that’s fun to be a part of. It will be fun to see what we can accomplish and hopefully get back to nationals and go further next year,” he adds.
 


An answer from an expert! Thanks for courtibnting.

 York University Community Newspaper 
