FREE WISDOM TEETH EXTRACTION on May 3-4, 2019 at Skyview Dental in
Aurora by licensed Ontario dentists under the supervision of world
renowned oral surgeon Dr. Lawrence Gaum 905­-489­-1970 ext.207
seminars@palmeripublishing.com FREE!
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
As the hockey season draws near to the end, the women wave goodbye to their chance at the playoffs while kicking Laurier butt on the ice.
The men’s and women’s hockey teams had three games between them this weekend.
The men played their last game of the regular season, while the women will wrap up their season next weekend on the road.
The women’s first game was Saturday against Queen’s. The Golden Gaels opened the scoring in the first near the halfway mark to take a 1-0 lead. Exactly one minute later, they found the back of the net again to add some insurance to their lead.
The second period was scoreless, but it wasn’t for lack of trying. The Lionesses peppered the Queen’s goalie with 10 shots in the frame. However, they were unable to capitalize on their chances.
York continued their offensive onslaught in the third, taking nine shots to Queen’s four, but it was the Golden Gaels who found the back of the net, courtesy of Hailey Wilson’s empty-netter.
Queen’s goalie Stephanie Pascal stopped all 25 Lioness shots in the 3-0 victory.
The men’s final game of the season was on Friday against Royal Military College, or RMC. The Lions were looking to end their two-game losing streak and start the playoffs on a high note.
Both goalies played well in the first, with the RMC goalie stopping all 11 of York’s shots, while Mack Shields stopped all eight RMC shots.
In the second period, it was the Lions who opened the scoring, as they jumped out to a two-goal lead courtesy of Trevor Peterson and Colton Vannucci, who scored 11 seconds apart.
Five minutes into the third, an RMC power-play goal cut into the York lead, but the Lions’ Daniel Nikandrov quickly answered. Under a minute later, RMC once again cut the lead to just one. With only seven minutes left in the game, York once again extended their lead to two goals, courtesy of Derek Sheppard.
With three minutes left, York put the game out of reach with their fifth goal of the game for a 5-2 final score.
The Lionesses were looking to snap their four-game losing streak against Laurier on Sunday.
The first period was scoreless, despite a combined 19 shots from the two teams. However, the Lionesses drew first blood in the second, courtesy of Erin Locke.
Six minutes later, Locke netted her second goal of the game, a shorthanded marker assisted by Taylor Davison and Tegan Duncan. York wasn’t done there either, as they would add their third goal of the game under a minute later, another shorthanded goal, this time courtesy of Justine Treadwell.
York would put the game away in the third, netting their fourth goal of the game courtesy of Amy Locke, assisted by Rianna Langford and Lauren Cavarzan for the 4-0 final score.
With the wins, the Lions have officially locked up the second seed in the Ontario University Athletics West and will play Lakehead in the first round of the playoffs, which starts February 15. The women have officially been eliminated from the playoffs, but still have two more games next Friday and Saturday against Nipissing and Laurentian, at 4:30 p.m. and 3:50 p.m., respectively.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
It’s the first thing you reach for in the morning.
It’s your alarm; your watch; it holds your secrets; your photos; your answers and it’s missing. Panic sets in and the search begins to find your phone. Then you’ve recovered it—crisis averted—it’s your escape from boredom, your form of communication.
It is a testament to the power that technology has over so many of us. It is a distraction and its presence is constant, even if you don’t really need it.
The first iPhone was released almost ten years ago in June 2007, bringing forth an insurgence of smart, touch-screen, interactive technology with a variety of nearly inescapable triggers. Once we’ve formed habits, they’re hard to break.
For the majority of people, their phone is always within reach. People find themselves increasingly more engaged with their phones than with the people around them. Compulsions are a powerful force in our brains, interrupting lives and making it hard to complete everyday tasks.
Phones can be an interaction deflector, an escape from conversations we just don’t want to have. For others, checking their phone is a way of ensuring they’re not missing out. The fear of missing out leads many to check social media again and again. It is what fuels people to check their phones right when they wake up, right before they go to sleep and all the time in between.
One way to determine how frequently you are checking your phone before attempting to scale back is, ironically, by using an app. Checky, available on both Android and iPhone, was introduced towards the end of 2014.
Checky tracks how many times a day you unlock or open your phone. The app QualityTime has a similar function for Android, tracking how many times you unlock your phone but also how long you spend in different apps while your phone is open.
These apps are designed to put things into perspective. If you had to guess, how often do you think you check your phone everyday?
“That depends,” says Marcos Vina, fourth-year business administration student.
“But on average, maybe once every 10 to 20 minutes.”
Daniel Krasner, third-year kinesiology student, guesses around 75 times a day.
“I would estimate 50-plus times,” says Arianne Villarin, fourth-year cognitive science student.
Results vary by the day, as there are many different factors that contribute to or prevent one’s ability and desire to check their phone. Michelle Klein, head of North American marketing at Facebook, presented findings last year at a digital media conference at Social Media Week New York and stated that the average millennial checks their phone more than 150 times a day.
Monitoring how often you check your phone and the usage of certain apps can be beneficial for productivity and time management, but for some this adds a new level of stress. These apps are intended to provide some perspective on our phone and social media use, prompting questions such as:
“Do you have the time to check this right now?” “Is this really the best use of my time?” and “Did you really spend three hours studying if you checked your phone 15 times?”
Technology is useful in countless ways, but it can also be overused and misused. While apps like Checky and QualityTime confront users with the results of just how attached they are to their devices, the chances that this bond will be shattered are hard to guess.
As a society, we are so reliant on our phones, despite knowing that this dependence is problematic. The goal of these apps is to provide introspection regarding habits, in the hopes that users will make the active choice to limit the number of distractions they allow into their lives on a daily basis.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
The iconic sounds of video games can trigger the slightest of memories: the famous Mario coin ding, the announcer enthusiastically saying: “EA Sports. It’s in the game.” The nostalgia brings us to a simpler time. The iconic video games produced in the 1990s and early 2000s were arguably clean, with sanitary games like Super Mario, Sonic the Hedgehog and Kirby, and if there was any violence in these games, it didn’t mimic real-life brutality. Fast-forward to the new millennium and everything is completely different.
Within the last 10 to 15 years, mainstream video games have undergone a serious transformation. With the latest technology, players are given the ability to challenge themselves and face players around the world, increasing the playing field to span all ages and countries.
A study has shown that 97 per cent of youth between the ages of 12 and 17 play video games. Given that so many video games on the market contain a violent element, chances are that the majority of these youth are playing violent video games.
Psychologists from the American Psychological Association observed that the excessive play of these games may lead to more aggression and lack of empathy towards others. The results from more than 400 studies show a significant link between being exposed to violent media in general and aggressive behaviour, thoughts and feelings.
However, this evidence is inconclusive when compared to other studies. There is research that suggests that some video games can actually serve as a healthy hobby and cure for mental health illnesses such as anxiety and depression.
The report “Understanding the Effects of Violent Video Games on Violent Crime” from Baylor University in Texas claims that gamers are too busy gaming to actually cause violence in the real world. Though new video game releases involve fighting, combat or gore, societal violence doesn’t increase because gamers are too engaged in the game to participate in society.
The report also points out that studies that have linked video games to aggressive behaviour in the past were conducted in laboratory settings where video games were linked to aggressive behaviour, but were not conclusively linked to violence or crime.
Experts remain on the fence as they continue to debate whether video games are hindering or helping to diffuse acts of societal violence.
While increased coverage of tragic events such as acts of terrorism and mass shootings are prevalent in our media, it is important to note that no one element is responsible for such crimes. We cannot simply point the finger at video games as the cause of violent crimes. The decision to play video games is an individual preference, and gamers are expected to separate reality from escapism, fact from fiction and the real world from fantasy.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Rejoice, fellow nerds!
Unless you’ve been deliberately avoiding pop-culture for a decade, then you know it’s the age of super-heroic wonders. In 2008, we got the one-two punch of Iron Man and The Dark Knight in theatres. Since then, superheroes have taken over a ridiculous amount of our couch-potato time. Arrow and The Flash dominate CW’s small screen with delicious, angst-y cheese. Disney’s Marvel movies have discovered the secret to printing money with Iron Man and The Avengers, while the much grittier Luke Cage, Jessica Jones and Daredevil shows have perfected the super binge-watch on Netflix. Even Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, though dogged by a dubious reaction from both fans and critics, easily raked in its millions. It’s a time to rejoice for superhero fans everywhere, right?
Certainly. Yet as we revel in the bombastic super-fun of our heroes, one does start to see a pattern. Our heroes seem awfully similar, don’t they? They tend to be white. They tend to be male. And other than the big bad dude trying to blow up the city, they don’t seem to struggle against much else. The Caucasian alpha male is certainly kept busy these days—saving a world that is much more diverse and nuanced than their outlandish super adventures would ever suggest.
Now, there are indeed a few fantastic exceptions to the rule. The aforementioned Luke Cage was unapologetic and refreshing in the way it dealt with race and oppression, and should be lauded for making Twitter’s racist underbelly bemoan a “lack of diversity.” Yes, Twitter, you can have more than one black guy on-screen at once: it’s called real-life.
Supergirl, though completely different in tone and audience, is one of the few female-led superhero stories out there right now. It’s a bright, breezy, upbeat show with a well-intentioned but often imperfect heroine. I will readily admit that it delights me with its perfect blend of optimism, cheese and girl-power.
They are the outliers though. For the most part, it’s the hyper-masculine, white alpha male who we are cheering for in these super tales. Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice was the epitome of this story, with the central idea being that we should cheer for two snarling, testosterone-laden body-builders to beat each other senseless. So much for heroes.
Occasionally, we do get the shy, affable beta males like Grant Gustin’s Flash or Tom Holland’s Spider-Man, but often times, the point of their story is that they are trying to grow into a preening hunky alpha male in their own right.
There are some awesome, strong women in these superhero stories, but often they are ancillary to their male counterparts. Marvel’s Black Widow has saved the world time and time again with the Avengers, yet she is relegated to the status of a love-interest/sidekick to the male heroes, and has yet to be given her own film to shine in.
But why does it matter? It’s superhero fun. It’s popcorn fluff. It’s escapism. Why do we need to get political or push diversity with entertainment that’s just meant to go zap, bang and pow? Why look for meaning and progress in mindless entertainment?
Because it doesn’t have to be mindless. These heroes have a platform. Kids grow up entrenched in the world of Batman, Spider-Man and Supergirl. These heroes are icons we look up to. Their stories are modern-day morality plays, which clearly appeal to child and adult alike. Why limit the type of hero we get to see when the audience that enjoys them is so much more diverse? As we have seen with stand-out characters like Supergirl or Luke Cage, a hero can do more than fight crime. They can fight injustice, inequality and oppression. Our superheroes should do more than just save the world. They should challenge us to think deeper, try harder and make it a world worth saving.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Three-time Canadian Soccer Hall of Fame inductee, media commentator and former York soccer coach Paul James recently announced he would be going on an indefinite hunger strike to protest the stigmatization of drug addicts in Canada.
James, 53, who played for Canada at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics and the 1986 FIFA World Cup, published an open letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau via YouTube on January 25.
He claims to be refraining from ingesting any food or fluid, besides water, in protest to perceived discrimination he has faced since disclosing his struggle with depression and substance abuse in 2008.
“It’s a dramatic decision that I’ve made, but I watched you [Trudeau] in 2015 and believed in your platform speeches where you said to all Canadians to trust and have faith in the Canadian judicial system,” he said.
Despite applying to over 100 jobs, James hasn’t worked in eight years and is currently “penniless [and] homeless with no social status.”
James was hired as York’s soccer coach in 2003 and led the Lions in their victorious 2008 national championship campaign—the first time they had achieved the feat since 1977.
Upon leaving in 2009, James stated that he attempted to address the problem privately with York under great distress and pressure, in need of support and help for poor mental health.
A York spokesperson confirmed that at the time James resigned, there were networks in place for employees needing support that remain in place today.
“York has policies and procedures to support employees who require accommodation in the workplace, including an Employee Well Being Office,” they said.
Following his leave of absence, James went to rehab to deal with his drug addiction but upon being released, he discovered York had moved onto another coach and he found himself without a job.
Three years later, James filed a human rights violation, which was dismissed due to him failing to file it within the one-year time limit. He later filed an appeal that was rejected.
“We need people to come forward, but how can they if there’s so much fear?” asked James.
In addition to his hunger strike, he has also launched a website, Confronting the Stigma of Drug Addiction, that he intends to use to raise awareness of the stigmatization that sufferers of substance abuse face on a day-to-day basis.
James, who started his hunger strike nearly three weeks ago, is committed to continue until the government takes notice and provides him and others like him with the support and help they need without fear of persecution.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
In an alarming report exposed by CityNews, York has been named the worst offending higher-learning institution for food safety infractions and violations in Ontario.
A report published by Toronto Public Health highlights that out of York’s 44 campus food outlets, 36 have presented more than 200 violations in total over a two-year period.
Offences include failing to provide adequate pest control and protection against contamination, failing to wash utensils and surfaces, and several basic hygiene requirements such as providing hand-washing supplies.
A total of 59 violations have been classified as significant or crucial, with numerous outlets facing repercussions for their negligence.
Seven outlets have previously been under conditional, or yellow, passes, where an establishment is granted 24 to 48 hours to rectify serious violations of food safety, such as storing hazardous food at unsafe temperatures.
Barbara Joy of York Media states that all York food service providers are currently operating under a green pass, meaning that all outlets are currently clear of violations.
“When York enters into a contract with a food service provider, there are provisions to mandate food safety standards. Food service providers must meet all federal and provincial food safety standards in addition to Toronto Public Health standards,” she says.
“We work closely with Toronto Public Health staff, including food safety inspectors, to offer a mandatory food safety training session for all food service providers on campus.”
While York has the greatest number of food outlets in all GTA post-secondary institutions, and so, statistically, are arguably more likely to incur the most violations, students are notably concerned.
For students living in residence, the report is of particular importance, as many are on meal plans and rely on campus food outlets daily.
Hayllie Durette, a fourth-year visual arts student, feels that better standards are expected, especially given the cost of the meal plans.
“With how much money students are expected to spend on meal plans living on-campus, there should be a higher degree of quality being offered by York’s food outlets,” says Durette.
In seven of York’s residences, a meal plan is compulsory, and in the other four it is optional. It currently costs $2,750 for the basic bronze plan, all the way up to $4,325 for platinum.
The report comes after a norovirus outbreak at Humber College in January, which left around 200 students unwell with vomiting and abdominal pains.
“Students shouldn’t have to worry that they could get sick from eating food served on campus,” says Durette.
Joy states that York works with food services and the food safety department to rectify any concerns immediately.
“The university reserves the right to shut down any food services location on campus that does not quickly comply; however, we have not had to take this action previously,” she says.
None of the food outlets highlighted in the report were available for comment at the time of publication.
“As an international student, I thought it would work out well for me when I found out that a meal plan was available, making it convenient and cost efficient for someone who doesn’t know the area to get meals easily. However, after seeing this report I think it is disgusting that these cafés and restaurants don’t keep an appropriate standard of hygiene, particularly as a student that doesn’t have many other options to eat. As a vegetarian, my options were narrowed in the first place, but now after seeing this report, it makes me reluctant to eat in even more places.” – Emily Greenman, third-year digital media exchange student
“As York has so many people coming through every single day, the restaurants might have shifted their focus onto simply making sure they manage to serve the immense number of customers. I always see more employees working at the front of the restaurant than in the back. This can’t just be pinned on the managers or owners; the employees also need to take responsibility. This is going to sway my choice whenever I am getting food at York, and I hope that those places can get back to an acceptable state of health and safety standards.” – David Bandi, fourth-year music student
“The report does not surprise me because it resonates with my thoughts and impressions about on-campus restaurants […] I was very disappointed by the overall experience of eating at York so I decided to stop frequenting a month after arriving [in Canada] because the food they serve is often oily, salty and unhealthy. Since I don’t eat at those restaurants now, I can’t argue about whether they currently respect the rules or not. However, it would not surprise me to know that there are some violations.” – Carlo Handy Charles, masters candidate in sociology
“As I’ve worked in the food industry before, the report unfortunately didn’t surprise me. Nevertheless, I had hoped that York had some sort of extra regulations to ensure safe food handling practices. Commuters like me have the option of eating at home, but people who live in residence have to eat at York and it’s disappointing that they aren’t being looked out for a little more. It has definitely made me think twice before even buying a coffee on campus now.” – Stephanie Casciaro, fifth-year music and concurrent education student
 
 


Hello,
As an advocacy organization of Chinese Canadians in Toronto, we are concerned about the following image of Asian workers in the kitchen, being used for this article. This image is problematic in that it feeds into a racist perspective of Asian food outlets as not following food & safety practices. This is a gross generalization of a diverse community and has negative consequences. There is a long history of Asians being portrayed in the media as ‘unclean’ or ‘unruly’ and this image continues that discourse. 
We ask that the following image be taken down. Please consider using an image that does not feature a marginalized group. 
Thanks,
Chase Lo
Executive Director
Chinese Canadian National Council – Toronto Chapter

 York University Community Newspaper 
