Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: Climate change experts agree that progress was made at the conference, but there is much more work to be done.
York philosophy professor Idil Boran led an official panel at the Bonn Climate Change Conference earlier this month as a call to action for building trust and inclusiveness in non-party stakeholder engagement in global climate action.
The panel, “Marrakech Partnership: Building Trust and Inclusiveness in Non-Party Stakeholder Engagement,” was held on Saturday, May 13th in Bonn, Germany as an official side event of the UN climate change conference.
Boran organized the event in partnership with Colorado State University, collaborating with York science professor Dawn Bazely.
“[Boran] frames climate change in an ethical context, wherein human values, governance, and political processes provide the larger picture beyond scientific research,” says Bazely.
She stresses that the warnings of 1990’s climate change research are indeed already coming to pass, with ice sheets melting in Antarctica and the Arctic.
“The world’s most vulnerable are already being affected, and they will be impacted far worse than the wealthy,” she says.
“Climate change is, in truth, an ethical issue. This panel centers its solutions on this.”
The Bonn panel brought together several researchers and regional government representatives from Canada, the U.S., India, and Germany, where they all discussed the role of multi-stakeholder dialogues under the Marrakech Partnership for Global Action.
Kenneth Shockley, an associate professor of philosophy at Colorado State University, shares his own approach to his portion of the panel. “I am interested in the different ways that we understand ‘working together,’ and I wanted to impress upon the audience the importance [doing so] in a way that fosters trust among all parties,” he states.
“This collaborative approach gives a productive way of listening to other parties, working in a manner that is focused on the problem at hand, and not any individual parties’ preconceived— and therefore biased—notion of how we might solve that problem.”
Sander Chan, adjunct assistant professor at the Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development at Utrecht University and researcher with the German Development Institute, focused on similar themes.
“I was invited to speak on a conference I organized called ‘Interconnections,’ which discussed how the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Climate Agreement are connected,” he says.
“Discussions focused on the role of state, non-state, and subnational actors, who could help deliver on both agendas.”
Although the sustainable development and climate change processes are politically separate, they contribute to the same reality.
“There is much interest in connecting climate action to sustainable developmental goals,” said Boran.
The panel participants were pleased with the headway of the Bonn panel, but all agree that more action and research is still necessary.
“Idil and I, and our colleagues involved in this work, plan to move onward with a collective, broad, and interdisciplinary research that will take us into uncomfortable places, as the solutions to climate change require difficult decisions to be made,” says Bazely.
Shockley insists further research should be pursued to look for points of synergy between the different non-state actors (states and provinces, financial actors, and NGOs) to make sense of the new international policy landscape.
Chan, meanwhile, offers a starker truth.
“We have only 45 years before our carbon budget for 1.5 degrees Celsius warming will be used up,” he comments. “Before [we] have a research project funded, conducted, and that can present final results, it’s probable that we [will have] already passed the 1.5 degrees Celsius threshold.”
“Building interfaces between decision makers and researchers is, in my view, more urgent, to bring knowledge and solutions into the decision-making space,” he adds.
Starting her sabbatical research in July, Boran will spend three months at the German Development Institute, then two more as a researcher in residence at the Centre for Excellence at Goethe University in Frankfurt/ Main to continue work on her study manuscript.
She aims to develop a political theory of climate action on a global public sphere.
 


the biggest contributor to human caused climate change is animal agriculture. The biggest change you can make in your life to help this issue is to become a vegan or at least avoid animal products in your life. which is very easy. 
why this issue s not brought up by these experts is surprising. we can see in some countries already 5% or more of the population are vegan. hopefully they will continue to help others make the change and other forms of human caused climate change will be reduced or eliminated soon. 
The rise of materialism and consumerism is not helping either. Check out  Cowspiracy: The Sustainability Secret or earthlings. these films are a real eye opener.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Contributor
Featured image: Improper skin care can lead to unappealing results. | Courtesy of Globovision via Flickr
It’s time to pack up the winter coats and boots and break out the beachwear now that summer is here and we’re finally starting to thaw.
During the summer, as temperatures rise and the days become longer, our skin becomes more susceptible to damage from the sun’s harmful UV rays.
According to the Canadian Cancer Society (CCS): “In Canada, sunlight is strong enough to cause skin cancer, premature aging of the skin, and harm to the eyes.” The reason that Canadians are more vulnerable to this is because we are exposed to the sun for longer periods of time, and due to the sun’s angle, its rays are better distributed in Canada, in comparison to other northern countries like Russia or the United States.
CCS adds that “skin cancer is the most common type of cancer, and it’s also one of the most preventable. UV radiation causes about 90 per cent of melanoma cases.” Additionally, cases of melanoma have increased significantly over the past 25 years, according to CCS.
The reasoning for this is because the sun transmits three types of deadly rays, which are, in large part, reflected back into space due to the ozone layer. The three types of UV rays are: Ultraviolet A (UVA), which “make up most of the sun’s natural light. They can penetrate deep into the skin, causing wrinkles and premature aging of the skin;” Ultraviolet B (UVB), which “are the main cause of sunburn. They are nearly 1,000 times stronger than UVA rays;” and Ultraviolet C rays, which are “short-wave radiation that never reaches the earth’s surface, because the atmosphere filters them out.”
The ozone layer is deteriorating due to pollution and accumulation of CO2 emissions—thus, causing more harmful UV rays to penetrate the earth’s atmosphere and increase its harm to all living organisms.
In the case of skin protection from the sun, water-resistant sunscreens with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or above are recommended, as they have a broad spectrum of protection against both UVA and UVB rays. However, it’s important to thoroughly read the warning label on all products, as some medicines and skin care products may also increase the skin’s vulnerability to UV damage.
The potential for sun damage is at its worst from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., so it’s best to avoid prolonged exposure to the sun’s rays during these times, or cover up exposed skin.
It’s also important to check for skin abnormalities, which will help when it comes to detecting early signs of skin cancer, which increases your chances for survival. After all, it is better to be safe than sorry.
 


Best way to take care your skin in summer Drink Lot water

 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Contributor
Featured image: The York exhibition allows visitors to experience movement through dance, theatre, and the visual arts, all in one visit. | Courtesy of the Art Gallery of York University
Some artists make art solely based on the stillness of an object or a view, while others are inspired by their fascination with movement. Artist Derek Liddington seems to be the latter. He created a solo exhibition around the performance of two photographic stills from the Ballet Russes’ productions of Ode and Apollon Musagète in 1928.
It is being staged back-to-back at the Art Gallery of York University (AGYU) in the Accolade East Building and the Southern Alberta Art Gallery. The exhibition at the AGYU is called the body will always bend before it breaks, the tower will always break before it bends.
Liddington’s new exhibition is a powerful and humanistic statement that utilizes 3-D clay caricatures and works imprinted or painted in fabrics and on walls. He also produced a video in which dancers perform in each other’s company, which is the product of a co-commission video shot by Toronto filmmaker Chris Boni. The short video was done during a time spent with students from York’s dance department in the summer of 2016. The dancing style used in the short is presented in a slow, graceful, and even an athletic manner, seeming to show the audience that the movement in dance is the embodiment of the intricacy of human movements, and the tensions of the human anatomy.
Not only that, it also presents the fluidity of our operativeness, despite our anatomy being constituted with rigid bones and firm muscles. Overall, Liddington shows the strength of the human form in an abstract manner.
The artist also makes sure that each exhibition uses the “performance still” (or production shot) as a dramaturgical framework for the development of its score and mise-en-scène. He attempts to capture the essence and authenticity of the Ode and Apollon Musagète, and not just to make art that looks aesthetically pleasing.
He makes sure that each gallery is a sample of Gesamtkunstwerk, wherein each component is operating at the intersection of dance, theatre and the visual arts. Liddington wants his audience to feel as though they have been to the theatre, an art gallery or dance performance, all in one visit.
According to Emelie Chhangur, the curator of the exhibition at the AGYU: “Liddington animates the space in-between performance and image as a point of departure for his ongoing investigation into the relations between narrative (meaning) and abstraction (aesthetics).”
He intends to cultivate a story out of his artwork. Audiences can interpret the drawings on walls and on free flowing curtains as symbols of the unlimited flow of the human body. We are free to move in any way we want, and yet, the marble sculptures represent load bearing joints of the human figure, and the clay sculptures portray our limitations in terms of movement.
With the exhibition, the audience doesn’t always get clearcut representations. It instead shows two sides of a story, which goes back to Liddington’s mission to intersect both meaning and aesthetics. He wants to create a world that displays both the significance of the body’s movement and our environment— in both positive and negative ways.
The main theme of this exhibition remains intact, being that the body will always bend before it breaks, the tower will always break before it bends.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: Christopher Lai
I remember when I moved into residence my first year. I was bombarded with introductions and overwhelmed by my multiple roommates and dozens of people flooding the halls.
I remember feeling lost and what it felt like to know no one. I remember how I timidly wandered around during orientation week, constantly encouraged to participate, and I remember repeatedly saying my major and shyly chiming in on conversations.
Now, three years later, those roommates are my best friends. I have been one of those overenthusiastic orientation leaders, and I am constantly talking about my major and how attending York has been one of the best decisions I have ever made.
York’s reputation borders on controversial and maligned. York is often portrayed in a negative light by the media, fueled by confirmation biases and powered by many perpetuating misconceptions.
The media is often biased against York, streaming headlines of assaults and crimes, constantly inferring that if it happens around York, it must reflect the university. York is persecuted and ridiculed for their location, however, for a university, York University Heights is ranked 19th out of 140 Toronto neighbourhoods for sexual assaults, a much lower rating than both U of T area (second) and Ryerson (11th). Yet it is “York University” that is often linked with “violence” and “assault.”
Security bulletins are sent out when incidents happen in and around York from things such as suspicious activity to actual incidents. These updates are sent out briefly after the incidents are reported and are intended to keep faculty and students informed and safe.
York is Canada’s third-largest university, with an incredibly diverse population and program selection. York has one of the leading internationally recognized educational institutions for the faculty of business studies, as well as a unique space engineering program.
There are constant improvements being made around York to accommodate and enhance our experiences, yet we still have retorts, declaring that this progress is taking too long and there is too much construction.
The people are part of what makes York so great. They come from all over the city, not to mention the world, with different perspectives that really do open your mind. I met my support system here. Those people I warily talked to during my first few weeks here, the ones I awkwardly met by chance, and the people I continue to meet, are part of the reasons why I care so much about York.
York’s reputation depends entirely on who you ask and the experiences they’ve had. Everyone always says some reiterated version of, “it’s what you make of it,” however, somewhere along the way I feel like we’ve forgotten that.
There is this romanticized idea that someone else’s school is better than yours (the grass is always greener on the other side, to use a cliché). We’ve started blaming everything on our school, discrediting it and putting it down.
But it’s your experiences; it’s the people you meet, how you approach situations and the opportunities you allow yourself to have, York is just the place that it happens. It’s your time—to take responsibility.
Get involved. It’s not just something to say, it’s actual advice because there are more opportunities and resources than you may realize. Utilize your time here and respect the education you are receiving and the institution you are attending.
Your degree is a piece of paper; your education is what you make of it. York was the fresh perspective that I needed and the choice I’m glad I made.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Alexander Colle | Sports Editor
Featured image: The energy at ‘Jurassic Park’ was at an all-time high in April, catching the attention of fans across the league. | Courtesy of The Toronto Star
This spring, Toronto sports fans had the chance to experience something that hasn’t happened since 2002: the Maple Leafs and Raptors making the playoffs in the same season.
Although the two Air Canada Centre tenants have each had their brief stretches of success over the past 15 years, Toronto sports fans have been deprived of enjoying them at the same in April. Furthermore, in six of these 15 years, Torontonians have not had the opportunity to cheer for either team come playoff time.
This April finally brought an end to this trend, as both the Maple Leafs and the Raptors successfully made it to the playoffs in their respective leagues. The city saw a playoff fever that thousands of youth and young adults had not experienced in their lifetime.
This fever was especially present on York campus, where hundreds of students showed their support by watching the games, posting on social media, and wearing Leafs- and Raptors-related gear.
“The playoff fever in Toronto has a huge impact on York’s campus since people are more willing to go to campus bars to watch the games,” says third-year theatre student Maddy Fisher. “I’ve gone to Shopsy’s more in the past month or so just to watch sports with friends than I have all year!”
York students jumped on a ‘hype train’ by sharing pictures at sports bars on Instagram, sending videos of the mayhem at Jurassic Park/ Maple Leafs Square on Snapchat, tweeting their brief thoughts about games, and giving their detailed opinions about games via Reddit.
But among everything else, the feeling that was most prevalent through the April playoff run was national pride.
“When Toronto makes it to the playoffs, people become extremely patriotic to not only the sports team, but also Canada,” adds Fisher. “I see an increase in various swag items that reflect both the sport and Canada as a whole. It’s definitely a sense of pride for most people.”
Looking at York Lions teams, one cannot help but wonder about the effect that a similar sense of support would have on the performance of our teams. The inspiration that a passionate York crowd can give has been known to work wonders in the past.
“There is a huge difference between a normal regular season game and a playoff game,” says Fisher. “The crowd is always more vocal and is willing to go as far as they can to ensure a win for York. Some fight the other team, some fight the referees, and others pray.”
Unfortunately, not every team benefits from a rowdy York crowd voicing support for their team, especially the Lions’ teams that fall outside the popular soccer and football sphere. When asked about his experience supporting the York men’s basketball team, second-year environmental studies major Abdeali Saherwala remarked on a vastly different experience when compared to Fisher’s hockey experience. Saherwala was disappointed with the atmosphere at the game, and felt the cause was directly related to a lack of attendance.
“I believe that hype and crowd support can really boost morale for players, who are trying their absolute best to win. But without the support from the York community, it is difficult to draw emotional strength and resilience,” he adds.
So this year, why not take the time to support your Lions? Whether it is a men’s soccer championship game or a regular season basketball game, any support will be needed in the upcoming 2017-2018 York Lions season. Your cheers will yield noticeable results on the field, pitch, court, or rink, so I hope to see you there this year!
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 


Awesome! Love Sherlock!

 York University Community Newspaper 
