Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured image: Barbie’s version of Frida Kahlo does not have her iconic unibrow and wheelchair. | Courtesy of Popsugar.com
On International Women’s Day, Mattel, the toy manufacturing company that creates Barbie dolls, launched a line of dolls based on historical and iconic women. The dolls included Amelia Earhart, Katherine Johnson, and Frida Kahlo. However, relatives of Kahlo say that the company is not authorized to create the doll.
According to Vanity Fair, Kahlo’s great-niece, Mara de Anda Romeo, claimed Mattel does not have the rights to use Kahlo’s image. She and many others have complained about the doll’s appearance, claiming the Barbie does not accurately depict Kahlo’s long, dark unibrow.
The feud between Kahlo’s family and Mattel goes beyond the authorization of using Kahlo’s image, but focuses on how the company inaccurately depicted the artist. Many on Twitter took to heart that the Barbie does not show Kahlo’s iconic unibrow and her wheelchair, claiming it steals the truth and twists it in order to make sales; a beautification of Kahlo in order to conform to social standards.
Sarah Cacella, a third-year English and Professional Writing undergraduate, says: “If you’re going to make a Barbie of her, then make it right. They have a duty to portray people accurately, so that they can be remembered accurately.”
Mattel is not the only company who has tried to downgrade a myriad of women into looking a certain way. Companies like Clairol, Dove, and Nivea also promote beautification. They advertise skin lightening, hair removal, or hair dyeing products to show women whose skin is not “fair enough” or hair is not “black enough.”
Many companies still find a way to use these advertising components as a means of making sales, because they know several cultures uphold extreme beauty standards from history and colonization.
However, if Mattel is going to release a line of dolls based on “inspiring women,” they should at least create these dolls to much better resemble the historical figures they are supposed to.
Mattel should have included Kahlo’s wheelchair, to show people that the artist suffered from polio and spina bifida, as well as her unibrow, which represented her desire to resist the norm.
John Mercado, a fourth-year Marketing undergraduate, says: “The way I see it is, Mattel has been doing this for years with their Barbie line. Even though they claim to represent every kind of woman, they often cop out by adjusting their dolls to find their idea of beauty and how a woman should look.
“For example, looking perfect in the sense that they’re slim, blonde, and fair-skinned with blue eyes. I find that this kind of representation will definitely affect young girls negatively, especially those kids who grow up with dolls that look nothing like them.
There is a growing shift amongst consumers, and their needs have demanded that companies like Mattel and products like Barbie accurately represent women of all shapes, sizes, and colours—imperfections and all.
“Frida Kahlo was the epitome of feminism and being unique. It’s a shame that after all these years, Barbie still has these preconceived notions of ‘beauty’ and cannot change with the times,” adds Mercado.
Much like Mattel’s inaccurate and dangerous depiction of Kahlo, some companies still proceed to target a specific market, rather than including women of varying appearances and cultures. Joanne Rondilla, the author of Is Lighter Better?: Skin-Tone Discrimination Among Asian Americans and a professor at Sonoma State University, explained to Buzzfeed: “When cosmetics companies visualize who their target market is, it’s not an Asian woman or a Filipino woman. It’s a white woman. Telling a white woman to retain her whiteness, it means something different in the U.S.”
The beautification of a product in order to conform to certain standards of beauty affect the way women view themselves. They often have a need to conform to these standards, no matter how dangerous and unnecessary it may become.
Mattel’s notion of a line of dolls based on inspiring women is a new step towards change—however, they still need to work on a few things, especially in how they depict these iconic women.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Natasha Ali | Supplement Coordinator
Featured image | Courtesy of Pixabay
The latest Doritos product sent the internet into a frenzy and sparked a discussion on gender bias. Doritos recently announced its latest product: Lady Doritos.
The popular franchise pitched the “female-friendly” chips in early February and almost immediately, the internet was abuzz.
The idea is to create a product that caters to women’s perceived femininity and delicateness. According to PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi, women “don’t like to crunch too loudly in public, they don’t lick their fingers generously, and they don’t like to pour the little broken pieces and the flavor into their mouth.”
So essentially, Doritos is preserving women’s palates, as well as their expected etiquette. However, Twitter users weren’t too pleased with the news, and the insinuation that women like to be treated differently.
This latest Doritos stunt is one of many ideas previously pitched by industries for the satisfaction of one gender.
There once existed a brand of Bic pens that was marketed as having an “elegant design and a thin barrel to fit a women’s hand.” Another gender-segregating product that hit the markets was Mansize Tissues, made for men by Kleenex because “plain old frilly tissues are too girly for a man’s needs.”
On a more serious note, gender-based marketing is a crucial part of advertising techniques that companies use to sell their products. Stereotypical conceptions are the basis of these tactics, as producers use stereotypical representations of gender to appeal to a certain sex.
Arguably, it can be said this is related to societal discrimination of men and women, where men are taught from an early age to be aggressive and vocal, and women are often expected to take a back seat and focus on their appearance.
It starts with the way toys are introduced and advertised to young demographics. In an interview with CBC’s Information Morning, Fiona Martin, a researcher at Dalhousie University, commented on the gender-centered separation of toys.
“The gendered marketing of toys using features such as colour and function—for example, cosmetics and dolls for girls; weapons and action figures for boys—seems to be intensifying,” she said.
In her view, the nature of toys shapes a child’s personality in terms of future vanity or defensive behavior. Another inconsistency in marketing is visible with video game advertising.
Generally, the main characters in video games are males, whereas females are marginalized to be victims that need rescuing. An example would be one of the most famous video game franchises, Super Mario Bros.
Its protagonist is a male, Mario, who uses his cunning tactics to save the helpless Princess Peach. The main goal of this and many other video games is to attract the male demographic by portraying gender stereotypes that just do not hold anymore.
Among the York community, students have contrasting views on discriminatory advertising.
Third-year Global Health student Frazielle Agtarap linked societal sexism to the yin-yang philosophy. He says: “In Chinese tradition, white was seen as the woman… and men were the black.”
Agtarap goes on to explain that these categories are simply obsolete and irrelevant in today’s world.
“Just because we got categorized into something, doesn’t mean we don’t fit with the other.”
On the other hand, Tom Granger, a third-year Computer Science student, has opposing views on the matter. He believes the gender bias in marketing is exaggerated among consumers, saying: “Just because a person can’t control their idiosyncrasies, doesn’t mean we have to make everything be pleasing to everyone.”
He further provides an alternate solution to the controversy: “It’s kind of ironic, because a guy will not eat these Doritos because they are for women, but if you really want to oppose the idea of gender based advertisement, then you should really go out and buy these and eat them, and maybe then Doritos will market it towards men too.”
It’s safe to say that at a time of social change, people do not easily accept the idea of separating products by gender. While some have strong, vindictive opinions about the recent Doritos advertising campaign, others seem to brush it off as a promotion stunt. However, the stereotypical notion some companies are making with their products is considered offensive and old-fashioned by many, and is proof there may still be much improvement to be made.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Natasha Ali | Supplement Coordinator
Featured image: Despite the recent win for women hockey players, there’s still a long way to go regarding equality for female athletes. | Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The Canadian Women’s Hockey League (CWHL) has finally paid its players after a successful run at the Winter Olympics this year. It seems bizarre these players had been competing without pay ever since the league was first created in 2007. Even more surprising is the fact that the female players all must maintain day jobs on the side to support themselves.
This is reflective of female marginalization in the sports world. Female athletic events are rarely seen on live T.V., and even if they are, they rarely rake in high viewership. Before the CWHL announced this ground-breaking news, the National Women’s Hockey League had already been the first North American hockey league to pay its female players.
Sadly, the amount of money is humble, ranging from $2,000 to a maximum of $10,000 per player. Compared to the whopping salaries received by male NHL players, there is still room for improvement for these female athletes.
The imbalance between male and female athletic events extends beyond the scope of just one sport. In the most recent Winter Olympic Games in PyeongChang, women were deprived the opportunity of competing in certain events, based on outdated beliefs regarding women’s physical stamina. Also, media coverage of female athletes could often be viewed as demeaning and offensive. Sports commentators, as well as radio hosts, were critiqued using sexist language when addressing the players, undermining their performance and capabilities.
An opinion piece published by the Huffington Post highlighted this issue in sports: “Female athletes are women first, to be desired and lusted after, and athletes second.” This bold statement scrutinizes the depiction of women in the media on a number of levels.
Further, the article discusses the exclusion of women who are supposedly different because “the only women worthy of the spotlight have to fit those normative roles.”
Despite all the negative aspects of women’s sports, there is light at the end of the tunnel. Paying female hockey players is a step in the right direction for their recognition in traditionally male activities.
Further, the snide comments regarding the female athletes’ physiques now getting shot down and panned by supporters, represents the desire for social change—but we still have a long way to go until we achieve that utmost equality.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Natasha Ali | Supplement Coordinator
Featured image: The elevated cost of contraceptives falls solely on women. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Access to birth control has been a debate in societies for a long time, with lack of affordability and accessibility often placed as barriers on women’s access to contraceptives.
According to an article published by Metro Toronto, many Canadian women face difficulty getting birth control pills. It is reported that most women in Canada either opt not to use them, or use them irregularly.
The main issue is the high cost of contraceptives, which isn’t covered as part of the healthcare system. Dr. Wendy Norman, chair of the Contraception Access Research Team at the University of British Columbia, said: “When we look around the world, Canada is one of the only societies that pays for universal health care… but doesn’t provide free contraception.”
Interestingly, the elevated cost of contraceptives falls solely on women, as well as transgender individuals. This raises an issue of discrimination against females, who are left with this financial burden, to make an informed choice regarding their own reproduction.
Further, women with lower incomes become more likely to abort, should an accidental pregnancy occur. In fact, several statistics have shown that “one in three Canadian women will have an abortion in their lifetime.”
There are many advantages to free contraceptives, both for women and for the healthcare system as a whole. It benefits taxpayers in the long run, as they would have more financial commitments if an unintended pregnancy occurred.
Another benefit is that it reduces healthcare costs, contrary to public misconceptions.
Providing free contraceptives reduces abortions, allowing more governmental budget to be devoted to family planning education.
With the recent introduction of a new and improved health care plan in Ontario, one of the main goals was to provide free medication to a certain age cohort, including birth control pills.
However, there are still many restrictions placed on women when purchasing these pills.
Therefore, there needs to be a change to healthcare regulations and contraceptives, in order for it to become more accessible, as well as helping to maintain better financial and social stability.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
