Victoria Silman | Staff Writer
Featured image: The website so far appears as useful as the counter at the bottom of the web page. | Basma Elbahnasawy
A new website has been created that reveals the extensive spending and questionable practices behind the use of student tuition by York’s President and Vice-Chancellor Rhonda Lenton, under the address “lenton.cn.”
It is unclear who the website’s creator is; however, an IP address suggests involvement from an individual in the YFS’ (York Federation of Students) office.
The YFS President was unable to be reached for comment, however a spokesperson from their office explains: “A lot of these expenses were made two or three years ago. Many members of YFS were in high school then. There is no way they were involved.”
The site includes links to photocopied receipts allegedly revealing Lenton’s use of tuition on various unnecessary materials, including—but not limited to—an expensive lawyer for the Canadian Union of Public Employees local 3903 negotiations, bribes with Chinese officials on an expensive trip to Shanghai, and what the site claims as “hospitality, including adult entertainment, and a performance by [redacted] with an unlimited supply of Virginia Black Whiskey.”
The receipts list hospitality at a total of $4,000 for the month the event was held.
A third-year Accounting student, Sati Redition, comments: “If Rhonda wants to use my money to show her guests a good time, who am I to stop her? The way I see it, it benefits all York students if our president wants to create a feeling of a fun-loving, progressive, and modern school.
“If she feels it’s necessary to also support local artists and their business endeavors, I think that reflects greatly on the York community.”
It has also been noted that York’s previous President, Mamdouh Shoukri, had made similar claims during his presidency, including $5,000 per month on entertainment.
A spokesperson for Lenton’s office explains: “President Shoukri spent $5,000 per month on entertainment, which President Lenton has yet to do so. She hasn’t even spent that much. All her expenses are really important.”
Dr. Ed Stringer, a Satanist Studies professor, explains: “Shoukri spent a great deal each month on entertaining people. Now that a woman is in office, it’s obvious that people are coming down on her harder than they were with Shoukri. Although, she is a woman after all, so she probably spends all her money uselessly anyways. If anyone in my class disagrees, I’ll fail them.”
Reddit users in the r/yorku thread have been expressing their views about the legitimacy of the website, and the claims it is making against York’s president.
Red D’ittor, a Critical Thinking student, comments: “YFS is likely involved. This has to be organized by the YFS President to maintain to her status as the ineptest woman at York.”
Concerning the legitimacy of the claims, D’ittor continues: “100 per cent of the website is 100 per cent fake, and I have like 100 per cent proof. Their (sic) making spellig (sic) mistakes in every other sentence.”
When asked for the proof, D’ittor explains: “A ‘journalist’ of your calibur (sic) wouldn’t understand the complexity of the proof. In fact, it’s so advanced that I don’t even understand it. It’s just fake. Okay?”
An anonymous Reddit user comments: “The website provides sufficient evidence to prove the spending is legitimate. It couldn’t be clearer than that. If anyone says the website is anything but real, they need to take a class in logic.”
Lance Free, an Osgoode Hall Law professor, adds: “The website is obviously so totally legit. They have pictures and stuff. Just look at the evidence, man.”
A timer at the bottom of the website counts down until the next reveal of information regarding Lenton. One anonymous student suggests: “Could be Russian prostitutes. Who knows? I guess we’ll see!”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Emilie Miranda | Executive Editor, Online
Featured image: Surprising benefits to the GO stops along Steeles are creating discussion about a permanent move north. | Basma Elbahnasawy
One ramification of the current CUPE 3903 strike has been the rerouting of transit vehicles, including GO Transit, TTC buses, ZUM, and YRT/VIVA north of campus.
GO Transit, in particular, has been displaced the most, moving from the bus loop at the centre of campus to drop-off and pick-up points on Steeles Avenue.
While this has made it a longer walk for students, GO officials have begun the conversation to create permanent stops along Steeles and abandoned the bus loop altogether.
“Our drivers have become accustomed to the temporary stops along Steeles, and many have found benefits in the shorter route that does not continue south of Steeles on Keele Street,” says Büs E. Man, director of commuting for GO.
“It cuts down on their time stuck in traffic during rush hour, and enables them to remain on main roads, making it much easier for them to make it into the Tim Horton’s drive-thru.”
One bus driver, who wishes to remain anonymous, says: “Avoiding the bus loop also means we don’t have to sit and wait for the streams of students going back and forth from the subway. Not only that, it makes things safer for those kids crossing at inopportune areas to catch the next train. I’d hate for them to miss their train and have to wait an extra two minutes.”
Some students agree with the proposed change, citing having to cover extra ground to get to the bus as providing health and wellness benefits.
“I’ve actually lost 10 pounds since the buses moved,” says first-year Gender and Women’s Studies student Faar Walker.
“The longer walk, having to run for the bus so I’m not waiting for an hour on the side of Steeles, and even the excessive sweating from hurrying through the cold air and then sitting on the overly warm bus have all contributed to my increased endurance. York has a great track-and-field team; if the buses stay north of campus, I think I have a good shot of making it next year.”
“People don’t realize how beautiful the north side of campus really is. Once you’re past the Student Centre and hit the open areas near Vanier College and Stedman Lecture Hall, it’s actually really quiet and peaceful,” says fourth-year Kinesiology student Amie Skye.
“Even the dust clouds from the neverending construction at Farquharson Life Sciences building aren’t enough to dampen my spirits. No, no, my cough is unrelated.”
Others agree that going farther south on Keele was more of a hindrance than a help.
“During rush hour, it was ridiculous waiting nearly 20 minutes to get from York Boulevard to Steeles; that was the longest part of my commute and I live in Oshawa,” says Anastasia Byte, a third-year Communication Studies student.
“Sure, the left-turn onto Keele from Steeles can take some time as well, but if you hit it so that the lights are timed just right, you can save a half hour from the trip.”
University officials point to the increased foot traffic by Founders Road as creating a safer campus.
“When students cut through the roundabouts, it forces drivers to be more aware of their surroundings and slow down,” says York Media representative Justine Sayin.
“We’ve only had to deal with one minor collision in the four weeks since the buses have moved.”
 


Funny, that’s not what I’m hearing from GO bus drivers. There is a significant wait Keele and Steeles and having to drive from the last stop at York back to 407 station only to have to come down Jane and make the left back to Steeles is a pain. The coffee and lunch spots on campus were convenient as well. Passengers hate the long walk and lack of shelter on Steeles. Quite frankly it seems like there are some spin doctors at work here. YUSA is negotiating soon and I suspect this will be an issue from what I have heard. I can’t imagine that students are thrilled at the prospect of attending York after the strike fiasco and this will be another reason to opt for other universities.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Nicole Tilin | Contributor
Featured image: YFS is concerned computers will do more to hinder the student experience, than help it. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The York Federation of Students (YFS) represents over 53,000 students and is a leader in campus-wide campaigns, championing outstanding ability to lobby for movements that help empower students.
In their latest campaign to help students succeed academically, the YFS is urging course instructors to restrict students from using laptops in class.
Presy Denette, president of the YFS, says this is a crucial movement, as it “maintains the sanctity of the classroom, consent, the fact that students get distracted, and because we’ve seen cases at other universities, where laptops would get hacked, resulting in plagiarism.”
Although technology augments just about every field, the YFS takes a strong stance against technology—in particular, in the classroom. They believe that not only does technology strip students of the ability to do well, but it can also lead to a violation of academic integrity.
Some students do not have access to laptops, and the YFS claims it is inequitable for them to struggle, keeping up with students privileged enough to own a laptop.
Furthermore, students who bring laptops create a disruptive learning space for their peers through browsing Facebook, watching videos, and tending to other leisurely affairs.
One YFS member, who wished to remain anonymous, has a strong regard for this new campaign aimed at maintaining York’s more traditional framework.
“I’m not trying to say technology is ineffective, but we know electronics sometimes aren’t the most reliable,” the student says. “I feel like with a paper, pen, and the right mindset, that’s the easiest way you can go.”
Some students, on the other hand, are enraged York would be “regressing” instead of sticking to modern times.
Nora Zambonie, a second-year Economics major, claims this campaign prevents York from evolving with universities across Ontario and “aims to turn York into a more primitive, less representative, and less accessible way for students to earn their education.
“Having laptops in class is an effective method of taking notes for thousands of students across the globe,” Zambonie says.
“It has been proven to increase accessibility for students who have trouble reading their own handwriting and keeping up.
“It increases note-taking speed, engagement with online course material, and maximizes in-class participation.”
Zambonie says laptops are more secure than the traditional paper-and-pen method. Pages do not get lost, as data can always be backed up along with almost all other activities best done online, such as the handling of financial records, personal information, online ballot votes, and grades.
“Lastly, laptops are so much more eco-friendly!” she adds. “Think about all the paper we’re saving by keeping notes on our computers, rather than the hundreds of pages students waste yearly.”
Patrick Hassa, a fourth-year English major, is another student who stands firmly against this new campaign. “It makes no sense to prevent the use of technology in classrooms,” he says.
“Unlike the YFS’ claims to support this new movement, technology is, in fact, a more productive and efficient way to do things. It’s shocking that the YFS refuses to move forward. As a university, we need to continue evolving, and if laptops are banned in class, we are delaying progress—and that’s quite embarrassing.”
As an institution that runs democratically, students have an opportunity and right to fight for what they believe in. If students remain passive, a new policy preventing them from using laptops in class will take effect.
Any students opposed to the campaign are encouraged to get involved, to ensure the YFS remains relevant and reflects student interests.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Luke Miles | Contributor
Featured image: Students have agreed not to strike if their demands, including meal cards and a lighter assignment load, are met. | Basma Elbahnasawy
On March 1, a group of 10,000 undergraduate students on a York Facebook group agreed they would go on strike.
“We’re just really tired,” one student, who has chosen to remain anonymous so his parents can’t scold him for his laziness, commented on the discussion board. “We just want a break. We figure if enough of us decide not to show up, there isn’t much anyone can do.”
The students agree 10,000 isn’t a huge chunk of the student body, considering York is home to over 50,000 undergraduates, but they agree their lack of presence will be felt and noticed.
“We will have an impact,” wrote Katy Smith, an English undergraduate, in the “Will Anyone Listen to Us?” group chat.
“Someone will notice we’re gone. I’m sure someone on the staff cares about student welfare. They must. Surely. They’ll ask where we went.”
“They’ll be wasting a lot of their own money,” says Economics Professor William B. Bilingstrom, when asked to comment on the upcoming student strike.
“As a professor and economist, I’m highly concerned about student finances. I don’t want anyone’s money going to waste.
“I’m also worried about the global economy as a whole. Where would the world be if students decide to delay their futures? The job market is looking to take students fresh from school, but what will the job market do if there are no students?”
When questioned, students planning to strike did express concern about their finances. A panel of undergraduates came together to discuss solutions to this problem, and came to the conclusion that if professors truly cared about student welfare and finances, they would just refund striking students.
“Just pay us back whatever we’ve lost,” Smith wrote. “And give us meal cards too. We’re starving. Oh, please, please, feed us. I haven’t eaten in three days.”
The strike is expected to commence in mid-September of the following school year. Staff are well aware of the planned strike, but they seem unconcerned, as students have pointed out in various group-chats.
“I don’t think they’ll stop us,” says Engineering student G. Pete Aye. “It’s almost like they want the strike to happen. They’re making no efforts to hear us out.”
Students collectively decided they wouldn’t strike if a few conditions were met. “We want meal cards,” Aye says after an on-campus student meeting where the strike was discussed. “We’re not even asking for much, just $50 a month. We find, as students, meeting daily needs is so difficult.
“School costs thousands per semester; commuting to lectures is expensive too. A lot of us can’t keep up with jobs. We need all the help we can get. If someone paid for our food, that would be really helpful.”
“We’d also ask for less demanding assignment schedules,” says Smith. “I don’t like how I have to pay to do work—usually, it’s the opposite. I would even take minimum wage. I think, if we’re not going to be paid for this, we shouldn’t have to do as much work.”
Students are looking forward to the strike, but they wouldn’t complain if staff intervened and gave them a reason to stay. Several students agreed they would be happy if York staff paid attention to their pleas for negotiation.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Arslan Ahmed | Sports Editor
Featured image: While they might not have had the best season, they at least did better than U of T. | Basma Elbahnasawy
Remember when the Cleveland Browns threw a parade after going 0-16 and labelled it as a “perfect season?” Well, they set a precedent.
York’s men’s football team did not have a perfect season and finished with a record of 1-7. However, that win was worth celebrating, as they avoided a winless season.
The Lions men’s football team will hold a parade through the streets of York; Security will be heavily required, as York linemen likely won’t be able to stop fans from blitzing the floats.
Fans are asked not to invade the parade, but they are encouraged to stand close by; the gifts and apparel being thrown by the quarterback may not reach far enough into the crowd.
When asked about this season’s record, Vee Kant Ruhn says: “The reason we could not score was because the north end of Toronto gets lots of rain and snow. The field was always wet and slippery, making it difficult to play defense or offense.”
Reasonable answer, and the team is working on solving this issue. To be part of the parade, the team is charging a $2 entry fee to raise money for a dome.
Coach Mayweather suggests: “The dome is really important. We will continue to hold parades to raise money, and avoid the issue of weather to start winning games.”
Splendid strategy. Holding parades will make fans happy and raise money for a dome—meanwhile, other teams will play in the rigid cold, and their fans would suffer watching them win in temperatures below -20.
The parade will start at the Lions Stadium at 5 a.m., and will last the entire day. When asked about this great length of parade, Coach Helpme replies: “We need to raise a lot of money for this dome. The longer we hold the parade circling York, the more donors we will receive.”
When you’re the last place team in the conference, you might as well have the best-looking stadium. The dome will solve the weather issue, and contribute to York winning games—seems like sacrificing wins over the next few years will translate into a dome and winning culture.
Tanking season is upon us. Jacoby Kantkach, wide receiver, says: “We have embraced losing. Losing is an investment for the future Lions. We will hold a parade every season despite our record, and ultimately protect our players and fans from the cold by fundraising for a dome.”
With the season over, priorities of the men’s team have been aligned. The team will hold parades every season moving forward, despite their record. York students are encouraged to join the parade and can also donate online, at yorkweatheriscold.ca.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Arslan Ahmed | Sports Editor
Featured image: The party will celebrate the Lions eventual championship… a preward, so to speak. | Courtesy of Marco Antonio Ramón García
In a fairy tale, the tortoise is supposed to win the race when it is all said and done. The hare can run all it wants; however, the persistent tortoise will catch him and win the race. Likewise, the Lions have been tortoises in the sport of basketball. They haven’t won yet, but are optimistic they will eventually become champions.
The Lions are so confident they will win the championship one day, the team would like to throw a pre-championship party.
The party is scheduled for April 31 at Tait McKenzie at 8 a.m., as the team is in the habit for waking up early for practice. Josh Misedshot says: “I love morning practices—since I can’t sleep at night thinking about all our losses, I don’t need an alarm and am wide awake at 8 a.m.”
The party will start off with a classic game of beer pong—which may last forever, on account of the basketball team’s shooting percentage. On second thought, it might be quick, as their opponents may just shoot them off the table.
Next activity on the party schedule is the blind free throw contest. This contest gives the men’s basketball team a huge advantage, as they have been shooting free throws blindly all season.
Beware contestants, you might not make a single free throw blindfolded, but the Lions may make two with their eyes open. Keeping the confidence of the athletes intact is important—hence, the men’s team will shoot without a blindfold, and odds are, they will narrowly beat blindfolded participants.
The 21 regular-season losses and last place finish in the conference has been interpreted as positive, and the team expects to continue losing to eventually learn how to become champions.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: Adding one Golden Delicious apple to your daily diet will surely do something. | Courtesy of Gerhard Gellinger
It’s a saying that’s been tossed along from generation to generation: “An apple a day keeps the doctor away.” The meaning is simple—however, does the message carry as much weight as it claims?
This folk wisdom emerged around the 1860’s, where the slogan then was: “Eat an apple on going to bed, and you’ll keep the doctor from earning his bread.”
However, the saying we’re most familiar with was re-appropriated in the 19th century.
A recent study from a hospital in Somewhere, conducted by some potentially influential person—depending on who you ask—says most doctors do not encourage the consumption of apples, as it means fewer visits to see your friendly faces and takes away their ability to provide instant solutions to your problems. While this advice may be controversial, a student once said (not even sarcastically): “The wait-lines are part of the fun when you’re sick.”
The standard dietary recommendation consists of six to seven servings of fruits and vegetables a day. Fruits provides one’s body with a source of fibre, an essential component for a healthy heart, stomach, and liver. A regular-sized apple contains approximately 25 grams of carbohydrates—the majority coming from fructose, which occurs naturally in fruit sugar.
Apples contain properties that no other fruits have, “these benefits have been proven overtime,” adds a different doctor from a different place. Apples contain vitamin C, are low in calories, and contain phenols, which reduce bad cholesterol, while increasing the good. Apples prevent heart disease, cancers, and tooth decay, but most importantly, they’re known for they’re great taste—depending on the type.
Not only do apples keep the doctors away, they also keep you awake and improve breathing. Apples contain no caffeine—however, it is the sugar and vitamins slowly released throughout the body that make one feel more awake.
The debate on which apple is healthier has also been called into question—while green apples may contain more fibre and less carbohydrates and sugar than red apples, the antioxidants in red apples are almost insufficiently more—almost.
This same doctor adds: “When you’ve got antioxidants, you don’t need to worry about toxicity.” The antioxidants in apples—red specifically—provide anti-inflammatory benefits. So, an apple a day may keep the doctor away—but only if you eat the peel.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: Did you really think social responsibility and health-actualization were anything more than superfluous? | Courtesy of Alan Cleaver, with edits from Basma Elbahnasawy
Never has there been a more opportune, rational, and necessary shift in ideals to hit society than the fat acceptance movement.
Ever since first blooming in the ‘60s—but truly taking off in the past several years across social media—fat acceptance has continued to grow in numbers and influence, offering once-self-conscious, but now happily-reassured, abundant gastronomes comfort worldwide that their potentially self-destructive health habits are justified.
Think about it—why should someone ever feel the instinct to put in hard work to address their body’s physical needs? Why strive to promote higher-quality health standards on a societal scale—to perhaps even inspire the same motivation in others who could use it—when instead, everyone can simply demand the whole world affirm that the obese are, in fact, beautiful and healthy as they are right now?
Never fear—fat acceptance is here to validate our life choices.
“The way we see it, this movement isn’t denying that obesity is a problem—it is just choosing not to focus on it. Instead, it prioritizes the well-being of individuals affected by fat-shaming and other ways of targeting and attacking fat people,” wrote Matea Paveskovic in Odyssey Magazine on the conversation.
Understand that when those around you do affirm the classified-overweight or -obese are healthy, they are being progressive. In that moment, they are compassionate, caring human beings. If they do not, however, then clearly they are vain and hopelessly obsessed with their own physical aesthetics—time and again seduced by the pressures to fit in, and the baloney of pursuing perceived fulfillment through fitness.
As it turns out, the various direct medical costs, productivity costs, transportation costs, and human capital costs that cause many working members in society financial strain, do actually exist. Nevertheless, for the sake of compassion towards those responsible, for the time being—however long that might take—it is probably best not to confront the root causes of such overspending.
“Relative medical spending for the obese may be as much as 100 per cent higher than for healthy weight adults, and nationwide ‘excess’ medical spending may amount to as much as $147 billion annually in the U.S. for adults, and $14.3 billion annually for children,” reported Ross Hammond and Ruth Levine in their study, The economic impact of obesity in the United States.
Despite popular opinion, science, and dictionaries, it is actually very possible to be both overweight and fit.
“There is no ‘normal’ size,” wrote Krystal Marx in the Huffington Post. “There is healthy, there is able, there is what we’re born with, what we choose to make of it, how we choose to form it, how we take care of it (inside and out)… and the knowledge that, no matter how good you treat yourself and how much care you show your body, someone will always tell youthat you’re doing it wrong.”
What—others don’t agree with your inspiring attitude? Of course they don’t. They are haters, after all. They are fat shamers—which, yes, is exactly what they’re doing every time they speculate the overweight might not be as healthy as they claim, injudiciously contemplating the broader social implications.
“I don’t want to take on any specific organization—but a social movement that would suggest healthy at any size in many respects can be misleading,” said Barry Franklin, PhD, director of the Cardiac Rehab Program and Exercise Laboratories at William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan.
“We can’t say that every overweight person is healthy.”
Nonsense. Sure we can.
For never before has humankind encountered such a brilliant, clean workaround to one of its most intractable—and apparently far simpler to solve—epidemics yet.
“Obesity is the single greatest public health problem we face in the U.S. today, and is now spreading beyond the developed world into developing countries,” said Stephen Nicholls, MD, clinical director of the Cleveland Clinic Center for Cardiovascular Diagnostics and Prevention.
But don’t be confused, person who might still—for whatever reason—be taking their health seriously (and possibly even considering the ramifications of doing so for the rest of their immediate community).
The real issue here is not one of having high self-esteem, nor is it about feeling whole and accepted. It is not about feeling beautiful and appreciated at any physical size, with any apparent superficial defect, blemish, or imperfection—as everyone rightfully deserves to.
While such values certainly address the symptomatic, they do not address the root cause of this social problem—which is: everyone who makes you feel defensive needs to stop audaciously suggesting you take responsibility and think about your role in promoting a healthier society. Instead, literally everyone should change in order to make you feel good now.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
