 
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: A student was approached by a blonde, four-foot-nine to five-foot tall woman, and threatened with rape and robbery. | Fatema Ali
A female student was approached by a young woman in Scott Library last week, threatening to have somebody come to rape and rob her.
The incident happened in the library on November 20 at approximately 6:40 p.m. The student, who wishes to remain anonymous, says the attack was provoked by her walking slowly into the library while looking at her phone.
“This person brushes past me and says: ‘you’re walking so f—ing slow people have s— to do.’ I said, ‘this is not a race track.’ She took off her sunglasses and said ‘what did you say? I’m gonna bash your face in,’” the student says.
“I told my friend what happened, and we studied upstairs for about 40 minutes. When we went downstairs, we started working on our essays. Everything was fine and quiet. Then, in walked the girl again—it looked like she was walking around the library looking for me,” she continues.
After the suspect had found her again, she began to threaten her with violence, including rape and robbery. According to the student, the woman placed a call to an unknown person, asking them to “cover their license plate and bring the gun.”
The student also pointed out the lack of security personnel in the library at the time of the incident. “She was on the phone with the person telling them where we were and where to come, and the fact that there was no security to protect me,” she says.
The student, feeling threatened, called 911 to report the incident. When asked for a description, she tried to take a photo of the suspect, who then tried to take the student’s phone.
Once York Security was called, the woman fled the scene.  According to the student, she gave her statement to York Security, but has yet to hear back from them.
The student called TPS, who informed her that the student centre does not have a ban on trespassing individuals, and the likelihood of finding the suspect—if she is not a student—is slim.
Fearing the suspect might still be looking for the her, the student expressed her fear due to the lack of security measures against trespassing individuals. “I’ve been afraid to come to school since this happened,” she says.
“I know a lot of people have been robbed. Somebody lost their laptop, their whole backpack was taken. There are people that are allowed to trespass on the property and it’s not very safe for us students.”
Chief Spokesperson and Director of Media Relations at York, Barbara Joy, says: “York takes community safety very seriously. We always strive to ensure community members feel safe and have the support and services they need.
“I can share that York Security and Toronto Police attended the scene of the incident. Toronto Police are still investigating and York Security is assisting by providing evidence on a possible suspect.”
The suspect is described as a four-foot-nine to five-foot tall caucasian woman with blond hair. At the time of the incident, she was wearing a ski mask and sunglasses.
If spotted, students, staff, and faculty are encouraged to contact TPS and York Security.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured image courtesy of YorkU Lions 
The Lions men’s and women’s volleyball teams hosted both their local rivals—Ryerson and U of T—this weekend. Both Lions teams lost to the Ryerson Rams on Friday, the women in straight sets, and the men 3-2. The women also lost 3-0 to the U of T Varsity Blues on Saturday, while the men won 3-2 this time.
The women’s struggle against the Ryerson Rams on Friday was understandable, given the Rams are the reigning U SPORTS champions, and currently lead the OUA East.
The men’s game against the Rams was much closer. After four sets, the game was tied at two. Unfortunately for York, Ryerson took the last set 19-17 to win 3-2.
On Sunday, the women struggled again, this time against U of T, who also defeated York in three straight sets, and have now overtaken them for second place in the OUA East, while the Lions tumble to third.
The men, however, won some bragging rights in their game against U of T on Sunday, winning the fifth set after the Blues tied the game at 2-2, to secure a 3-2 win over their cross-town rivals.
Both teams now head into the winter break and will be back in action in January.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured Image: Men win in triple overtime while women lose to end five-game winning streak. | Courtesy of YorkU Lions
Both Lions basketball teams travelled to Thunder Bay this Saturday to take on Lakehead. Each game was a hard-fought battle. The women finished their game in a heartbreaking, 86-83 loss, while the men took theirs to three overtime periods before they triumphed over the Thunderwolves 112-104.
In the women’s game, both teams were close in points throughout the contest. York’s Lauren Golding put the first points on the scoreboard with a three-pointer. Other Lions’ contributors in the first quarter included: Katrina Collins-Samuel, with a layup; and Emma Jonas, with a three-pointer. Lakehead, however, poured in 23 points of their own, en route to a one-point lead going into the second.
The game remained close in the second quarter as both teams scored sixteen points. With 10 seconds to go, the game was tied at 38, but the Thunderwolves knocked down a free throw to take a one-point lead into half.
Lakehead increased their lead in the third quarter to 60-56 as they outscored the Lions by three points. Led by team captain Collins-Samuel, who scored twelve points and Megan McLeod, who scored seven points, York attempted to mount a comeback in the final quarter. However, they were unable to complete the rally, as they fell to the Thunderwolves by a score of 86-83.
The men’s game against Lakehead was equally as thrilling. The Lions quickly took the game to their opponents in the first quarter as Gianmarco Luciani’s three-point bucket and DeAndre Pierre’s two-pointer gave the Lions a 5-0 lead early. Lakehead, however, fought back and took an 18-16 lead by the end of the first.
The Thunderwolves outscored the Lions by four points in the second quarter to extend their lead to 36-30 at half. The Lions, however, had a massive third quarter, outscoring the Thunderwolves by 10 points to lead 56-52 going into the fourth.
In the final frame, Lakehead closed the point gap, and were leading by three points towards the end of regulation. Luciani, however, knocked down a clutch three-pointer for the Lions, knotting things up at 78 and forcing overtime.
Both teams traded buckets in the first two overtimes, with neither side able to pull away. The Lions finally took charge in the third overtime outscoring the Thunderwolves 16-8 and winning the game 112-104.
Both teams will play their last two games of the 2018 calendar year on the road against McMaster on Friday, and Brock on Saturday. Tipoff is 6 p.m. for the women, and 8 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Zain Rashid | Staff Writer
Featured Image: The Lions women won both weekend games against Nipissing and Laurentian by scoring winners in overtime. | Courtesy of YorkU Lions
The Lions men’s and women’s hockey teams played two games each this weekend. The men lost 5-2 to Guelph on Thursday, and then lost 3-1 at home to cross-town rival, U of T on Saturday. The women, on the other hand, required overtime in both games on the road, first to defeat Nipissing 6-5 on Friday, and Laurentian 1-0 on Saturday.
The men’s loss against the Gryphons ended their four-game winning streak. Both teams came out of the gate aggressively, as they combined for 23 shots on goal. However, it was Guelph’s Matt Kenney who found the back of the net to give the Gryphons a 1-0 lead.
Guelph extended their lead to 2-0 in the 8th minute of the second period, but York responded in the 16th minute with a goal from Sal Filice to make the score 2-1.
The Gryphons opened the scoring in the third period, and quickly followed that up with another goal to extend their lead to three goals. York responded with a goal from Josh LaFrance in an attempted comeback, but it was not enough as Guelph scored one more to finish the game with a 5-2 win.
On Friday, the women ended a three-game losing streak by defeating the Nipissing Lakers in their own barn, in what turned out to be an entertaining, and high-scoring contest.
Guelph opened the score just five minutes into the game on the power play, but York’s Avery Reeves responded within a minute to knot things up at one.
The second period saw a total of six goals as York’s Kelsey McHolm and Courtney Gardiner each found the back of the net, extending the Lions’ lead to 3-1. However, Guelph responded with two goals of their own, leveling the score at 3-3. That wasn’t all though, as York took the lead again—courtesy of Brooke Anderson and McHolm—which restored the Lions’ two-goal lead.
Nipissing fought back to even the score in the third period with two goals, forcing the game into overtime. Kara Washer scored the winner for York early in overtime to give the Lions the 6-5 victory.
The women continued their hot streak in Sudbury on Saturday, defeating the Laurentian Voyageurs 1-0.
Regulation was a tense, scoreless affair, as neither side was able to break the stalemate. In overtime, York’s Erin Locke finally solved the Voyageurs’ goalie, on her first goal of the season, which was also the game-winner.
The men also played on Saturday, and lost to their cross-town rivals, the U of T Varsity Blues.
Both teams had several chances in the first period as the Blues managed to hit the post and York came extremely close to finding the back of the net. However, it was U of T’s Matt Campagna who drew first blood towards the end of the first period.
The Varsity Blues extended the lead in the second period as they scored an early goal in the 1st minute, courtesy of Max Lindsay. York responded with a power play goal as Reid Jackman’s pass took a deflection, and ended up in U of T’s net. However, the Blues responded with another goal to make the score 3-1.
The last period did not see any goals from either side, and the game ended in a 3-1 defeat for the Lions.
The men will visit Waterloo next weekend where they will take on the Warriors on Friday at 7 p.m. and the Laurier Golden Hawks on Saturday at 3.30 p.m. The women will host the Western Mustangs at Canlan Ice Sports on Friday at 7 p.m. These will be the last games for both teams before the winter break.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
