2018-2019 Editorial Board of Excalibur Publications
The CNE
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
From rides, to live music, to food festivals, to sporting events, to acrobatics and skating shows, the Canadian National Exhibit features a plethora of events that can almost become overwhelming. Located downtown across from Ontario Place, the CNE runs from August 17 to September 3 and has something for just about everyone. The grounds open at 10 a.m. and close at midnight, except on Labour Day where the grounds are open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. but the gates close at 5 p.m.
Kevin Hart Live
Mahdis Habibinia, Executive Editor (Online)
The biggest little comedian is coming to Toronto this summer! Kevin Hart has extended his 2018 Irresponsible tour with 100 additional shows in cities across North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia.
Hart announced his 2018 tour in January with a witty trailer video featuring different sides of him: the athlete, the mogul, the author, the actor, and the comedian. He’ll be bringing all five personalities to the Air Canada Centre on Saturday, July 21.
Although tickets for the 7 p.m. show are already sold out, the 10:30 p.m. performance still has a few up for grabs.
Pride Toronto
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Whether straight, gay, bisexual, transgender, or anything beyond and in-between, Toronto’s annual Pride Festival is one everyone can look forward to every June.
While the Festival itself runs from June 22 to 24, with well-known events such as the Streetfair, Trans* March, Dyke March, and Pride Parade, Pride Toronto will also be running an array of events throughout the month of June, otherwise known as LGBTQIA+ Pride Month. Kicking off the Month will be the Pride Flag Raising on June 1 at City Hall, followed by an AIDS Candlelight Vigil on June 19, and Night at the Aqueerium on June 22, as well as many many more.
While celebrating pride can be the best aspect of Pride Month, we must not lose sight of why it all began in the first place—as a fight for freedom.
Potted Potter
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Potted Potter: The Unauthorized Harry Experience—A Parody by Dan and Jeff, condenses all seven Harry Potter books by J.K. Rowling into 70 comedic minutes. The play returns to the CAA theatre this summer from June 13 to July 8.
It doesn’t matter if you’ve never read a single page or seen a moment of the films, this show is for Potterheads and non-Potterheads alike! It features a wide array of characters, a fire-breathing dragon and even a live game of quidditch. Whatever your take on the Harry Potter series, Potted Potter is an experience to behold.
Night It Up
Jasmine Wiradharma | Comics Editor
Night It Up! is an outdoor festival that tantalizes the attention of those who have a taste for Asian street food. Operating during the weekend of July 13-15, this Markham-based event invites folks of every culture to taste unique specialty dishes, and enjoy performances by local artists while they gobble down their treats.
The festival setup is styled to imitate the experience of night festivals that occur in Asia. Whether you’re interested in having a simple grilled chicken skewer, or if you’d like to be adventurous and try a ramen burger, Night It Up! is a must for foodies this summer.
Sail-In Cinema
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Sail-In Cinema is a fun way to go to the drive-in without having to drive forty-five minutes out of the city. Ports Toronto is hosting the event on August 10 and 11 at Sugar Beach, where “landlubbers” can watch films on the waterfront under the stars. If you happen to have a boat in Toronto, you can head over and drop anchor to watch from the water. It’s free for all on land and lake.
With multiple awards, including an international award in the Special Events category from the International Association of Business Communicators in 2016, Sail-In Cinema is a great way to spend a balmy August night in Toronto.
Grande Parade
Fatema Ali | Multimedia Editor
Toronto Caribbean Carnival’s Grande Parade happens on Saturday, August 4th,2018, when the Exhibition place and lakeshore boulevard will be filled with colour, and music—featuring beautiful costumes and steelpan performers.
The atmosphere created by the music and people at the Grande Parade makes it impossible to resist the urge to dance. Being surrounded by Caribbean culture will make you feel as though you have been transported to the islands.
Also, to get the full experience be sure to try the authentic Caribbean cuisine options, such as jerk chicken, doubles, Jamaican patties, and so much more.
Cherry Beach
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
At Cherry Beach on May 26th, the Toronto group Deeptastic is holding a music and dancing bash. Attendees can chill out with a crowd of musicians, writers, and artists. There will be a drum circle around a big campfire filled with people twirling neon lights and hoola hoops.
The event is an homage to an ancient pagan form of culture that involved dancing around the fire, which was considered very primal and life-nourishing.
Beer Fest
Dylan Stoll | Copy Editor
With the summer heat arriving, prepare to have your thirst quenched at this year’s Spring Beer Fest, a beer-connoisseur’s and even a casual drinker’s go-to event for fun, friends and of course, great-tasting beer.
Held on May 19 and May 20, otherwise known as May two-four weekend, the Spring Beer Fest will be happening at the Fort York Garrison Common, and will play host to a bevi of brewers, still unannounced.
Food will also be available to soak up the many amazingly unique beers that festival-goers are sure to try out, so don’t worry, you won’t need to pack a lunch.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 

Mahdis Habibinia | Executive Editor, Online
Featured Image: Academic Advising Services have become a second, if not third, option for some students. | Fatema Ali

Back in 2015, a bill was introduced in the state of Iowa that would rate university professors’ performances solely on student evaluations. This meant that poorly-rated professors would be fired without tenure or appeal.
Satisfaction surveys are not great indicators of a professors’ performance, but the bill highlighted the issue of students getting, or not getting, the most out of their post-secondary education.
State Senator Mark Chelgren, who introduced the bill, argued that too many students deal with loan debt but they’re not getting the equivalent value in their education. Universities are an institution so they are a business of sorts, yes. This would make students their clients of sorts, yes.
Students pay quite handsomely for their degrees but they’re not technically customers, either. They’re participants in an educational experience—one that is meant to challenge their opinions, support their academic aspirations, and pave their road to success.
The academic advising services at York are a second, if not third, option for some of us students. We specifically seek out and appreciate our program department’s directors and administrative staff first.
“We need people who actually give good advice and guidance in this time of our lives,” says a former Seneca-at-York student who wishes to remain anonymous.
So why do students trust and seek guidance from their program faculty as opposed to other sources? Simply because program faculty don’t treat our education as a business trade nor do they treat students as customers of a business, but rather as a means to achieving success for their students.
Professors and administrative staff in programs are at the core of student success; they prioritize student needs on their academic journey. When authority figures and the university look to operate as more of a business rather than a platform for learning, it shows students that post-secondary authority figures lack an understanding of the type of business they are actually running.
“Academic advising isn’t broadcasted properly. People in charge don’t really care that much. Maybe that’s why there are so many struggling students,” they add.
Program faculty have become buoys for students. Graduation, transcripts, and overall success are placed as a priority among most department faculty; advising services and other departments alike would do well in following their example.

Mahdis Habibinia | Executive Editor, Online
Featured Image: Academic Advising Services have become a second, if not third, option for some students. | Fatema Ali
Back in 2015, a bill was introduced in the state of Iowa that would rate university professors’ performances solely on student evaluations. This meant that poorly-rated professors would be fired without tenure or appeal.
Satisfaction surveys are not great indicators of a professors’ performance, but the bill highlighted the issue of students getting, or not getting, the most out of their post-secondary education.
State Senator Mark Chelgren, who introduced the bill, argued that too many students deal with loan debt but they’re not getting the equivalent value in their education. Universities are an institution so they are a business of sorts, yes. This would make students their clients of sorts, yes.
Students pay quite handsomely for their degrees but they’re not technically customers, either. They’re participants in an educational experience—one that is meant to challenge their opinions, support their academic aspirations, and pave their road to success.
The academic advising services at York are a second, if not third, option for some of us students. We specifically seek out and appreciate our program department’s directors and administrative staff first.
“We need people who actually give good advice and guidance in this time of our lives,” says a former Seneca-at-York student who wishes to remain anonymous.
So why do students trust and seek guidance from their program faculty as opposed to other sources? Simply because program faculty don’t treat our education as a business trade nor do they treat students as customers of a business, but rather as a means to achieving success for their students.
Professors and administrative staff in programs are at the core of student success; they prioritize student needs on their academic journey. When authority figures and the university look to operate as more of a business rather than a platform for learning, it shows students that post-secondary authority figures lack an understanding of the type of business they are actually running.
“Academic advising isn’t broadcasted properly. People in charge don’t really care that much. Maybe that’s why there are so many struggling students,” they add.
Program faculty have become buoys for students. Graduation, transcripts, and overall success are placed as a priority among most department faculty; advising services and other departments alike would do well in following their example.
 


it is all on you to make sure you are taking the right courses to finish on time.  check the course calendar yourself and make sure you are on the right path.. and register early for courses you need to graduate and so you can have a better schedule that works well for you. it makes all the difference.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Veshani Sewlall | Contributor
Featured Image: Rihanna’s Fenty Beauty Campaign stands up for beauty for all. | Golnaz Taherian
If you’ve ever stepped into a makeup store and struggled to find products that matched your skin tone, you’re not alone. It’s not a secret that women of colour face more difficulties finding makeup brands that suit their needs and increase their confidence. Frustrated by the matter, Hollywood singer Rihanna took matters into her own hands.
Rihanna’s Fenty Beauty makeup line, which launched in September 2017, is taking the beauty industry by storm. With an impressive foundation line that features 40 different shades, Fenty Beauty is a game changer for inclusive makeup suitable for all skin types and tones.
“I think she thoroughly understands her impact in the pop culture landscape,” says Judy Szczytynksi, a fourth-year communications student. She adds: “When coming out with her Fenty Beauty makeup line, she made sure to be representative of all skin types.”
From consumers to industry professionals alike, Rihanna is receiving appraisal reviews about offering shades for just about everyone. Winnie Offei, a second-year health student, says, “As a black woman, it’s nice to finally be able to find a shade that suits my skin tone without being too light or ashy.”
As ‘Allure’ points out, there’s no surprise that Eurocentric beauty standards dominate the beauty industry. This social beauty norm has spread all over the world through mainstream media. These ideals fail to acknowledge and represent real diversity in women, from skin tone to race.
For many women, makeup serves as a form of self-expression and is closely linked to their identity. Eurocentric beauty values can marginalize women of colour. This is very damaging towards these women as it creates unrealistic beliefs that there’s only a single definition of beauty.  
Rihanna’s line challenges the status quo in the beauty industry and changes what it means to be beautiful. Her makeup line celebrates feminine diversity and empowers women to stay true to themselves. In this way, Rihanna tackles an industry-wide problem and proves that colour sells.  
According to Allure, Fenty Beauty’s advertising campaign is inclusive, as it features models of colour, including Leomie Anderson, Duckie Thot, and Halima Aden. Rihanna’s line reminds us that more beauty brands need to represent women of colour and feature complex options for them as well.
Fenty Beauty user, Alexsis Theodore, a third year English major, says that, “Rihanna and Fenty Beauty have set a standard and inspired others in the beauty industry to be more inclusive with complexion tones but also with body types, as seen in the brand’s ad campaigns.”
The makeup line connects women of colour at a personal level and, quite literally, skin level. Rihanna has showed that representation in makeup culture comes a long way in showing and changing beauty standards. This is just the start of inclusivity within the industry; there is much work yet to be done.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
