Humphrey Owusu | Contributor
Featured image: Black Panther has garnered positive response from viewers, receiving praise for its portrayals of the black community and Wakanda. | Rowan Campbell
Black Panther is the upcoming film everybody’s talking about; the movie that’s sold out in every theatre in Toronto thus far; the movie that’s prompting people to dress up in African garb to showcase their pride. That’s Black Panther, the movie that is so deeply important.
Black Panther is so important that it makes the liberation from Transatlantic slavery and the Civil Rights Movement look like a fairytale. Malcolm X, who? Martin Luther King, where? Barack Obama, when? The release of Marvel’s Black Panther is now the most critical moment in black history.
All jokes aside, everyone is pumped to see this film. This movie is expected to top the box office this weekend, making $165 to $170 million in its opening weekend, and the lines will be wrapped around the corner with Marvel fans itching to watch it.
I’m also expecting to see black people thrilled about watching a black superhero in a prosperous black country. A couple weeks ago, the hashtag #WhatBlackPantherMeansToMe was trending on Twitter, and responses varied—from the portrayal of black people, to being represented on the big screen, to the portrayal of Wakanda. One user, @TerryTheWriter (NoDell Beckham), tweeted: “Finally, seeing BLACK people ruling their BLACK country on their BLACK continent, minding their BLACK business, thriving with their BLACK dollars, and BLACK resources. #WhatBlackPantherMeansToMe.”
That tweet alone summarizes Black Panther in a nutshell. Black Panther is the epitome of black nationalism, which is the same form of nationalism Marcus Garvey advocated for in the 1920s, which he referred to as Garveyism. Black nationalism revolves around the notion that black people are a nation who must seek to develop and maintain a black identity. Black nationalists support political, social, and economic empowerment for the black community. In short: black nationalists are pro-black, in every sense of the word.
In comparison to black nationalism, Wakanda is a racially homogenous nation of independence, self-preservation, and self-determination. T’Challa (Chadwick Boseman) is on guard for his Wakandan people, and does anything to fiercely protect Wakanda at all costs. One instance of this is when he infiltrated the Avengers, assessing their potential threat level to Wakanda; or when Black Panther kept up the facade of Wakanda as being a third-world country, so that outsiders would stay away from their wealth.
When watching the trailer, the protective nature of Wakanda is very much recognized. Not too many that have visited have made it out alive, except for their arch-nemesis Ulysses (Andy Serkis), who is seeking the vibranium that makes the country so technologically advanced.
Wakanda is the nation Garvey would have dreamed of. As Beckham puts it, Wakanda is a nation that thrives on its own efforts, with no help from anybody.
Noticing the admiration on social media shows that black nationalism is not a bad thing. There is nothing wrong with putting your people first or defending your nation, like T’Challa does.
Those watching Black Panther will be embracing black nationalism, whether they know it or not—and that’s nothing to be ashamed of.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Vanessa Chambers-Stewart | Contributor
Featured image | Courtesy of Pexels
I’d tell you my name but you probably won’t remember. There are various reasons for that, but I’d rather avoid that conversation. I decided to write this to bring awareness to those of us who are still blind to the world we live in. I also wrote this for my friend Reuben. I haven’t heard from him in years but there are reasons for that. I hope that he’s lived a very good life and was able to enjoy his youth.
I.
My parents always told me that Reuben and I got along really well. So they weren’t surprised when Reuben and I were around each other all the time. Even as children if we ever did get into a disagreement, it was always over within a matter of minutes. I never saw it as anything. I just figured we were two young boys who wanted to play video games and eat junk food all day.
I wasn’t naïve, but I think I was in denial. It was the summer time; Reuben and I were excited about going off to middle school. We’d finally be able to walk and not have our parents drop us off in the mornings. Reuben and I walked to the convenience store. I remained outside. As I wiped my forehead on my T-shirt, a tall White man appeared in the distance. He was leaning against a dark blue Buick and had a toothpick in his mouth. I paid him no mind and continued standing under the shade.
I hear the bell ring over the door as Reuben barges out.
“Here, I got you one too.”
I look at Reuben and then the freezy in his hand.
“So now my shirt is gonna be dirty.”
Reuben laughs and replies: “I saw you wipe sweat on your shirt…who cares, just take the freezy!”
“HEY!!!! WHAT ARE YOU DOING OVER THERE?”
I could already see that this man was going to be trouble. But poor Reuben, he didn’t understand.
Reuben shouts back: “WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?”
The tall White man yells: “DON’T YOU KNOW THEY CAUSE A LOT OF TROUBLE? YOU BETTER RUN ALONG BEFORE YOU FIND YOURSELF IN SHIT!”
Reuben looks at me and shrugs his shoulders. I jump onto my bike and begin leading the way.
The tall White man answers back: “A YOUNG MAN LIKE YOU SHOULDN’T BE HANGING AROUND A BOY LIKE THAT!”
Here is where I saw the issues of our skin. I can say that being a Black person in this world leaves you with little-to-no-options on how to feel about race situations. Being too calm makes you look oblivious and/or in denial, while displays of anger only feed into what they expect. What options are we left with?
II.
Reuben and I were now in high school, and we didn’t miss any action. I did well in sports and was always asked to return, but my heart was in fixing things. Reuben, on the other hand, wasn’t the best in sports, but made teams because of his wealthy parents. It still worked out well for the both of us; I got the benefits of a funded team and Reuben got to experience first-class treatment. Everyone came out a winner, and we enjoyed it.
‘Joy Ride’
It was the summer Reuben and I graduated from high school. His parents bought him a green 1999 Mercedes-Benz-E-Class. I was even happier when he insisted he take me out for a drive. Like I said, Reuben and I were always close. Despite his family being wealthy, Reuben got the emotional attachment from my family. Both of our parents respected each other and we all enjoyed each other’s company.
Reuben and I were driving down Neffe’s avenue when I saw the sirens flashing in the rearview mirror. Reuben pulls over and asks me: “Did I do anything wrong?”
I shake my head.
The police officer exits the cruiser and walks over to Reuben’s door. Reuben rolls down his window and asks: “Hi officer, do you mind telling us why you’ve pulled us over? I was watching my speed limit and my tail lights work.”
The police officer doesn’t say a word but I can feel him looking at me. I continue looking straight ahead. “Let me see your driver’s licence.”
Reuben is oblivious to what is happening right in front of him. As he pulls out his wallet, the officer sticks his head in the window and asks: “Where were you two headed?”
Reuben answers, “Oh we’re just testing out my new car. My parents bought this for me.”
The police officer ignores Reuben and points his pen at me.“What’s your name, boy?”
I remember my parents’ voice in my head. They’ve already warned me about this, and even though it’s wrong, they said that I should always be respectful. Before I can open my mouth, the officer interrupts: “So do you have a car of your own?”
I shake my head and answer: “No sir, I do not have a car of my own.”
The officer removes his head from the window and walks over to my side of the car. Reuben looks confused and pulls out his cellphone. “If I’m the driver, then why are you questioning him, officer?”
The officer ignores him and taps on the glass for me to roll down the window.
“So you’re saying that you don’t own a car of your own…then how do I know that you aren’t going to steal your friend’s car? How do I even know this is your friend? Maybe there’s a gun in the car and you’re holding him hostage until I leave.”
Reuben begins to get annoyed and interjects.
“Officer, what you’re doing isn’t the law, and I will ensure my dad will have your badge.”
I ignore both of them and answer the accusations as calmly as I can.
“There is no gun in the car and he is my friend. He offered me the ride and I decided to take it.”
“You ever been arrested, boy?”
I reply: “No, I haven’t been arrested.”
The police officer answers back: “You must be one of the lucky ones.”
Reuben interrupts again: “Officer I just want to let you know that I’ve warned you, and I will now be calling our lawyer.”
The officer leans into the car again, but this time smiles at Reuben.“Now why are you gonna go and do that? I’m just talking to your friend here…we’re all adults now.”
Reuben ignores the officer. “You leave me no choice.”
The officer makes eye contact with me and doesn’t smile.
“So where do you live?”
“I live not too far from here, officer.”
“Do you have any kids?”
“No, I do not have any children.”
“Are you married?”
“No, I’m not married.”
The officer removes his head from the car and begins stretching. Reuben calls his dad’s office and tells his secretary where we’re located.
I overhear the officer say: “Your people don’t believe in marriage, but you people multiply at a rapid rate. It amazes me.”
The officer takes out his notepad and begins writing down the licence plate. He removes his sunglasses and looks at me.
“I’m going to run the info on the car. Don’t move.”
As the officer walks back to his cruiser, Reuben and I sit in silence. I can’t describe how I feel but I know it’s nothing good. I just continue to play my parents’ voice in my head because I know that if I say the wrong thing, this officer will definitely put me behind bars.
Twenty minutes later, Reuben’s dad arrives with his lawyer. Reuben’s dad approaches our car and the lawyer approaches the cruiser. Blake is a successful public relations representative and spoiled Reuben with gifts. He’s a lot older than Reuben’s mom, but you could tell that he really loved her. He was dressed in a tailored brown suit and had his grey hairs freshly trimmed each week.
“Are you guys okay?”
Reuben speaks for the both of us: “That cop is an asshole. He’s been interrogating us for almost thirty minutes.”
Blake scratches his beard and pulls out a piece of paper from his pocket. He motions Reuben to pass him a pen. “It’s assholes like this that make our country a living hell.”
The lawyer walks back over to us and hands us a card. “This isn’t over. Just wanted to let you guys know that if this ever happens again to contact me—”
The rest of the conversation becomes a blur to me. What does he mean by this isn’t over? What about if this happens again? The question is…will this random stop ever happen with Reuben in his car by himself or with his group of White friends? This was just a chapter in Reuben’s life, but this is and always will be my life. This wasn’t my choice, but I knew that Reuben would never be able to understand. A good lawyer isn’t the issue, it’s my skin.
Reuben’s dad drives behind us. When Reuben pulls into my driveway, I don’t have much to say.
He asks: “Tomorrow?”
I reply:“Bet.”
As I leave the car, I tell myself that this is the last time I’ll see Reuben. He and I don’t see colour, but the world we live in does. His skin is politically correct, while mine is urban and cool. We’re on the same side instead of playing against each other; to them we shouldn’t have anything in common. To them, this picture doesn’t make sense. Reuben will always be identified as a White man first, and I will always be his unanswered boy.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Janelle Anastasia Wallen-Charles | Contributor
Featured image: We shouldn’t feel different or ashamed, and instead, feel liberated and proud. | Courtesy of Pexels
Society has painted black beauty as “ugly.” It has been imprinted into the minds of little black girls that wearing their natural, kinky curls is something to be ashamed of. We’ve hidden this shame under countless straightening until our hair starts to break off; we spend hundreds of dollars investing in long 18-inch Brazilian hair because we want to meet society’s demands. This is ruining young black girls’ psyche, because our “kinky curls” are considered “not pretty.”
I spoke with entrepreneur Jacintha Wallen-Charles, and I asked her if little girls are taught to be ashamed of their curls. “Not only society, but the black community itself. It’s small things that we don’t recognize, like ‘you should sleek back your edges,’ or ‘what are you going to do with that hair?’,” she says.
“Having baby hairs in its natural form is frowned upon by other black girls, because it is seen as ‘not doing your hair.’ Moreover, people of other races often look at our hair and ask: ‘What are you going to do with it?’ as if its natural state isn’t adequate enough to wear in public.”
I remember when I got my first weave—it was an Onyx, 18-inch, straight, 1B. When I strutted down the aisle, about to graduate, with my weave sewn into my head, I felt beautiful. I no longer felt uncertainty. It gave me an identity. They called me a weava-diva! I could get any colour, style, and length.
Weaves allow black women to feel beautiful; it allows us to hide from what we were given with. Ask a black woman if she’d rather wear her natural kinky curls or a Tokyo Stylez, custom made, 20-inch, Indian Remy hair, and see what she says.
The thing is, we have become so comfortable in the shell that we’ve grown up in, that it gets harder to break out of it.
I spoke with a fellow employee, Jaya Hance, a black woman who often wears her hair straight. I’ve never seen her hair in it’s natural, kinky state, so I asked her why. “When I was growing up, I was moved from a mixed-culture school to a pure white school, and they didn’t understand my different hair. Because of this they made me feel different, and always pointed it out. This little boy even told me my hair looked like poop,” she says.
Even if we come from different ethnicities, there should be a boundary where parents should teach their children right from wrong—and they don’t. Due to the bullying, Hance felt ashamed to wear her hair in natural braids, or out in an afro.
We have been criticized by the media, by society and even by our peers. But now the media, society and our peers want to take credit for African beauty and culture. Let me educate everyone. When Miley Cyrus started wearing what many called “Space Buns,” it got a lot of hype.
These Space Buns, however, are actually called Bantu knots, a hairstyle said to originate from Zulu tribes in southern Africa. When the Kardashians started donning what everyone called “Boxer Braids,” it became a hot new trend. Boxer braids are called Cornrows, and have been found in Stone Age paintings in the Tassili Plateau of the Sahara, dating as far back as 3,000 B.C., particularly in the Horn of Africa and West Africa.
These hairstyles are not new fashion trends that Miley Cyrus and the Kardashians came up with out of the blue. It shows the twisted way that, on a black girl, it’s seen as ugly—but on a famous white person’s head, it’s seen as trendy and new.
How are they going to look down on black beauty, then try to take credit for it? The problem is giving recognition to black women who’ve had these styles forever. Don’t rob us of that recognition. Don’t rob our culture from us.
Black women have started to become comfortable without the wigs, sewn-in weaves, and the constant straightening, because we’ve realized that we are beautiful; that we should not care about society’s opinions.
Wallen-Charles stated Viola Davis and Lupita Niyong’o, who are both Oscar-winning black actresses, show their natural hairstyles on the red carpet with confidence. We are seeing the beauty of the curls. We shouldn’t feel different nor ashamed, and instead, feel liberated and proud.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured image: “Detail In Conversation” (c) Gordon Shadrach. | Courtesy of the ROM
On January 27, the ROM opened a new exhibition titled Here We Are Here: Black Canadian Contemporary Art. The exhibition brings together nine Canadian contemporary artists to create an exhibition that best represents the deep-rooted histories and presence of black culture in Canada. Here We Are Here explores and challenges the struggles that blacks often face in Canadian culture.
Josh Basseches, the ROM’s Director and CEO, explained: “Here We Are Here: Black Canadian Contemporary Art is an important exhibition that grapples with current and historical interpretations of black culture and identity in this country.
The work represented in this exhibition not only encourages visitors to re-examine their idea of what Canada is, but offers a broader telling of the Canadian story through the black Canadian experience.”
The entire exhibition portrays a certain image that best represents the artists’ black-Canadian experience. Artist Sandra Brewster composed a piece reflecting her parents’ experience as newcomers to Canada. The York alumna’s “Hiking Black Creek” shows a “meditation on the emotional labour of belonging, of connecting with one another and one’s surroundings,” as the ROM explains.
Brewster’s work has been exhibited internationally, and conveys themes of identity and representation. Her work reflects how intersectionality works with immigrants, as well as those who are deemed the minority.
Michele Pearson Clarke’s video installations “Suck Teeth Compositions (After Rashaad Newsome)” is about the everyday oral gesture shared by black people and how the sucking of their teeth often has negative connotations. Clarke tries to break down this stigma and stereotype by normalizing the gesture with the video.
As for Charmaine Lurch’s “Being Belonging and Grace,” her focus comes down to expressing belonging and invisibility. Lurch is another York alumni whose large-scale gestures express emotion and ease; the conflict between trying to belong yet feeling invisible in the community—both in her own black community and the white community.
Meanwhile, Sylvia D. Hamilton, Bushra Junaid, Esmaa Mohamoud, Dawit L. Petros, Gordon Shadrach, and Chantal Gibson’s respective installations all convey a sense of reflecting the history of trade and slavery, stereotypes, and the feelings of being “displaced” and “disappeared’ in Canadian narratives.
While I explored the exhibition, I felt a sense of connection. As a Canadian immigrant, I know what it means to feel out of place; to feel awkward in transitioning into the Canadian standards while still upholding my own cultural beliefs. I have felt the wish to belong, yet still feel invisible in the eyes of my own people and the Canadian people.
Each of the artists’ works are relevant in today’s society and issues. Each create conversations that not many people are aware of. The ROM’s Here We Are Here explores the idea of being black in Canadian society, and helps evoke a powerful response from visitors to challenge the norms and the stigmas that are still prevalent today.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Angelica Babiera | Arts Editor
Featured image: What we need is more empowerment and the truth about the socio-political issues pinned on blacks in America and the rest of the world. | Courtesy of Pexels
When you listen to Kanye West or Jay Z, or any rapper for that matter, listeners always hear a prominent theme in their respective songs: men should be the misogynistic materialists, while women are often sexualized into nothing but objects.
At the same time, in most hip-hop music videos, there’s always the rapper rapping their songs with 10 girls with big butts in the background dancing provocatively. Lil Wayne best described this theme in his song “Love Me” by rapping: “And all she eat is dick/ She’s on a strict diet/ That’s my baby.”
Don’t get me wrong, I love hip-hop. It’s my go-to genre because it always puts me in a good mood and hypes me up whenever I need it.
However, hip-hop is also very controversial. It conveys many demeaning themes and meanings that could easily affect people. Yet what gives hip-hop music so much more influence in mainstream media is its portrayal of black culture and black people.
Hip-hop is is a genre that conveys more stereotypes among a certain race than any other. Think about it: there are rappers that often say the n-word when it isn’t necessary, music videos often convey black men only wanting to have sex and money, while black women are sexualized.
I don’t see a lot of white women prancing around in a hip-hop video. In fact, it’s often black or light-skinned women that are disrespected in hip-hop.
There’s also the image that hip-hop artists often convey to the public in the way they dress and act, promoting the ideas of these artists (who are mostly made up of blacks) as “ghetto,” criminals, aggressive thugs, and drug dealers who only come up from the hood.
When people hear and see this, obviously they react to it: most of this is positive, making people believe that it is okay to degrade women, especially black people and those who are light-skinned, or saying the n-word, or believing in the stereotypes that people of colour are all about drugs and violence.
“Rap can be seen as aggressive and loud, which could make others see blacks in a similar fashion,” Emmanuel Shakur, a third year Sociology major says.
“Some rappers may rap about drugs, violence and the street or a lifestyle that not many blacks can relate to, but listeners may think is the norm with black people.”
Having the kind of power that hip-hop music holds can be dangerous, especially when dealing with worldwide recognition. When people all over the world listen to the genre and the kinds of diction it often uses, many may assume the stereotype is correct, creating a very wrong and misinformed image about blacks.
This can create a lot more hate and anger than there needs to be.
Yet, what we don’t get more of in mainstream hip-hop is the political songs that Kendrick Lamar, J. Cole, A Tribe Called Quest, or Schoolboy Q makes.
Instead, we hear the degrading kind, the dangerous kind. And this should be stopped because we don’t need any more drama or hate or stereotypes circling around about the black community.
What we need is more empowerment and the truth about the socio-political issues pinned on blacks in America and the rest of the world.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
