Victoria Silman | Staff Writer
Featured image: After consultations, TTC is open to the possibility of including York in the lower cost U-Pass. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The TTC has approved a Universal Pass (U-Pass) for post-secondary students in Toronto, with York as an eligible candidate.
According to the 2018 TTC U-Pass Policy Framework report, the pass will be integrated into student tuition, and will cost $70 per month. The report also states the pass will be rolled out with PRESTO cards.
If initiated, U-Pass will be a mandatory cost within tuition. However, there are concerns of potential financial burdens placed on students, which the TTC addressed in its report: “An opt-out provision will be offered to accommodate these students.
“These opt-out requests will be assessed by the post-secondary institution on a case-by-case basis.”
There are concerns within the York community about the fairness of the pass. Since many students utilize other forms of transportation, including YRT, Züm, and GO Transit, students have expressed concerns about the mandatory aspect of the U-Pass.
Civil Engineering student, M. Tahlal Irshad, explains: “I need this for the GO Bus. There are so many transit services that students use to get to York, that just a TTC pass would be a waste.”
These concerns have been addressed by the TTC and city councilors. Toronto City Councillor Joe Mihevc clarifies: “It will be up to the university to negotiate discounted passes with other transit companies, since U-Pass is a deal with the TTC specifically.
“But hopefully, U-Pass will enable better access for students to get groceries, run errands, or visit other parts of the city.”
The option of introducing U-Pass alternatives with other transportation companies would be beneficial to York students.
For students travelling from Brampton and York Region, the TTC U-Pass Policy Framework report mentions the possibility of a regional U-Pass. The 2017 TTC report U-Pass Solutions for Toronto Post-Secondary Institutions stated: “There is currently no fare integration between Brampton, YRT, and the TTC.”
Students, who want access to rapid transit, will be required to pay two fares. Therefore, a regional U-Pass is useful to students, particularly at York. A regional U-Pass solution has been explored preliminarily with YRT and Brampton Transit for York.
“The upcoming consultations with post-secondary institutions U-Pass Solutions for Toronto Post-Secondary Institutions 7, and their respective student unions will determine if there is real interest for a regional U-Pass product priced to reflect the value of having unlimited travel on many transit systems.”
The more recent 2018 Framework report after the consultations occured stated: “Through our consultations, concerns were raised about the fairness for students in Toronto who attended York.
“Students living in Toronto and only travelling on the TTC account for 35 to 40 per cent of York students. If a referendum was successful and a regional U-Pass was implemented, York students only taking the TTC would be paying more than their peers at other Toronto post-secondary institutions that have implemented a U-Pass. As a result, TTC staff propose a TTC U-Pass only, which will be available for Toronto post-secondary institutions, including York, which are eligible under the new U-Pass policy framework.”
With an increase in ridership, overcrowding has been a recent issue with TTC users. Mihevc explains: “It’s great if a reduced pass encourages more people to take public transit, especially if it means they are opting not to drive.
“High ridership is a good thing, and should be pushing policy makers at all levels to find more ways to accommodate demand.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Arslan Ahmed | Sports Editor
Featured image: York finishes sixth in U Sports ranking in track and field. | Courtesy of York Lions
York had a successful 2017-2018 track and field season, as they finished sixth in U Sports ranking out of 56 universities.
The success York had in track and field was phenomenal. York stood out by posting excellent times in the 60 and 300 metre races.
Christy Ihunaegbo represented York in the 300 metre race. A second-year student, Ihunaegbo took strides as an athlete this season. She improved her time significantly from 39.45 seconds, to 38.21 seconds. The 38.21 seconds recorded solidified her time as the the third fastest among 198 other times posted.
Xavier Joseph posted the second fastest time for 60 metres at 6.86 seconds, improving his time from the 7.10.
Demari Grant posted the seventh fastest time, crossing the finish line at 6.94 seconds.
The third Lion posting a top 10 time for the 60 metre race: Xavier Jehovah. Jehovah claimed the ninth best time across Canada by posting a respectable time of 6.95 seconds.
Jehovah not only excelled at the 60 metre race, but represented York in the 300 metre race. At the OUA championship, Jehovah posted a remarkable time of 34.24 seconds—eighth fastest amongst Canadian university track athletes.
Kayden Johnson won the OUA championship by a mile after posting a time of 7.92 seconds. Notably, he improved his time significantly from a high of 8.21 seconds.
York not only succeeded in individual competitions, but also in team events. At the OUA championships, York managed to finish seventh in the men’s 4×200 metre race and fifth in the men’s 4×400 metre race.
Holly Pitters, after posting a satisfactory 5.73 metres in long jump on January 12 at the Annual Can Am Classic, responded by upping her performance and jumping a terrific 5.92 metres two weeks later—which was good enough for the second farthest jump by a female track and field athlete amongst Canadian universities.
However, Pitters was not satisfied with earning the second best performance in long jump, so what did she do? She won first place at the OUA championship for triple jump, and posted the farthest jump of the season amongst all athletes.
Pitters leaped for 12.52 metres at the championship and left the competition in the dust. Since she has a knack for improvement, Pitters brought her triple jump score up from 11.45 metres earlier in the season.
The Lions women posted the second best time amongst Canadian universities in the 4×400 metre race—a speedy time of 3:43.88.
Although, this success could not be translated into the 4×200 metre race. York women finished the race with a time of 1:41.95—good for 12th best out of 27.
With many returning athletes looking to build on this year’s success, next year should yield even more positives for the York track and field team.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Shamarke Ali | Contributor
Featured image: Tired, unmotivated, and sleep deprived. | Basma Elbahnasawy
It’s midday during winter, and you find you’re nearly falling asleep in the thick of your tasks. The human circadian rhythm (its internal clock) tells you when to sleep, wake up, and have your meals over a 24-hour period.
Usually, the strongest urge to sleep comes at night. Another urge—though not as strong—starts to creep up at a point during the day. Do you feel a yawn just thinking about it?
It is a common experience, but when it becomes chronic, it is known as Excessive Daytime Sleepiness (EDS). EDS is characterized by persistent sleepiness and a general lack of energy during the day, even after a sufficient night’s rest. For many, caffeine and fast carbohydrates are turned to as a means of overcoming this feeling. While those are effective to a degree, they come with later drawbacks, such as restlessness.
There are preventative measures that can be taken to overcome this slump, and to prevent falling into a cycle of using stimulants.
Aromatherapy, or the use of essential oils, are becoming more common and popular for their mood-enhancing qualities and health benefits.
“Being around a pleasantly strong smell puts me in a great mood to be productive,” says Hassan Omar, a third-year Kinesiology and Health Science student.
An essential oil is a concentrated liquid containing evaporative aromatic compounds from plants. Using these for aromatherapy can not only relieve daytime sleepiness, but reduce headaches, stress, and boost memory. Some of the best essential oils for the purpose of alertness are peppermint, grapefruit, basil, and rosemary.
For essential oils, a few drops from the bottle can be applied on a cloth and placed nearby. They can also be added into a room diffuser, and for smaller rooms, a reed diffuser works as well.
Another suggestion is to take a walk and get exposed to sunlight. When indoors for extended hours, the skin gets less natural light exposure. Day time sleepiness could also be a result of poor blood circulation from being stationary or inside for too long.
A brisk walk facilitates blood flow, and heading outside to get natural sunlight can provide Vitamin D, which can raise serotonin levels.
“Serotonin helps improve energy, as well as your mood, social behavior, appetite, and digestion,” says Chris Tang, a fourth-year Psychology student. As little as 15 minutes in the sun can also help to ensure consistent sleep at night.
Human connection can also help remedy the midday slump. In Africa, there is a term, ubuntu, which describes human essence as coming from the humanity we show towards one another. It is a perspective which sees humanity as a familial web, rather than a mass of individuals.
When you start to relate to those around you in this way, you’ll feel more connected, energized, and have an enhanced feeling of wholeness.
Even the simplest of interactions can help you invigorate yourself, and keeping a social circle with prosperous levels of energy can help us power through our day.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Munirul-Haq Raza | News Editor
Featured image: The York University Development Corporation was set up in 1985. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The development and management of the Quad residence was given to Forum Campus Suites (FCS) by the York University Development Corporation (YUDC). FCS collaborates with Campus Suites, a private company that manages and develops student housing and Forum Equity Partners Inc., a private real estate development company.
According to Janice Walls of York Media: “The agreement that led to the development of The Quad was signed in 2013. There was a competitive Request for a proposals process, after which York signed an agreement with a private company to design, build, finance, maintain, and operate a new student housing and mixed use project. A group was set up including students, faculty, and staff to create a final agreement that would reflect student housing needs and preferences.”
This has raised concerns about third-party management of housing for York students. Among those concerns was that FCS will have its own private security not bound by York guidelines, thus will not be as accountable as York security.
Walls says: “The Quad is responsible for providing security services within their building. Students who are tenants of the Quad should speak to the building management if they have concerns about security within the building, as they would with any other landlord.
“We are committed to working cooperatively with the Quad to support students. A Quad Advisory Committee with members from the Quad and the University meet on a regular basis to review a variety of operational issues, including community safety.” Walls adds students with outstanding safety concerns should contact York security.
“Staff from our Office of Student Community Relations and Security team have also met with staff at the Quad to ensure that they are aware of the services and supports available to students at York.”
Jody Berland, a professor in the Department of Humanities, submitted a Freedom of Information request: “Our FOI request for disclosure was regarding how the Shoppers Drug Mart made a deal to be the destination store at the end of York Lanes. This decision came after the termination of the lease of the existing pharmacy.”
Berland, whose request is in mediation, adds: “The problem is that YUDC is a wholly owned subsidiary of York, but as a private for-profit entity; it is not subject to the Freedom of Information Act legislation.”
Regarding transparency concerns surrounding YUDC, York President and Vice-Chancellor Rhonda Lenton says: “I think it’s my job as president, if there is an interest in greater transparency, I bring that information to Senate.
“I have no problem answering question around YUDC at the Senate, because York is the only stakeholder for YUDC—we are the client; nothing is done at YUDC that the senior management would not approve, therefore I need to be accountable to Senate in that process.” Lenton also adds YUDC has a specific mandate driven by York.
Berland, when initially submitting the FOI request, says: “I think we were still thinking of York Lanes as part of a public space.” York Lanes was not only developed, but is also managed by YUDC.
Berland sees the decision that moved the Shoppers Drug Mart to the bookstore’s old location as primarily a commercial decision.
What level of transparency a private entity (whose only shareholder is a public institution) must provide raises challenging questions.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Mahdis Habibinia | Contributor
Featured image: Despite the different effects from the labour disruption, similar rights apply to Osgoode students. | Courtesy of LSAC
While affecting most classes at York, the ongoing Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE)—York local 3903—labour disruption has not affected Osgoode’s academics and administration in a similar way.
Similar to York, the Osgoode library, cafeterias, administrative offices, and computer labs are open, and all classes that can continue will do so.
While staff members associated with CUPE 3903 at Osgoode will be impacted, most classes are continuing as usual. This is because many of the school’s staff members are either full-time or adjunct faculty, and part of a different labour union than CUPE 3903, said Osgoode dean Lorne Sossin to Canadian Lawyer’s magazine.
The courses requiring teaching assistants at Osgoode are mostly first-year tutorials, but are suspended nonetheless.
The rights of York students apply to Osgoode students as well. Under section 2.2, subsection 2.2.1 of the Senate Policy, students from the school are exempt from academic penalty if they don’t want to cross the picket line to attend classes. They also have the right to reasonable extensions and alternative access to course materials, which includes class recordings.
One anonymous third-year Osgoode student commenting on the state of Osgoode classes says Some classes are poorly attended, while most are still in session, but are less crowded.
Another anonymous student, also a third-year student, explains: “Classes haven’t been disturbed. Classes in Osgoode are more lecture type, which are larger classes.
“The smaller seminars—some have been affected. [In] one of my courses, the professor decided to do online lecture instead. That was a bit more difficult,” they add.
On March 19, the Senate Executive Committee released a document outlining options for the completion of courses and finalization of grades for York classes. Osgoode will provide students with guidance on Credit/No Credit courses this week. Osgoode students in the Juris Doctor or Legum Magister programs cannot withdraw from a full-year or winter course on the last day of classes on the original or revised schedule for courses. This option only applies to York students.
All Osgoode students are entitled to non-academic supports and programs, specifically, the Student Success and Wellness team. There are expanded wellness and counselling services for the duration of the labour disruption.
There was a remediation framework posted for Osgoode students choosing to not attend classes or engage in academic activities. These students are required to notify the Programs & Records Office of their decision (via email to nsperling@osgoode.yorku.ca) by March 26 at 3:30 p.m., using the declaration form that appears at the end of the document, posted on MyOsgoode.
By doing so, students will be entitled to a remediation period, which is the time period following the end of the strike. This is where students who have submitted their declaration form will complete their terms. They are entitled to accommodations for their exams and assignments, but are still subject to the same grading rubric used in the regularly scheduled period.
Final grades for remediated students will not be a part of the grading curve applied to students continuing with their studies.
If a student does not send the declaration form by March 26, it will be presumed that they will continue with their academic activities. They will be expected to follow the normal class schedule, dates, and deadlines set out in their course syllabi.
The anonymous student says: “Before, we got the information that we do have the option to opt-in or opt-out. Professors did preemptively give us the opportunity to attend online courses if we did not want to cross the picket lines.”
Depending on how long the strike may lasts, if students who are not participating in academic activities do not finish their Osgoode program in time to begin their licensing and articling, they may need to delay any licensing exams. They will also need to notify any potential articling employers.
“As third-year law students, we are differentially impacted, as opposed to first or second-year law students, because the majority of the third-year law students will commence articling this year in August. It just makes sense logistically, for the third-year students to have written their bar examination before they start articling.
“Bar examinations will be held in June. That means third-year law students will have to start studying as soon as possible, as the final examination date is April 20,” they add.
The Osgoode library will continue sending overdue notices to students, but there will be no fines accumulating on any print material during the strike. Once  the strike is over, fines will be accumulated after a one-day grace period.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
