Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured image: A contract offer vote, which ran from April 6 to 9, showed a majority refusal vote from all three CUPE 3903 units.
From April 6 at 9 a.m. to April 9 at 10 a.m., CUPE 3903 members had the opportunity to vote “yes” or “no” on York’s recently-proposed contract offer, which could have brought an end to the ongoing strike. However, the result, released on April 9, was a resounding “no” from all three units, which means the strike is continuing.
The results revealed an 86 per cent “no” vote from Unit 1 (of 1,502 ballots), 86 per cent from Unit 2 (of 772 ballots), and 98 per cent from Unit 3 (of 46 ballots). 
York notes that they and the Union have two primary issues still in discussion at the bargaining table: the amount of tenure stream positions given to CUPE 3903 members, and the work requirements tied to graduate funding.
However, the Union still sees many more fundamental issues also worth bringing to the table.
CUPE 3903 Bargaining Team Spokesperson Lina Nasr speaks on major components the Union wishes to see modified or changed with York’s offer: “Their offer, similarly to the one they gave us on March 2, does not address our key concerns including the job loss in Unit 3, the issue of clawbacks for graduate students, dealing with precarious employment of contract faculty, and a fund for survivors of sexual violence.”
In light of the vote, Nasr discusses CUPE 3903’s modifications to their demands, and if they believe York may do the same: “Not only did we modify these demands on March 5, and again on March 20 when we met with York, but but we also offered a condensed version of the package on March 26, which they immediately rejected and called for the forced ratification vote.”
As the strike now runs into its seventh week, many students have been expressing their concerns, including the impact on their scheduling, tuition, and mental health. 
“The strike has allowed me to work more hours than I usually would,” says Celia Lewin, a second-year biomedical science major. “However, it has also given me anxiety, because I constantly have to worry if plans—for example, to travel for a few days—will have to be cancelled last-minute if the strike ends.”
“I’ve tried to stay on top of everything, but it’s surreal to watch due dates go by without submitting assignments,” says Alex Slack, a third-year English major. “I feel like I can’t relax, because it could get resolved any day, but the lack of a consistent schedule is difficult to manage.
“I am sad that I have not been in class learning the material I paid for, and it has definitely been difficult to stay motivated with the overarching anxiety of the strike,” he says.
Jessie Nowlan, a third-year communication studies major, adds: “Personally, the strike has been very difficult for me. I suffer from depression, and having my main work taken away from me left me feeling very unmotivated and helpless.
“I’m very lucky that I have a great support system and medical care, but for some, this strike may have really hurt them.”
The students also express their concern of feeling “in the dark” in regards to strike updates: “As a student, it’s really disappointing to see the underhanded moves my university has made in representing the strike.
“When York was silent for two weeks in the beginning, I was forced to go to the strike website, just to know what was happening,” Slack adds.
For a number of students who live on campus, crossing picket lines has also caused much added stress to their daily tasks. “Although I respect the strike very much, I sometimes am forced to cross the picket lines as an individual who lives on campus. It has now been six weeks, and my doctor works on campus, the transit I need for work is there, and my therapist,” Nowlan adds. 
As of now, one of the largest concerns for several students is of the possibility of a tuition refund. Lewin says: “My biggest concerns are that classes that have not been running will be cancelled, and I will not get a tuition refund.”
York had not responded to Excalibur’s request for comment at the time of publishing.
With files from Victoria Silman
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
