Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: The NDP blocked the Liberal’s bill that would have mandated CUPE 3903 workers back to work and ended the strike. | Courtesy of Ibagli
William (Bill) Kaplan, the Ministry of Labour’s Industrial Inquiry Commissioner assigned to review York’s case, released his report on May 4, the Industrial Inquiry Commission (IIC).
The IIC aimed to analyze the concerns addressed by CUPE 3903, as well as reach a solution to the ongoing labour disruption.
Kaplan’s report suggested legislative intervention, imposing consensual interest arbitration between both York and the union.
On May 7, the Liberal provincial government attempted to pass back-to-work legislation to end the strike, however the bill was blocked by the NDP.
According to a press release provided by NDP MPP Peggy Sattler’s office, the NDP voted against the legislation in the interest of protecting CUPE 3903 members.
The release includes NDP Labour Critic MPP Cindy Forster’s comments on the legislation, stating: “The York University strike is the direct result of the Liberal government’s underfunding of our college and university systems. Hard-working students and faculty deserve so much better.
“We want students back in class and faculty back to work—and Wynne’s tactics today do literally nothing to accomplish that,” she continues.
York’s Media Relations Chief Spokesperson and Director Barbara Joy says: “Despite negotiating for more than six months, the Ministry of Labour’s Industrial Inquiry Commissioner (William Kaplan) concluded the parties are at an impasse.
“We remain at an impasse, and arbitration is the best option to end the strike quickly.”
Settlement on the report was due to be discussed following its release, but CUPE 3903’s absence at the meeting caused the discussion to be postponed.
Along with Kaplan’s report, York had also offered CUPE 3903 to vote on a Terms of Settlement agreement on May 8, with a deadline of May 10 at 11:59 p.m. for their response. Within the time frame no response was presented, and York announced they would be confirming summer term courses, the back-to-work protocol and that would guarantee union members 85 to 100 per cent of winter term pay was now void, and they will not move ahead with 2017 to 2018 conversion appointments.
CUPE 3903 responded with their own framework on May 11. According to Robin Verrall, a TA in the Political Science department, “CUPE members had three meetings where they scaled back a number of their proposals.
“CUPE did not send the details of this offer to York, but instead sent an open letter informing York that we had prepared this new, trimmed down offer, and were willing to sit down and discuss it and negotiate a final settlement to the strike,” says Verrall.
Further, the summer session has also been affected. “Currently, we have had to reduce the summer session and offer a variety of course completion options for students,” says Joy.
On Tuesday, picket lines were consolidated to the Main Gate for a Strike Committee meeting.
Labour Minister MPP Kevin Flynn’s office could not be reached for comment.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured Image: Several departments have voiced their frustration with the administration regarding its handling of the strike. | Azeb Yusuf
On May 1, the 456th Board of Governors (BoG) meeting overviewed a multitude of workplace-related policies, York’s budgeting trajectory, tuition, and conceptual building designs.
Due to unavailability of the Investment Committee Chair, details regarding the Statement on Investment Policies and Procedures will be deferred to the next BoG meeting.
Just outside of Kaneff Tower, where the meeting occurred, CUPE 3903 members surrounded the building in protest.
“CUPE members were there in solidarity as part of a larger project of organizing against York,” says Julian Arend, CUPE 3903 Unit 2 Vice President.
On May 11, a number of professors from various faculties, as well as the YFS, unanimously passed a vote of “non-confidence” in York’s senior administration led by the BoG and President Rhonda Lenton. The vote is a motion which states a person in position of authority may no longer be fit to hold their position, pointing to reasons such as decision-making that a number of members feel may be detrimental.
According to Barbara Joy, Chief Spokesperson and Director of York Media Relations, “non-confidence motions are non-binding expressions of a small group’s opinion.”
“Non-confidence votes were the initiatives of those particular groups as academic organizations, not as part of a labour campaign by the union,” says Arend.
“In particular, the non-confidence motions from the various faculty associations invoiced large numbers of YUFA members, and similarly the Sociology Undergraduate Student Association is not affiliated with CUPE,” he continues.
Agnès Whitfield, a professor in the English department, claims: “Approximately 95 per cent of York students and their programs are not represented.”
Whitfield points to recent results in the non-confidence vote: “So far, four faculty councils—Glendon, Education, Environmental Studies and LA&PS—two student associations—YUGSA and YFS—and numerous departments and departmental student associations have adopted votes of non-confidence in the Board of Governors and the senior administration at York.
“The Department of English, where I teach, adopted almost unanimously the vote of non-confidence I proposed on April 18.”
She points to a recent campaign, Agnès for President, wherein she describes her platform as such: “it includes key measures to restore
democracy at York, and to return to our fundamental purpose as an educational institution exemplifying at every level our social and environmental justice values.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Tamayo uses realism to demonstrate the construction of a studio. | Golnaz Taherian
Alejandro Tamayo is a Visual Art PhD graduate from York University. His thesis, ‘The Distance from the Sun,’ was held from May 7th to May 12th in the Gales Gallery located in Accolade West Building.
His project represents the construction of a studio, capturing the realism of working in one.
Tamayo wants the viewers to reflect subjectively about his project’s concept, rather than him telling them about it, because he believes: “If I tell people what my work is about, then I leave no room for their interpretation.”
When asked about what inspired him to make this project, he replied: “My inspiration came from working in the studio with different materials and the relationship between objects and space.”
His project focuses on details and the use of various objects to create a scene. One thing that stands out is the use of unexpectedly unique materials and objects that serve a creative and unanticipated purpose. In one instance, Tamayo used the top part of a white table and rested one side of it on a card table. He then put two painter’s tapes on the floor and stuck their rolls on the top surface of the other side, creatively using these tapes as table legs. In another instance, he leaned a top part of a dusty table against painted wooden boxes and put the bit of a screwdriver horizontally under the bottom part of the top table.
‘The Distance from the Sun’ project also focuses on direction and the connection between the positions of different objects. In one part, Tamayo put tape on a hammer to, in his words, “Keep the particular direction of the hammer”. One notices a small compass placed on a wooden box.Nearby, L-shaped shelf supporters are lain in an arrow, in the same trajectory as the compass point.
Tamayo’s realism makes the viewers feel they’re in a studio rather than an exhibition. Multiple nails, pins, pens and screwdrivers on the floor and inside the tool boxes can be seen, along with uneven pieces of papers, shredded sticky notes, and used wadded balls of tape. In this way, Tamayo creatively recycles his used artistic materials for other purposes and projects.
Lighting also plays a key role in the artist’s work; in it, most lights were kept off. When asked about his reasoning, Tamayo replied: “I changed the lighting consciously for creating shadows and reflection on some parts.” A creative purpose of lighting arrangement can be seen when a tool box, which is one object, appears as three objects in its shadow.
Tamayo demonstrates the relationship between objects, light, and shadows. Everything is oriented because of a creative purpose. For instance, there are two palette knives placed on the floor with a small space between them and Tamayo says: “They are placed like this because they project the light.”
Tamayo notes that his professors at York helped him through his journey. As for what’s next for him, he wants to take a break and then continue with new projects.
His upcoming projects will be the continuation of his current work, but they will be unique to his new space and construction.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
Featured Image: York wrestler (far right) claims bronze at Pan-Am. | Courtesy of York Lions
Alexandria Town will be returning home with a shiny bronze medal hanging around her neck.
Town clinched third place in her first-ever international competition—the Pan American Games in Lima Peru, on May 5.
Competing in the 57 kg weight category, Town earned a 10-0 victory over Colombia’s Eva Gonzalez Landazury in the quarter final, before losing a heartbreaker—8-5—in the semi-final to Mexico’s Alejandra Romero Bonilla.
However, she coasted to a bronze medal in her final match, as she won 10-0 against Dominica’s Yessica Oviedo Perez.
Town qualified for the tournament by winning gold in the Canadian senior national championships this past March—her first national championship.
She is the most decorated women’s wrestler in York’s history, having won three OUA medals, and two U SPORTS medals. She’s also York’s first OUA all-star, and U SPORTS all-Canadian.
Town credits part of her success to coach Eamonn Dorgan. “He’s the reason I got back into wrestling after high school and the reason I’m still wrestling today. He understands how I work best.
“I never expected to take wrestling this far, yet here I am years later winning U SPORTS medals and taking home national championships,” says Town, whose focus is shifting towards the Olympics. “I’ve come this far with the opportunities and support I receive from York University. Now I want to push my training to the next level and see how far I can go… I’m starting to see things with Tokyo 2020 vision.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
Featured Image: The Weeknd fades into darkness after pouring his all into his new album. | Fatema Ali
The Weeknd’s new album, ‘My Dear Melancholy,’ was released March 30, 2018. According to Billboard’s Xander Zellner, “the Weeknd returns to No. 1 on the Billboard Artist 100 chart, dated April 14.” This album, as an EP, contains only six tracks, compared to LPs, like ‘Starboy’ that had three times that.
The Canadian singer-songwriter returned to his R&B roots with this album. It’s a very intimate project, centered on themes of heartbreak and anguish. The music elicits strong emotions that derive from his recent breakups.
His hit song “Call Out My Name”, composed in a minor key, projects a melancholy vibe. In it, he sings: “Guess I was just another pit stop/Till you made up your mind/You just wasted my time.” The tune’s about an ex that he had deep feelings for, but she gave her heart to someone else. The music’s dark tone and vulnerable lyrics paint a gloomy atmosphere.
Victoria Canale, second year social work student, considers “Call Out My Name” her favourite song on the album. “The lyrics tell a sad story of a relationship that didn’t work out and breaks down what happened.
“He sings about his support for Selena Gomez, while she was going through tough times, and how he contemplated being her kidney donor,” she says.
In “Wasted Times” the singer pours his heart out by talking about how much he misses his ex and expressing his insistence in wanting to rekindle their relationship: “Who you give that love to now?/Who you pullin’ up on?/Who you gettin’ sprung for now?/And what they got that I ain’t got?/Cause I got a lot.” His repetition of lines and asking questions portray his desperate tone and desire to win her back. Reverb vocals evoke the dissonance in his mind.
“I Was Never There” is the most melancholic song in the album. He talks about the devastating effects of a breakup that caused him to turn to alcohol and drugs: “You’d rather something toxic/So, I poison myself again, again/’Til I feel nothing/In my soul.” The heart of the song is the counterpoint between the haunting, moaning synth melody and the deep thumping bass groove.
In the verses, The Weeknd’s ghostly vocals swirl through a foggy atmosphere, echoing his mental breakdown. “I Was Never There” paints an experience of drowning in a sea of pain and latching onto anything that numbs it.
The Weeknd chose the best title, ‘My Dear Melancholy,’ for his album, as every aspect of this album such as the lyrics, the arrangement, the plethora of minor keys, and the overall ambiance fit perfectly. He expresses his dark emotions like an open book and stays authentic to himself and his art.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured Image: Students who have dropped a course can apply for a credit to be used towards future classes. | Fatema Ali
As of April 30, York’s Student Financial Services has implemented a Tuition Credit Opportunity (TCO), available to students who have withdrawn from a fall/winter 2017 to 2018 or a winter 2018 course due to the strike.
Chief Spokesperson and Director of York Media Relations, Barbara Joy, says: “On April 19, we informed students of several new options available for those who have been impacted by the strike, to complete their courses, finish the year, and graduate. We have also introduced new financial support and a tuition credit option.”
Joy further explains as of April 23, both international and domestic undergraduate students affected by the strike can apply for up to an additional $1,500 in bursary support, so long as receipts are presented for necessary payments. This bursary aims to support the cost of changes in travel arrangements, rent, and child support, following March 5.
Joy adds: “Many students have already opted for the variety of course completion options available, including the Assessed Grade option, as well as expanded options to apply Pass/Fail grading to courses.”
In order to apply for the TCO, students must be enrolled in undergraduate level fall/winter 2018 courses, and/or winter 2018 courses, withdrawn from any of said courses between March 5 and December 31, and be in good financial standing—owe less than $75 on their student account. The TCO will be applied to summer 2018 and/or fall/winter 2018 to 2019 tuition fees.
Students must apply for the TCO before December 2018, and use it before the end of the 2019 winter term, or it will no longer be available.
Addressing concerns related to the TCO and OSAP, the TCO has been designed to ensure no impact on students’ OSAP eligibility.
OSAP funding will be determined based upon the net of tuition credit.
However, several students have been finding difficulty when applying for the TCO. Nikhar Srivastava, a third-year BBA student at Schulich, says: “My advisor is telling me to wait, to see how it affects my promotion.
“Because I’m at Schulich, you have to complete 30 credits to move into the next year. So if I apply for the TCO, it means I won’t be completing the full 30 credits. So that’s very confusing.”
At the time of publication, spring convocation in June will occur according to the original schedule.
With files from Victoria Silman
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured Image: Services are available during the strike at SAS. | Fatema Ali
With the strike entering its 11th week, students, faculty and staff alike are beginning to wonder if it will ever end, and if so, at what cost?
Professor Esther Greenglass in York’s department of psychology, has been studying the psychological effects of labour disruptions on students since 1997. The strikes studied were CUPE and York University Faculty Association (YUFA). As a social psychologist, Professor Greenglass’ area of study is stress and coping. “I see a university strike as a major stressor for students, affecting all aspects of their life.  According to my work, and we studied several strikes and published several papers, it is quite widespread and can be very devastating for students.
“We asked students during one of the strikes how their behaviour has changed, and one of the things that was quite striking was that many students reported they were sleeping more, eating more, and drinking alcohol more. Many people will resort to junk food, and in psychology we call that emotional coping.”
 Professor Greenglass categorizes the stressors of strike into several categories. The first being academic; this is the interference with course completion. “We know from psychological research that when we have goal-directed behaviour and it is blocked we get angry.” Many students are unable to complete their courses and as a result are stuck in an endless loop of ‘will they’ or ‘won’t they.’ The second category is financial. “The university is offering bursaries to try and help those that were going to graduate, but for other students, they are uncertain if and when they will be able to complete their year.”
Another aspect of their lives that is affected is interpersonal relationships, such as those with professors, other students and family.
Lastly, the strike has a psychological impact on individuals. “As the strike drags on students’ anxiety increases, and academic work goes at a snail’s pace. Students wonder if they will graduate, and they might blame themselves for coming to York in the first place. This leads to depression and feelings of inadequacy and sees a drop in self esteem.”
When asked about ways students might be able to cope with their stress or feelings of anxiety she said, “first and foremost students have to acknowledge that their feelings are acceptable, they are not the only ones who feel this way and they are entitled to these feelings. One of the things they should do is reach out to other students and talk; other students can share ways they cope, and distracting yourself is very important. Secondly, staying healthy is important. Exercise, eating properly, and getting enough rest; remember you can cope better when you are physically healthy.”
Professor Greenglass also said that students should prioritize time management. “There’s always something you can be working on and if you do that you have a feeling you are doing something constructive during the strike and it makes your feel better about yourself. Keep the working going any way you can!”
Marc Wilchesky the Executive Director of Counselling and Disability Services at York University, talks about the services that are still available during the strike. “Our Student Counselling and Development department provides confidential personal counselling support and crisis intervention by licensed mental health care professionals for students experiencing emotional/psychological distress. Students in distress can come to our Student Counselling and Development Centre for support and/or Student Accessibility Services if they need academic support and accommodation.” Due to the labour disruption, Marc clarifies that “counselling support will be provided to any student who has been registered in the Fall/Winter 2017-18 session, or if they are registered in one of the Summer 2018 sessions.”
Although this time is one filled with uncertainty and anxiety, students should also note that there are plenty of people on campus to help them. “Each department is providing extra services and facilities, students need to reach out to their department.” Lastly, Professor Greenglass cautioned students about believing everything they read or see online.
The best way to inform themselves of what is going on is to reach out to someone, there are people that are more than willing to help.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
