 
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
Featured Image: “Sister” represents a woman who is ready to fly. | Golnaz Taherian
Rebecca Belmore is an Anishinaabe contemporary performance artist. Her current exhibition, ‘Facing the Monumental,’ is being curated by Wanda Nanibush at the Art Gallery of Ontario (AGO).
Drawing from the modern political zeitgeist, Belmore’s exhibition focuses on diverse topics such as violence against indigenous communities, the cultural significance of water, poverty, and the struggles of the human spirit. This exhibition employs photography, installations, videos and sculptures to paint an overall picture of these themes.
Mixing a mood of impassioned social activism with her keen, practiced aesthetic sensibility, Belmore forces us to confront Canadian colonialism. She asks us to re-examine our conception of Canadian history and turn our consciousness towards the inner cities and snow-swept reserves where Native oppression is a daily fact of life.
For example, the exhibit presents The Name and Unnamed, a video of a 2002 performance by Belmore. In the video, Belmore is in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside, a neighbourhood notorious for the murder of numerous indigenous women.
Carrying buckets, flowers, and a broom, Belmore sweeps the concrete before kneeling. Then, she scrubs the concrete clean, as though to wash away the blood of countless, unnamed Native murder victims.
Arising, Belmore gazes at a crowd of onlookers and begins screaming out the names of the murdered women, reading from her arms. Her voice is imbued with pain and rage born of the centuries of bloody colonial conquest. She bites flowers, then proceeds to nail the hem of her red dress to a telephone pole before ripping it to shreds. Finally, in view of a sympathetic audience, Belmore stares lamentfully at small flickering candles she has lit, honouring her slain brethren.
In another work entitled “Sister,” there’s a liberating photograph of a woman in a denim jacket and jeans; in it, the women’s arms are outspread, her back facing the camera. In an interview with The Agenda, Nam Kiwanuka asked Belmore about the message behind this work. Belmore replied, “‘Sister’ was made for the 2010 Olympic games in Vancouver and the work was situated in the Eastside of downtown Vancouver.
“On February 14, there was the annual women’s march, so I knew that these women would walk past this image, which was installed in the window.”
Nanibush, who curates the AGO’s entire Indigenous section, adds: “Rebecca has this presence that’s quite intense and super strong and I think that same thing translates into her photography, in terms of ‘Sister’ being this woman with her arms out and ready to fly.”
“Fountain” is another work in this exhibition. We see a seascape. The artist struggles out of the water, bearing a bucket. Finally, she manages to extricate herself. She walks towards the camera and splashes the water at the screen. Then, the water, alongside everything else, turns red. Her face now marked with this blood-like liquid, the artist turns to look at the camera, almost accusingly.
Nanibush, speaking about the role of water in “Fountain,” said: “‘Fountain’ being so much ahead of its time, in terms of thinking about water and the fact that water for me is the most important issue of our day today. Water is this resource that’s our life and to think that’s gonna be scarce, or to think that’s being polluted, and to think that’s turned into commodity, all of these things are what Rebecca was thinking about long before a lot of people were.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Service changes have been addressed for years, though only now is anyone taking action. | Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The YRT stopped servicing York on September 2, making it difficult for students and staff living in York Region to get to campus.
With the election coming up (and outrage amongst YRT users), many councillors are making it a priority to push for fare integration and transparency between the TTC and YRT to make the commute more accessible for those traveling to York.
However, the issue should be of no surprise for regional and city councillors. The agreement was made between YRT and the TTC in 2009—almost 10 years ago.
The agreement was originally made to avoid duplicate service as the subway now extends up to Vaughan Metropolitan Centre. According to a media release from August 25, YRT was obligated by the agreement following the construction of the subway extension. Recently, it was formalized under an Operations and Maintenance Agreement between the TTC and YRT.
With current Vaughan Ward 5 Councillor, Alan Shefman, advocating to break down the fare-wall, one begs the question: Why now?
According to Allan Goldstein, a candidate for Ward 5: “Mr. Shefman didn’t say anything about this for nine years, and he only started to deal with it in the middle of an election campaign.”
Regarding the changes to service, Shefman says: “It applies to all those routes where the TTC  and the YRT interconnect.” However, when asked about other service changes, Shefman continues: “I’m not aware of other routes where they’ve done this in the past—I haven’t really had to deal with this—but it may have happened. I certainly haven’t heard any complaints about one of those changes, but I sure am hearing about this one.”
Addressing the current state of affairs in breaking the two-fare wall, Shefman says: “My timeline for the York University situation is yesterday. They know there’s a situation that’s negatively impacting all passengers,  specially students.”
The issue was also addressed five years ago, first in the Vaughan Citizen in March 2013, and again in the Thornhill Liberal in December 2013 in a piece written by MPP Gila Martow, who at the time served as the President of the Beverly Glen Ratepayers Association.
According to Goldstein: “Mr. Shefman either knew about it or should have known about it. I can tell you that Gila Martow, who is now our MPP, was making all kinds of noise about it at the time.”
In the piece, Martow iterates: “YRT’s data shows most of the area’s transit users are downtown commuters or York University students. Students want to get to campus quickly and safely, without being highjacked onto subways and rapidways to justify their construction.”
Goldstein emphasizes this fact: “It’s not just the students at York University—they’re in the news now and they’re financially vulnerable—but this is an issue for anybody that is travelling north and south.
“The two-fare wall has to be broken—I’m hoping with the assistance of the new provincial government, that we can make some headway on that,” he continues.
For Shefman, the goal is to create complete transparency within transit. “Ultimately, the transparency I would like to see is a Greater Toronto Transit Authority, where there is one transit authority that does not have  artificial municipal boundaries, that operates for the people that use transit,” he says.
“I’ve been on this one for years, and nobody is willing to bite this particular bullet and do the hard work that needs to be accomplished to figure out how it can be. It’s not why it should be done, it’s simply how it can be done,” he adds.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
