 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured Image: Despite what you may have heard, coconut oil is not all it’s cracked up to be. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Whether it be kale, quinoa or coconut oil, new health fads seem to spring up overnight. It’s as if one person plants a seed, it blooms, and suddenly, everyone starts raving about how beautiful the plant was and that they were the first to discover it’s magnificence.
Nowadays, it looks as if coconut oil is the miracle cure everyone has been waiting on, but does it really have any ‘magical’ properties? Whether they are using it on their skin, applying it in their hair or cooking their food with it, it appears as if most people have found some kind of use for the oil.
Many people apply the oil in their hair and have noticed visible changes. Stacey Herrera, a third-year philosophy student says she uses the product in such a way. “It makes my hair softer and shinier, I see no downsides to it, and my hair is sleeker.” When asked about why she started using the oil, Herrera says she heard good things about it. While that may be true about its application to hair, the jury is still out on whether it should be applied to other aspects of life.
Coconut oil is also popular when it comes to skincare. Some people use the oil to wipe off makeup, or remove dirt from their skin. While it may look as if it gives their skin a shinier appearance, coconut oil can actually cause acne breakouts. Coconut oil is comedogenic, meaning it causes blackheads and whiteheads in lab tests. While some skin types may be able to fight back, others may not be so lucky. Different skin types, react to various products in different ways.
Lastly, as for those using coconut oil in food, according to a Harvard professor, that’s downright poisonous. Experts say that the oil is high in saturated fat and is actually one of the worst things an individual can eat. The high proportion of the saturated fat found in coconut oil is known to raise cholesterol levels as well as the risk of cardiovascular disease.
There are a number of myths associated with coconut oil consumption. Coconut oil does not in fact burn belly fat, nor does it help an individual lose weight. It is not antibacterial, or heart healthy, and it has not proven to be good for cognition, or help diabetes.
The point is, before believing what any one website claims, the scientific community should be regarded first.
It’s important for a person to be informed of what they are putting on or in their bodies. Not every product that is claimed to be a superfood is actually what a vast majority of the population believes it to be.
Blind belief is not an excuse, and people are responsible for ensuring their own safety by doing an adequate amount of inquiry and research before giving in to popular fads. Although coconut oil does seem to be good for hair, and it can suit certain skin types, as a food supplement, it just doesn’t hold up.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured image courtesy of Jasmine Wiradharma
Imagine walking into your lecture, like you always do. When you see the front row of the lecture hall, what kind of students can you imagine sitting there?
If you’re like me, you’ll likely be imagining the students who arrive 20 minutes early to class; notebooks, pens, and highlighters out; complete, of course, with a laptop opened up to Moodle—these are the students who are ready to learn. They want to be engaged and get the most out of their education.
These are the students you’d expect to sit in the first three rows—I’ve painted the picture; it does make sense, doesn’t it?
Then why is it that so many of the last sorts of people you’d expect to find there—those who don’t want to be engaged with the lecture—end up choosing to sit in these front rows?
If the thoughts “why don’t they sit in the back so they’re not caught by the professor or unexpectedly called upon?” or, “why don’t they just leave the class? They clearly don’t want to be here,” are running through your mind right now, you’re not alone.
When I’m in class, I choose to sit in the front row because I want to pay attention; seeing the girl next to me shopping for clothes online or watching Netflix is extremely distracting. Yes, I do my best to look away, but the bright screens and loud ‘dings’ are hard to completely ignore when they’re practically almost in my face.
However, I can already hear these students now—“I’m multitasking, haven’t you heard of that?” or, “it’s so boring in class, who cares if I watch my movie in the front row?”
To some this might sound nit-picky, but I know there’s plenty of students out there who would agree with me.
I mean, look—we’re all adults, so of course I can’t sit here and tell you what to do. I’m simply asking that you make the courteous choice.
For those of us who genuinely want to learn, the flashing screens and loud pings from your Facebook feed can be irritating.
It’s all about having basic self-awareness and respect for those around you—if you’re bored and you know you’re not going to pay attention to the lecture, please just leave. No one is forcing you to be here.
Or at the very least, if you feel you must still be present, at least choose to sit near the back of the lecture hall. You won’t get caught in a class discussion you’re not prepared for, and, most importantly, you’re respecting the expectations that come with sitting in the first three rows.
At the back, you’re not expected to be engaged—what more could you ask for? The way I see it, if the front seats stayed exclusively for the people who want to pay attention, and the back rows for those who don’t, we are ultimately each respecting the other group’s wishes.
In the end, doesn’t everyone win from that?
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: The telescope will the largest on campus, allowing viewers to see much further into outer space. | Fatema Ali
In November, York staff and students can expect (with much anticipation) a new telescope for their space-viewing pleasure. The telescope, developed by PlaneWave Instruments—a California-based telescope engineering company—has been under construction since November 2017, and will be delivered and installed in November of this year.
According to the director of the Allan I. Carswell Observatory, Professor Paul Delaney, the telescope is going to be much larger than the ones in the current collection, allowing for a better view of space.
“We currently have 40 cm and 60 cm reflecting telescopes, as well as a small cluster of more portable telescopes. The new telescope will be 100 cm—or one metre—and capable of collecting nearly three times as much light as our 60 cm telescope and six times more light than our 40 cm telescope,” he explains.
“In astronomy, light gathering power is critical to see fainter objects and discern more detail. The 100 cm telescope should be quite amazing in what it can see! Bright objects can be very far away and faint objects can be deceivingly close.
“The one metre will allow us to see fainter objects in general— galaxies, for example—and thus reach further into space and further back in time. The detail we will see will also be much higher and improved,” he says.
As for the location of the telescope, Delaney says: “We are using one of the existing domes on campus, formerly the home of the 40 cm telescope. While this may sound strange, the new telescope, while having a larger mirror, is an optically faster and somewhat more compact type of telescope, and the seven-metre diameter Ash Dome is more than large enough to accommodate it.”
The public is able to attend viewings in the observatory, and with the arrival of the new instalment, a wider outreach is expected. “The plan has always been to use the new telescope for public outreach to the York community and the Toronto community in general. Our Wednesday Public Viewing nights, Monday Online Public viewing, booked tours, and undergraduate courses in astronomy will all be supported by the one metre telescope,” Delaney says.
Approximately 20 undergraduate students run the tours and presentations. As Delaney explains: “I think of them as science ambassadors, enlightening everyone who visits of the joys and wonder of astronomy. They get lots of time to use the telescopes for their own use, and this will not change when the one metre telescope commences operation.
“These students also get a taste of astronomy research, enhancing their own studies and helping them decide if a future in research and/or astronomy is for them. Some even get a chance to author scientific papers while still in their undergrad,” he continues.
Public viewings are free, and occur every Wednesday between 9:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. from April to September, and 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. from October to March. In addition, online viewings are made available every Monday from 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., and, according to the website, allows viewers to “see live images from four telescopes/cameras and chat with the staff who will be more than happy to answer your questions.”
As for scheduled tours, Delaney says: “Any tour requests should be sent to our website, and we will discuss what type of tour experience they want and when. Best of all, there is no charge for these activities.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured Image: YUFA’ s bargaining comes after a strong backing for a potential strike mandate vote. | Courtesy of YUFA
On September 24, the York University Faculty Association (YUFA)’s Bargaining Team met with York for the 19th time since May.
The meeting follows YUFA’s General Membership Meeting vote to back a potential strike mandate vote on September 17.
Out of 260 members who voted, 162 voted “Yes” in favour.
Their site expresses that the September 17 motion had come after 18 bargaining sessions, wherein they claim: “The Employer remains unwilling to consider the vast majority of YUFA’s proposals, and has so far only offered a minimal across- the-board salary increase—two percentage points below the rate of inflation in Toronto—while also rejecting any increases to Progress-Through-the-Ranks.”
However, this does not necessarily mean a strike mandate vote will be enacted.
YUFA’s website explains: “The motion is simply a show of support for the decision to conduct a strike mandate vote.”
Regarding the September 24 meeting, YUFA President Arthur Redding says: “The parties met, with the assistance of a private mediator, and we continue to exchange proposals.”
To this, YUFA Bargaining Team Chief Negotiator Miriam Smith adds: “YUFA has met in bargaining with the employer 19 times, starting on May 28, which includes the meeting on Monday.”
York Media Relations Chief Spokesperson and Director Barbara Joy adds: “Yesterday, York University and YUFA bargaining teams met to continue negotiations and will meet again tomorrow. Additional negotiation
meeting dates have now been planned into October. The University remains committed to positive dialogue.
“Over the course of negotiations to date, we have already agreed to several important items that build on our shared commitments to social justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion. We remain hopeful that a renewed settlement will be reached at the negotiating table.”
Following the backing of a possible strike mandate vote, students are now expressing concern on how the potential result may affect them.
Henry Tran, a second-year biology student, says: “A lot of people were considering transferring out of York during the first one, and now a second one is looming not even half a year later.”
Considering this possible vote has come just a few weeks after a nearly-five-month strike, students speak to their concern of York’s reputation as ‘strike university.’
Third-year concurrent education student Shaista Malik says: “I’m honestly tired as a student and do not want to think of another strike.
“Dealing with the last CUPE strike for five months was excruciating, and now that there might be another strike by YUFA—I feel mentally tortured.”
Currently, YUFA and York are planning to hold another bargaining session on September 26, and have also agreed to seven future dates in October, including the 27 and 28.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured Image: Students come to the Wellness Hub to learn how to properly take care of their bodies and minds. | Courtesy of YFile
York University’s Health Education and Promotions team has started a new initiative this year called The Wellness Hub. It launched on September 17, and has been created in partnership with the nursing program to further educate and provide the campus with wellness services and workshops. Aimed to become the central point of all health, the Hub is located at S107 in the Ross Building (next to the Lost and Found). It operates from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday to Wednesday and Friday, and on Thursday’s for an extended period of time—9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
Third-year nursing student, Nick Legacy says: “Nursing students last term came up with this proposal, as well as developed a budget and what it looks like. They worked with York and got the grants to make it happen.”
When asked about what resources The Wellness Hub provides to students, Legacy mentioned a variety of areas. Starting with nutrition, they provide “healthy recipes and workshops.” Since, alcohol and drug usage on campus is prominent, the Hub “advises on harm reduction, and provides knowledge on how to take drugs in a safer way.” Regarding education on sexual health, they provide “information on consent, safe sex, and offering different hygienic items.” Lastly, they offer assistance in the area of mental health. This is done by, “providing information on how to cope with mental illness, and engaging in self care,” as well as informing students about the importance of taking care of their general health; advising them to become more active and stay physically, as well as mentally healthy. The hub also offers support for the LGBTQ community and information on various conditions, such as HIV.
When asked why he is a part of The Wellness Hub, Legacy responded: “I’m excited to provide my peers with information to help them make their own informed choices and I’m excited to share the resources York has to offer with students and community members.”
“The response has been good. Some people are still not sure as to what we do, and are surprised at the amount of resources York has to offer,” he says.
“My reaction has been very positive, students are responding well to it, I have received a lot of training and am excited to add other components such as the workshop to engage more students,” he adds.
Although it is relatively new, The Wellness Hub has the potential to grow and become the go-to spot for students to seek support, help, and/or any kind of assistance they might need when it comes to both their physical and mental health—the hub is here to help, and hopefully here to stay.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
