Golnaz Taherian | Contributor
Featured image: ‘House of Dior’ celebrates and displays Christian Dior’s contribution to fashion. | Golnaz Taherian
Christian Dior was a French fashion designer who opened his fashion house, ‘Dior,’ in Paris on February 12, 1947. In honour of ‘House of Dior’s’ 70th anniversary, the Royal Ontario Museum (ROM) has curated an exhibit that consists of the first decade of Dior designs, accessories, and perfumes for a “clientele of habitually well-dressed women.” The exhibition includes three categories: “The morning and afternoon,” “the evening and late afternoon,” and “the special occasions.”
Toronto socialites donated 40 feminine garments to the ROM to capture the history of the couture house. In the exhibition, museum-goers are informed of Dior’s passion for fashion. He studied the parts of a dress: the corset, bodice, and different cuts, colours, and materials to create a fitting silhouette. Dior’s use of historical dressmaking, modernism, and his work in his ateliers developed a novel look that would bring Paris back to the peak of fashion and design. He created a very “feminine” post-Second World War by aiming to create feminine clothes that would accentuate a woman’s waist. The fashion designer experimented with a variety of colours and materials, breaking off from pre-war hindering and anti-feminine clothing.
Dior had very precise ideas for colours, and would see 20 to 30 shades of black under artificial light and natural daylight before he chose which one to use for a design. Once the colour was chosen, it was removed from the selection process to prevent replication. 
Throughout the exhibition, the ROM displayed distinct clothes that were highlighted to properly explain how these delicate clothes are made. In the “morning and afternoon” category, the “little black suit” was the main focus, with a quote from Christian Dior in 1954: “For day time in town, a dark suit in a smooth material is best…the ‘little black suit’ cannot be beaten for elegance and usefulness.” The little black suit is intended for a daytime look that belonged to business-oriented women who still wanted to have a sophisticated look.
Another dress that heavily influenced modern fashion was the “Paimpolaise,” otherwise known as the “Youthful Dress.” It is a 24-inch navy-blue-and-white striped dress with a slim bodice and no corset, which was designed as an evening look. The textile was made from cotton tulle, cotton Valenciennes lace, and leather belt. The dress was made for Ann Levitt, the daughter of Holt Renfrew’s president in Montreal at the time, who wore it on her honeymoon at the Tower Isle. 
“Cocktail dresses are especially elaborate and dressy afternoon frocks. But avoid the mistake of dressing for a cocktail party as you would for a dinner party. This is wrong,” Dior explained in the Little Dictionary of Fashion in 1954.
The fashion designer triggered a fashion revolution by creating new and modern feminine looks, illuminating forgotten historical skills and designs, and combining them in bold experiments with various styles, materials, colours, and forms.
In 1956, Dior emphasized on his immense passion behind his work: “The war was over…what did the weight of my sumptuous materials, my heavy velvets, and brocades matter? When hearts were light, mere fabrics could not weigh the body down.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Vanessa Chambers-Stewart | Contributor
Featured image: It doesn’t matter how old we get—our ages shouldn’t restrict us from making new friends. | Courtesy of Pexels
There’s something special about ringing in the new year with people you don’t know. I don’t know if it’s the short burst of excitement, or, as the saying goes, if “positive energy is contagious.” The new year can also help bring into focus what lies ahead, and all that is yet to come.
As each year goes by, some of us may find ourselves with a tighter and smaller circle of friends. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but it does become an issue when you’re trying to meet new people, and it is even more difficult when life gets in the way. Many seem to think that making friends gets easier as you get older, when in fact, quite the opposite can be true. As a student, there are multiple factors that come into play when we’re discussing new friendships, and even though there are people that you may speak to, that doesn’t always mean that you’re friends.
From the moment you leave high school, that once-automatic pathway to meeting new friends is left behind you. Let’s just get one thing clear: school within itself is already a full-time job, whether you’re a part-time or full-time student.
Students have to factor in study time, completing homework, and re-reading or re-writing notes; and this isn’t just for one class. Aside from school, some of us may work and/or volunteer—in fact, there are many students who belong in all of these sub-categories.
It is unfortunate to say that technology is at its best right now, yet we still seem to lack the necessary skills in making new friends. Despite the numerous and accessible apps focused on making new friends, society does little to promote healthy ways of establishing and maintaining adult friendships.
Though we are constantly put into social settings, many of us still struggle with creating new friendships. However, individuals like first-year Marketing student Amar continue to make friends with little to no effort. As far-fetched as it may seem, I had the pleasure of sitting in with Amar and his friend, first-year Financial and Business Economics major Osama, who had met each other just hours before our interview.
“Friendship means having a ride-or-die person with you,” he says. Friends can have differences of opinion, but can still respect and accept the differences within the friendship, and come to a consensus. Amar acknowledges this as an important topic that people deal with, whether it be in a new friendship or a well-seasoned one.
I think the hardest part of any relationship is genuinely accepting each other’s differences. Not doing so can lead to relationships that stagnate and can deter people from seeking new friends.
It doesn’t matter how old we get—our ages shouldn’t restrict us from making new friends. Each year is meant to bring something new, even though life keeps us busy.
Here are some tips to keep in mind when making new friends or maintaining the friendships you already have:
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Akashdeep Singh | Contributor
Featured image: From the inside out, let it sneeze. | Courtesy of Sambeet D
The arrival of colder temperatures brings with it a dreadful virus—the flu—which unfortunately comes with a whole lot of coughing, wheezing, and sneezing.
Sneezing in public can often attract unwanted attention, but it’s much better to let it out than try to hold it in.
A new entry in the British Medical Journal’s Case Reports has been getting a significant amount of attention, detailing an incident where a healthy 34-year-old man ruptured his throat after attempting to prevent a sneeze by pinching his nose and keeping his mouth closed. He then experienced a popping sensation in his neck followed by swelling, intense pain, and an inability to speak properly.
After he was admitted to a hospital, a computed tomography scan revealed a buildup of pressure which, unable to be expelled normally, burst through the throat’s tissue and began leaking out. They also heard similar sounds to what the man had described, finding air bubbles in various areas, from his neck to ribcage.
Unable to eat normally, food was administered to him through a tube, in order for his damaged tissues to heal. After a week, he had made a full recovery. As he was discharged, he was advised to avoid holding in a sneeze in the future.
Although this was a rare case, doctors have warned that holding in sneezes is a dangerous action—it could lead to severe damage in one’s eardrums and/or burst blood vessels in the brain, and possibly even death.
Cervical pain, facial nerve injuries, and cracked ribs have been seen in patients who attempted to halt the force of a sneeze, which can be expelled at 100 miles per hour or more.
By trying to suppress a sneeze, the force is often sent back towards the head and body, which may result in a number of the aforementioned problems.
The symptoms seen in this case, however, are similar to the type of damage that would follow a severe trauma or gunshot wound.
“I sometimes hold in my sneezes when I’m around a lot of people, because I try not to disturb anyone or attract attention,” says Raymond Luong, a first-year Biotechnology student.
When asked if he was familiar with the recent story of the man in the United Kingdom, Luong responded that he hadn’t heard of it, but was aware that holding in a sneeze can be dangerous.
Although sneezing can lead to the spread of bacteria and disease, it’s much healthier to let it out rather than hold it in, given that one is sure to follow the basic procedures of sneezing into a tissue or arm, as well as conducting proper hand-washing methods.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
