Akash Singh | Contributor
Featured image: On March 1, Women’s Mental Health Talks, Project Unload, and Jack.org will be hosting an open mic night focusing on mental health. | Basma Elbahnasawy
Three of York’s mental health clubs are joining together to host an open mic night dedicated to the sharing of personal experiences with mental illness through the mediums of poetry, song, dance, comedy, and spoken word.
The event aims to foster a safe, non-judgemental, and inclusive environment for students seeking a creative outlet, while also helping to raise mental health awareness.
Shalyn Isaacs, founder and president of Women’s Mental Health Talks, says: “Many individuals struggling with mental health difficulties find it beneficial to express themselves through different artistic mediums.”
One of the clubs hosting is Women’s Mental Health Talks, a student-led peer support group that provides women a safe space to share and discuss mental health experiences they may have faced or are facing.
The group meets bi-weekly to discuss their personal stories and coping strategies, thus inspiring and empowering each other and providing mental, emotional, and social support.
Another is Project Unload, a men’s mental health group designed to provide men with a supportive environment, where they feel comfortable speaking about their vulnerabilities and mental illnesses.
Also involved is Jack.org, a chapter at York aimed at raising awareness and creating dialogue through networking. Their goal is to empower students, ensure that help is available to everyone who needs it, and most importantly, ensure students know how to access these resources.
Pouya Tajalli, founder and president of Project Unload, says: “There have been several events on campus where those affected by and/or interested in mental health were on the receiving end of things.
“When we created this event with Women’s Mental Health Talks and Jack.org, we sought to flip the roles around for a change.”
Isaacs adds: “The purpose of this open mic night is to provide a safe, accepting, and non-judgmental space for students from all academic disciplines, so that they may come together to share their experiences and perspectives pertaining to mental health through the mediums of poetry, song, dance, and spoken word.
“Students will be able to openly express their emotions while simultaneously experiencing support from their peers, and I hope that by the end of the night, both performers and audience members feel a little less alone in their struggles, and find others they can connect with.”
Oftentimes emotions are difficult to convey or articulate, and many seek other mediums to express themselves. Using different forms of art provides many a cathartic outlet, as well as a chance to create something personal and authentic.
Isaacs says: “I believe that an open mic night would be an excellent opportunity to encourage students to freely express their emotions and thoughts, while taking a step to alleviating mental health stigma at the same time.”
The event will be taking place at The Underground. Students will be able to register their attendance at 5:30 p.m. on the same day, as long as they have a valid post-secondary ID.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Staff Writer
Featured image: The Initiative is a government- and private-funded initiative, which will increase Canada’s GDP, expand the job market, and is expected to improve Canada’s economy as a whole. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The Government of Canada has created the Innovation Superclusters Initiative, in which post-secondary education institutions across southern Ontario and Québec are participating in a joint private-public effort to boost the economy, create jobs, and increase innovation within Canada’s manufacturing sector.
This will be done by encouraging research and education, and increasing Ontario’s technological strength.
York is contributing to the Advanced Manufacturing Supercluster, joining more than 100 leading Canadian companies and other post-secondary institutions.
This initiative plans to help companies create newer tools, technologies, and information centres. It will bring individuals, information, knowledge, and talents from all across the world in an attempt to diversify Canada’s economy—specifically the manufacturing sector.
The ultimate goal is to help manufacturers across Canada become world leaders in the development, adoption, and production of advanced technologies, and to sustain Canada’s current economic development.
“We are working with universities and colleges across southern Ontario and Québec. Our objective is to connect the researchers and students with the capabilities that companies require to those companies that need them, so we are partnering with people, not institutions.
“York is a supporter because of the quality of the research, and the capabilities that students bring to our initiative,” says Jayson Myers, CEO of Next Generation Manufacturing Canada.
The federal government is investing $950 million in this initiative—an investment that will be matched by the private sector.
“The Supercluster initiative will provide federal funding to leverage approximately $800 million in private sector investments, in projects that will: make our existing assets more visible; connect companies, research, and education infrastructure; build collaboration across the advanced manufacturing ecosystem; deploy advanced technologies to transform production processes in key manufacturing sectors like auto, steel, food, and high value wood products; lead to the development and production of new manufacturing technologies in Canada; develop entirely new industries based on advanced technologies like Internet of Things devices, smart materials, and textiles; and help smaller companies de-risk the scale-up and adoption of new technologies,” adds Myers.
The federal government estimates over $13 billion will be added to the economy, and more than 13,500 jobs will be created over the next 10 years.
“The projects that will be led by the Supercluster will help define the competencies needed by the next generation workforce in manufacturing.
“We will be partnering with universities and colleges to support the research and skills development that will be necessary to achieve our project objectives,” he says.
A large investment by the private sector suggests that companies are attempting to innovate continuously in order to stay competitive within the global capitalist economy. This creates an urgency to innovate newer technologies to further Canada’s economy and job market.
Myers adds: “The very large contribution that our private sector partners have made shows how important it is to accelerate the adoption, scale-up, and production of advanced technologies, if manufacturers are to compete and grow in today’s global economy.
“It also shows how willing companies are to step up to make investments, if there are partners they can work with to help defray some of the risks and costs associated with the deployment and scale-up of new technologies.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Victoria Silman | Contributor
Featured image: Voter turnout decreased from 13 per cent last year, to only 12 per cent this year. | Basma Elbahnasawy
The York Federation of Students (YFS) elections have ended and the ballots have been counted. UniteYU has won all but two positions in the YFS government.
UniteYU has taken every executive position: Rawan Habib as President, Sebastien Lalonde as Vice-President (VP) Campaigns and Advocacy, Anthony Fernandes as VP Campus Life, Jordan Madeira as VP Operations, and Aminat Arigbabu as VP Equity.
As for college and faculty directors, UniteYU candidates took all but two positions; Director of the Faculty of Education, which Team ABC won with 84 of 120 votes; and the Lassonde School of Engineering Director, which Team ABC won by default.
Voter turnout for the executive positions was just over 6,000, roughly 280 of which were spoiled, which was down one per cent from last year’s 13 per cent. Last year, the ballot count for executive positions totalled approximately 7,000.
College director positions saw a turnout of approximately 6,200, with 36 spoiled on average, and faculty director positions had a turn out of close to 5,400, with about 43 spoiled on average.
According to the YFS Chief Returning Officer (CRO), Mohammad Balil Nasir—who oversees the election process—there were no appeals after the release of the election outcomes.
However, there were appeals concerning alleged campaign violations prior to the final ballot count, one of which was filed by VP Campaigns and Advocacy Candidate Sajeth Paskaran.
The appeal stated that the CRO originally approved posters stating YFS’ revenue budget as $3.3 million in Momentum’s campaign posters, but later asked the slate to change the value on posters.
The CRO concluded $3.3 million as the operating budget, while the actual revenue budget proved to be $3.1 million. The appeal was later overturned by the Elections Appeal Committee, allowing Momentum to continue using the posters with the original budget.
Students have voiced concerns regarding YFS’ operating budget, which is confirmed to be $3.3 million according to a 2017 YFS Statement of Operations report, provided by the General Assemblies Now Coalition.
Students have also expressed an increasing concern regarding the lack of transparency in YFS elections.
When asked about issues of transparency, and how the CRO works to keep the elections transparent, Nasir says: “There were no issues of transparency, as the elections are transparent.”
When asked a series of questions during the electoral process, including how debates are organized and promoted, whether online voting is a possibility in the future, and the selection process of the CRO, the UniteYU team adds: “Since the rest of the questions are about the electoral process, we, as a slate running for the elections, aren’t at the capacity to answer.”
A student who wishes to remain anonymous says: “Rather than transparent and fair, the election process is secretive, and heavily favours incumbents who set the rules behind closed doors with no oversight. The debate was not advertised, and had less than one-tenth of a per cent of the student population in attendance.
“The CRO is hired by the YFS—therefore the incumbents—and as a result, cannot be fully independent from the elections committee or the incumbent party.”
Eduardo Rodríguez, the former campaign manager of YUFirst, which was the 2014 opposition slate to Student Action (now UniteYU), says: “The system is rigged in favour of the incumbents. Most of the executives are already graduated, or only taking one course at York. They can afford to campaign. Meanwhile, people in opposition slates are much busier.
“It’s hard for undergraduates to set up a strong opposition. Not only that, but opposition slates are always painted as ‘right-wing’ for various reasons.”
The 2014 election saw Student Action win all but one position.
A number of students echo Rodríguez’s concerns, believing that the YFS is centred around an unsteady electoral system.
Ghizlane, a third-year Global Political Studies student, says: “I think there needs to be more student parties to better represent the student body, and the opportunities for that are slim because of the YFS’ undemocratic by-laws.”
Online voting is also at the forefront of student concern during YFS elections.
Evolve YU, a student-run initiative, advocates for including online voting, and is supported by a myriad of students looking for a similar outcome.
First-year Screenwriting student Henry Gerharz adds: “I want them to introduce online voting, and give York students who want their voices to be heard that opportunity.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: February 28 is Pink Shirt Day—let’s stop bullying together. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Think pink, and think before you post. This February 28 is Pink Shirt Day, a day which began in Nova Scotia in 2007 after a male grade nine student was bullied for wearing a pink shirt to school. Two students, David Shepherd and Travis Price, organized a protest and started a movement to encourage students to wear pink and show their support for the boy as a way to stand up against bullying. 
Bullying is any form of physical, verbal, social, or cyber force or aggression against another person. This can include physical force, verbal attacking, spreading rumours about a person, or exclusion—essentially, anything that threatens, embarrasses, intimidates, or damages another’s reputation or well-being in any way. Bullying creates a power imbalance, wherein the perpetrator exerts their power over the victim. In addition to any physical trauma incurred, bullying can result in serious emotional problems, including anxiety, low self-esteem, or depression.
Harassment is similar to bullying because it targets another individual through cruel, offensive, and insulting behaviours, but is also a form of discrimination, by treating a person differently based on certain characteristics. Bullying turns into harassment when the behaviour goes against Canada’s Human Rights Laws and people are treated differently due to their age, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, family or marital status, or physical and/or mental disability. Pink Shirt Day reminds Canadians of the importance of standing up for one another and fighting stereotypes.
Pink Shirt Day has since become an annual event, inspiring others to wear pink to symbolize and stand in unity to promote a society that will not tolerate bullying anywhere. This year, the theme is centred around cyberbullying. Cyberbullying specifically uses electronic media to execute this bullying behaviour by harassing, impersonating, outing, cyberstalking, or denigrating through social media, texting, or other forms of digital technology.
As multi-media platforms and technologies continue to emerge and grow in use and popularity, safety needs to be prioritized, as do privacy and etiquette. This year’s Pink Shirt Day theme aims to spread the message of using technology’s power to spread kindness instead of negativity.
“Cyberbullying is a problem that affects 2/3 of young people. This year, #PinkShirtDay wants to show that #NiceNeedsNoFilter,” reads the campaign’s Twitter feed.
Each year, the event grows and fundraising increases. Last year, the donations received made it possible for Pink Shirt Day to support programs that impacted more than 59,300 youth and children.
For each #PinkItForward hashtag, Coast Capital will donate $1 to Pink Shirt Day in support of bullying prevention programs for youth in British Columbia.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
