Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image: The women have won six of their last eight games. | Courtesy of York Lions
The women’s basketball team was looking to keep their winning streak going at home this weekend.
On Friday, the Lions hosted the Nipissing Lakers, who were still looking for their first win of 2018.
In the first quarter, they looked every bit the team that had not won yet this calendar year, as they gave up 16 points to the Lions, while only scoring four themselves.
The Lakers’ offense seemed to find some life in the second, as they tripled their point total from the previous quarter. However, their defense was still nowhere to be found, as they allowed York’s offense to put up 20 points, eight of which came from Lindsay Shotbolt.
York’s offense came out red-hot to start the half, as they opened the third with a 9-0 run en route to 21 points in the frame.
With a 17-point lead going into the fourth, the Lions were on autopilot, as they allowed the Lakers offense to finally get something going, pouring in 18 points, while holding York to just nine.
However, it was too little, too late for the Lakers, as the Lions held on for the 18-point victory.
York was led by Shotbolt, who was just one rebound short of a double-double, as she recorded 24 points, nine boards, two assists, a steal, and a block.
The women were hoping to take a page out of the 6ix God’s playbook and go back-to-back on Saturday, as they were hosting the Laurentian Voyageurs.
York got out to another hot start in the first, as their offense was unstoppable and hung 20 points on the hapless Voyageurs, while limiting them to just six on the defensive end.
Laurentian’s offense was able to snap out of their funk in the second, as they put up 13 points. However, their defense was still unable to slow down the Lions, as York put up another 20 points en route to a 40-19 score at the half.
York’s hot shooting continued in the third, as they opened the quarter on a 6-2 run en route to a 24-14 quarter, which featured eight points from Shotbolt.
York’s big lead after three meant they could relax a little in the fourth once again, as they were outscored in the quarter 21-16. However, it wasn’t nearly enough for Laurentian, as York would go on to win 80-54.
The Lions were once again led by Shotbolt, who recorded 22 points, 14 rebounds, two assists, two steals, and two blocks.
York is now tied with Ryerson for fourth in the OUA East, just four points behind third-place Ottawa.
The men had two games this weekend as well, but were unable to put an end to their losing streak, as they lost both.
Both teams will be back in action this weekend, hosting the Queen’s Gaels. Tipoff is at 6 p.m. for the women and 8 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Abdeali Saherwala | Staff Writer
Featured image: New initiative by York Mathematics and Statistics professors make strides in vaccine research. | Courtesy of Jason Taix
York is involved in a new initiative with support from the Faculty of Science to identify the most susceptible populations to infectious diseases via the development of mathematical models and techniques.
This research will enable drug manufacturers to produce economical vaccines for viruses, such as the Zika virus. The research is also expected to better position Canada to respond rapidly to emerging public health issues.
“The York team will focus on developing mathematical models and tools to guide vaccine development and production.
“Expertise of the York team includes: stochastic optimization; statistical computing; modeling of transmission dynamics; modeling of within-host dynamics, waning immunity and vaccine hesitancy; numerical analysis of differential equations; Markov chains and Monte Carlo methods; and Bayesian inference,” says Dr. Jianhong Wu, a professor in the Department of Mathematics.
This initiative involves Mathematics and Statistics professors from York, such as Dr. Jane Heffernan, Dr. Neal Madras, Dr. Xin Gao, Dr. Michael Chen, Dr. Huaxiong Huang, Dr. Helene Massam, and Wu.
Sanofi Pasteur, Canada’s largest vaccine provider, is funding $1.5 million over five years to this initiative, and $1 million is being provided by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. Additionally, York will provide significant financial contributions to the research.
“Dedicated Sanofi scientists will participate in the program by contributing expertise on vaccine development and production, and systematic reviews and meta-analyses, to collect critical vaccine product characteristics for model parameterization and calibration.
“These scientists will participate in the supervision of trainees, and will have access to York’s computing/library facilities,” says Wu.
Vaccine production is greatly assisted by mathematical modeling in order to interpret how viruses are spread in certain populations.
Many researchers are considering creating a mathematical model and equations for a specific virus, while others are attempting to create a more generic set of models and equations, which can later be adapted for multiple viruses.
Madras explains: “At the moment, I am not involved with development of any particular vaccine; rather, I am thinking about more generic mathematical modeling frameworks that can be adapted to different diseases as needed.
“Our flu vaccines are far from perfect, as one has been hearing in the news. When a new disease emerges, it can set off a world-wide search for a vaccine. There are many parts to the development and assessment of new/improved vaccines, and this mathematical research is one part.”
As new diseases and viruses emerge, drug manufacturers, in collaboration with mathematicians, are working to create cost-effective, easily deployable vaccines with the potential to save countless lives.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief || Dennis Bayazitov | Assistant News Editor
Featured image: Everything you need to know about the current labour negotiations between York and CUPE 3903. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Last Friday, the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) York local 3903 completed their strike mandate voting period, which resulted in 85 per cent of voting members voting in favour.
Approximately 52 per cent of Unit 1, 52 per cent of Unit 2, and 47 per cent of Unit 3 cast ballots in the vote. The results were 86.46 per cent of Unit 1, 83.07 per cent of Unit 2, and 84.62 per cent of Unit 3 voting in favour.
This does not mean a strike is imminent; however, it doesn’t mean it isn’t, either.
Before a strike can happen, CUPE 3903 must file a No Board Report—after which, the Union must wait at least 17 days to set a strike deadline, confirms CUPE 3903 Communications Officer Maija Duncan. The union does not have to set it at the 17-day mark, but it is not permitted to set it any earlier.
Once a strike deadline is set, York will have until that date to present their final offer. If approved by CUPE 3903, the semester will proceed as normal; if rejected, a strike will commence.
U of T local CUPE 3902 has set a strike deadline for February 26, Duncan mentions. “That may or may not affect our decision-making. I cannot know.”
In a mass email titled “Open Letter to the York Community” sent Saturday morning, Interim Vice-President Academic and Provost Lisa Philipps reported: “York remains committed to a negotiated settlement with no strike.”
The letter clarified York will not undergo a union strike should council meetings with the Ministry of Labour conciliator and the Union achieve a new agreement satisfactory to both parties; or, in the event both sides agree to a joint referral to Interest Arbitration, which would feature an independent third-party arbitrator who would set a final decision.
“We’re doing everything we can to prevent a strike,” Philipps affirms, regarding York’s history of strikes.
“We have a made an offer we think is going to keep York as having the best compensation package in the province for teaching and graduate assistants, part-time faculty, and contract faculty.
“We are offering to make a deal that’s already the leading compensation package even better—some creative solutions, we think, at the table on issues of concern to the union. We all recognize the value all these union members bring to the classroom and that they are our students and our colleagues. We’re very proud to have a leading compensation package precisely, because we value what they do.”
“We have been bargaining improvements to our contract since 1975,” Duncan says.
“These are mature contracts, and quite frankly these good contracts have been won through multiple strikes.
“York should not be taking credit for the strength of our contracts. Also, needs evolve. What is enough money for childcare, for example, changes over time. The cost of childcare has increased around 5 per cent every year in Toronto. Perhaps most importantly, the main issues we are dealing with have resulted in hundreds of people being pushed out of work.
“The strength of our compensation becomes moot when people are denied access to it. Talking about compensation when the issues are job security and securing funding for graduate students is a misdirection,” she continues.
The annual salary at York before tuition is currently $22,722 for level 1 graduate students, and $23,217 for level 2 graduate students. According to Duncan, this funding is provided whether graduate students work as a teaching assistant or not. In their demands package, CUPE 3903 has asked for a 4 per cent raise to the graduate student salaries, along with a 100 per cent refund for annual tuition fees.
Another priority issue CUPE 3903 members are fighting for is the reinstatement 0f 700 jobs that were cut.
Part of CUPE 3903’s frustration with York stems from the last labour negotiations that took place in 2015. Union members felt they had agreed upon the new CBA, only to have York “misinterpret” the language of the contract.
“They felt that language meant something else, and that they would actually be using people’s scholarships and other forms of funding in order to pay the difference they had guaranteed us would be covered,” says Duncan.
According to her, after nine months of negotiating, the two sides finally reached an agreement on the language. However, just a month later, York “rolled out a new York Fellowship funding model and cut 700 jobs.”
Philipps clarifies York has replaced the previous funding, which required work hours for graduate students, with funding that students receive without needing to complete work hours.
“What we’ve heard from students over the years is that having to work in order to get your funding package can impede your progress on your academic studies. I think it’s a win for students.
“The York Fellowship we introduced was really to allow them to have the funding support without having the work obligation. We think that’s better for students and their academic success,” she adds.
In response, Duncan claims: “The changes caused by the fellowship model have, in fact, meaningfully affected funding. Between benefits and funds, a conservative estimate is a potential of $10,000 in access to funds and benefits.
“Not to mention job experience and professional development, as well as extensions for students with disabilities. It’s a matter of equity and accessibility that they have revoked access to these funds and benefits.”
However, Philipps reports the funding has remained the same. “I want to be really clear: we have not reduced funding for graduate students,” she says.
“We’ve changed some of the funding from work-related funding, to funding that you just receive. It’s basically like a scholarship or a bursary that you receive that allows you to study, without having to do work engagements.”
The negotiation process has been contentious to say the least, as neither side has agreed on much thus far. “The relationship between CUPE 3903 and York is bad,” Duncan describes. “It has been for a very long time.”
“I understand the discourse from both sides is that both sides are stonewalling; however, it’s not a very good representation of what’s happening,” she adds.
CUPE 3903 has accused York of hiring a “union-busting” lawyer to represent them at the bargaining table. “Simon Mortimer of Hicks Morley has been hired to lead negotiations for York’s bargaining team—the first time this has happened in several rounds. Usually there are lawyers at the table who advise, but it’s someone from the university who knows our contracts very well, whose job it is to lead the negotiations,” says Duncan.
“It’s very strange that this round they have decided to hire Mortimer, who specializes in certification campaigns and unfair labour practices suits,” she adds.
According to Philipps, “there’s a long history of this. It’s quite time-intensive to engage in this process. We want to bring the best expertise to the table that we can; someone who has had a long career of helping parties constructively work towards a resolution.
“It really reflects the importance we put on trying to have a good outcome here.”
Meanwhile, CUPE 3903 has also alleged that York has intentionally spread misinformation on numerous occasions during the negotiation process. Duncan points to an open letter published as a paid advertisement last week in Excalibur, “in which they claimed this vote would give our executive committee the right to bring our membership out on strike without a further vote.”
Duncan says that while it is not a direct lie, such a statement is misleading. From a legal standpoint, however, it is correct.
Nevertheless, “CUPE 3903 has never done this. York knows this,” she says.
“They know very well this is our process, and that if we did do this, we would have a mutiny on our hands, and that it would work well for them.
“Our membership would refuse,” she explains. “We would call in a strike, and there would be no one out on the picket lines. It has to be a membership decision.”
According to Duncan, York is “scaremongering by hiding those facts,” saying York has released information that it is not offering any concessions and not offering to worsen contracts in any way.
“And yet, we used to have eight conversion programs a year, but now it has been reduced to one.”
Conversions grant high-seniority contract faculty, who typically have already served for 10 to 20 years, the opportunity to get “converted” into a tenure track—into the York University Faculty Association (YUFA). Duncan says it has been a highly successful program, maintaining a greater success rate than external searches.
Philipps addresses the assertion, saying it is not accurate, nor does it provide the full scope of the situation. “This is true at all universities that a fundamental principle of how you recruit your faculty is open searches, in which colleagues are involved in determining who is the best qualified to come and teach our students,” she says.
She notes the conversion program is an exception, as York tries to balance the need for academic excellence as a driving principle with providing longer-term serving faculty more certainty regarding their employment.
“We have actually offered five conversion appointments every year—not one. We add one to a tenure stream position, and four more to what we call a contractually-limited appointment (CLA).
“That’s a three-to-five-year guarantee of work that would be involving membership in YUFA.”
York’s proposal would convert one contract faculty position per year to a tenure stream position, and four to CLAs of three years each, with the possibility to renew up to five years.
Additionally, Philipps denies the claims of York spreading misinformation. “I think we have some differences of opinion. That’s different than inaccuracies,” she says.
“We’re very rigorous about fact-checking our communications. Whenever we hear a claim something is misleading or inaccurate, we go back and triple-check, and we read it again to see whether it could be misinterpreted or if it’s being misread.”
Philipps says York is making a considerable effort to find points of agreement at the table. “We are being a reliable, honest source of information. That’s very important to us,” she adds.
“We’re also working hard at communicating in a way that people can rely on. It is information from our point of view—but it’s accurate and timely.
“We’re doing everything we can, and it’s unfortunate if that’s the perception. It’s not my perception. It’s not at all what I think our effort is at the table.
“We are always open to listening to how we can do better, and to additional ideas about how we can continue improving and strengthening in areas like job security,” she says.
Philipps notes: “CUPE 3903’s proposals represent a full 57 per cent increase in cost over the current contract, totaling $48 million. At this time, CUPE 3903 has not expressed willingness to negotiate that.”
Duncan counters that York accrued a surplus of $36.4 million last year, indicating it could be used to pay for the additional funds CUPE 3903 members are asking for.
“That surplus they are referring to is not available for increased salaries and wages, that would be an ongoing commitment,” Philipps explains—the additional revenue is not just extra money lying around.
“There might be some one-time money that could be used to address some of the pressing needs around the university, like the state of the classrooms in some areas—in some of our older buildings—and our washrooms. We have put some money aside for the kinds of things we think are priorities for students, in terms of the student experience.
“But those are one-time investments, and those are different from increasing ongoing compensation costs,” she clarifies.
If there is a strike, this will be the third that has occured over the last four bargaining periods.
While numerous students do understand CUPE 3903’s position, the possibility of a third strike occurring over the prior four bargaining periods has induced feelings of disillusionment among many undergraduates, who feel powerless and caught in the middle.
“I feel disappointed and appalled at CUPE 3903 for holding the students’ grades and credits hostage in this situation. Not only that, it leaves my peers and I at a disadvantage when competing against students from other schools in the job market,” says Parham Dibajnia, a fourth-year Finance and Strategy student at Schulich.
“At the same time, I am upset at the school for not taking any extreme action to prevent this.
“I can’t believe I’m about to say this, but at this point, I’d trust the administration over CUPE 3903.”
“I feel extremely stressed and worried regarding the strike negotiations. This is impacting my mental health, because I am being put in a situation where I have invested money in a full year’s worth of classes. The possibility of not receiving that is triggering my anxiety, as I have completed lots of coursework and do not want my hard work to be fruitless,” says Priya Saha, a second-year Communication Studies student.
“I am a first-generation student—the first in my family to attend university in Canada—and I know the hard work and effort my mother has done for me to help pay my tuition fees, and I do not want that money and effort to go to waste.
“I understand that one cannot put a dollar value on education; an education is priceless. But students are putting in a lot of money and time that might not yield prosperous results, because faculty think that it is alright to jeopardize the students’ ability to receive their education in a straightforward manner.”
“I feel that it would be extremely selfish of CUPE 3903 to go on strike and disrupt the school year. By delaying the semester, they would be interfering with not only the students’ progress towards their degree, but also their ability to find full-time summer work.
“Please, for the sake of everyone, come to a reasonable agreement and be charitable in your negotiations,” says Adam Pugsley, a third-year Cognitive Science student.
Despite students’ concerns, neither side feels a strike is guaranteed at this point. “We are putting all of our effort into avoiding a strike. We don’t think a strike is needed. We think that the parties can work together to reach an agreement,” says Philipps.
“I understand strikes are very hard on students; they’re also very hard on us. Just because we’ve asked for a strike mandate vote doesn’t mean we want to strike. It just means we’re putting ourselves in a position to accumulate power for the bargaining table,” says Duncan.
It seems, at the moment, the only thing the two sides can agree on is the desire to avoid a strike, if at all possible.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Sara Qarizada | Contributor
Featured image: Students often feel overwhelmed by the obligations related to post-secondary education. | Courtesy of Ulrike Mai
We long for the carefree days when we were graded on creating a unique title page for a book report, or colouring and labelling the map of Canada.
Now, we are confronted with quizzes, tests, midterms, essays, and exams—for not just one, but sometimes five courses.
We have part-time jobs, volunteer work, co-op placements, and on top of all of that, we are worrying about the threat of a strike.
The goal is to graduate on time with a decent GPA, while meeting the daunting requirements of post-graduate and/or job applications.
Factoring in a family or social life and tending to personal regimes seems next to impossible.
Twenty-four hours isn’t enough, but the deadlines continue to roll in, and sleep continues to elude us.
Mental health challenges among university students are more common than many may think. This is due to the high levels of stress caused by school-related obligations. In the past year, 72 per cent of Ontario university students reported having negative experiences with stress related to academics.
This is according to a survey conducted by Good2Talk, a free help hotline that offers professional information on sensitive topics to post-secondary students. According to the survey, the top five stressors in students’ lives are academics, career, body image, finances, and relationships, in that order.
Seventy-two per cent of these students admitted that they would have liked to speak to someone about their problems, as they have tried—unsuccessfully—to deal with their issues on their own.
Stress can be good for the body to a certain extent. When the body feels stressed, it becomes more alert and motivated to perform better—this is why many students find they work better under stress and tend to fall back into untimely routines. The flow of adrenaline also increases with stress, which stimulates our fight-or-flight responses. For this, stress is beneficial when it comes to emergencies.
However, when it comes to university stress, these life-saving bodily responses aren’t helpful, and instead become detrimental to one’s health over time—both physically and mentally; they bring about feelings of anger and anxiety, and can lead to sleep deprivation and depression, due to the chemicals released in the brain that obscure higher cognitive processes.
It is important for students to understand how unhealthy and damaging this is to their mental state, even if they don’t see it yet.
Students who have high level of stress during the school year need to target the source of their stress—for many, it has to do with poor time management skills.
It is crucial for students to reach out for support when feeling stressed, even if they feel it is a natural part of being a student.
Tackling stress alone can be challenging, but it is still possible—the first step is identifying the problem, and understanding that taking a time-out when overwhelmed is necessary.
No matter how important meeting a deadline is, your mental health always takes precedence—no one should compromise their mental state for the sake of handing in a paper on time.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Emilie Miranda | Executive Editor, Online
Featured image: The Lions outscored the Thunderwolves 9-4 in back-to-back games. | Courtesy of York Lions
The Lions had a successful weekend on the ice, with the men taking back-to-back games against the Lakehead Thunderwolves and the women shutting out the UOIT Ridgebacks, before being shut out themselves by the Queen’s Gaels.
The men’s Friday night game started off with a power play goal for the Thunderwolves, after Kyle Campbell took a hooking penalty in early in the first.
Six minutes later, Campbell made up for the infraction by tying the game at one. However, the game didn’t stay tied for long, as the Thunderwolves scored just nine seconds after Campbell’s equalizer, and added another goal less than a minute later, to send the Lions into the first intermission down 3-1.
The second period saw more quick scoring; Scott Feser’s goal cut the lead to 3-2, but 20 seconds later the Thunderwolves answered, regaining their two-goal lead.
In the third, York outshot Lakehead 16-4 in the period, managing to tie the game on goals from Reid Jackman and Colton Vannucci to send the contest to overtime. York captain Shayne Rover put the game to bed with the winning goal, with less than 30 seconds to go in the extra frame.
Rover lead the team with three points in the game, and Mack Shields made 30 saves in the victory.
Saturday night saw an even better result for the men, who were once again facing the Thunderwolves on the road. Josh LaFrance opened the scoring five minutes in on what would be the only even-strength goal of the game.
With less than 20 seconds to go in the period, Morgan Messenger put up a short-handed goal, after Campbell took an interference penalty late to give York the 2-0 lead.
With five minutes to go in the second, Jackman gave the Lions yet another short-handed goal, after Dexter Bricker was called for slashing. In the last second of the game, Alex Mowbray scored an empty-netter for the 4-0 final score. Shields was solid in his second shutout in the last week, holding the Thunderwolves scoreless, despite facing 38 shots.
They currently sit second in the OUA West, six points back of the first-place Guelph Gryphons, with three games left in the regular season.
The women also saw success on Saturday, shutting out UOIT 2-0 in a low-shooting game. Both goals came in the second period, with first Christina Chin putting one past the Ridgebacks goalie two-and-a-half minutes into the period.
Kelsey McHolm extended the Lions lead less than five minutes later on a power-play goal.
Though York took six minor penalties in the game and were outshot 21-16, they were able to hold on for goalie Eva Hall’s first win of the season.
Unfortunately, Sunday saw the women fall 4-0 to the Gaels, their second time being shut out in their last three games. They’re currently 10th place in the OUA, well back of a playoff spot with only four games left on the season.
Next week the men will look to gain ground against the Gryphons at home on Friday, while the women take on the Western Mustangs at home on Saturday. The puck drops at 7 p.m. for both games.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Priya Saha | Contributor
Featured image: Self-care is essential for one’s mental, emotional, and physical health. | Courtesy of Myriams Fotos
With all the responsibilities post-secondary students have these days, it can be hard to find time to just relax and make time for ourselves.
“‘Self-care’ has become a buzzword. Everyone seems to be talking about it. We are sold the idea that self-care requires purchasing an extensive list of beauty, skincare, and wellness products. While pampering yourself can be an important aspect, it is not the only option. There really is no correct way to practice self-care, and it is personal and differs for everyone,” says a student who wishes to remain anonymous.
However, self-care should be something that every individual incorporates into their daily routine. Self-care—also known as self-compassion—focuses on devoting attention to one’s mental, emotional, and physical health. It should not be considered a selfish act, as an individual must recharge themselves on a personal level to ensure their well-being.
Self-care is the constant repetition of many small habits. It’s about one’s thoughts, actions, and ability to cope with daily stressors. The best way to do this is to implement small, daily habits, including self-affirmation or allotting time alone. This is a process, because often it’s not always simple to appreciate and make time for oneself, but it’s necessary.
“To me the best form of self-care is doing what makes me happy. Whether it is trying a new workout at the gym, going out to eat, or just singing at the top of my lungs, it’s so important to me to do things I enjoy,” says Corey Grunberg, a second-year Kinesiology student.
Practicing positive self-care and self-talk regularly contributes to positive well-being overall, especially regarding mental health, which can be defined as: a state of well-being in which every individual realizes his or her own potential, can cope with the normal stresses of life, work productively, and make contributions to their own communities. 
It is important to practice compassion and awareness when addressing emotions; taking care of the mind is just as crucial as taking care of the body. One can begin with basic care activities, such as stretching or breathing exercises, actively planning self-care to incorporate it into your daily routine, and to maintain a conscious mind, as self-care should re-energize you.
Jessie Nowlan, a third-year Communication Studies student, says: “I always try to eat healthy as a form of self care. When I focus on the nutrition I’m putting in my body it creates a greater appreciation for everything my body accomplishes.”
Self-talk is an important component of self-care.
Self-talk is an individual’s internal dialogue; having positive rather than negative thoughts can influence moods and actions in various ways. Optimistic self-talk is often difficult to achieve, because of the tendency to only remember negative comments, responses, and circumstances, which in turn can build upon feelings of anger, dissatisfaction, unhappiness, and hopelessness.
“It is difficult to reach our fullest potential if we are constantly feeling overworked and exhausted. That is why it is important to take care of our minds and bodies through implementing activities that bring us joy. Practicing self-care helps us to achieve our goals and experience fulfillment in life.
“We also need to take care of ourselves first, before taking care of others,” says Shalyn Isaacs, president and founder of Women’s Mental Health Talks and fourth-year Psychology student.
In order to induce positive self-talk, this negativity must be eliminated. Disarming this negativity allows for recognition of positive thoughts and qualities, taking power away from negative ones.
As the number of people who suffer from mental illness climbs, we must remember to devote attention towards our mental, emotional, and physical health.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
Jodie Vanderslot | Health Editor
Featured image: Let’s talk about mental health more than just one day a year. | Basma Elbahnasawy
In September 2010, Bell Canada began a conversation about mental health in Canada—Bell Let’s Talk Day. Since then, it has become an annual event.
Bell Let’s Talk Day takes place today, January 31, and intends to continue the conversation about, and end the stigma around mental illness.
“Any change that has ever taken place first began with a simple conversation. Like a butterfly effect, talking about mental health sends ripples across our society that can end up saving lives. We believe that mental health should be given just as much a pedestal as is physical, and that through compassion and advocacy, we can de-stigmatize mental illness together,” says a representative of Active Minds at York.
The details of Bell Let’s Talk Day need to be made clear: for every text message sent by Bell Canada customers, Bell will donate five cents towards mental health programs. For every view the Bell Let’s Talk Day video receives, as well as every tweet using #BellLetsTalk and @Healthy_Minds, every post on Instagram with the same hashtag and tag @HealthyMindsCanada, or use of the Bell Let’s Talk Facebook frame or Snapchat filter, Bell will donate five cents towards mental health initiatives.
“I think a high majority of us have mental health concerns, but don’t face them because of the stigma and shame we feel. But it’s high time we break that cycle,” says Yalda Sarwar, a fourth-year Journalism student at Seneca.
The campaign strives to promote mental health awareness, acceptance, and not only employs, but calls, for action.
For the Bell Let’s Talk campaign, Bell will contribute to mental health initiatives such as the Centre for Mental Health and Addiction, Boys and Girls Club, as well as different universities and hospitals across Canada.
These funds are used to improve access to care and support world-class research, such as $150,000 to St. John Ambulance, who will work towards integrating more mental health training in standard and emergency First Aid courses, and a $400,000 donation to the Montreal General Hospital Foundation, in order to acquire a new repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation device and a neuronavigator designed to increase access to its Neuromodulation Unit for those living with mental illness.
“I think that Bell Let’s Talk—although it is only a day—is indeed beneficial, considering that the first steps to treating mental illness is addressing it head-on, and talking about it with either a trusted person or in public. I think that the whole movement is great.
“So many people suffer from mental health issues, whether they are aware of it or not, and having the opportunity for your voice and story to be heard is not only a good thing, but revolutionary in nature,” says John Mercado, a fourth-year Marketing student.
“As someone who suffers from mild OCD and anxiety, I know that by talking about it, even for just a day, can help alleviate the feelings of loneliness and the perception of fighting the battle alone. When you are given a platform to share with others what you are going through, those feelings of being alone suddenly disappear,” he adds.
Bell Let’s Talk began as a way to start a much-needed conversation about mental health, acknowledging those who were struggling, and encouraging them to come forward with their experiences to share just how common mental health challenges are.
In raising awareness about these issues, the aim was—and still is—to combat the stigma that surrounds them. However, many feel that Bell Let’s Talk should have everyone continuing to discuss and de-stigmatize mental illness on a daily basis—not just once a year.
“Bell Let’s Talk does raise awareness of and promotion for mental health, because people who are directly affected by mental illness may find some support when it comes to the subject. Although it is only for a day, many people have felt the need to continue the conversation throughout the year, with their own ways of advocating and helping those who suffer from a mental illness,” says Christa Boadi, communications director of Women’s Mental Health Talks and a third-year Communication Studies student.
This year, Bell Let’s Talk hopes to surpass last year’s record of support. Last year, they received 131,705,010 total messages, $6,585,250.50 more in funding for Canadian mental health services, and #BellLetsTalk was the top hashtag used on social media platforms.
The massive wave of support felt on Bell Let’s Talk should be genuine, and it should be felt not just today, but every day. The goal of this campaign—to increase awareness around mental illness and support those with it—should be what we strive to do every day of the year. Keep the conversation going.
Let’s talk.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
