 
Excalibur Editorial Board
Featured image courtesy of Unsplash
12 BARZ
Matt Dionne | Editor-in-Chief
As a native of Ottawa, I’m not a fan of winter; the weather sucks, the drivers on the road suck, the incessant blaring of Christmas music sucks. With that being said, there is one winter activity I look forward to every year—12 Barz. An annual pub crawl, 12 Barz is celebrating its 15th year this year, and is taking place in more than 30 cities in Canada alone. The event provides participants with the opportunity to party their stresses away during the first weekend of December. Participants are split into teams and given a list of bars to attend during the night. They also receive a shirt which includes a list of tasks that must be completed, ranging from the suggestive to the absurd. So if you’re looking for a way to blow off steam as exams approach, look no further than the 12 Barz of Christmas.
CHRISTMAS LIGHTS
Mahdis Habibinia | Executive Editor, Online
Part of the reason why everybody becomes so entranced with the holiday season is because of the cascade of lights dancing across the city. A variety of reds, yellows, whites, and greens can be seen illuminating people’s rooftops, draped over trees, or dancing across downtown buildings. The Cavalcade of Lights at Nathan Phillips Square, for example, dawns 700 ornaments and 3,810 LED lights on a 60-foot Christmas tree. Neighbours decorate their rooftops and lawns with a string of illumination, including light-up Santas, and other decorations. There’s something about Christmas lights that lifts your spirits and catches the eye; maybe it’s the contrast of a plethora of colours on a white canvas, like a real-life painting; maybe it’s the natural way warm lights brighten up our spirits during such a dark, cold season; whatever the reason, I will never get tired of gazing upon those lights with a hot cocoa in my hand, and a 60-foot luminescent tree in front of me.
NEW YEAR’S EVE BALL DROP
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
I’ll admit—I’m not one for the champagne, and the tipsy, slurred speech that tends to escape from many mouths in the early hours of January 1. However, New Year’s Eve is one of the most enchanting and sentimental times for me (minus the alcohol, in my case)—not only just to reflect on the past year and prepare for the new one, but most especially, for the Times Square Ball Drop—a world-wide, annual television event airing in the heart of New York City. From counting down from 10 with the crowd, to watching all the couples in Times Square kiss one another at the stroke of midnight, the height of ecstasy and anticipation, to me, will always be the best way to start a new year.
THE PICKLE
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
My family has a Christmas Eve tradition every year where we hang an unorthodox ornament—a Christmas pickle. The tradition comes from Germany, where the pickle is the last ornament to be hung, and the child who finds it receives an extra present. My family, though, has put a twist on it—probably because we aren’t German. For our tradition, the first person to find the pickle gets to open a special gift. In the case of my family, this gift is always a game, and the winner gets to keep it. The twist, however, is that we all get together and play the game that evening. Last year the winner received MadLibs, which had us laughing for hours.
CHRISTMAS MOVIES
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
The Holidays are just around the corner, and with it, a collection of novel holiday movies. Winter is the best season to indulge in Christmas movies because it takes us away from our mundane reality, and into a dreamy world of candy canes, and christmas cheer. Even though holiday movies are highly idealized and overly romanticized, they let you forget about your problems, and invite you into a picture-perfect dreamscape. Christmas movies get me into the holiday spirit, inspire me to decorate my room and to bake crispy cookies. Even though these movies are cliché and predictable right off the bat, I’m drawn to them, due to the positive vibe and hopeful feelings they evoke in me.
ICE SKATING
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Without a doubt, the best part of the holidays is that they fall within the winter season. It’s because of this overlap, that my favourite part of the holidays are taking part in winter activities, such as ice skating. Whether it be 8 a.m. outdoor shinny games with my brothers, or Saturday-night skating sessions with my extended family, it’s the little things that matter, and the time spent with family that is the essence of the holiday season. There’s something wonderful about holding my little cousin’s hand as she takes her first steps onto the ice, and helping her glide about. It doesn’t matter if she falls and brings me down with her, because I’ll always be there to help her back up; and at the end of the day, that’s all that matters.
VISITING FAMILY
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
What I love most about the holidays is that I get to go back to my Canadian hometown of Brockville to visit my parents. Brockville is a small, old, beautiful city, one hour from Ottawa, that sits on the St. Lawrence river. My brothers also come home for the holidays, so it is one big family reunion, and usually the only time of the year where we all get together. We celebrate the holidays with family, friends and members of our local church community.
HOLIDAY HIBERNATION
Dylan Stoll | Copy Editor
Personally, I’m not a fan of winter. The only part of winter that I’ve ever enjoyed was building snow forts, and now that I’m not a 10-year-old child, I have no interest in the cold whatsoever. So during the holidays, I do my best to keep all activities inside. I watch a lot of TV, I play a range of video games, I go to the closest bars (so I don’t have to walk in the cold for too long). And the best part: I get the most writing done. Essentially, my favourite holiday activity is hibernating.
TORONTO CHRISTMAS MARKET
Jasmine Wiradharma | Comics Editor
One of my favourite events to attend when it starts getting chilly is the Toronto Christmas Market. It takes place in the Distillery Historic District, drawing attendees with various holiday-themed attractions like a massive Christmas tree, seasonal decor and lighting, and a large variety of pop-up stores. My favourite aspect of it is the overall atmosphere—walking around feels like walking through a movie set; lights dancing around you, music playing in the distance, and the smell of apple cider and roasted turkey legs filling the air. Admission is free on weekdays before 5 p.m., and it’s an experience well worth the $6.00 admission fee, if you aren’t free during the week.
BAKING
Fatema Ali | Multimedia Editor
The tastes of this season are what I look forward to every year. Ginger, peppermint, vanilla, sugar plum, and hazelnut are just a few. Hot chocolate becomes my drink of choice, as the temperature begins to drop around the holidays. Having a hot cup of cocoa with a candy cane, and watching the snowfall is absolutely picturesque. Holiday desserts fill store shelves, and the sweet scent of baked goods wafts through the air. Also, I love baking with these holiday flavours during this season. I can’t wait to try new recipes, and make my favourite ginger molasses cookies.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured image courtesy of Jasmine Wiradharma
It’s that holly jolly time of the year again; the season of snowfall, Christmas music, and shopping for presents. The semester is wrapping up, and most of us are looking forward to kicking back and relaxing with family and friends, as we celebrate the end of the year.
There is, however, a growing segment of people who despise the holiday season. Some hate the fact that they are inundated with Christmas music on every radio station they tune in to. Some complain about the over-commercialization of the holidays, with sales in every store, and the expectations of gifts from family and friends. Some just hate the holidays because it brings into focus their lack of a relationship(s), as everyone else seems to be spending time with their loved ones while they they are left feeling alone. For others, it is even more personal, because they have lost someone close during this time, and the season revives tragic memories.
Even if you are among the people who dislike the holiday season, there are reasons why you shouldn’t hate on the holidays, and why you shouldn’t let whatever it is prevent you from developing a holiday spirit.
At the very least, no one can hate the leisure time that the holiday season provides. Even if you don’t look forward to spending time with or without your family, or you don’t have any friends to celebrate the holidays with, you can’t help but enjoy the break from school and work. Your happiness doesn’t depend on others. Read a book, go see a movie, binge-watch your favorite TV shows; you can still have fun by yourself.
If you don’t hate people all together, and you are feeling adventurous this holiday season, use the abundant free time to meet new people and make new friends; the holidays provide plenty of opportunities to do so.
If you dislike the over-commercialization of the holidays, don’t just sit at home and grumble in your sour mood. Fight the consumerism of Christmas by doing something to give back to your community. Volunteer at your neighbourhood charities; find a way to help someone in need and put a smile on someone’s face this Christmas; encourage your friends to do the same too; in this way, you can give your holidays a positive and vigorous purpose, while maintaining your holiday spirit.
If you’ve lost someone close to you during a Christmas that has passed, use the time to remember the good days you shared. It’s hard not to miss them and feel sad, but remember that they loved you, and wished only for your happiness. Try to remain positive this holiday season as you celebrate their lives.
The holidays are a time of joy, fun and relaxation, and we can all enjoy Christmas in various ways by doing the things that make us happy. Don’t be the spoil-sport scrooge saying Bah Humbug, and bringing down everyone’s holiday cheer this season. Keep the spirit of Christmas alive, or Santa’s sleigh may not even make it off the ground!
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays!
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Many people love the holidays, but abhor the obligation to spend money they don’t have on gifts for loved ones. | Courtesy of Pexels
Picture this: you’re walking through the mall, skipping to the jolly beat of Christmas music, and passing other shoppers with smiles on their faces. You walk past the ‘Photos with Santa’ display in the centre-most point of the mall, and feel joy in watching the faces of cheerful children smiling as they meet their idol. 
Maybe you’re feeling generous and you pop a $5 bill into the Salvation Army donation box, next to the man happily ringing the sleigh-bells in his hand.
After navigating the overpopulated, snowy parking lot, you finally head home—perhaps you sit in traffic a little longer than usual. That’s all fine, though, because it’s the holidays.
You arrive home, hands full of gifts for your loved ones. You can’t wait to sit down by the Christmas tree, throw on Jim Carrey’s How The Grinch Stole Christmas, and conceal them with beautiful wrapping paper. Your family will love the things you bought for them—they do every year. You just happen to have a knack for finding the perfect gift.
Then you check your bank statement.
Your heart begins to race, and your palms start to sweat, as you realize you’ve spent way more than you budgeted for. You’ll have to make up for it in the new year, where your part-time, minimum wage job will be cutting hours because everyone else is in the same boat as you—they can’t afford to go out and buy more things.
The holidays are a stressful time for some people. The joy of shopping is a myth to many, and the idea of having to buy gifts in an overcrowded mall is something that brings great anxiety to even myself—someone who actually enjoys the holidays.
From eggnog and rum, to Christmas trees, department store Santas, and red and green draped over all things possible, what started as a religious holiday has taken on commercial significance. Entrepreneurs, marketers, consumers, and even children have all played a role.
Walk into Yorkdale, and you’ll likely see all the things listed above, next to the droves of people lining up outside expensive stores to spend their hard-earned money.
Granted, the holiday spirit is nice, and spending time with your loved ones is equally so, but the financial burden it has on your wallet is a severe symptom of the holiday blues. Many people dislike the holidays for this reason, expressing their distaste in the commercial aspects: the obligation to buy and give gifts—consume, consume, consume.
In 1995, gift giving made up $37 billion USD of the American economy. According to recent reports, Americans spent roughly $602 billion on gifts in 2013. If that seems like a high number—it is. In comparison to the rest of the year, some percentages show that the holiday actually makes up for almost 70 per cent of the entire year’s profits for some stores.
Manulife Bank released a report recently, which found 60 per cent of Canadians are willing to go into debt for the holiday season. Furthermore, only four in 10 people will actually budget for their holiday spending, and 54 per cent of those can expect to exceed their budget.
Rick Lunny, president and CEO of Manulife Bank says the financial burdens of Christmas place strain on the emotional wellbeing of Canadians. “It’s clear that Canadians are overwhelmed both financially and emotionally when it comes to the holiday season,” he said.
The effect is the “remorse over their purchases come January. It really speaks to getting a hold of your debt situation in advance of your purchases,” he continued.
For students, who often have less money due to student loans, and only part-time jobs that pay minimum-wage, the holidays can be especially stressful. For Ashwati Krishnan, a third-year psychology student, the holidays present some financial burden, because of the necessity to spend on gifts.
“Money is a big issue because it gets really expensive. You have so many people to think about when shopping for gifts. The worst part is how much money I end up spending,” Krishnan says.
Not only is money an issue, but so is the overcrowded shopping centres. Raed Baker, a second-year business human resource management student, says: “I don’t like how every store is so busy and crowded during the holiday season. Christmas shopping is the worst!”
Perhaps an even more noteworthy aspect of the holidays is the over-consumption next to those who are in need. Donation boxes start popping up everywhere, from grocery stores, to the stands the Salvation Army sprinkle throughout places which feature heavy foot-traffic.
According to Food Banks Canada, 335,944 people received assistance in Ontario during 2016. Of those people, 33.4% were children. Last year, the Toronto Star reported food bank usage was at the same levels as the 2008 recession. Despite all the money that is funnelled into the economy for gifts during the holiday season, this still remains an issue.
Some families with less still feel the obligation to participate in the holiday, especially if they have kids. Not only does this increase the financial strain on these families, but it also facilitates higher rates of mental illness.
Along with the financial burden to families in need, Lolade Adams, a third-year psychology student, points out the hardships for other vulnerable individuals.
“The worst part is that a lot of people don’t get to spend the holidays with their loved ones. People who are homeless don’t have family to be around,” she says.
Though we know the holidays are an expensive time, one begs the question how did Christmas became this way.
The history of Christmas is diverse and long. Several different cultures have celebrated it in many ways, and it was even banned from existence in the 17-century. For two millennia, the holiday has been celebrated for the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. Before Jesus, though, the winter solstice acted as a time for celebration, as longer days and warmer weather were ahead.
Christmas wasn’t declared a federal holiday in America until June 26, 1870. From there, the holiday skyrocketed in conjunction with the industrial revolution.
Since then, America has developed its own form of holiday tradition through Christmas tree decorating, baking, the ever-present clashing colours of red and green, and the biggest tradition in question: gift-giving—none of which don’t necessarily indicate the birth of a religious figure.
Though many still argue the holiday is slathered in religious connotations, modern Christmas celebrations often lack any evidence that they are celebrating the birth of Jesus (unless you count all the wine consumed). There is often a push-back from religious organizations about the holidays, angered that the marketing power of Walmart is undermining that of the Church.
The idea of the revolutionizing of Christmas, isn’t something new, though. Many students have even identified this. Krishnan believes the holiday has separated itself from the Church, though he doesn’t think this is necessarily a bad thing.
“I don’t think people care about the religious undertones. I’m sure people have their traditions, go to church, and actually celebrate it like that, but I think Christmas has become something anyone can celebrate. It’s just about being together,” he says.
Adams agrees that the separation of religion from the holiday may be a positive thing, because it allows for more people to involved.  “I think it’s a good thing, because everyone can participate in gift giving no matter their religion, or even lack thereof,” she says.
Much like other occasions during the year, the holidays impose a sense of obligation on people to be charitable, generous, and kind. When was the last time you bought your friend a gift just because?
This begs an important question: would people be less generous without this commercialized sense of a holiday (or obligation)? Would our loved ones never see gestures or gifts of kindness without red and green reminders?
Leigh Eric Schmidt writes about this phenomenon in Consumer Rites: The Buying & Selling of American Holidays, stating: “Perhaps most insistently, the fundamental religious meanings of Christmas and Easter are seen as being lost in a sea of goods. Spiritual, non-materialistic, and eternal varieties are thought to be seriously subverted in a consumer culture enthralled by abundance, self-gratification, and novelty.”
This obsession with purchasing goods identifies itself as an American phenomenon.
Kevin McCook, a fourth-year marketing student has noticed how American culture differs from other countries around the world, especially in its emphasis on gift-giving during the holidays. “I’m from a different country, so I grew up with less of an emphasis on gift-giving during Christmas. I noticed the difference when I came to Canada, but to me and my family, Christmas still has the same effect as it’s supposed to,” he says.
“I understand that it’s more commercialized, but I still think gift giving is a form of being with your family, because not everyone is religious, but everyone likes Christmas,” he continues.
Not only is spending on an array of expensive gifts anxiety-inducing, but so is the traffic that comes with it. With travel at its height, and unfavourable weather conditions, such as slippery snow covering the road, driving during the holidays isn’t a fun time.
“The worst part is probably the traffic conditions combined with everyone trying to rush on the holidays,” says McCook.
Starting at 11 a.m. on December 23, traffic begins to congest all along Toronto roads, and doesn’t cease until Christmas day, when everybody is snug in their house, ripping open their parcels of expensive prizes.
The holiday still isn’t all doom, gloom, and capitalism, though. Many students still feel the holidays carry some character of joy. McCook points out that gift-giving isn’t necessarily meant to be a consumer thing, but rather a way to bring joy to your loved ones.
“Giving is how people show affection—by giving gifts. There’s the money too, but giving gifts is a part of feeling good,” he says.
Baker says: “I think the holidays are great. I like how friends and family get together to celebrate. Even those who don’t celebrate get the chance to take a break from everything and relax.
“Although as you get older that festive spirit begins to die down, I still get excited when Christmas is around the corner seeing all the Christmas decorations people put up, and hearing Christmas songs that are so joyful,” he continues.
Adams enjoys the holiday season, partaking in the classic North American traditions. “I love the holidays. I’ve always liked spending the holidays with my family, and how much decorating it involves—all the Christmas stuff—you know, it just makes me really happy,” she says.
The Cavalcade of Lights at Nathan Phillips Square on November 24 saw droves of people come out to celebrate the holiday season, despite the cold, rainy weather. The official lighting of the christmas tree is a long-held tradition for Torontonians, having occurred for over 50 years. In the most recent years, it acts as evidence that joy still exists in a highly capitalized Yuletide season.
The most common feeling among students around the holidays, is that it’s a great excuse to spend time with their families, and to celebrate the end of the year.
“I think the best part of the holidays is spending time with your family and friends. Everyone is in such a happy mood,” Krishnan says.“Everyone is looking forward to the year ending on a good note.”
To avoid being among the 60 per cent going into debt this Christmas, many financial experts recommend setting a family budget for the holidays, to prevent the financial burden—or remorse—in the time following.
Though the holidays bring joy to many, whether it be through films, lights, the reintroduction of Michael Buble and Mariah Carey to our radios, and the joyous tradition of gift-giving, it’s important to remember those who might not be as financially able to participate.
Though the oversaturation of shopping has made the holidays seem like a burden, it’s also important to remember that it’s the season to spend time with your family, bundle up under a warm blanket, and enjoy some quality time. Try to forget about your ordeal at the mall earlier in the day, and appreciate your time with your loved ones.
With files from Jessica Sripaskaran
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Romantic Christmas movies can get people into the holiday spirit. | Courtesy of Creative Commons Zero
It’s that time of year again: December is rolling in, and with it, a fresh collection of holiday movies.
Winter is the best season to indulge in a fantastic Christmas flick that takes you away from mundane reality, and into a world of candy canes and snowy wonderlands.
Netflix’s 2018 film, ‘The Holiday Calendar‘, by Bradley Walsh, is a delightful, magical experience. In this quirky film, Abby (Kat Graham) is a struggling artist living in small-town America. Her best friend, Josh (Quincy Brown), has just returned from exploring the globe and building a successful travel-blog.
Abby yearns to fulfill her dreams and acquire a studio downtown, to help build the local art scene, but she’s frustrated working an exhausting photography gig for a grumpy boss. She craves artistic freedom and autonomy in her job. She is inspired by Quincy’s fearless attitude, and wishes she had more courage.
When Christmas comes, Abby’s family throws a party. During the festivities, Abby’s beloved Gramps (Ron Cephas Jones) gifts Abby her deceased grandmother’s antique Advent calendar. The next morning, a small door opens in the calendar, and a tiny pair of boots appear. The same day, Quincy happens to gift her a similar pair of boots. The following morning, a Christmas tree appears in the calendar’s second door. That night, Abby is driving. On the road, a man’s Christmas tree falls off his car roof. This pattern continues throughout the movie: every morning she finds a small item in the Advent calendars open door. She encounters the same item later in the day, as though by magic.
Like many Christmas movies, this one is highly idealized. Everyone lives in a big, suburban house. Everyone is photogenic and perfectly dressed. Even the unemployed men at the soup kitchen seem healthy and happy. These cookie-cutter holiday movies offer a sparkly escape from the real world, like grandma’s cookies: warm, gooey, delicious, and sugary. They let you forget about exams, jobs, bills and money, and invite you into a picture-perfect dreamscape.
However, these Christmas movies are often predictable, overly romanticized and shallow. You won’t find masterpieces of cinema in the Christmas section of Netflix, that’s for sure.
‘The Holiday Calendar’ suffers from unrealistic acting and insufferable dialogue. Abby’s bubbly personality grates on one’s nerves after a while, while Quincy seems affected, trying too hard to be cool.
Thematically, the film follows a predictable course. Abby’s professional and romantic problems are spontaneously solved at the end when Abby and Quincy kiss. Quincy buys Abby her downtown dream studio as a gift, and then it’s happily ever after.
Mollia Weidman, fifth-year visual arts and psychology student, discusses how Christmas movies alter her perception of the holidays: “Holiday movies exemplify a certain type of family orientation, and I think a lot of people in real life may not have that picture-perfect family. So, when you’re watching those movies when you’re young, you may have a different view, or expectation of what Christmas should look like. Especially for people who have different cultural backgrounds, it may not apply to them at all.”
Stephen Tran, first-year computer science student, enthuses over Christmas movies. However, he states: “They exaggerate a lot of things. The way I celebrate the holidays is not that extravagant. Christmas movies are very exciting, but that’s not usually what happens.”
Even though ‘The Holiday Calendar’ is idealized and has some flaws, it redeems itself through its contribution to Christmas cheer, spirit, and positivity.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
