 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured Image: A healthy and balanced diet can go a long way and is worth the trouble. | Courtesy of Pexels
Alcohol may be a solution, but it’s also part of the problem. As tempting as it may be for a person to drink their worries away, there’s a better alternative students should turn to during exam period.
When studying for exams, priorities are shifted, and more often than not, good nutrition is forsaken for a couple minutes of extra studying. Saving time by skipping a meal, or substituting it in favour of a sugary snack, is far more detrimental than those extra minutes are worth. Exam period is just one long, mental marathon, and in order to ensure success, high endurance is critical. The best way to shape the mind is by providing your brain with enough resources and nutrients to sustain long-term energy.
Student’s are quite accustomed to pushing through and forgetting anything other than their next big assignment, or exam at hand. While this attentiveness and hyper-focus is good, it shouldn’t be their only concern.
Jordy Young, a second-year criminology student, shared that during the exam period, her diet mostly consists of fast foods; and while studying: “candy, ice cream and cakes.” She went on to say she doesn’t make sure to eat enough food during the height of exam season, however, she doesn’t feel it affects her ability to focus. In regards to whether or not she felt a difference between having a balanced meal as opposed to one full of sugar, she said: “No, it’s honestly all the same to me.”
However, what a person consumes, has a significant effect on them, not just physically, but mentally.
Andrea Holwegner, a nutrition and corporate wellness expert, was consulted in regards to what students should be eating while studying. “The key thing when students are going through periods of stress or when their immune system is taking a hit, is they want a good, solid overall food system. They need to up their fruit and vegetable intake to make sure they meet the necessary nutrient levels. Vitamin minerals that are found in plant based food, help protect the body against fighting off colds and the flu. When students are under stress, their immune system is down, and a good way to up their fight against illness is a balanced diet.”
Holwegner stressed the importance of the three major components of a balanced diet. “The second thing students want to think about is getting protein to have enough energy to fuel them through the long and stressful periods of studying. Protein is really important to sustain overall blood sugar control. The third thing is carbohydrates, coming from dairy types of foods or grains, oatmeal, bread, quinoa, and rice. This is important for the brain because it runs exclusively on carbohydrates—there is a need to keep those levels up to help our ability to focus.”
Holwegner also provided quick-fix options for breakfast and lunch. “Breakfast can be as simple as whole grain toast, with peanut butter, banana, and coconut sprinkled on top.” A second option could be a bowl of oatmeal, “I would toss in dry foods or almonds, and hemp. You can also add in some nuts as well, almonds, cashews, sunflowers seeds—any type of nut works.”
Speedy lunch based options include eggs that are high in nutrition and proteins. “If you’re at home make them fresh, if not, hard boil half a dozen and take them to go. I would pair them up with waffa (big dark rye) crackers and put some hummus or cheese on them. I would probably also have a container full of fruits and veggies. Snap peas, baby tomatoes and carrots – things that don’t require prep.”
Holwegner promoted Jugo juice as a healthy alternative for students. “Jugo juice is a healthy smoothie based company that provides healthier alternatives for people on the go. There is no added sugar, preservatives, fruit fillers, sorbets—things that add extra sugar to smoothies. Only fresh fruit, frozen fruits and vegetables go into Jugo juice smoothies.”
She advises that preparation for the exam period should be done in advance and abundantly. “My suggestion, from a strategic perspective, is that instead of making one container at a time, I would make four to five; prepare it all in one session so you can grab and go, and there’s a backup. If you’re going to do yogurt parfaits for breakfast, you can do two or three at a time. Yogurt and frozen berries, and some nuts and dry fruit. The only thing you need to do is tap it with granola on your way out, as a snack or even breakfast.”
Healthy options are not scarce, they’re available. They just take some time and preparation, but in the long run, it’s worth the work.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Avani Abraham | Contributor
Featured Image: Sacrificing sleep for a little bit of extra studying has adverse effects on exam scores. | Courtesy of Pexels
As university students, we struggle to balance extracurricular activities, work, and studying on a daily basis. This becomes particularly challenging during exam time, when it starts to feel like there just aren’t enough hours in the day. So much so, that we resort to caffeine-fuelled all-nighters that enable some extra study hours—albeit at the cost of getting a good night’s rest.
Aswah Rabbani, a first-year communication studies student,  agrees that it’s fair to say she sacrifices sleep to study during exams. When asked how much sleep she gets during exams, Rabbani says, “per night, I would say three hours.” Regarding how she thought more sleep would affect her exam performance, she noted “I‘ve never slept more before an exam because I don’t have the time. But if I did get more sleep, I think it would help my performance.”
On the other hand, some students find that their ability to focus and retain information is impaired when they’re sleep deprived.
“I would rather not sacrifice sleep to study, because I can’t study when it’s very late—I can’t understand anything,” says Alireza Milani, a first-year political science student. Milani estimates that she sleeps five to seven hours a night during exam time. Regarding her test performance, she says: “if I sleep more, I perform better.”
While it seems logical that the more time you spend studying, the better you perform, research on sleep actually indicates that insufficient sleep has negative repercussions on stress levels, response times, and memory.
Research conducted at Ghent and KU Leuven universities in Belgium surveyed 621 first-year university students about their sleep habits during exam period. Accounting for differences in the students’ study habits, as well as their health and socioeconomic backgrounds, researchers found that all else equal, students who generally slept well the night before performed better on exams. On average, students who extended their sleep from six to seven hours saw a 1.7 point increase (out of 20) for each exam they wrote. This effect is attributed to the fact that sleep is needed to consolidate new information into our existing memory base.
Sleep, or lack thereof, also has a significant impact on our emotional, and physical wellbeing in the long-term.
“Sleep plays a vital role in the overall health and well-being of individuals,” says Helen Lee, a registered nurse and manager of Well-being and Health Promotion at the York University Student Success Centre.
“According to the National Sleep Foundation, the recommended duration for sleep varies across ages however, sleep quality is essential for all. The quality of sleep arguably relates more strongly to overall health than sleep quantity.  Many studies have indicated that the benefits of sleep are improved physical and cardiovascular health, improved memory and learning, and improved mental health in the areas of stress management, improved mood and reducing the risk of depression,” elaborates Lee.     
To improve sleep quality, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. recommends that a regular sleep schedule is maintained, that electronic devices are put away half an hour before you try to sleep, and to refrain from studying in bed, so your brain associates the bed solely with sleeping.
York University also offers resources for learning more about establishing healthy sleep habits and other behaviours to optimize academic performance.
“At various times of the year, Health Education and Promotion offers tabling on sleep habits and tips for healthy sleep. During exams, Learning Skills and Health Education partners to provide student strategies on nutrition, sleep, stress management and studying tips,” Lee adds.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Golnaz Taherian | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Kim and Garcia manipulate and mix different mediums. | Golnaz Taherian
Esther Kim and Rebecca Garcia, fourth-year visual arts students, present ‘Embodied Thought’, a collaborative exhibition which focuses thematically on the physical, psychological, and emotional experiences of being human. Kim focuses on sculpture, and Garcia on nude and figure drawing. Together, they have created a powerful set of art revolving around the subjective experience of the body.
Kim points to their practice of manipulating and mixing different mediums: “We were trying to break the conventions of a typical gallery. That’s why we drew on the walls, and we also tried to make some of the two-dimensional works sculptural, so they are hanging on strings or they are lifted from the wall creating a shadow.”
On a wall, Garcia has drawn a large-scale figure of a woman in charcoal. Her arms are raised high, giving the impression of liberation. However, the painting is fragmented and incomplete, hinting at the many contradictions and flaws in people. The artist astutely notes: “It’s very reflective of my own self, in that I am not complete.”
In one of Kim’s pieces, a large metal sculpture represents human lungs. The lungs, which hang from fishing wire, are heavy, dark and black, as though taken from a chronic smoker. The artist began with the centre of the sculpture. She then started two symmetrical branches through a process of welding and attaching, until the piece was complete.
The metal branches cast a jungle-like shadow against the nearby wall, within which Garcia’s smoky figure seems encompassed. The two pieces of art thematically illuminate one another; the shadows of the sculpture become a part of the charcoal drawing.
In another drawing, Garcia presents the figure of a headless woman. The piece is slightly fragmented. Around the figure’s chest and heart area is a faded pink watercolour. There are two ways we can see this colour. Perhaps this is sadness, or rage bleeding out of the character. This notion is compounded by a black aura surrounding her. Or, because the colour is pink, perhaps the figure is joyous. The beauty of Garcia and Kim’s artwork is that it can be interpreted in many ways.
In another piece by Kim, there are two sculptures of bronze hearts hanging from the ceiling. Each heart is split into multiple pieces, and seems to either be expanding or blowing apart. In order to make the piece, Kim bought an anatomical heart consisting of various pieces. She took the heart apart and made a mould for each piece, which she then made into wax. She grafted the pieces back together to make sure they were anatomically correct, she then burnt the wax out and poured the bronze in.
When asked about the effect York has had upon her art, Garcia positively notes how the school has assisted her: “resources, like the space to do the figure drawings. The school brings models here and also provides tools such as photography studios.”
Kim adds: “I’m so grateful for York because of all the facilities and professors. I really have close relationships with professors; I see them as mentors. I feel like that has given me an extra push in a sense to keep my drive going.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured Image: Potential concerns with OneClass include inaccuracy of class notes, as well as access to solutions from previous exams. | Fatema Ali
When it comes to comprehending class material, a number of students tend to take an easier way out. With note-sharing websites becoming more commonly utilized by students, one particular website, OneClass, has become prominent among the York community.
This site allows student access to textbook summaries, exam study guides, and student-written lecture notes. As well, the site provides a reward system for those who upload to OneClass, such as payment through cash, or gift cards.
OneClass COO and Co-Founder, Kevin Wu, says: “Any current undergraduate student can upload to the platform. As a regular uploader, you receive gift cards and cash for uploading your self-taken notes and study guides. If you are selected to become an official note taker for a course, you’ll earn $470 per course for uploading your notes for each class on a weekly basis.”
Further, student solutions from previous examinations can also be found available on the website.
Since OneClass’ introduction, many have been expressing concerns regarding the website.
For example, a number of online reviews of the site rate OneClass poorly, often claiming inaccuracy of notes, and poor customer care.
One major concern that can be viewed with note-sharing websites such as these are the spreading of classroom material without the professor’s knowledge.
Ryerson sociology and Caribbean studies professor, Camille Hernandez-Ramdwar, said: “I have a concern with students posting their notes because their interpretation isn’t always correct—specifically their interpretation of the lecture material; what they’ve written down is not always inline with that I’ve said, which can be a problem.”
As well, Ryerson nursing professor Corinne Hart said: “I have a problem with students posting things that teachers have posted for their students, and then making them publicly available without their knowledge.”
Addressing these concerns, Wu states: “There are strict guidelines set out in our terms and policies that govern the platform and students are required to follow our standards for what kind of uploads are accepted. Additionally, we have a document approval team that reviews all uploads to the site on a weekly basis to ensure that they meet our standards of quality.”
“If any user or student sees content that they think is against our guidelines, they are also able to flag documents so that they can be further investigated,” Wu adds.
However, not all professors view online note-sharing as a negative.
Economics Assistant Professor at Ryerson, German Pupato, said: “You have to be realistic: In this day and age, it’s so hard to control the flow of information. And that applies to exams, notes, photos, anything. As professors, we should be aware of this. Even if we don’t like it, we should anticipate it.”
According to York’s Senate policy, no specific regulation on third-party note-sharing websites are mentioned. However, the policy states: “Obtaining assistance by means of documentary, electronic or other aids which are not approved by the instructor,” and “consulting an unauthorized source during an examination,” is classified under the Senate as a form of cheating.
While exam season is quickly approaching, one should consider wisely—and carefully—where they are getting their information from.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured image courtesy of Garry Knight on Flickr
While youth homelessness can be challenging to tackle, research involving York professors has aided in providing potential solutions to the issue.
Published last week by Stephen Gaetz, Faculty of Education professor at York, and president of the Canadian Observatory on Homelessness (COH); Kaitlin Shwan, senior researcher at COH; Melanie Redman, president of A Way Home Canada; David French, director of policy and planning at A Way Home Canada; and Erin Dej, a post-doctorial fellow with York, The Roadmap for the Prevention of Youth Homelessness provides social services, communities, key stakeholders, and government ministries and departments, with advisories on how these groups can help to achieve positive, long-term outcomes for young Canadians.
“One of the main barriers to making the shift to prevention is that up until now we have not had a shared language concerning prevention. The Roadmap for the Prevention of Youth Homelessness is designed to give us a way to think and talk about prevention,” said Redman.
“Communities and all orders of government are ready to make the shift to prevention, and this report provides practical tools to make that happen,” she added.
The book addresses six crucial prevention elements: systems prevention, early intervention, housing stabilization, structural prevention, eviction prevention, and the Duty to Assist, which builds from existing Welsh legislation. This potential legislation proposes that the Canadian government ensure young people are given advice, information, and housing-led support, in order to make their experience in homelessness brief, if not avoided entirely.
In addressing how the government would further their role in preventing youth homelessness, government ministries are encouraged to adopt a cross-departmental approach with those involved in areas such as child welfare, education, justice, health, housing, and many others. By taking this approach, it is suggested that the youth who are at risk for homelessness within public systems are better supported and identified, thus better ensuring permanent and cost-effective housing.
The report addresses the use of crisis responses and emergency services in the U.S. and Canada when assisting homeless youth, claiming: “The imbalance of investment in crisis intervention over prevention is highly problematic, especially for the well-being of the young people affected by youth homelessness.”
“While emergency supports are both necessary and well-meaning, they do little to effectively prevent, reduce, or end youths’ experiences of homelessness. “Relying on a crisis response is not only ineffective, but expensive, with the annual cost to the economy estimated to be $7 billion,” said Gaetz.
The Roadmap for the Prevention of Youth Homelessness provides data which states approximately 40 per cent of young homeless people had their first experience leaving home before the age of 16. As well, 50 per cent of homeless adults first encountered homelessness before age 25.
“We have a critical opportunity to actualize housing as a human right if we invest in the legislative and policy solutions we know prevent youth homelessness,” said Schwan.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Anna Voskuil | News Editor
Featured Image: A primary point of discussion was in regards to the Statement of Policy on Free Speech. | Fatema Ali
On November 22, York’s Senate met to discuss concerns regarding future planning for the five-year University Academic Plan (UAP) (including discussion of the next plan), the shifting ground of the university budget, and concerns regarding the provincial policy on free speech directed at post-secondary institutions.
Following the recent provincial decision to cut funding towards the construction of three new campuses across Ontario—one which included York and Seneca’s joint project, the Markham Centre Campus—the Senate looked to consider further options for the Markham Centre Campus’ funding during the meeting. They hope to “build relationships with potential donors, seek federal government funding, and build a case for provincial funding of enrolment for the campus,” the meeting synopsis states.
The Academic Standards, Curriculum and Pedagogy Committee advised the Senate to move forward with the following actions, which cover a changing of requirements for Glendon’s business economics bachelor’s programs, as well as for Keele’s Certificate in Athletic Therapy, offered by the kinesiology and health science program. The Senate approved these motions.
Another proposal included possible minor requirement alterations for the finance stream within the bachelor of commerce honours program, School of Liberal Arts & Professional Studies, and the School of Administrative Studies.
As well, one UAP priority addressed was a plan for an internationalization strategy; aiming to include representation from the administration, students, and all faculties, the strategy is to be led by a Working Group. The meeting synopsis says: “A call for expressions of interest for the Working Group will be issued soon.”
Furthermore, the event Forum of Ideas 2018-2019, which is: “Designed to address specific questions that arose in the last year’s forum, and stimulate Faculties’ thinking about promising new ideas on the horizon for post-secondary curriculum and teaching,” is now being finalized. The Forum consists of conversations surrounding new curriculum and teaching ideas, as well as, “two panels that will provide guidance on the various forms of institutional support and resource planning for program development, including interdisciplinary cross-Faculty initiatives.” The Forum is set to initiate in early 2019.
Alongside this, one major area of discourse, for the Senate was in regards to the university’s Statement of Policy on Free Speech.
The Statement of Policy on Free Speech was provided a notice of motion to the Senate by the Executive Committee. It was then followed by a discourse facilitated by Lorne Sossin, Free Speech Policy Working Group chair and Osgoode professor, wherein a draft version of the Statement was discussed amongst Senators.
The Statement is pending Senate approval, and will be brought forward on December 13 for a final decision.
The Senate’s next meeting will take place on December 13 at 3 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
