 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: E-cigarettes and vaping have garnered a lot of attention in Canada, especially since a youth in London, Ont. was put on life support. | Courtesy of Pixabay
E-cigarettes may be leading younger users to illicit drug and alcohol use. With the help of a 2017 study conducted by Statistics Canada and Health Canada, researchers at York’s Faculty of Health found links between alcohol and drug use with e-cigarette use today.
“Given that among all age groups, Canadian youth and young adults have the highest prevalence of e-cigarette use, the objective of this study was to assess the factors associated with e-cigarette use among this population, and to specifically examine the association between alcohol, marijuana and illicit drug use,” says MSc candidate in the Faculty of Health and lead author of the study published in BMC Public Health, Vrati Mehra.
The study concludes that more than six percent of young Canadians, aged 15 to 24, use e-cigarettes within the month; 23 percent of which reported to have used an e-cigarette everyday. Almost one in every four of the same age group have reported trying e-cigarettes.
Mehra, who worked on this research with York’s professor Hala Tamim and psychology professor Yvonne Bohr, also reported that over 70 percent of youth that have vaped received their e-cigarettes through friends or relatives. The top reason these users tried e-cigarettes was simply to enjoy the flavours.
The debate over vaping and e-cigarettes began when serious cases of youth being hospitalized occurred in America. As of September 23, the American death toll for vaping has increased to nine. Health Canada has also warned Canadians that with vaping and e-cigarette use comes the risk of pulmonary illness. Although there has yet to be cases involving pulmonary illness in Canada, the US reported several.
“Until now, no single substance or e-cigarette product has been consistently associated with illness,” reported the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at the end of August.
The CDC has reported approximately 530 cases across the US. Whether or not vaping and e-cigarette use causes pulmonary illness in most cases, the CDC has advised people not to use vaping products.
As a response to these new cases, Deputy Premier of Ontario and Minister of Health Christine Elliott issued an order under section 77.7.1 of the Health Protection and Promotion Act. Now, public hospitals in Ontario will be required to give statistical and non-identifying information of vaping health incidents to the Chief Medical Officer of Health.
“This information, not previously available to the Ministry of Health, will be critical as we continue to engage with leading experts to identify evidence-based solutions that protect our youth from the potential dangers of vaping,” says Elliott.
For now, government health agencies and officials are discouraging first-time vapers from using vapes and e-cigarettes, especially youth. Health reporter for the Globe and Mail Andre Picard says that this issue is just too new.
“Smoking is like jumping off the hundredth floor of a building. Vaping is like jumping out, we just don’t know which floor yet,” says Picard.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: One of the Conservative Party posters found on post-secondary campuses.
Last week, York’s Keele campus saw posters by the Conservative Party of Canada calling students to volunteer. However, the rhetoric used by the posters caused frustration to boil on campus.
“Because you can only hear the same left-wing talking points from your professors so many times,” the poster states.
Conservative party leader Andrew Scheer replied to the remarks over the poster by saying he does not mean anything regarding his influence over who gets hired in post-secondary positions.
“It’s a way to get people engaged on campus and it’s meant to be a launching pad for discussions and debate and hearing other points of view,” Scheer says.
But this type of rhetoric can be detrimental according to professors at post-secondary institutions.
“There’s a Conservative message going out that somehow colleges and universities are these indoctrination centres, that they’re more like campuses in Paris in 1968 than they are currently,” says Executive Director of the Canadian Association of Teachers David Robinson. “They are diverse.”
Some students agree with this sentiment. Second-year journalism student James Mackin could not find the humour in the poster.
“I just think he’s pandering to people who were already going to vote for him no matter what. But it’ll probably vilify left-leaning students against him as well,” says Mackin.
However, as most students may believe that the posters painted professors as left-wing advocates, there are others who agree with Scheer’s humour.
“I do not find professors are professional. I can only think of a handful of professors who haven’t passionately expressed their political views. Of the ones who have declared themselves, only one was right-wing. Universities are indoctrination centres,” says third-year student Celia Lewin.
Lewin adds that the posters are meant to mobilize conservative students and recruit volunteers, rather than attracting new voters.
“Students are a hard demographic to reach, especially because the schools are governed by people who have a personal interest in keeping those students from getting involved,” Lewin says.
However, YFS Director of Environmental Studies Abdeali Saherwala disagrees with Lewin’s opinion. He believes that such an assumption could prove dangerous that social issues and education are all left-wing.
“I feel that most universities are left-wing. But that is not the institution’s fault nor are professors chosen for their political beliefs. I think with education on history, feminism, equality, equity and racial issues, people become left-wing or people who want to teach become left-wing,” Saherwala says.
York University Acting Chief Spokesperson Yanni Dagonas provided a statement from York saying that the university is committed to providing a non-partisan environment and would never comment on the activities of a political party during a federal elections.
“York considers the privilege afforded by freedom of speech as vitally important to robust and respectful dialogue. York values the expertise our faculty has accrued through robust research, data and evidence gathering. Academic freedom is fundamental to the mandate of universities to pursue truth, educate students and disseminate knowledge and understanding,” says Dagonas.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Tyler McKay | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: The show premiered last Monday, on September 16. | Courtesy of Brown Girl Magazine
Lilly Singh, who graduated from York’s psychology program in 2010 and lived in Scarborough recently began hosting a late-night show on NBC. The show is called A Little Late with Lilly Singh and it premiered on September 16.
Singh is known to most of her fans through her YouTube channel “||Superwoman||”, which has amassed almost 15 million subscribers since she started posting videos eight years ago.
“At the time, I wasn’t even totally aware of what YouTube could become. I didn’t think it could be a career, I didn’t think I could make a lot of money from it, I didn’t think it would be sustainable by any means. I just had an idea and wanted to creatively express it somehow,” Singh said in an interview in 2015.
Singh’s content consists of original skits, interviews, and monologues about everything from pop culture to her experience as a child of immigrant parents. She became so influential that in 2017 she was on Forbes’ list of highest paid YouTubers.
Her fame only increased with the publishing of her book, “How to Be a Bawse: A Guide to Conquering Life.”  She has also worked as an actress, appearing in the films Fahrenheit?451, Bad Moms and Ice Age: Collision Course.
Singh’s show on NBC has replaced Last Call with Carson Daly that had been on the air for 18 seasons.
“Lilly Singh brings her unique perspective to late night as she hosts celebrity interviews, talks current events, performs musical and sketch comedy, plays games, and more,” as described on the official NBC website.
In an interesting move by NBC, A Little Late’s first-ever episode was streamed on YouTube a few hours before its television debut. According to the CBC, this was done on purpose “to try to tap into the online fan base Singh steadily built over the last decade.”
“Lilly is truly a star and we’re thrilled to welcome her to our NBC family,” said Executive Vice President, Special Programs and Late Night, for NBC Entertainment Doug Vaughan in an NBC media release.
“She is a multi-talented performer who will surely have a great rapport with not only all her guests but also with our devoted late-night audience.”
“An Indian-Canadian woman with her own late-night show? Now that is a dream come true. I’m thrilled to bring it to life on NBC,” Singh said.
About three years ago, Lilly Singh visited the York campus and brought her positivity with her.  She stood on stage and said to the eagerly listening crowd of students, “When you graduate from this amazing school, you can do whatever you want to do. I would never have imagined in my wildest dreams I would be texting The Rock and going to the White House and doing all these things.”
“I’m really going to encourage you that, whatever you want to do, don’t just believe it, you gotta work really hard to achieve it.  You can all do that.  I truly believe you can all do that,” Singh added.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
