 
Zain Rashid | Staff Writer
Featured Image: The Lions men won their last two games of the regular season. | Courtesy of YorkU Lions
York’s men’s and women’s volleyball teams played U of T and Trent over the weekend, their last games of the regular season. The women’s team lost their first game against the Blues and won the second fixture against Trent. The men’s team won both of their games in dominant fashion.
The women’s team went across town on Friday to play against one of their fiercest rivals, the U of T Varsity Blues.
With a 12-5 record for the season compared to York’s 7-10, the Varsity Blues had an upper hand going into the game. Clearly, that psychological edge helped the Blues, as they won the game 3-0.
The Blues dominated the game from the start and gained a 1-0 lead after winning the first set 25-19.
York responded in the second set as they led the Blues 16-10 at the mid-break point. However, the Lions soon lost that lead as the Blues came from behind and scored eight consecutive points, en route to the 25-20 score for the set.
The last set was no different as the Blues, once again, were the first team to reach 25 points, holding York to just 16, in the 3-0 win.
The men also played the Blues on the same day, and, despite having a 6-10 record for the season compared to U of T’s 11-5, won the game comfortably.
The Blues opened the game aggressively and, by the halfway point, led the Lions 16-7. They won the first set 25-18.
However, that was to be the only high point for the Blues in the entire game as the Lions turned the tables in the second set.
After displaying amazing teamwork and effort, York won the second by a close margin of 25-23.
The third and the fourth sets were also won by a score of 25-23 as the Lions led the Blues at every single mid-set break.
Andrew Tauhid led the Lions by scoring 18 points, followed by Tyler Covach who recorded 15.
The women’s team travelled to Peterborough for their last game of the regular season and played Trent on Saturday.
York started the game on the right foot, and, after brilliant tactical play, ended the first set 25-16.
The second proved to be a closer contest in which Trent came out on top with a mere, two-point difference, ending the set 26-24.
With the game level at one set a side, both teams went into the third expecting to dominate the other. However, it was York who came out on top and won the set 25-20.
In the fourth, York had the chance to close out the game, but Trent refused to go quietly, and won the set 25-18, sending the match into a fifth and final set. Thankfully, however, it was the Lions that won the decisive set 15-8 and won the game 3-2.
York’s Celeste Witzell led the team with 16.5 points followed by Olivia Kim who scored 15.
The Lions men played Trent next on the same day, also for their last game, and defeated them 3-1.
York led Trent throughout most of the first set and ended it with a comfortable score of 25-19. The Lions were unable to carry this momentum in the second set, however, as Trent made a comeback and clenched a 25-22 win.
The third set witnessed York put on a brilliant performance that allowed them to regain their lead and win the set 25-18.
The Lions also proved too much for Trent in the fourth set, winning 18-25 and defeating the Lions 3-1.
York’s Andrew Shotbolt led the score sheet with 18 points.
York’s volleyball teams compete in the OUA playoffs next week. On Saturday, the men will take on McMaster at 7 p.m., while the women play Waterloo at 6 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured Image: The Lions women won their first-round matchup but lost the quarter-final to Ottawa. | Courtesy of YorkU Lions
The Lions men’s and women’s basketball teams participated in the OUA playoffs this week, suffering early exits. The men lost their first-round match 92-77 to Ottawa last Wednesday. The women, on the other hand, shocked Queen’s 76-70 in front of their own crowd on Wednesday to advance to the quarter-final, which they lost on Saturday, 89-53 to Ottawa.
This was the men’s first appearance in the OUA playoffs since the 2014-15 season. To secure the sixth and last OUA East playoff spot, the Lions had to win their final game of the regular season, which they did, defeating cross-town rival U of T 81-79.
The Gee-Gees took control of the first-round game early by building a 10-point lead by the end of the first quarter. Ottawa remained imperious in the second quarter, expanding their lead to 19 points, and finishing the half with a 55-36 lead.
The Lions improved slightly in the second half, outscoring Ottawa by four points to finish with some pride, but it was too little too late, as Ottawa cruised to the 92-77 victory, and advanced to the second round.
Despite the loss, a few Lions players produced stellar individual performances, namely Chevon Brown who recorded 25 points, nine rebounds, and three assists, DeAndrae Pierre who had 23 points, five rebounds and two assists, and Gianmarco Luciani who notched 15 points, six rebounds and three assists.
The women’s game at Queens was a tightly contested battle from start to finish, with the Lions only securing the win in the final quarter of the game.
Cyanna King’s jump shot at the end of the first gave the Lions a 16-14 lead. Queens, however, took a 34-32 lead by the end of the second, outscoring the Lions by four points in that period.
Queens maintained their two-point lead going into the fourth after both teams tied for points in the third. The Lions, however, turned things up a notch in the final frame, coming out firing on all cylinders and outscoring Queens by eight points to win the game 76-70 and advance to the quarter-finals.
The Lions’ outstanding performers in their first-round win were Katrina Collins-Samuels, who recorded 24 points, four assists, and two steals; and Chante Clarke, who had 15 points, five rebounds, and two steals.
In the women’s quarter-final game against Ottawa on Saturday, the Lions’ Cinderella run came to an end as they lost by a wide margin—89-53.
In the first, the Lions and Gee-Gees were evenly matched, as the quarter ended 18-18.
Ottawa, in front of their home crowd, took control of the game in the second and third quarters building a massive, 36-point lead going into the fourth.
The point gap remained the same in the final frame with both teams scoring 20 points and Ottawa securing the victory and the right to advance to the semi-finals.
The Lions players who stood out on Saturday were Lauren Golding, who recorded 12 points, five rebounds, and two steals; and Chante Clarke who had ten points and one rebound.
Despite the early OUA playoffs exits, the Lions men and women can look back and be proud of their achievements this season. The men finished the regular season with an 8-15 record, a huge improvement from their 2-21 record of last year.
The women finished fifth in the OUA East with a 10-13 record, and won their first playoff game since the 2007-08 season.
Both teams will be losing influential graduating players, namely: Chante Clarke, and Haley Bowie for the women, and Gianmarco Luciani, Gene Spagnuolo and Nana Adu-Poku for the men. They will, however, be hoping to build on their achievements this season.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | News Editor
Featured Image: The YFS elections have concluded, and UniteYU has taken a majority of the seats—again. | Fatema Ali
The YFS election results are in, and mirror those from last year—UniteYU has won a majority of seats in the student union, including all executive positions.
UniteYU’s Fatima Babikar won the position for president with 3,801 votes over Vision’s Noam Sibony, who garnered 1,832. VP Campus Life went to UniteYU’s Mutaz Elhawash, who brought in 3,351 over Vision’s Daniel Muntaner, widely known as ‘Fedora Guy,’ who received 2,281 votes. UniteYU’s Azinwi Saningong garnered 3,343 votes over Vision’s Celia Lewin, who only saw 2,268 votes.
Both UniteYU’s Jasmine Hawamdeh for VP Campaigns and UniteYU’s Aaron Suresh for Advocacy and VP Operations were acclaimed in their positions.
Of all the positions, including faculty and college director, only four were not appointed to UniteYU candidates. The only independent candidate, Abdeali Saherwala, won for director of environmental studies with 48 votes, over the Vision incumbent’s 28 votes. Vision candidates Robert Kotok, Daliah Adler, and Dasha Androusenkov won director positions for Schulich, Lassonde, and Glendon respectively.
Priyank D’Sa, campaign manager for Vision, says ballot counting took 13.5 hours from the time of the closure to polling stations.
D’Sa says: “Vision is still contesting by law violations—slander and sabotage,” from incidents which occurred during the campaign period.
The polling stations closed February 15, the originally scheduled day, despite the cancellation of one polling day due to inclement weather. According to the election Chief Returning Officer (CRO), Sahabthan Jesuthasan, voting hours were extended for the rest of the week to accommodate those who were unable to get to campus due to the cancellation. However, the length of the extension was not specified.
Amidst the cancellation, voter turnout decreased again from last year’s election. The 2018 election saw a turnout of just over 6,000 for executive positions. This year, no more than 5,810 votes were cast on executive positions, including spoiled votes, bringing the turnout for executive positions down to 11 per cent.
Fourth-year professional writing student, Rachel Hershkop, says she voted to create change within the student government. “I voted because it’s incredibly important for students to be involved in student government. Just like of our provincial and federal governments, student governments have a significant impact when it comes to undergraduate student life,” she says.
Furthermore, she points out students have been less involved than they should be in decision-making on campus, which has caused problems with democracy within the YFS.
“There are a lot of policies that have been passed and that continue to be accepted by the current student government that I highly disagree with, and the problem is that the students who don’t vote, those things are going to persist, and changes are unlikely to happen,” she adds.
At the time of publication, candidates for UniteYU, as well as the CRO, could not be reached for comment.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
