 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of Jasmine Wiradharma
This year’s YFS election saw an 11 per cent turnout voting rate. With last year’s 12 per cent turnout, the question remains: what went wrong?
When asked why she didn’t vote, an anonymous third-year student replied: “I didn’t know anything about the election, I didn’t know who was running or the parties involved.” A response that seems to be the general consensus among the student population. Some students hold a ‘what would one vote do?’ attitude, while others seem to genuinely lack interest entirely.
If those reasons don’t seem to hit the nail on the head, then it’s not from a lack of interest, but more from a lack of knowledge in the political happenings of the school that led to a lackluster election. An anonymous third-year Schulich student didn’t vote because she said nothing ever changes. Last year, YFS’ biggest accomplishment was the procurement of a Fall reading week—something that felt inevitable given the fact every other all post-secondary institution has one.
During the three years I’ve been at York, YFS has been promising a fight for free tuition, with no progress made. The unrealistic goals of the student government not only deter students from participating in school politics, but makes student government seem like a hoax. It seems they spend the year planning for a welcome-back concert that ends with a last-minute obscure artist, who most students have not heard of and have no interest in seeing. They spend a compounding period promising to eradicate tuition. Not only is this a far-fetched dream that is both unreasonable and highly unattainable; it’s a mockery of student government.
By championing themselves throughout the year as the voice of students dedicated to making a change, but having no concrete results at the end of the year, shows no progress. How can students become more interested, when there’s nothing for them to see?
Voting during election period is also a hindrance as there’s no access to online voting. In the age of technology, not providing a means for online voting is almost as counterproductive as promising free tuition, only for OSAP funding to be cut.
The YFS does not publicize debates, which effectively keeps students in the dark. No one really knows what’s happening behind the scenes. YFS has been contacted numerous times, but without fail, have always refrained from speaking to the media. How can students be informed or aware of what’s happening in their own student government, when the government fails to disclose such information?
The fact of the matter is, we don’t really know what goes on behind closed doors—where our tuition money goes, or whose pocket it goes into. Unfortunately, that just seems to be the way it is. Nothing is permanent and everyone comes and goes (just recently, the University of Ottawa’s administration terminated their agreement with the student union due to corruption).
So here’s hoping the new student government does better—while we accept that things will very likely stay exactly the same.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | News Editor
Featured Image: The 2018-19 Student Financial Leaders (SFS). | Courtesy of YFile
A student financial peer support team, established through the government’s Mental Health Services Grant, has helped thousands of students with their financial woes.
Established in September 2018, the service is run by students trained to help peers with their financial concerns. According to Advisor and Deputy Spokesperson for the university, Yanni Dagonas, the team has had a significant impact on helping York students.
“So far this year, the team saw more than 5,700 queries related to student finances during the fall semester, and have been incredibly impactful in helping York students navigate their concerns in a peer-to-peer setting,” he says.
Students were trained during the last two weeks of August with Student Financial Liaison Officer, Sylvia Spizzirri, and Financial Aid Trainer Mary Santoli.
“The team has been extensively trained on issues related to student financial services so they can provide helpful advice,” Dagonas says.
“They work closely with York’s student financial advisors to address a variety of questions related to student accounts and OSAP queries, and to provide information and support regarding scholarships and bursaries,” he adds.
According to Dagonas, the team is comprised of six student leaders this year: Isabela Bibulovic, Joanne Ong, Sarah Labib, Lorenzo Panate, Ilia Azari, and Hammad Saif.
The university is currently hiring next year’s student financial leaders (SFS) team. With changes to student funding through OSAP, concerns with how students will handle the stress of finances are being addressed by the service.
“Training will take place every summer before the start of the academic year and will reflect the policies and procedures of the OSAP program,” Dagonas says.
“York is committed to a mentally healthy campus, providing access to a variety of resources, services, and programs to help manage life’s challenges and enhance well-being,” he adds.
In a statement, Ong describes her experience working with the SFS: “It’s been so rewarding to work with students to help them navigate their financial questions. Over the semester we’ve really grown as a team, and not only been able to help students, but also learn more about finances for ourselves.”
The support team can be found on the first floor of the Bennett Centre each week on Monday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., and Tuesday to Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Students will now have the choice to opt-out of paying certain ancillary fees this September. | Dylan Stoll
Last week, a meeting regarding the new changes to student tuition and ancillary fees was held.
Business Manager at Excalibur Publications, Eric Rail, attended the meeting. No decisions were made, and everything is still to be determined; however, important information was shared about how opting out of the ancillary fees will work for students.
“Students would have a chance to opt-out only in September. They wouldn’t be able to opt-out or opt back in at a later date. The number of students who did opt-out would be known early in the school year to allow student organizations to plan accordingly,” says Rail.
However, opting out of these fees will affect a lot more than just the university newspaper. Services such as the Food Support Centre, which helps students who are struggling financially to feed themselves, are funded by student ancillary fees.
In a recent interview, outgoing YFS President Rawan Habib expresses her concerns for the negative impact the now optional ancillary fees can have on student services, specifically the Food Support Centre.
“Every month we see more students registering. It’s something they desperately need,” Habib says.
However, some students are thankful for a chance to be able to choose where their money goes.
“I appreciate the choice. A lot of students have existing coverage, such as dental and health, with our parents. So, it’s an expense I can avoid,” says fourth-year health studies student Maria Marquez.
Other students feel differently about how these ancillary fees affect student life, and whether they use certain services or not.
“If you think about it, by paying to increase the quality of life at York and funding these services, even if you never use them, you in turn improve your own school experience because everyone around you will be positively affected. So, I guess it’s probably a good thing to keep it mandatory,” says fourth-year art history student Sara Amoosoltani.
At this time, Rail cannot confirm whether or not it is absolute, but he says students may be able to pick and choose what fees they wish to opt out of.
“It appears that organizations would be listed individually, so that students would be able to pick which ones to fund, as opposed to picking groups and opting out of funding every organization under one group. Because funding to certain student groups would be curtailed, events like Frosh Week, for instance, would not run for an entire week but perhaps one or two days,” says Rail.
These changes can only be seen going forward in the following school year. For now, many student organizations funded by ancillary fees are simply waiting for the ball to drop.
“In any case, it’s a tough call because by making these fees mandatory, we are asking students to pay for university services they may never use. But at the same time, these services benefit the student body and their quality of life at York as a whole. So the real question is more along the lines of the interests for the individual versus that of the collective,” says Amoosoltani.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Abdeali Saherwala | Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Arlene Moscovitch
Ali Kazimi, an associate professor in the department of cinema and media arts has won the Governor General Award, one of the most prestigious lifetime achievement awards in Visual and Media Arts.
“These are the most prestigious prizes in Canada for career achievement in visual and media arts, rewarding accomplished artists that have left their mark and changed art history,” says Tara Lapointe, director outreach and business development at the Canada Council for the Arts.
To receive this award, an individual in the field of media and visual arts has to nominate someone based on their achievements, accolades, and projects throughout their life. Karen Tisch, an arts consultant and incoming executive director for the Koffler Centre of the Arts, nominated Kazimi for this award.
Individuals in the field of media and visual arts must have an outstanding national presence in order to attain this symbolic award.
“The Governor General’s Award in Visual and Media Arts are given to individuals for outstanding contributions to the field and are arguably the highest honours bestowed to Canadian artists working in these disciplines,” says Tisch.
A couple of his most notable projects are Narmada: A Valley Rises, Shooting Indians: A Journey with Jeffrey Thomas, and Runaway Grooms. His work has inspired change throughout the world by informing and shifting public opinion in order to create more galvanized efforts to improve an issue through concrete political action.
In her nomination package, Tisch stated: “Kazimi’s larger project of elucidating the often-underexposed histories and experiences of racialized peoples, exploring complex intersections of colonialism, racism, and immigration through the moving image, and has significantly contributed to Canadian cinema and video art.”
Kazimi was surprised to learn he was selected for the Award for Media and Visual Arts.
“I was pretty overwhelmed, and I was shocked. I knew that I had been nominated. I had to prepare a packet of my work to be sent to the jury. But, to actually get a call that I was one of the selected was very overwhelming,” Kazimi says.
In order to win, you have to “be yourself, be bold, work hard and pursue your passion, no matter what,” says Lapointe.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Silman | News Editor
Featured Image: The critical disabilities studies program is moving from HNES to Stong. | Fatema Ali
With the topic of York’s accessibility at the forefront of many students’ minds, a move has been made to transition the Critical Disabilities Studies Program from the Health, Nursing, and Environmental Sciences (HNES) building, to Stong College.
The move, which was scheduled to happen this summer, has brought concerns to staff and students within the program.
Russell Rozinskis, a third-year PhD candidate in critical disabilities studies, says Stong is less accessible than HNES, due to the size of the hallways and the lack of elevators.
“Stong wasn’t constructed with accessibility in mind. It’s an older building; many of the door frames are narrow, and some of the offices are not big enough for wheelchairs to fit inside. Also, there is only one elevator which was built after that fact, and the washrooms are smaller,” he says.
Rozinskis adds: “As far as we can tell, there is no gender neutral-washroom. We have also found out there is a mold problem.”
Professor Geoffrey Raume says the fire doors also cause major accessibility issues. “The fire doors do not have accessibility buttons, which is absolutely essential,” he says.
Rozinskis also points out that this change could create accessibility issues for those who take Wheeltrans. According to him, Wheeltrans drops students off near Vari Hall, where the program has an accessible classroom. Should the program move, he says, WheelTrans could move to dropping students off near the Aviva Centre.
“Wheelchair users can only use the front door of Stong. If WheelTrans is dropping people off close to Stong, they might be dropping them off close to Aviva Centre,” Rozinskis says.
“To get to campus walk, you have to find the elevator in Calumet to take up to campus walk, but it’s not very well marked,” he adds.
Referencing the issue of accessibility during snowstorms, specifically that of Ali Imrie, the Osgoode student who posted a video of herself struggling to get her wheelchair across campus following a storm, Rozinskis also points out that the slope going down to Stong College could pose some safety issues, especially with ice. 
“That slope is slippery if it’s not properly maintained,” he says.
In a response from the university, Chief Spokesperson of Media Relations Barbara Joy says the Dean of the Faculty of Health has taken steps to organize a meeting with students and staff after receiving an open letter regarding the issue.
“York is committed to principles of respect, inclusion, and equality of all persons with disabilities across campus. The university is committed to preventing, minimizing and removing the barriers to participation by persons with disabilities in the activities of the university, including employment, study or social activity,” she says.
Faculty of Health Dean Paul McDonald could not be reached for comment at the time of publication.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
