 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: The President’s Creative Writing Award and the CBC Films Screenwriter Award both offer cash prizes of $400 and $15,000, respectively. | Courtesy of Pixabay
The President’s Creative Writing Award and CBC Films Screenwriter Award are two competitions that celebrate the intensive and laborious craft of writing, by recognizing the outstanding work done in different categories.
As a writer, these kinds of competitions give students an opportunity to flex their creative muscles in a low-pressure environment, which can absolutely be beneficial to the students and the work they create. Schoolwork can be incredibly draining, leaving students with very little space for a creative outlet. After all academic obligations are taken care of, many students may find that the lack of motivation can stop them from writing to their full potential.
Writing competitions such as these can give students a reason to whip out the typewriter (or laptop, for the modern day academic) and write what could become the next blockbuster hit.
Open to experienced and novice writers alike, The President’s Creative Writing Award accepts submissions which fall into the categories of poetry, short fiction, screenplay, and stage-play. Students are able to submit multiple entries, but not more than one per genre. There is no length requirement for any category, however, the material submitted must be original, unpublished work, and cannot have previously won any other contests. The best entry in each category will be awarded $400. The deadline to submit is January 13, 2020, in which hard copies should be dropped off at room 524 in the Atkinson building on Keele campus.
The CBC Films Screenwriter Award, which stands under the Toronto International Film Festival umbrella, focuses on highlighting and supporting underrepresented Canadian talent. This contest is open to screenwriters who are Indigenous, who belong to visible minorities, who identify as having a disability, or who are women. Writers are encouraged to submit a feature-length screenplay, with the opportunity to win a cash prize of $15,000, as well as input from a script advisor to help further develop the piece. The deadline to submit online is December 5, 2019. Interestingly, in its inaugural year, Jorge Manzano, a York graduate student, won the grand prize with his screenplay, The Strike.   
Whether you want to expand your portfolio, or just need something else to do in between studying for exams, these writing competitions may be worth checking out.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Jaipreet Dhillon | Contributor
Featured Image: Display of VISA 1010 students artistic pieces that convey a message through various mediums. | Courtesy of Jaipreet Dhillon
Are the materials we use to make an art piece as important as the message itself in the art? This is what Marshall McLuhan would’ve respectively agreed on. His concept of “The Medium is the Message” means that the way we transmit and receive messages is more important than the message itself.  Despite his odd persona, these VISA 1010 students used his interesting concept of “The Medium is the Message” as the theme for their exhibit.
The Visual Art Fundamentals: Concept, Creativity and Production group exhibition conveys student messages whether it is through three dimensional displays or even the use of two dimensional images for portraits. One viewer, Harleen Sekhon, shared her opinion on this concept by stating, “It’s very interesting, various mediums were used and I had to really look carefully at each art piece to understand the message.”
Many interesting art pieces were on display at the exhibit. Several art pieces had boxes to slowly look into where an image would appear. These pieces evoked curiosity to the viewers as it is a change of pace for a person to look at artwork.
Another viewer, Maninder Banwait, stated, “This exhibit is actually really interesting. One art piece that I liked was related to the Queen from ‘Snow White’ where she looks at the wall and asks the mirror ‘who is the fairest of them all?’, the art piece was an image of that scene with a real mirror for the viewer to look at.” Banwait went on to say “The medium had the message that could mean that the person that looks at it is essentially ‘the fairest of them all’ where everyone is beautiful.”
These are just a few pieces that show how various mediums display a message. It truly evoked a person’s curiosity of art through the many formats presented in this exhibit.
Located in The Gales Gallery, Main Lobby, at Accolade West Building, Visual Art Fundamentals: Concept, Creativity and Production group exhibition displayed a “Medium with a Message” where the message is not only in the art itself but the mediums used to make these pieces.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image courtesy of Jojo Qian/York Lions
The Lions travelled to London and Windsor this past weekend, taking on the Western Mustangs Friday night and the Windsor Lancers Saturday afternoon.
The women’s team easily took down the Mustangs, defeating them three sets to one. The first two sets made it clear that the Lions were the dominant team on the Alumni Hall court.
In the third set, however, the Lancers came out swinging and crushed the Lions 25-11. The Lions bounced back in the fourth set, which was a tight battle right to the end, but the Lions were able to pull away by three points to win 25-22.
When the men’s teams took to the court, the Lions could not replicate the success of the women’s team. They lost in straight sets to the Mustangs with a final score of 0-3.
The Lancers proved to be a formidable foe on Saturday. In the women’s match, the two teams were evenly matched, but the Lancers were able to pull ahead just enough to win three of the five sets, taking down the Lions 3-2.
Sets three and four were the best for the Lions, who narrowly beat the Lancers 25-22. They kept this momentum up and squashed their opponent in the fourth set, winning it with 25-14.
The tie-breaking set was a closely fought battle as both sides raced towards the 15-point mark, but in the end it would be the Lancers who would get there first.
The men’s team had a similar struggle and fell to the Lancers 3-1. After losing the first two sets, the Lions broke through in the third set for their first win of the match at 25-21.
Their victory was short-lived though, as the Lancers came back to take down the Lions in the final set of the game, at 25-20.
Recording the most kill over both games on the women’s team was second-year Olivia Kim with 34. Leading the men’s side was Andrew Tauhid with 19 kills.
The women’s team now sit in fourth in the OUA East with a 4-4 season record, while the men are in fifth with 3-4 for the season.
The Lions will return home for the final game of 2019 this Friday, November 29 to take on the RMC Paladins. The women play at 6:00 p.m. and the men will follow at 8:00 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured Image: Nik Malencia (left), Jack Goranson (centre), and Peter De Coppi celebrate De Coppi’s goal against the Warriors. | Courtesy of 
The Lions had a tough weekend at home against the Brock Badgers and the Waterloo Warriors. They came up one point short in each game, falling to the Badgers 2-1 and the Warriors 3-2.
In their Friday night match against the Badgers, the Lions struggled to put any of their shots past Badgers’ goalkeeper Mario Cavaliere in the first two periods. They found their stride in the 19th minute of the third period when Jeremy Lucchini and Bredan Browne assisted team captain Scott Feser in scoring during a power play.
Unfortunately, this was not enough to force overtime, as the Badgers were already up by two as the clock counted down the final seconds of the game. Ryan Burton (assisted by Frank Pucci and Jordan Sambrook) scored on a second-period power play, while Connor Brown (assisted by Cosimo Fontana and Conner Walters) scored on an empty Lions net a minute before the Lions lone goal.
The Lions scored more during their match against the Warriors the following night, but faced tough competition to a team who also lost the night before. The Lions took the lead in the first period, scoring what would be their only two goals. Peter De Coppi, with the assistance of Jack Goranson and Nik Malenica, scored six minutes into play. This was followed by Browne capitalizing on a pass from teammate Braydon Buziak seven minutes later.
The game took a turn in the second period, which saw the Warriors dominate the ice. Connor Cole and Dave Comeau teamed up to score early in the period. Four minutes later, Michael Morgan added the Warriors’ second goal with the help of Jack Scanlan and Andrew Cordssen-David.
At the start of the third period, the two teams were locked in a 2-2 tie with 20 minutes left to snatch the win. Unfortunately for the Lions, Cole (assisted by Cam Nicoll) was able to sneak in his second goal of the game early in the period, which left the Lions playing catch-up. Despite outshooting their opponent in this period, the Lions were unable to score again, and came up short 3-2 to the Warriors.
The Lions, who are now at 5-10 for the season, will head down to Waterloo this week to take on the Warriors on Thursday, November 28 and the Laurier Golden Hawks on Friday, November 29. They will return home in the new year on January 3 to host the Varsity Blues in the second annual Mark Cross Memorial Game. Puck drop for that game will be at 7 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
