 
Victoria Silman | News Editor
Featured Image: The march was held downtown, spanning from Yonge-Dundas Square to Queen’s Park. | Kevin Taghabon
With the announcement of cuts to OSAP, tuition, and ancillary fees, students have begun initiatives to push back against the changes.
On January 25, thousands of students from across Ontario gathered at Yonge-Dundas Square to partake in the March Against OSAP Cuts. The march ended at Queen’s Park, where students gathered to pressure the provincial government to abandon these changes.
While the event page showed 4,400 students attending, and another 22,000 interested, despite the chilly -2 degree weather, organizers estimate close to 5,000 students joined the march to fight back against OSAP and tuition changes.
Aleksei Shkurin, a PhD student at the University of Toronto, was one of the students helping to organize the protest.
“Before I came to Canada, I did my undergrad in Finland for free; having that experience, I thought these OSAP changes would have a negative impact on Canadian society,” he says.
“It is crucial to invest in teaching people how to think, learn, and ask the right questions. I just wanted to help my Canadian friends reverse these unfortunate decisions.”
President Rhonda Lenton recently released a statement addressing the changes.
“We still do not have all the details, but we are reaching out to the government and working closely with our partners across the post-secondary sector to understand the implications for our students and our university,” she said.
The statement also points to changes with student fees, which have caused concerns within student groups on campus. Some ancillary fees will become optional with the changes, but what will be affected has yet to be determined.
Addressing the issue, the York University Graduate Students Association held a strategy meeting on January 28 with major student groups at York to discuss changes to these fees. The details of the meeting are not yet available, but will be in the coming weeks.
In a previous correspondence with MPP David Piccini, he said: “We’re working with schools, student groups, and administrations now on ancillary fees.”
Furthermore, a Change.org petition, called “Stop Doug Ford Cuts to OSAP” has also been created, garnering over 234,000 signatures of the 300,000 goal at the time of publication.
Alongside this outcry, another March Against OSAP Cuts is scheduled for 12 p.m. on February 4, at Queen’s Park. So far, the event page has generated 2,000 interested attendees, while over 500 have confirmed their attendance.
“We are dedicated to continue fighting until OSAP is fully reinstated,” Shkurin says.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Tyler McKay | Contributor
Rishav Panda | Contributor
Featured Image: The bus loop stands cold and empty with the arrival of a harsh winter and departure of GO busses. | Fatema Ali
It has been three weeks since the GO busses have left campus, and students and faculty members alike have criticized this change. 
Effective January 5, GO busses stopped servicing the York campus. Students that use the GO bus now stop at the Highway 407 Station, where they have to use the subway to travel the rest of the way.
“I am always at least 10 minutes late to class because of the subway. If I want to be on time for school, I have to get up much earlier, but that means I am also 30 minutes early for my class,” says Lyn-Aleccia Dinh, a third-year environmental studies student.
Roger Keil, a professor from the Faculty of Environmental Studies and the York research chair in global sub/urban studies, says: “The university is better connected than ever; however, the trip to school became longer and more expensive for what seems to be a substantial group of transit users getting to York. This hurts the students in particular. Student mobility is our StudentMoveTO initiative, and we hope to have some results on this in the future.”
On January 24, the TTC board voted in favour of raising the price of tokens and PRESTO adult fares by 10 cents. TTC spokesperson Kadeem Griffiths referred to the TTC budget presentation that stated the fare hike will create a $26 million increase in revenue.
The transit fare hike will not only have an impact on campus commuters, but will negatively impact the city of Toronto. Keil says: “The timing of this fare hike is cynical, as people are struggling with delay after delay from the system that is asking them to pay more.”
To aid in remedying this problem, Keil prescribes a major government funding boost for transit, saying: “Transit is the lifeline of the modern city.”
The TTC has a history of increasing fare prices, according to second-year engineering student, Joe Xu. “I’m concerned about the history of the TTC raising prices. In 2015, the cash fare rose, and in 2016 it did so again. I fear that the TTC will not remedy their root problem of balancing their own books, and continue increasing fare prices as their history has shown,” he says.
When asked about potential discounts for students affected by this fare hike, Griffiths says: “We value our relationship with all our customers. We are responsive to student needs, which is why we have the post-secondary monthly pass available for purchase on PRESTO.”
The pass costs $116.75, and offers unlimited monthly travel on the TTC. It can be purchased online or at any PRESTO fare vending machine. However, students are required to purchase a student identification card from Sherbourne station in order to apply a student rate to their card.
Despite the criticism received for this decision, York still hopes to see the return of GO to campus. “York is committed to sustainable commuting, including public transit. We will continue to advocate on behalf of our community—especially our more than 50,000 students, to see that the transportation agencies treat fare integration as a top priority,” Yanni Dagonas, deputy spokesperson for the university, says.
So far, over 17,500 people have signed YU Ride, a petition created by YFS, which was created with the intention of keeping the GO busses from leaving campus.
 


things will improve greatly when the finch LRT opens. hopefully it will be extended East to at least Young street, putting York at the crossroads of the subway and LRT.  Great news for the students at Humber college as well. Good for them.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured image courtesy of YorkU Lions
The Lions volleyball teams travelled to Waterloo on Saturday to face the Warriors, and unfortunately, were unable to get a win in either game. The women in straight sets, while the men by three sets to two.
The women played first against the number-one, undefeated Waterloo team who cruised to the 3-0 win, 25-18, 25-20, 25-20.
Kayla Clennon led the line for the Lions with 11.5 points, 10 kills, and four digs. The Lions now have a 6-5 record with eight more games to go this season.
The men’s game was a more thrilling contest that saw the Lions fight hard for the win, but eventually succumb in the fifth set.
York took the first set 25-23 but Waterloo tied the game after winning the second set 25-17.
York took a 2-1 lead by winning the third set 31-29, but Waterloo responded by winning the fourth set 25-20.
The Warriors then went on to win the deciding set 15-7, and secure the 3-2 victory.
Top performers for the Lions were Andrew Tauhid with 17.5 points, 17 kills and three digs, Aleksander Grzegorczyk with 12 points, seven kills and two digs, and Logan Mend with 36 assists and 11 digs.
With the loss, the men’s record drops to 4-6 for the season.
Both teams will play host to RMC and Queens this Saturday and Sunday. The women play at 1 p.m., while the men play at 3 p.m. both days.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Zain Rashid | Staff Writer
Featured Image: Lions bounce back from last week’s disappointing performances, winning three out of four games this week. | Courtesy of YorkU Lions
The Lions men’s and women’s basketball teams hosted Laurentian and Nipissing at Tait Mackenzie this week, winning three out of four games.
On Friday, the Laurentian Voyageurs were in town, taking on the women first.
With the support of the home crowd, the Lions started off strong in the early minutes as Chante Clarke and Haley Bowie hit back-to-back threes. Although the Lions led by seven points halfway through the first quarter, the Voyageurs made a run of their own near the end of the frame, evening things up at 26 after one.
York regained the momentum in the second quarter, courtesy of multiple threes from Emma Jonas and Clarke en route to a 12-point lead at the half.
The Lions again outscored the Voyageurs in the third quarter as Katrina Collins-Samuels, Jonas and others put their name on the score sheet, as the quarter ended 68-55 for York.
It was in the final frame when the Lions truly put the exclamation point on the win, as their lead ballooned to 25 points, and they cruised to the 89-67 victory.
It was the men’s turn to face Laurentian next. They ended up losing a heartbreaker 79-77, despite leading for much of the game.
The Lions came out of the gate strong, as DeAandrae Pierre opened the scoring with a three. York’s Tyler Pryce ended the first quarter with a lay-up, giving the Lions 20-8 lead.
Nana Adu-Poku and Prince Kamunga added multiple threes for York in the second quarter, and, despite an attempted comeback by the Voyageurs, the Lions lead 41-29 going into the half.
The third quarter saw a fierce response from Laurentian as they went on a dominant run of their own, at one point held a 45-43 lead. However, the Lions managed to match their intensity, as they closed the third with a 13-point lead.
The fourth quarter featured an intense battle, as neither side would concede defeat. With seventeen seconds remaining, Adu-Poku tied the game at 77. The Voyageurs, however, managed to score a controversial last-second basket, stealing the 79-77 victory.
On Saturday, the Lions welcomed the Nipissing Lakers to the Tait Mackenzie Center. The women again played first defeating the Lakers by a comfortable nine-point margin.
The women dominated the first quarter, raining threes courtesy of Collins-Samuels and Jonas. The first quarter ended with a 24-13 lead for York.
The Lions kept the momentum in the second quarter, and took a 12-point lead with them into the break.
The Lakers made a strong comeback, and just before the end of the third quarter, closed the gap to just three points. However, the Lions held on to their lead, ending the quarter 60-55.
The Lakers continued their comeback attempt in the fourth, as they managed to gain a 69-68 lead in the final frame. However, York bounced back to regain their lead with a free throw from Cyanna King and a jump shot from Jonas, safely escaping with the 78-69 win.
The men played next, and bounced back from their heartbreaking defeat the night before in the form of a 20-point victory, snapping their six-game losing streak.
The Lions got an early lead over the Lakers and kept the upper hand throughout the game. York’s Gianmarco Luciani and Chevon Brown, among others, contributed to a 17-8 lead at the end of the first quarter.
Lucciani and Kamunga led York’s attack in the second quarter, scoring multiple threes en route to a 12-point lead at the half.
The Lions stretched their lead to an unbelievable 27 points in the third quarter, as Gene Spagnuolo and Alex Thielen hit several shots, as the quarter ended 63-35 in favour of York.
The fourth was a formality, as Kamunga put an exclamation point on the win with a dunk that nearly blew the roof off the Tait McKenzie Centre, as the Lions handled the Lakers easily, finishing with a 77-57 victory.
Both teams travel to Kingston to face Queens on Friday for their next games. Tip-off is 6 p.m. for the women and 8 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Uzodinma Ukagwu | Sports Editor
Featured image courtesy of YorkU Lions
The men’s hockey team pulled out all the stops at Canlan Ice Sports to defeat the Waterloo Warriors on Friday by a score of 5-4. Then, on Monday, they visited U of T, their cross-town rivals, losing 6-1.
The women’s home game against Queens on Saturday was postponed, but they hosted UOIT on Sunday, losing 4-1.
The men’s game on Friday was a barnburner, as both teams displayed excellent offensive prowess. The Lions started strongly, taking a 3-1 lead by the end of the first period.
Reid Jackman opened the scoring for the Lions in the third minute. Though Waterloo scored five minutes later to tie the game at 1-1, the Lions dug deep, scoring twice towards the end of the period, first courtesy of Justin Maiolino in the 13th minute, and Scott Feser in the 14th.
The Lions got the second period underway with a fourth goal courtesy of Ben Verrall. Waterloo attempted to kick-start a comeback by scoring two goals in the second, but the Lions made their task more difficult by scoring once more at the end of the period, this time courtesy of Alex Mowbray, to regain their two-goal lead.
Waterloo pressed the Lions in the third, drawing to within one, but the Lions held on to complete the 5-4 victory. Goalie Mack Shields proved crucial in the win, stopping 46 of 50 shots.
On the other hand, the women’s game against the UOIT Ridgebacks on Sunday saw the Lions struggle, losing 4-1.
The Ridgebacks started strong, scoring near the midway point in the first. The Lions then replied with a goal of their own in the second period with a little over five minutes to go, knotting things up at one.
UOIT, however, put the game to bed in the third, snuffing out the Lions hopes with three unanswered goals en route to the 4-1 victory.
The Lions men struggled against U of T on Monday, eventually losing 6-1.
The Blues scored the first two goals early in the first period. The Lions thought they would finish the first period on a high when Sal Filice scored with just over a minute remaining, but U of T scored a beautiful short-handed goal with 26 seconds left to take a 3-1 lead into the first intermission.
Toronto continued to dominate the game, scoring two goals in the second period and one goal in the third, to win 6-1.
Both Lions teams are back in action next weekend on the road against the Windsor Lancers. The men play on Friday, at 7.30 p.m., while the women play on Saturday, at 4 p.m. Then, on Sunday, the men will be hosting the Brock Badgers at Canlan Ice Sports at 7 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Candidates who wish to run for positions in the YFS are collecting nomination signatures from students until this Friday. | Courtesy of Pexels
With the nomination deadline for the YFS election this Friday, potential candidates are out on campus to collect signatures from students for a chance at campaigning. The Executive Board Elections will be taking place from February 12 to the 15.
According to the nomination package, issued by the Chief Returning Officer of the YFS elections, Sahabthan Jesuthasan, candidates must collect at least 30 to 100 valid student signatures depending on whether they are running for director or executive positions.
Third-year environmental studies student, Abdeali Saherwala, plans on running for the position of Director for the Faculty of Environmental Studies.
“I believe that I can implement change for my faculty and represent my faculty in a greater capacity than before. The Faculty of Environmental Studies is the smallest faculty at York, and due to its size, a lot of people do not know about it. I want to represent my faculty diligently,” Saherwala says.
Students at York also expressed some concerns about the YFS, and mentioned some things they would like to see from upcoming candidates.
Fourth-year psychology student Tharany Puvaneswaran hopes the YFS can communicate better with the students they represent. She saw this was lacking when attempting to opt out of the health and dental program at York in her second year without having to reveal her personal insurance information.
When Puvaneswaran asked why they needed her personal information, the YFS allegedly ignored her question, and simply said they needed her information “no matter what.”
“It upset me because they didn’t answer my question. They don’t communicate well with students,” she claims.
Puvaneswaran also expressed her frustration when learning about the possibility that the TPS may not be allowed on campus in the future.
“Walking at night next to the subway station is unnerving—it’s very inconsiderate of them to ignore student safety. You need to take into account students’ experiences when making changes like this to campus. Already the YRT and TTC have made things harder, I don’t think the YFS should be doing the same thing—especially since they are supposed to help students,” she says.
Amidst the discovery of Ryerson’s Student Union spending $250,000 over the span of eight months, students also believe the YFS must set an example, and strive to be more organized.
“I think they organize the Frosh Week events such as dirty bingo,” says fourth-year social services student Roya Safi. “I know they sell discounted tickets for students, and they represent us within the university, but I have yet to see them do much more than this,” she says.
“There’s room for improvement, especially with strikes and delays in commuting, so they should be doing more to fight for students’ time to be respected,” says fourth-year psychology and French studies student Julia Vit. “Yes, we’re a commuter school but it’s not an excuse.”
Unfortunately, when asked what good things students have seen the YFS do, they were unable to answer.
Candidates currently collecting nominations from students were also told not to discuss their policies and plans before the All Candidates Debate taking place this Friday.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
