 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: “Trojan Horse” treatment effective against over six different cancer types. | Pixabay
The fall of Troy, as depicted in Greek mythology, didn’t happen because of brute strength nor did it happen because of sheer numbers, the city of Troy fell because of the cunning and intelligence of the Greeks. When the Greek army approached the fortified city, they brought with them a “gift”—a massive wooden horse—as a token of their surrender to the Trojans. What the Trojans didn’t know, however, was that the horse was no gift; it was a means to get their soldiers inside.
The horse was in fact hollow; it contained armed troops ready to flood the streets of Troy and sack the great city from within. A story told throughout the ages, the fall of Troy has inspired everything from films to songs to poetry. It has even gone so far as to inspire a team of cancer researchers from the Institute of Cancer Research in London, as well as the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, to use the same cunning and intelligent approach as the Greeks, and attack the cancer cells from within.
But what exactly is cancer? Professor Michael Scheid, a cancer researcher at York, explains the ailment more clearly: “Cancer is a genetic disease whereby cells of our body acquire errors in the copy of DNA they carry. As these errors increase, the cancer cell evolves and divides, resulting in a tumor.”
Tisotumab Vedotin (TV), referred to as the “Trojan Horse” treatment, has been shown to be effective against many types of cancer, including cervical, bladder, ovarian, endometrial, esophageal, and lung cancer. The greatest response was seen in bladder cancer with 27 per cent of volunteer patients attaining stabilization of their disease.
“TV is a new treatment using so-called immunotherapy, which is an approach that utilizes antibodies to fight cancer cells,” Scheid explains. “Antibodies are proteins that your body makes that allows your immune system to recognize and target foreign invaders, such as bacteria, viruses, and other pathogens. Recently, scientists have utilized this powerful system in cancer therapy whereby antibodies are custom made in the laboratory to target proteins expressed on cancer cells. With TV, researchers have fused antibodies with a toxic compound; when the antibody finds a cancer cell, it ‘delivers’ the toxic payload much like the Trojan Horse of mythology.”
A 27 per cent grade of effectiveness doesn’t seem like a very high mark, but the patients involved in the study are only those that are no longer responding to current treatments. Every other attempt made has failed. “So far, the results of these trials have been very encouraging, suggesting that this approach using immunotherapy could be an effective treatment in the future,” Scheid says.
Although TV will probably make a powerful weapon in the fight against cancer, it is not available to the general public as of yet. Keytruda, a form of targeted immunotherapy (‘targeted’ meaning only attacking cancerous cells), is open to the public; it has shown to be effective, not in its own “weaponry,” but in utilizing the readily available soldiers of the body. “Keytruda works by disabling the clever ability of cancer cells from hiding from your own immune system. Once activated, the patient’s immune cells becomes a powerful army that can very effectively kill cancer cells,” explains Scheid.
With all of these different treatments and with the many cancer types that encumber society, it can be very difficult for oncologists to decide which would be most effective for their patients. Some wish for a “cure all” cancer treatment, as it would certainly simplify things, but unfortunately, such a discovery is unlikely.
“Firstly, cancer is a heterogeneous disease of many mutations and traits; one drug that might be effective for cancer in one person might have no benefit in treating another person. Secondly, cancer cells can evolve. Thus, a treatment that might be initially effective could be evaded by the cancer cells as they acquire new mutations,” says Scheid. “The hope in the future is to develop personalized medicine where a person’s cancer is genetically defined and combinatorial approaches of several treatments are used to fight it.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: Sobetirome, a synthetic compound, has remyelinated exposed axons in mice. | Pixabay
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative disease that affects over 2.3 million people worldwide. MS was first described as a disease by Jean-Martin Charcot, a professor at the University of Paris, in 1868, though written descriptions place MS back as far as the middle ages.
Often referred to as the father of neurology, Charcot described MS in a woman who was having tremors, slurred speech, and abnormal eye movements. After she died, he examined her brain, and found it contained the defining scars—or plaques—associated with MS.
Today, the disease has yet to be cured, but advancements have certainly been made in mitigating the effects so that those with MS can still live fulfilling and productive lives.
Dr. Christine Till, a professor at York who researches MS, explained the procedure MS patients go through when first diagnosed: “First-line treatments focus on firstly, speeding recovery following an attack; secondly, slowing or modifying progression of the disease (there are a number of medication options; selection is based on a number of factors, like severity of disease, age, cost, etc); and thirdly, managing symptoms (e.g. spasticity).”
But what causes MS? “That’s a million dollar question!” says Till,  “I don’t think anyone knows for sure, but it is presumed to involve an interplay between susceptibility genes and environmental factors, such as infectious triggers (e.g. Ebstein Barr virus) and Vitamin D. Uncovering the cause of this disease is an area of ongoing research.”
Although the exact cause is still unknown, a team of researchers from the Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) have made a significant leap forward in the development of a cure. What they discovered was that a compound known as sobetirome—originally developed over two decades ago as a means to lower cholesterol—when modified, can repair myelin. Myelin is a fatty substance that coats and insulates nerve fibers and is one of the main focuses of MS research, as its degradation by the immune system is the reason for the characteristic MS symptoms.
When first approaching the synthetic compound sobetirome, the research team genetically modified mice to exhibit the symptoms of MS. They then used the mice to test the drug’s efficacy as a form of treatment. With promising results, they went even further, attempting to increase the amount of sobetirome that could penetrate the blood-brain barrier and enter the central nervous system.
To do this, they utilized what is known as a pro-drug strategy. What prevents sobetirome from passing the blood-brain barrier is its negative charge. By adding a chemical tag, they developed an inert version of sobetirome called Sob-AM2 that could effectively penetrate the barrier.
The genetically modified mice that were exposed to Sob-AM2 saw a significant improvement in their symptoms, achieving a nearly full recovery.
Senior author of the study Dr. Tom Scanlan, a professor of physiology and pharmacology in the OHSU School of Medicine, explained the significance of the discovery: “There are no drugs available today that will re-myelinate the de-myelinated axons and nerve fibers, and ours does that.”
Laura Wieden, the daughter of Portland advertising executive Dan Wieden, is the namesake and board member of the Laura Fund for Innovation in Multiple Sclerosis. The Laura Fund financed a good portion of Dr Scanlan and his team’s research. “I am really optimistic,” Wieden said, “I hope that this will literally be a missing link that could just change the lives of people with MS.”
 


Will this have to have 5 years of trials before it will be available?
OHSU has licensed the tech to a company in California known as Llama Therapeutics Inc. who’s aim is to have sobetirome undergo human clinical trials as soon as possible.. The researchers are confident that sobetirome will reach the human clinical trial stage, though for how long those trials will have to occur, I am not certain.
It touches home as I am a 45 years old female with very aggressive Multiple Sclerosis that does stand up comedy. Ms has negatively impacted my life in so many ways, but I gotta say that it has made me stronger and a better person in a lot of ways. I feel so happy and excited to see myself recover from MS very fast. I can talk very well and walk freely now. Here is herbal centre that helped me recover incase you need their help (besthealthherbalcentre. c om).
Tenemos prisa, please
i don’t usually talk much on the internet but i had to open up this time because a miracle happened in my life . After struggling with Multiple sclerosis for 3 years I finally got cured by Dr Peter and keeping it to myself will be selfish of me. I used his therapy for 3 weeks and I got cured and now I have no symptoms of MS .I urge you all having MS,ALS,and Parkinson to give him a try at peterwiseherbalcenter at gmail. com or reach him directly on whatsapp plus 23490 596 106 43 thank you
My Multiple Sclerosis symptoms started out with muscle weakness and slurred speech. I could not tolerate the medications prescribed for long… I started on MS Herbal Treatment from VHC, the herbal treatment immensely helped my Multiple Sclerosis condition, i had a significant recovery with this natural treatment. Vsit ww w. vinehealthcenter. c om…

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Ross explores various themes throughout this work, constantly challenging conventional norms that exist within contemporary poetry. | Miriam El Abbassi
Written by York University alumni, Stuart Ross, Motel Of The Opposable Thumbs, is an eclectic  collection of poetry spanning over four decades. Ross explores various themes throughout this work, constantly challenging conventional norms that exist within contemporary poetry.
It should be noted that in order to have the most pleasurable experience reading this collection, one should abandon any expectations or preconceived notions of what poetry should look like. After all, Ross’ collection is structured after Béla Bartók’s String Quartet No. 4, which is unconventional for any contemporary poet, to say the least.
String Quartet No. 4 presents itself in five movements: Allegro; Prestissimo, con sordino; Non troppo lento; Allegretto pizzicato; Allegro molto. Ross has clearly divided Motel Of The Opposable Thumbs in the same manner. This collection doesn’t follow any kind of linear narrative, but rather jumps from place to place, not giving the reader even one moment of rest.
Toronto Poem and Birthday help to artfully paint an incredibly desolate landscape. The harshness of urban spaces is fully realized, with lines such as: “Anxious towers reach into the white-haired clouds / that throw shadows over / your tired, sweaty people, who squeeze between each other on self-conscious / sidewalks cracking open beneath the / weight of fearful commerce and / vanishing newspapers” on page 30 of Ross’ anthology.
Birthday delves into more gruesome imagery, chronicling a rather odd series of events. It’s difficult to pinpoint where it fits within the context of the entire work, other than to emphasize a darker tone throughout this section.
It is evident that Motel Of The Opposable Thumbs is for the adventurous reader that is open to trying something new, and for those okay with the possibility of things not always making sense. This work is incredibly unique, and stands out from its contemporary counterparts.
Ross has spent his time, not only as a writer, but as an editor, teacher and small press activist. His work has garnered several accolades, and has authored over 20 books of poetry, fiction and essays. His recent works include: Pockets (ECW Press, 2017), A Sparrow Came Down Resplendent (Wolsak and Wynn, 2016), and A Hamburger in a Gallery (DC Books, 2015).
Apart from the work he creates, Ross has taught workshops in elementary and high schools across Canada. According to Anvil Press’ media release: “Visiting schools and working with students of all ages is his favourite part of his writing practice. Stuart is at work writing nearly a dozen different poetry, non-fiction, and fiction manuscripts.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: This collaboration spotlights both artists feelings of disconnect, using various forms of abstract imagery. | Miriam El Abbassi
The [Un]natural Spaces collection is brought to the York community by students Daniela Miranda and Adriana Monteleone. This collaboration spotlights both artists feelings of disconnect, using various forms of abstract imagery.
According to the School of Arts, Media, Performance and Design (AMPD): “Miranda’s work focuses on the artificiality that has tainted natural spaces, so much that ‘wild’ nature, no longer exists, and her work seeks to portray the longing for more natural spaces.”  This is evident when walking through the gallery. Miranda’s work, in contrast to Monteleone’s, focuses on a more natural setting, exploring how man-made elements have essentially invaded, and almost overtaken, that space.
The paintings are arranged in a straight line, going across all four walls in the space, almost as if there is some kind of planned narrative the artists are trying to convey. It starts out with one of Miranda’s paintings, and then one of Monteleone’s, and then alternates across the walls.
Miranda’s first painting, on a set of two canvases, depicts a neon pink bridge wrapping its way through a forest. The neon motifs, clearly used to depict human intervention into natural spaces, are present in every painting of Miranda’s. 
It creates a slight unsettling feeling, as it is very evident that those elements are not supposed to be there. Although this helps to enforce Miranda’s notion of “fake nature” in natural spaces, and how much control society has in the ways they can experience it.
In contrast, the subject of Monteleone’s paintings are placed in a more urban setting, “Monteleone’s acrylic paintings portray the claustrophobia felt by someone who experiences modern society, which, despite its urban charm, can easily become a threatening environment when one is faced with being one of the many people that inhabit it,” states the AMPD website.
This feeling of claustrophobia is emphasized by the composition of the paintings, which feature a collage-like technique, helping to create a disoriented feeling within the viewer. Monteleone’s first painting depicts a lecture hall on York’s Keele Campus, which is incredibly crowded, and features the “Keele Campus” sign and campus mascot. The painting, however, is not a clear depiction of a lecture hall, and looks as if one took a photograph, cut it up into pieces, rearranged the pieces and that became the reference for the final piece. This kind of composition helps to enforce the themes in Monteleone’s work.
Located at the Gales Gallery in the Accolade West building, [Un]natural Spaces prompts us to think about our own impact on the natural world, and become more conscious of how we interact with those spaces, as well as how we interact with the urban spaces we see day to day.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
One of the questions that has never been more prevalent than it is in today’s culture is: can one truly separate works of art from the artist who created them? Whatever answer results from that, the follow up question would then have to be: does society then boycott art by problematic creators?
There may never be one definite answer, as every situation and circumstance will always be incredibly nuanced. What if the creator has died, therefore consuming their art will have no effect on them? What if the creator was only ever accused? What if you only consume their work through a third party (i.e. pirating music, movies, television shows, etc.), meaning the creator would not be able to profit?
The “what if” scenarios could go on forever; people will always find a way to rationalize an artist they really connect to no matter how problematic the situation is which surrounds that particular artist. However, the notion that art may or may not exist completely independent of its creator can be challenged.
Art, while incredibly subjective, can be seen as an extension of the person who made it. The artist’s thoughts, feelings and emotions are poured into some creative piece that is made for the rest of society to consume in some way. Therefore, by showing support for the art, is one not also supporting the artist while doing so?
Their art can be seen as a reflection of themselves, so it would be hard to appreciate the art in isolation. Artists can also benefit off of the support received for their work whether that be in a monetary sense or the increased popularity, which translates into future success.
That connection an artist has to their work will always be there, but the degree in which someone chooses to consume their work varies undeniably.
In an objective sense (or as objective as one can be when discussing art), it would be difficult to definitively say that art can exist independently from the artist. It is entirely up to the viewer to decide if their perception of a problematic artist will interfere with their consumption of the art, and to what degree.
Some may be able to rationalize certain circumstances over others; this could be simply due to the fact that no one ever thinks in black and white and what exists within the grey area will vary from person to person. To this day, Michael Jackson is revered as one of the best pop musicians of all time, despite throughout his career, and recently as well, accusations of child molestation have come to the forefront.
This has created a divide within most people as some abandoned his music all together while others still chose to enjoy his music. Others may be able to rationalize continuing to listen to his music by arguing that what has come forward are merely accusations and therefore should be taken with a grain of salt since Michael Jackson has never formerly been found guilty of any crime. The fact that Michael Jackson has passed away means that he won’t be benefiting from people listening to his music.
Also, due to the fact that Michael Jackson did ascend to ‘god-like’ status during his career, he has achieved a level of fame and notoriety beyond what is seen today; his music holds a special place within most people, which may make it hard for a fan of his to denounce him all together.
This is all to say that whether or not one can rationalize liking their problematic creator, it really is solely dependent on what the audience is able to tolerate. There truly is no definitive answer to the question, ‘Can you separate art from the artist?’ as everyone will always have their own way of rationalizing something or someone that they want to hold on to.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Tyler McKay | Assistant News Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
We all know how pesticides are used to kill those unwanted insects that can decimate fields of crops. However, one group of pesticides specifically is having significantly adverse and unintended effects on the surrounding environment in which they are used.
These pesticides are called neonicotinoids or neonics; they have been linked to declining populations of bees and also for facilitating what is called Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD) whereby entire bee colonies die off.
However, there is a new study that came out that links these neonics to negative effects on birds.
But first, let’s explain what neonics are and how they are used.  Neonics first arrived on the agricultural scene in the 1990s, but they have now become the most common pesticide.  They coat seeds and are then absorbed into the plant and protect the plant for up to 10 weeks.
They are sometimes sprayed onto the plant and have replaced the pesticides that had to be sprayed onto the plants multiple times.  According to Chemistry World, “They are especially effective against sucking pests (such as aphids), but also chewing insects.”
Neonics are seen as safer than the previously used pesticides as they are more selective with the pests that they kill.  Other pesticides like organochlorine and organophosporus were known to be killing mammals as well as the intended insects. Neonics have been shown to “over-excite neurons at high doses, which can lead to epileptic-like effects, cell death or nerve cell inactivation.”
A European study found that they primarily impact European honeybees, which are brought into degraded landscapes in intensive agricultural areas. They are an insecticide designed to kill insects, so bees are negatively impacted by them in addition to pest insects.
The neonics are coated on almost all corn and canola seeds in Canada and on many soybean seeds as well; they are also very widely used in and on crops in the United States.
In 2013, a study was conducted by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) on the effect of neonicotinoid pesticides on bees.  The study found that three types of neonicotinoids impacted “bee learning and navigation and reproduction. At lower levels, normal neuronal function is impaired.  It is suspected that this is how bees are harmed.  After repeat exposure, target nerve cells become more vulnerable and toxicity to insects increases.”  These pesticides were found in the pollen and nectar of the plants and that is why they are affecting bees.
Honey bees produce approximately 90 million pounds of honey every year and are required to pollinate some of Canada’s most profitable agricultural products. The pollination services that bees are able to provide are valued at $5.5 billion per year in Canada alone.
Additionally, bumblebees are also crucial pollinators whose services often get mistaken for those of the honey bee.
Regrettably, “We do not know very much about the status of the vast majority of Canada’s 855 native bees,” says York professor and environmental scientist Sheila Colla.
“We have the most information for the native bumblebees (42 species) and know that about one-third of these species are at risk of extinction.  This is very concerning given the importance of wild bees for food production and the sustainability of native ecosystems,” Colla adds.
However, the health of bees and bee populations is affected in many different ways by many different causes. Bee populations still face trouble on account of a number of other factors including loss of habitat, disease from managed bees to wild bees, and climate change. Therefore, banning neonicotinoids alone would not be enough to revivify struggling bee populations.
Currently, there is a program in Canada and the United States to track bee populations and record statistical information. This program is called Bumble Bee Watch and is based on the photographs and input from over 8,300 people.
According to York PhD student, Victoria MacPhail, in an interview with the Toronto Star, the program is used “to figure out where are our rare species, where are our common species and how are they doing.”
MacPhail continues, “Are they doing things that change their range, are they expanding their range, contracting their range, what flowers are they feeding on, what time of year do they come out — all these basic questions about bumblebees.”
The app was designed with the intention of getting more people out in their yards and around their neighbourhoods to look for bees.
This data is key to developing successful conservation efforts as the data from Bumble Bee Watch has been able to fill in the gaps.  Users of the app have been able to provide data from over 41,000 sightings of about 40 of the 46 known species.
“I’ve been working on bumblebees since 2003 and I spent a good 10 years just driving around looking for some rare species and not really finding any. So, we kind of thought maybe it makes more sense to get more eyes on the ground,” says Dr. Sheila Colla to the Toronto Star, “
As for bee conservation efforts, Colla says we need more regulation managed and privately-kept bees as well as better tracking of bee movement and bee diseases: “The current government has really stalled on protecting species at-risk. They need to move through the listing and management process more quickly.”
“Currently there hasn’t been a priority made to conserve native bee biodiversity or bees at-risk of extinction.  This is very worrisome,” Colla adds.
Unfortunately, it is quite difficult to study the health of bees.  The current methods can not be utilized unless the bee is already dead.  This is a pressing concern as one quarter of bee colonies in Canada die each winter.
Researchers test for the presence of pathogens, toxins, and pesticides in the bees’ system.  These tests take quite a long time, are expensive, and often do not paint the whole picture of what is affecting the health of the bees.
The solution to this problem may come from a project that will soon be led by York biology professor Amro Zayed.  Professor Zayed is a bee genomics expert as well as a York Research Chair.
On October 1, a $10-million project will begin to develop a new health assessment and diagnosis platform.  “We need to think of innovative solutions to fix the bee health crisis. The current tools are just not cutting it,” said Zayed.
These new project aims to be able to create a system whereby bee health can be studied while the bees remain alive by looking for biomarkers.
“You can identify the stressors affecting a colony, not by searching for the stressor itself, but by looking for specific signatures of stress in the bee – what we call biomarkers,” said Zayed.
“The biomarker approach has a lot of potential for quickly screening stressors affecting bees before colonies decline.”
At the completion of the project Zayed and his team hope to be able to have beekeepers send in samples of their bees for biomarker testing and then receive a detailed health report.   
They will also receive a report containing management strategies for how best to support the bee colonies and improve their health.
Additionally, there is also an immediate concern relating to the use of neonic pesticides and their negative effects on migratory birds in North America.
A recent study co-authored by York professor Bridget Stutchbury found the connection. “The study originated because of my book Silence of the Songbirds (2007) where I have a chapter on pesticide effects on birds,” professor Stutchbury says.
“At the time, I was amazed when doing the background research that so few studies had been done with modern pesticides on wild birds.
“These pesticides are very harmful for pollinators (includes bees that are needed to pollinate our crops) and now we know they hurt birds too.  Unfortunately for migratory birds, neonicotinoids are in heavy use in the United States and Central/South America, where our birds go during our winter.”
New blood sampling techniques were used to see how much exposure wild birds had to the neonicotinoid pesticide.
For the white-crowned sparrow, on which the study was conducted, the researchers found that 75 per cent of the wild birds had been recently exposed to the pesticide.
“Farmers and pesticide manufacturers often argue that dosing experiments are flawed because they ‘force feed’ the pesticide to bird while in the real world the planted seeds end up underground where birds can’t reach them.  But our research shows wild birds are being exposed somehow,” Stutchbury says.
In the study, white-crowned sparrows were caught during a stopover on their spring migration and fed seeds coated in neonicotinoids at a higher dose than would usually be found in the wild. The birds were then tracked using “lightweight tagging technologies and a collaborative research network called the Motus Wildlife Tracking System to track the effects in the sparrows’ natural habitat.”
“The timing for this study was good because we needed a way to track birds after they were released – and now there is a large network of automated radio-receiver towers in southern Ontario that could detect our birds as they flew by on spring migration.,” Stutchbury says.
The study found the birds that were given the higher dose of the neonic lost six per cent of their body mass within six hours. That same dose was shown to affect the migration pattern of the birds.
On average, the birds stayed three and a half days longer at the stopover site before returning to their migration compared to control birds.
“Both of these results seem to be associated with the appetite suppression effect of the pesticide. The dosed birds ate less food, and it’s likely that they delayed their flight because they needed more time to recover and regain their fuel stores,” said the lead author of the paper, Dr. Margaret Eng.
Although the toxic effects of neonicotinoids were once thought to affect only insects, most notably bees, this study has shown convincing evidence that birds that are exposed to the neonic pesticide will be affected by significant negative consequences.
“Our study shows that this is bigger than the bees – birds can also be harmed by modern neonicotinoid pesticides, which should worry us all,” says Stutchbury.
Recently, an article in the CBC highlighted the devastating fact that over the past 49 years, the total bird population across the United States and Canada has dropped by a significant amount.  Exposure to pesticides was found to be a contributing factor to this decline.
This new study led by conservation scientist Ken Rosenberg presents a counted loss of 2.9 billion birds compared with 1970.  This number shows a shocking population decline totalling 29 per cent of all birds on the continent.
His study combines population data from more than 500 species dating back 50 years.
The study found that the significant majority of the birds that have disappeared are neither rare, vulnerable, nor endangered species. Species such as sparrows, juncos, and starlings, which are considered to be quite common, were found to have had a drastic reduction in their respective populations.
Rosenberg expected to find that some species are declining while others are growing to fill the gap left behind; however, he was shocked to find that even the most well-adapted birds like starlings have lost 83 million individuals since 1970.
In 2019, Health Canada released a statement on neonicotinoids: “To protect bees and other pollinators, Health Canada has announced that it will be cancelling some uses of these pesticides, and changing other conditions of use such as restricting the timing of application,” as traces of this pesticide have been found accumulating in water bodies and near farmland.
Populations of insects near to those farms were shown to have decreased on account of the neonicotinoid use.  A decision on any policy change is expected at the end of this year.
There were also studies conducted by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) in 2013.  These studies led to the European Union member states agreeing to ban three kinds of neonicotinoids on crops that produces flowers.
However, in 2018, the European Union decided to ban the use of neonicotinoids outside.  Their use has now been restricted to indoor use such as in greenhouses.
It is clear that neonicotinoid pesticides are having a negative effect on biodiversity across North America and across the world.
They are not only affecting the bees, which pollinate crops, but they are also negatively affecting bird populations.
While some progress is being made to reduce these problems, there is still much to do.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
