 
Rishav Panda | Contributor
Featured Image: Most people are misinformed about Anti-Vax beliefs. | Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
The anti-vaccination movement, also known as anti-vax, has grown in size over the last couple of years, and for good reason. The movement, led by anti-vaxxers, is concerned with the threat of vaccinations and their potential to spread harmful diseases to young children.
Leader of the anti-vax Facebook group by the name of “Moms Initiative/ Learn the Facts,” Jennifer McHarty says: “Choosing to vaccinate a child should be the parent’s choice, no one else’s decision. I chose not to vaccinate my child because the idea of pumping poisonous chemicals into their system is horrifying. I mean, they put mercury in these vaccinations and science can tell you how dangerous mercury is. Why would I put it in my child’s body?”
We all know where the vaccines come from: Big Pharma. Large corporations don’t care about the wellbeing of young children; they only care about making a profit. And profit they will, when children around the globe start getting sick from their vaccinations, forcing them to undergo expensive treatments.
There are many alternatives to vaccinations, such as using natural remedies and ingredients to help the body develop its immune system.  Health studies student and blogger, Angela Brice, says: “The body has its own defence system that can handle toxins. However, to help boost its defence, there are an assortment of essential oils that can combat illnesses. For toddlers, I recommend a coating of tea tree essential oil on the forehead daily. A teaspoon of lavender oil can help handle illnesses like the common cold or polio.”
The looming threat of unknown diseases brought on by vaccinations poses a threat to schools globally. Families fear sending their children to school in the event that their children may catch life-threatening diseases.  “I don’t want to risk my child getting infected by vaccinated children at schools. There really should be some rules set in place to prevent the vaccinated kids mixing with our normal ones. As of now, I am pulling my kids out of school and homeschooling them,” says a concerned father, who wishes to remain anonymous.
With the anti-vax movement growing, other groups with opposing ideologies are trying to fight back against this movement. Dubbed the anti-anti vaccination movement, they aim to present the so-called “facts” against the anti-vaxxers.
“It scares me how people can be so naïve. I, along with several other moms, have conducted rigorous amounts of research on vaccinations. All the information is on the web and there are countless websites that show the harmful side-effects of vaccines. It blows my mind that people just disregard information that has been around for at least a year,” says McHarty.
“Think about it, by not limiting ourselves, we can do anything. Abraham Lincoln received zero vaccinations in his lifetime and he became president. This historical example, among many others, just goes to show that if any person adopts a cleaner lifestyle and devoid’s their bodies of poisonous vaccinations, they too can go far in life. They might end up dying of polio at the tender age of 42, but it’s gamble most people should be willing to take,” adds McHarty.
While there will be groups aiming to bring down the anti-vaccination movement, the anti-vaxxers remain strong and united. They remain adamant in their beliefs, showing solidarity in the face of bigotry. Hopefully, in the future, vaccinations will be a thing of the past, like AIDS.
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Sajila Nudrat | Health Editor
Featured Image: Food sources are overrated; we must turn to nature to sustain our lives. | Courtesy of Pexels
With world population on the rise and resources finite, it’s a good time to begin wondering about what’s going to happen next. Unfortunately, in the real world, we are not blessed with a saviour who can snap his fingers to single-handedly solve the problem of ever-growing world hunger. However, it seems as if the world has found its own modern day liberator.
New research shows that over time, human beings will be able to sustain themselves only on air. The study was conducted by Harvard scientist Dr. Chip Bagg III; using a trillion dollars of grant money given to the school by other notoriously wealthy individuals that listed the donation as, “leftovers from my boat purchase,” “for the less fortunate.” More concerned with being a published author than the work he was publishing, Bagg set a course to find an answer to the age-old problem of food shortage.
Bagg says: “The human body is so resilient that it could withstand a hundred bullets, and still stand up. This is fact! This is the truth! I saw such remarkable behaviour in a documentary about World War One.” It was mentioned to Bagg at this time, that the documentary was in fact “Captain America: The First Avenger,” but that only further strengthened his beliefs.
Bagg was then asked how the body may be able to survive long periods of time with no food. He responded by breaking down into layman’s terms the extent of his research. “By conditioning the human body to believe it no longer needs vital nutrients and food sources, the need for real sustenance will disappear over time. Think of it like your appendix. Once humans stopped eating raw meat, virtually every function of the appendix became void, and we were able to survive without it.” says Bagg. He elaborates that: “diets that are only plant-based, or only fish-based, are on the right track.”
To begin the conversion, Bagg says that such a diet (only-air based) will occur over time and and in a variety of steps. For starters, a person will need to become a vegetarian, and from there a vegan. Soon enough, they would move to only consuming fruits and vegetables, and then just nuts, before settling on only liquids. Finally, when the body is conditioned to survive on very few liquids, the mind should prepare to ‘trick’ the body into believing it is drinking water by drinking empty cups of air. Once the body begins to associate air with water, it will believe that it is receiving enough hydration to sustain itself.
Bagg believes that such a plan is void of flaws. In fact, to prove his research, he’s taken a few notable individuals deep into the woods on a six-month retreat to further enhance his findings. Some participants include reality TV star Courtney Carbashian, and lifestyle blog ROOP creator, Penyth Galtrow. With such influential intellectuals on board, nothing could possibly go wrong.
All that’s left to do is wait. Six months is not a long time in comparison to eternal salvation. Long Live Dr. Bagg!
Unfortunately, Bagg’s results were inconclusive, as all of the participants of his study died during testing.
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Maker’s roots in film date back to elementary school, when would always have a Bolex camera by his side. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Second-year film production student, Phil Maker, was surprised to learn that his entry to the Stardance Film Festival, Eternal Darkness, was rejected on the grounds of “not being pretentious enough.
Maker’s roots in film date back to elementary school, where he describes always having a vintage model of the Bolex by his side, even though he didn’t learn how to use it until later on. Always attracted to the aesthetics of cinema, Maker continued into highschool independently producing his own shorts exclusively on 8-mm film. He describes that his reasons for avoiding digital filmmaking are because: “it cheapens the overall look of the final product, and it strays from what true cinema is supposed to look like.”
At the beginning of the school year, Maker decided to submit his short, Eternal Darkness, to the Starjive Film Festival, only to receive a notice of rejection several months later. The letter stated that his film did not include enough divisive film techniques, allowing it to attain the level of pretentiousness the festival required.  This, undoubtedly, was a saddening message to receive, as Maker had plans to submit his short to other festivals around the country, something he now has to rethink.   
Eternal Darkness is a supernatural thriller, following an anonymous protagonist, who is confronted by the shadows of their past, but also the shadows of their future.  The narrative is told through a mixture of first-person accounts, and accompanied with dissonant voice-overs. It’s a story told through physical movements, and powerful visual effects intended to make audiences question their reality. Maker explains the theme and overall significance of the piece is entirely up to the audience itself, creating a unique viewing experience for each person. 
Every winter, along the lakes of the Algonquin provincial park, the Starjive Film Festival transforms the natural landscape into the ultimate gathering of a truly creative collective, seeking new voices and fresh perspectives. The programming consists of both alternative, and semi-autobiographical features and shorts. The New Frontier segment also commits to showcasing emerging filmmakers and the unique content that they produce. Although this incident has gained quite the traction, representatives from the Starjive Film Festival have maintained the stance that they welcome diverse content and that the assumption that Maker’s entry was rejected due to it not being pretentious enough is ‘absolutely false.’
Maker hopes to continue showcasing his films on campus, and seeks to challenge the notion of what it means to be pretentious, and if that idea could potentially be harmful to the future of filmmaking.
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
