 
Bhabna Banerjee | Creative Director
Featured image courtesy of Bhabna Banerjee
Manasvi Mathur, 20, an exchange student at York, has been on dates with three college men over the last two months through the online dating service Bumble — none of whom she has ever seen again. A psychology major, Manasvi is well-versed in the evolving conversation around #MeToo, which she initiates out of curiosity on the first date. “Some men feel under attack and tend to stay conscious for the rest of the night,” Mathur says. “The worst are the ones who claim to ‘get it’ but will follow that claim with justifications of their previous actions.”
Despite the varied reactions, Mathur has had one clear takeaway: #MeToo has altered the conversation around power dynamics and consent in dating, and that’s changed the game.
Since October 2017, when the #MeToo social media trend surfaced after a wave of Hollywood actresses began reporting their sexual assault allegations, there has been an exponential growth in the number of women who have shared their accounts of sexual mistreatment at the hands of men. The hyper-awareness post #MeToo has caused young adults, especially men, to grow scared, confused and altogether refrain from being involved in casual relationships in college.
According to a poll by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal conducted in October 2018, the #MeToo movement has changed the way both men and women approach dating — nearly 50 per cent of the women surveyed claimed they felt encouraged to voice their opinions even with their romantic partners. Forty-nine per cent of the men surveyed said that the women’s opinions and stories caused them to rethink their own attitudes and actions around dating.
Another survey focusing on a younger demographic showed similar statistics. A survey conducted by MTV in December 2018, revealed that 40 per cent of male respondents between the ages of 18 to 25 said the movement had changed the way they act in potential romantic relationships.
Young adults fear unintentionally crossing boundaries in a field where they possess little to no experience. Even a seemingly simple act like paying for a date has become a taxing task for those in fear of having their actions misinterpreted.
A 2018 survey by dating service Three Day Rule found young women admitting to be scared of inappropriate behaviour or too triggered by the numerous harassment news to want to spend time with men.
The survey also revealed a large percentage of young women who are concerned about how to voice their experiences with harassment against a potential partner.
Rupkatha Basu, a writer at The Trauma and Mental Health Report at York says that in her experience, most men today who do not like to associate with feminism are post-feminists — they believe that gender equality has been achieved, and so any fight in this area is not only useless, but an attack by women on men. The anxiety created by movements like #MeToo leads to resentment, and they’re wary of women who will get “too political” on them or will call them out on what they’re used to getting away with.
“For the other kind of men, #MeToo has been about self-awakening, about realizing the ingrained misogyny within themselves,” Basu said. “They have realized that it’s not about their intentions, but about the feelings of the person at the receiving end. They’re thinking twice about every move now. And that is a good thing.”
In 2018, University of California Berkeley undertook an initiative to publish its first MyVoice Survey involving the entire campus community including students, faculty, and staff. The survey was designed and implemented by the UC Berkeley MyVoice Working Group in partnership with National Opinion Research Center, one of the largest independent social research organizations in the country based at the University of
Chicago. The survey gave the campus community a platform to share their experiences, beliefs, norms and knowledge regarding sexual violence harassment.
The survey comprised of questions on five categories of beliefs and attitudes on sexual violence: personal responsibility, ambiguity around reports of sexual violence, sexual harassment, relationship violence, and stalking.
The survey highlighted that in the current #MeToo era, young adults feel differently about certain traditional romantic acts as a result of the awareness.
In a question under the category of relationship violence, the survey asked whether the respondent felt it was a problem for one partner to make personal decisions for the other partner, such as ordering food for them at a restaurant. Contrary to the popular belief amongst couples before #MeToo, where it could be considered courteous or gentlemanly for the man to order food for the woman, 86 per cent of UC Berkeley undergraduate students agreed that such an action is problematic.
The results were similar for questions around other traditional romantic acts—84 per cent of students felt that it is a problem to “pursue” or keep asking a friend/colleague on dates to show their persistence even after their friend says “no.” Eighty-one per cent of students also said that leaving cards, gifts or flowers for someone without their permission is a problem.
The overall statistics showed that the social intervention of the world’s first mass movement against sexual abuse, #MeToo, was successful in changing dating norms amongst young adults who begin exploring their first real relationships in post-secondary institutions.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: With the elections over and a minority Liberal government, Canada braces for the changes it may see this term. | Courtesy of Pixabay
According to a poll by Leger, more than one third of responders say they voted hoping their vote would prevent another party’s candidate from winning.
Last week, Canada elected a minority Liberal government. Now, newly-elected Prime Minister Justin Trudeau hopes to continue the Liberal plans and attempt to repair the damage done during the elections as the party lost its majority.
“We all want safer communities, a clean planet and a good quality of life. We want this for ourselves, for our neighbours, for our kids and our grandkids. We seek hardship for none and prosperity for all. That is the world we’re working toward, and if we unite around these common goals, I know we can achieve them,” said Trudeau after winning the elections.
“I believe this election has shown the problems with the current system,” said NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh to reporters in Burnaby, B.C after the election results. “I think that the results show not a broken Canada ?— the people, in a lot of ways, share so many values, share far more values than they have separate. But the results show a broken electoral system, and it’s certainly clear we need to fix it.”
Fourth-year French studies student Stefania Marchesan found herself aligning often with Singh’s values and overall campaign.
“Watching the press surrounding the elections, I was impressed by Jagmeet Singh and how he spoke on social issues. As a politician he recognized all people. I felt that he truly validated people that are too often marginalized in our society,” Marchesan says.
But when it came down to striking a name off in the polls, Marchesan was not able to vote NDP.
“I felt really under informed about what changes the candidate in my riding would make if elected. I was very familiar with the Liberal candidate and the Conservative candidate promises for the community.”
On the other hand, sixth-year French studies student Catherin Morassutti says that the provincial government’s decisions pushed her to focus her vote against the Conservatives in the federal elections.
“I do not trust the Conservatives. In my opinion, you are voting for Ford and frankly everyone is against what he’s doing. The Conservative platform also didn’t make sense to me. How can Canada afford to give seniors and other people what they need? How does Scheer promise to increase the autism budget? What is he getting rid of or decreasing funds for?”
Morassuti adds that while the Conservative promises seemed empty to her, the Liberal government delivered on some of their promises during their term.
“Justin Trudeau created jobs, took away the child benefits credit from families that already made enough. I also believe that the Liberals tried their best to make the best decisions. Trudeau did accomplish some of the promises from his last campaign. Hopefully, he does better this time around.”
Though the Liberals have won another term as a minority government, it is still too early to know whether or not they can change the Ford government’s disposition when making controversial changes.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: These 3000 letters were sent to Queen’s Park as a response to the OSAP changes issued by the Ontario government. | Courtesy of Pixabay
The Ontario Undergraduate Student Alliance (OUSA) sent more than 3000 student letters to Queen’s Park regarding OSAP changes made by the Ford government of Ontario.
“The participation in this campaign clearly demonstrates the changes to OSAP are significantly impacting students across our province,” said Vice President at the University Student’s Council and President of OUSA Cat Dunne in a press release by OUSA.
The letter-writing campaign, led by the OUSA, started on September 10, 2019 and accepted submissions from students across Ontario until October 7. A public letter was also addressed to the Minister of Training, Colleges, and Universities, Ross Romano.
“Students are concerned about these changes, particularly the reduction in grants, the elimination of the interest-free grace period on the provincial portion of loans, and the change to the definition of ‘mature student,’ which now refers to students who have been out of high school for six years or more (up from four years),” reads the official letter by the OUSA.
The Ontario government had also made changes to student life by introducing the Student Choice Initiative, allowing students to choose what they wish to fund in terms of campus life and student-led activities and organizations.
“The Laurier Students’ Union has provided me with opportunities for both personal and professional growth and has been a second home for me during my time at university,” said Vice President Finance of OUSA Shannon Kelly in a blog post on the official OUSA website.
From intramurals to participating in club activities and the student union, Kelly said she benefited greatly from the resources her student union provided.
“Student associations in Ontario are incredibly valuable entities. It is my hope that students will continue to see the benefits of the work their institutions’ student association does and how they are essential to thriving, healthy campuses,” said Kelly.
The OUSA has been an active voice in questioning the provincial governments changes to post-secondary education and OSAP. With their letter-writing campaign, OUSA’s main focus was to ensure that students had a voice in provincial legislative affairs.
“Letters with students’ stories will be addressed to Premier Doug Ford, Minister of Training, Colleges and Universities, Ross Romano, and students’ local MPPs, and the goal of the campaign is to give students disadvantaged by these changes the opportunity to share their experiences with the provincial government. OUSA hopes to make it impossible for provincial leaders to ignore the effects that the OSAP changes are having on students,” said a news release by OUSA.
Though this may bring about change, other students are not entirely sure that the government’s position on matters will be affected by student campaigns such as this one.
“Maybe I’m jaded, but I don’t think that the government has much place for listening to students. They may pander all they want to students, but I don’t think they really care to listen to the voices of the student body,” said fifth-year psychology student Matt Render.
Whether or not the provincial government does consider the voices of over 3000 students on OSAP changes is yet to be determined. For now, OSAP changes and other legislation remain as they are under the Ford government.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Tyler McKay | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: President Rhonda Lenton (left), Senator Rosa Galvez (middle), and Dean of Lassonde School of Engineering Jane Goodyer discuss the topic of women in STEM fields. | Tyler McKay
On Monday, a discussion with Canadian Senator Rosa Galvez and York President Rhonda Lenton was hosted in the Bergeron Centre and moderated by Dean of Lassonde School of Engineering, Jane Goodyer. The discussion covered gender equity and inclusion for women in the STEM fields.
Senator Galvez began her academic career at the National University of Engineering in Peru, where she is originally from. She then obtained her Master’s and doctorate in environmental engineering from McGill University.
She specializes in water and soil decontamination, waste management, and environmental impact and risk assessment.
In December of 2016, Galvez was appointed as an Independent Senator from Quebec. She is now the current Chair of the Senate Standing Committee on Energy, the Environment, and Natural Resources.
Senator Galvez affirmed her support for the empowerment of women and girls, and cited the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 5, which is to achieve gender equality.
“Historically, women have been told what we could be and what we can’t be. But history also shows us that things evolve and things can and do change,” said Galvez.
Galvez says she has faced many obstacles in her life, but that they made her stronger.
“A salmon is always swimming against the current,” said Galvez.
“What happens when we swim against the current is, we develop muscle. We become a little bit stronger and we know the path, the obstacles, and we learn to swim better.”
Galvez spoke on the importance of not only showing the path forward for women, but also clearing the path so that the next generations won’t have to face the same difficulties.
“I came to the talk today because I’m a woman in STEM, so I’ve faced some of the conscious and unconscious bias that was spoken about today,” said second-year PhD student in civil engineering, Josephine Morgenroth.
“I wanted to hear what such distinguished women had to say about the topic,” she continued.
“I think the one message that I want to give for the women in the room is that I still see a lot of women leaders so hard on themselves and I wonder if there isn’t still a gender difference in how women are self-critical,” said President Lenton.
According to Senator Galvez, role models are important because they can increase self-esteem to help get you through the difficult STEM fields.
Her father believed that she was not capable of becoming an engineer. Yet, her grandfather became a supporter and a role model for her in his capacity as an architect and a lawyer. He brought her along on his projects.
“Gender equity is fundamentally based on cultural and structural factors that have to be adjusted,” says President Lenton.
Lenton encouraged women and men as a society and individually to work together to take on these cultural and structural changes.
“I thought the talk was very interesting. The two ladies that spoke were very impressive and I think that they really raise the visibility of women in STEM,” says Morgenroth.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: “Who am I, and how can I grasp this ever-evolving self?”  This question is, of course, unanswerable, but we continue this cycle indefinitely, because we are human, and we are curious. | Miriam El Abbassi
The State of Not Knowing is a collection of paintings and print work by artists Deanna Gisborne and Ernesto Hidalgo respectively. The result of their collaboration seeks to explore the complexities and nuances of their own identities by trying to reconcile that through various imagery.
According to their public statement on their work: “All of this probing of the self-conscious mind is expressed in bodies, trying from all angles to reach that same conclusion and achieve resolution: Who am I, and how can I grasp this ever-evolving self?  This question is, of course, unanswerable, but we continue this cycle indefinitely, because we are human, and we are curious.”
This exploration is something the viewers can get a sense of, especially when examining each work individually.
Gisborne’s paintings depict different people, each interacting with their surroundings in their own unique way. One of the first paintings hanging by the entrance is a naked masculine-presenting body lying on a bed with white flowers strewn across. The figure stares down at itself in what looks to be slight discontent. This may allude to the inner battle that both artists touch on in their statement about trying to reconcile the contradicting aspects of their identity in order to come to a more whole and complete understanding of who they are. This is perhaps one of the more striking images in the gallery.
Another painting that seems to explicitly speak to their overall message would be the one in which a disembodied head is completely enveloped by a snake. This kind of imagery seems to evoke the feelings of being trapped, or constrained, in one way or another, which may be speaking to the experience one may have of feeling trapped within their own identity.
The prints by Hidalgo, however, are much more ambiguous. The image of hands is recurring throughout several pieces, but it is unclear as to what this could possibly mean. Some prints are also deliberately hazy, which poses the question of whether or not ambiguity was the goal with Hidalgo’s work. If that were to be the case, a possible motive for doing so could be to allow the audience more freedom to derive their own meaning for what they see in front of them.
Located in the Special Project Gallery at the Joan and Martin Goldfarb Centre for Fine Arts, The State of Not Knowing will be open to the public until Thursday, October 31.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
