 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: Gingivitis is very common, affecting 50 per cent of adults. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Recent evidence suggests that gingivitis, the first stage of gum disease, and Alzheimer’s disease are linked by a particular bacterium.
The bacteria in question is Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis), an oral anaerobe that is involved in the development of periodontitis. Periodontitis — the stage after gingivitis — results when so much bacterial plaque accumulates on the surface of the teeth that subgingival pockets are formed between the tooth and the gum. With time, the tissue and bone that hold the tooth and gum together deteriorate until the tooth falls out. In those who have reached this stage, P. gingivalis is highly prevalent.
Fascinatingly, researchers have also found the bacterium in the brains of people who suffer from Alzheimer’s disease.
Leading the research behind this bewildering connection is a pharmaceutical company called Cortexyme. Using mice, they have shown that the subjects given the bacterial infection of P. gingivalis suffered neurological damage — the kind seen in human Alzheimer’s cases.
 Now, for the first time, we have solid evidence connecting the intracellular, Gram-negative pathogen, P. gingivalis, and Alzheimer’s pathogenesis,” said Dr. Stephen Dominy, co-founder of Cortexyme and lead author of the paper.
“This demonstrates the potential for a class of small molecule therapies to change the trajectory of disease.”
As strange as this may sound, there have already been a few studies conducted that link oral and mental health. In 2016, a study was conducted that determined those with both Alzheimer’s and gingivitis experienced a more rapid neurodegeneration. Even more astonishingly, the Herpes Type I virus, an STI, has also been linked to Alzheimer’s.
It should be noted that more research is required before it can definitively be determined that one disease causes the other. Though an individual may have Alzheimer’s, he or she may also have been avid brushers; though an individual may have lost all of their teeth, he or she may be in perfect mental health.
A list of preventative measures that one can take to avoid developing the neurodegenerative disease can be found at alzheimers.net. Some of the suggestions include: quitting smoking and drinking; engaging in social activities; giving your brain daily challenges, exercise, a good diet, and managing stress effectively.
Remember, this may seem like a possible problem too far in the future, but the bad habits you develop as a young adult may stay with you into your later years. It’s better to be in the know now than regretting your ignorance later.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: Microdosing is defined as the act of taking very small amounts of a particular substance to improve mental well-being. | Courtesy of Pixabay
A peculiar new trend has caused more than just a stir in the medical community lately. Microdosing is the act of taking drugs such as acid, DMT, mushrooms (psilocybin), or MDMA in very small quantities over the course of a period of time. This method has become the new form of treatment in the fight against depression and anxiety.
Many are hailing microdosing as the miracle cure, but how can one be sure that one isn’t just needlessly subjecting the brain to mind-altering drugs on a daily basis?
In spite of what the general consensus may be, the information behind this phenomena is slim to none. A review in the Journal of Psychopharmacology, written by a team of researchers hoping to define and analyze medicinal microdosing (specifically that of psilocybin) more sufficiently, found little in the way of actual solid data. As such, they feel that it is too early to say anything definitive on the subject.
Dr. Kim Kuypers of the Maastricht University in the Netherlands, the first author of the study, told MedicalNewsToday:
 Patients might feel attracted by those reports to try it but may actually not be helped by it. We try to emphasize the lack of scientific proof that microdosing is indeed effective in combating certain symptoms and hope that this will give impetus to new lines of research in this area.”
But what is microdosing exactly? Professor David Nutt, the Edmond J. Safra Chair in Neuropsychopharmacology at Imperial College London in the United Kingdom, is the senior author of the review. After researching the ins and outs of microdosing, Nutt and his team define the phenomena by three main characteristics: very low doses that neither cause perceived change in the imbiber nor impair any normal functioning; multiple, scheduled dose times over a period of time; and a desire to enhance one’s self though microdosing. The amount itself, the ‘microdose,’ is defined as “approximately one-tenth to one-twentieth of a recreational dose.”
As for the lack of information related to microdosing, Nutt told MedicalNewsToday that the legalities of the substances are the main deterrent to gathering relevant data, but he and his team hope that the recent publicity will be of use in removing the red tape.
Kuypers holds the same sentiment: “This review is timely as a lot of hope is generated by positive media reports about alleged effects of microdosing.”
So, before you pop a few mushroom caps to write your next exam, remember that the data simply isn’t available yet and anecdotal evidence is hardly evidence at all without an empirical approach.
As Nutt and his team put it: “Rigorous, placebo-controlled clinical studies need to be conducted with low doses of psilocybin to determine whether there is any evidence for the claims of microdosing.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Strassler | Copy Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
The holiday season can be far from winter nights sitting by the fireplace sipping hot cocoa. Whether you celebrate Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanzaa, a medley of holidays or none at all, December is often regarded as the “ideal” time of the year. It is a month typically free from university classes and full of non-stop gift-giving and quality time with family and friends.
However, for some, this period is far from being “the most wonderful time of the year” – but why is that? Why is this time of year, synonymous in society with glee and relaxation, often not experienced by many in such a joyous way?
Some may categorize themselves as having the “holiday blues” during the holiday season.
According to Gordan Flett, Personality & Health professor, the holiday blues is “the idea that a substantial proportion of people feel sad and depressed during the holidays. It also suggests someone who is quite lonely and isolated from others.”
Woo Kim, International Student & Scholar Services associate director at York, says the holiday blues may be experienced for various reasons for some international students in particular.
Kim describes that an international student may be in a mundane mood because “they may not be going home over the December holidays and won’t get to see their family and friends. This may lead to feelings of isolation and loneliness, at least temporarily.”
Aparna Mehta, third-year English student at York, explains how she was impacted during the past holiday season when she was unable to visit her family in Delhi, India.
“The holiday season tends to be a time for family. As I was unable to travel back home and be with my family last year, I did feel a little unhappy and homesick.”
Kim also explains how “for other students, this may be their first, or one of their first, winter. If they’re from a country where the weather stays fairly mild or hot in winter and stays sunny, the early darkness and grey winter days may cause them to feel less energized and ‘blue.’”
Sarah Irwin-Gardner, York’s Graduate Student Wellness Services manager, lists some factors that generally may impact students’ well-being during the holiday season. One factor Irwin-Gardner mentions is “feeling pressure to produce or experience a ‘perfect’ holiday.” Cassandra Carcasole, third-year English student, describes how she feels this expectation Irwin-Gardner describes.
 The holidays do cause some stress for me because there are so many things on my mind. I also feel like I need to buy everyone the perfect gift, so there’s always some pressure there,” Carcasole says.
Brian Villa, third-year Business Administration student, also has experienced this type of pressure. “My stress derives more from what to do on Christmas so that everyone will be happy.”
Irwin-Gardner discusses how the holiday season may affect a student because they tend to “manage multiple demands on one’s time.” Such demands may include balancing time for holiday shopping and social gatherings with time for final exam and assignment preparation, on top of working a part-time job.
“Other than being a student, I work two part-time retail jobs. Right now, it’s definitely a lot. I don’t have any days off,” Carcasole says.
“I am able to balance holiday preparations and celebrations with other commitments, but it is not easy and definitely not the ideal situation.” Villa adds.
Charles Matthew Mishiyev, second-year history student, explains how becoming accustomed to a hectic routine is his key to balancing a hectic season.
“I am somewhat able to balance holiday preparations and celebrations with other commitments because I have worked in retail during the holiday season for two years and have adapted to it,” Mishiyev says.
Adelaide Dolha, third-year Devised Theatre student, recalls her experience working in retail during the holiday season.
“Last year when I worked in retail, I had more hours due to more people being needed and these were 5 a.m. shifts. I even had one on Christmas Eve which made me tired for the rest of the day.”
Another factor Irwin-Gardner adds to the list of potential reasons for stress during the holidays is an “increase in academic pressure and the effects of working intensely leading up to the holidays.”
“I am able to balance my schedule as I usually start preparing for the holidays only once exams are done,” Dolha adds.
Irwin-Gardner also lists “feelings of isolation or feelings of loneliness” as a contributing factor for one’s holiday blues. Silsila Bahrami, fourth-year communication studies student, shares her feelings of discontentment with this time of year.
“I do not typically enjoy the holiday season. I am not a fan of the cold weather and I usually feel left out of the festivities, as my family does not celebrate the holiday season. I try to keep myself busy during this time period, but it is difficult when most people are away and/or celebrating while I am at home.”
Other factors listed by Irwin-Gardner include: “Distance from loved ones; increased financial demands/pressures; change in routine; missing loved ones who are far away or no longer alive; seasonal effects on mood (SAD), and difficult or distressing family dynamics.”
If you feel as if you may have experienced, or are currently experiencing, the holiday blues, there are other students at York, and in the country, who share your discontentment. But, how many students do the holiday blues impact?
Unfortunately, there has not been any research conducted that has established a relationship between the holiday season and an increase in stress and unhappiness among students, according to Flett. Nonetheless, there are still students who may feel a sense of unhappiness at one point during the holiday season due to the aforementioned potential factors.
 I look at the holidays as a time for relaxation and enjoyment for some people, but potentially hellish for others. It is a difficult time for any student who is preoccupied mentally and emotionally with not having done well in the fall term or who is returning to a less than optimal interpersonal situation or who is just feeling isolated and lonely,” Flett explains.
Flett also further supports the factors listed by Irwin-Gardner as to what could contribute to the holiday blues.
“It is more stressful for those who are focused on happier times in the past and why aren’t they so happy now. Or, for someone who is overly focused on comparing their holiday experience to the idealized accounts of life over the holidays provided by other people. Also, some people really buy into the notion of the perfect holiday season and they can exhaust themselves and others by trying to live up to an idealized image of how it should be or could be. Others are disquieted because they are so work-obsessed, they don’t know how to respond during times when the focus should be on rest and replenishing oneself.”
Louise Hartley, York’s Psychology Clinic director, comments on how marketing is also a contributing factor for those experiencing the holiday blues. Marketing has surrounded us with a narrative of how the holidays “should be,” despite it being unattainable for some.
“The holiday season can be difficult for anyone because there are these expectations built in through the excessive advertising – that this is a ‘happy’ time of year.”
So, how can one cope with the holiday blues?
Mayo Clinic shared 10 tips to coping with stress and depression during the holidays. The Mayo Clinic staff recommended that if you are experiencing the holiday blues for any of the aforementioned reasons, you should try to do the following: “acknowledge your feelings; reach out; be realistic; set aside differences; stick to a budget; plan ahead; learn to say no; do not abandon healthy habits; take a breather, and seek professional help if you need it.”
If you often feel lonely during the holiday season or you feel yourself feeling in such a way in the next few weeks, registered psychologist, Dr. Ganz Ferrance explained to CTV News that “if you are isolated from your family, find other ways to connect with people. Make time for friends or volunteering to help combat loneliness.”
Kim provides information on how York students will be able to connect with other students staying in the city to avoid feelings of isolation or loneliness this holiday season.
“International students who aren’t going home and staying in Toronto may want to connect with other international students staying over the break or with domestic students who live locally. This year, York International will be running a few events and outings in the city for any international students staying in Toronto so they can connect with other students staying over the break.”
The Mayo Clinic staff put it best: “Don’t let the holidays become something you dread. Instead, take steps to prevent the stress and depression that can descend during the holidays. Learn to recognize your holiday triggers, such as financial pressures or personal demands, so you can combat them before they lead to a meltdown. With a little planning and some positive thinking, you can find peace and joy during the holidays.”
It is very important to reach out for support if you have concerns about your mental health or wellness during the holiday season or at any point during the year. York University’s Student Counselling & Development Services offers walk-in counselling Monday to Friday between 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. More information can be found at counselling.students.yorku.ca
The Good2Talk Helpline is a free, confidential helpline for post-secondary students in Ontario that is available 24/7 as well.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ali Raeisdanaei | Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
The struggle between youthful rebellion and mature reasoning among us university students can be seen by the protests that occurred on Wednesday, November 20 against the IDF soldier.
History and society idealizes images of young rebellious types who, through strong (and mostly violent) acts of defiance, challenge the status quo and change their countries for the better. Images of students marching to American Embassies or toppling statues of some tyrant comes to mind when we think of student activism. This is inherently wrong.
In young students who, for the first time, hear their voices in society, they develop an impulse to correct the oppressive ways of the old. Our education, which bores us to death, does not fulfill us intellectually; this produces a loud and boisterous beast of a mob that overtakes all rationale.
Western civilization owes its success to free discourse and debate. In fact, this is the exact notion that universities should aim to do — this is the only value that we as students should learn. If someone honestly believes in a cause, or in the case of the events of last week’s events, against a cause, they should not chant and try to silence others. This will only regress us to the barbaric past we are trying to avoid.
If you believe someone’s message is wrong and/or detrimental, then prove it. Set up a booth, and call people to hear the facts.
There needs to be a shift in the understanding of student activism. Let’s change hoisted fists as logos for organizations (cough, YFS) to pens and microphones. Let’s take up booths rather than banners, as this and nothing else, will drive us forward.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Matt Render | Contributor
Featured Image: Many York students from Hong Kong have been called back to York out of concern for their safety back home. | Courtesy of Fatema Ali/Excalibur
With protests surging in Hong Kong, many residents have had their lives put into danger. Some of these residents are students who are there on exchange programs from Canadian universities.
As a result, York and other Canadian universities have requested that the exchange students come back to Canada out of concern for their safety.
After Hong Kong was returned to China after being a British colony in 1997, Hong Kong still maintained a certain level of independence as a separate entity from China.
Since June, protests have escalated as Hong Kong has put forward a bill which threatens to have criminals from Hong Kong extradited to China for punishment.
The protests have gradually become worse. They have been characterized by Chinese officials as riots and have led to many protestors being killed, injured, and detained.
“I think it is reasonable for them to call back the students,” says Kevin Gu, first-year language student. “The protestors have attacked the universities,” he adds, emphasizing that the severity of the protests were putting Canadian students’ lives in danger.
One student, who requested to remain anonymous for fear of a reaction from the Chinese government, had a different outlook.
 Canadians are safe in China. Canada has always been viewed positively by the Chinese, ever since Mao. This is all being blown out of proportion. China doesn’t see Canada the same way as other Western countries,” says the student.
“If the protests continue to grow more violent, based on history, it could lead to a civil war, and Canadian students could be caught in the crossfire,” says third-year history student Eric Solomon.
“I don’t know how bad it actually is, but studying abroad is stressful enough, having this going on would take a toll on one’s mental health,” adds Solomon. “Even if Canadian students aren’t being targeted, they’re getting affected one way or another. Everybody is hurting. No one wins.”
First-year interdisciplinary studies student Katherine Mu challenged whether the overall concern from Canadian universities was for the best of all involved.
“Are we valuing some lives more than others? Why don’t we focus on creating a safer environment for everybody rather than just calling these students back? For any university or country to only call back their people from a situation like that shows they are valuing some lives more than others,” says Mu.
Despite being across the world, many students at York are engaging in discussion and protesting around the current situation in Hong Kong. For now, all students can do is hope for the safety and well-being of those affected by the conflict.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: The event was held at the Bear Pit where students wrote letters to government officials across the world. | Courtesy of Shahroze Rauf/Excalibur
Amnesty International at York invited students to write letters to advocate for human rights across the globe.
The event, held on November 19 from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., saw students arrive throughout the day to write for a variety of specific issues.
“Amnesty International holds Write for Rights every single year, where they pick ten cases — different cases around the world in different countries,” says third-year law and society student and Vice-President of Amnesty International at York, Nada Abdel-Maksoud.
These cases will often involve political prisoners and human rights injustices, according to Abdel-Maksoud. Then, students and supporters will come together and write to the governments who are committing said human rights violations to try to invoke change.
The event garnered a good amount of attention last year, sending out just under six million letters and messages from over 200 countries.
“The past years, we’ve had to send out over a hundred letters,” Abdel-Maksoud says, discussing the York extension’s impact. “In the years I’ve seen the event happen, it has attracted a lot of attention, so we’re glad about that, and it really helps because it seems like such a small thing but it makes a big difference.”
And the event has made a difference. In 2014, film director Oleg Sentsov was arrested by Russian authorities on charges of plotting terrorism acts. Amnesty International, alongside other human rights organizations, took to his side to defend him and label the accusations by the Russian court as fabrications.
After being released on September 7, 2019, Sentsov thanked activists and people who wrote letters during his incarceration.
“I brought two bags. The second contained 22 kilograms of paper, mostly letters. I did not throw a single one out. I brought them all and kept them, as they are so dear to me. There are books, notebooks, a big pack, 15 of them. They are completely filled with writing.”
Abdel-Maksoud says the letters are not directly connected to the remediation of these human rights violations; however, they could be a factor that help individuals around the world.
“Those letters, because they are so personal, you can write them to the people facing that injustice or the government itself. It really makes a difference because people get to read, people that are in solidarity with them, and governments get to see how much people want these injustices solved,” says Abdel-Maksoud.
York students attended for their own personal reasons, and explained how they were touched by specific cases that Amnesty International was working on.
 I, myself, wrote to the case about people arrested for helping refugees in Greece. They volunteered for a rescue mission, and were arrested. Although they’ve been released on bail, they are pending charges,” says fourth-year communication studies student, Olivia Graham.
“This seems like such a small thing, and people always seem to think that writing letters and signing petitions are small actions. It’s the most basic form of mobilization for your rights and the rights of others,” says Abdel-Maksoud, urging others to attend the Write for Rights event.
The official event by Amnesty International will take place on December 10.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
