 
Miriam El Abbasi  | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Waisglass is a passionate writer, who recalls actively writing stories during her childhood and adolescence. | Tessa Waisglass
Sara Waisglass is a third year screenwriting student and actress, who now splits her time between and shooting films, and writing the next blockbuster hit, all while studying for her mid-terms.
Waisglass got her start as an actress at the age of seven, playing little Jordy Cooper on the ABC Family TV show, Overruled, which she worked on for three seasons. From there, she appeared in films such as Afterwards, alongside John Malkovich, and Life with Robert Pattinson. She then found her way onto the critically acclaimed Canadian TV show Degrassi, where she spent six seasons as Francesca “Frankie” Hollingsworth. Many probably know Degrassi as the show that launched hip-hop and R&B singer, Drake’s career, and similarly for Waisglass, it was where she was properly introduced to the film industry.
According to Waisglass, the set of Degrassi was like a well-oiled machine: “Schedules were made in advance and they tried their best to work around my exams. I was working with my best friends everyday, so it really didn’t feel like work at all!”
Of course, being a part of something that is so tightly woven into Canadian culture brings its challenges: “It was a lot of responsibility and I had to sacrifice a lot to ensure I got my school work done. However, everyone was wonderful and the experience was unforgettable!”
Waisglass is also a passionate writer, who recalls actively writing stories during her childhood and adolescence, but found herself starting projects more often than finishing them. It wasn’t until she was 17, after finishing her first screenplay, that she embarked on the journey to become a screenwriter. 
When asked about the concepts she is most drawn to writing about, Waisglass replies: “A lot of people have told me that I’m very drawn to twists. And that they’ve never heard me pitch a film or a short story that didn’t have some giant twist at the end. I’ve always loved psychological thrillers. So any time I can get into someone’s mind, make them think one thing and then flip it on them- that’s what I love to do.”
Being a writer does bring with it several challenges, the most prominent, according to Waisglass, is the fact that every single idea can be construed as a cliché, and that the real struggle lies within trying to put a fresh spin on stories that have already been done. This, of course, is aided by tremendous amounts of brainstorming and group work to produce ideas that do not rely too heavily on their supposed cliché.
Working within the screenwriting program has also allowed Waisglass to gain some valuable insight: “Before I came to York and started studying screenwriting, I was all over the place. I didn’t understand how exactly to work a story and how to give the audience what they wanted/not what they wanted at the right times, so being at York has helped me a lot with structure.” 
Some advice Waisglass offers to aspiring screenwriters is to always keep writing: “Even if you don’t like things, keep writing and if you are stuck, keep writing. You can always go back and delete things and rework them. Just because you have more drafts does not mean that you’re a horrible writer, it actually means you’re a good one. Also, definitely allow yourself to receive criticism, but you don’t always have to take criticism if you think it’ll affect your story. Because you are you, and your story is your story, you’re the boss.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | Assistant News Editor
Featured image courtesy of Michael Longmire on Unsplash
York’s contest to win a year of free tuition is once again open. This year will be the contest’s third occurrence.
Winners are selected at random on April 15 and contacted promptly. York states the odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received. There are three ways to enter for a chance at free tuition.
Students can enter on the main contest page, and receive an extra entry by sharing their entrance to the contest on Twitter.
“A share qualifies as a click on the share buttons on the Microsite, and then sharing the pre-populated message on Twitter,” the contest rules state.
Other ways to enter are at the Ontario Universities Fair, which was held on September 28 to 30, or at York University information sessions held at local high schools.
Entrants, if selected, must answer a math question correctly to win the grand prize of the sum of a student’s Fall/Winter 2018 undergraduate tuition, minus one dollar, which will be used for the following academic year only. The value of the prize, however, cannot exceed $7,743.00.
The previous contest winner, first-year biomedical sciences student, Shayan Nandi, explains how the process proceeds upon winning.
“I was notified via phone during the summer by the marketing officer Grace Gravina,” Nandi says. “In order to receive my prize, I just had to sign some papers stating I was okay with York publicizing the win.”
From there, Nandi was able to enter his first year at York free of charge—mostly.
“I won free first-year tuition meaning that all my courses would be paid for. But this didn’t include books, just the courses. The funds were automatically sent to my York Student Account before the school year began,” Nandi says.
Some Seneca students also expressed concerns about wanting programs that cover free tuition, unlike the current contest that offers $5000.00 towards tuition.
“I think it would be a great opportunity for students, as many of us actually struggle to pay our tuition. And really, it would be cool if Seneca did something like this for those dealing with low income, as it would encourage students to carry on with their studying and not drop out,” says first-year Seneca journalism student, Maksym Krainii.
Yet other students also felt confused, even suggesting this contest may be an inefficient use of York’s financial assets.
“I’m surprised there even is a free tuition contest in general,” says first-year journalism student David Dennis. “It just seems unlike a university to abstain from demanding money for education. Wouldn’t a university typically use the funds that we give them to improve the university or invest in better technology? It’s just an unusual concept. During my time at U of T there was never any ‘free tuition,’ maybe discounted, but nothing free.”
Entries for the free tuition contest remain open at York until midnight on March 30.
 


apply for as many bursary and grants as you can. you have everything to gain.

 York University Community Newspaper 
