 
Tyler McKay | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: The men’s team huddles before the opening set to Saturday’s match. | Courtesy of York Lions
The volleyball season has officially begun at York. Both the men’s and women’s teams hosted the Queen’s Gaels for their home openers at York on Saturday, October 26. The men won their first game three sets to one, while the women lost by the same margin. 
The Lions held a strong lead in the first set, but the Gaels rallied back to come within two points of the Lions on a 10-1 run at 21-19. The Lions held strong and were able to finish the set 25-22. 
The second set was evenly matched and the score was within one to five points the entire set with York maintaining a consistent lead from 6-5 on to claim the set. 
In the third set, the Gaels came out swinging and climbed to a quick 10-3 lead. The Lions were able to bring it to within one point on a kill by Grant Lynch, but a kill by Julian Krygel claimed the set for the Gaels. 
Once again the Lions held onto an early lead in the fourth set. The Lions were able to put the Gaels away in the fourth, 25-21 to claim a victory in their season- and home-opener. 
Overall, it was a dominant showing for the men’s team, amassing a great score of 40 kills with only 15 errors, while the Gaels were 35 and 25. Leading for the Lions was rookie outside hitter Luke De Greeff recorded a team high 12 kills, while Adam Boljkovac lead in kills for the Gaels at 13. York’s Dan Everton recorded a game-high 31 assists. 
Unfortunately, the result was not the same for the women in their game against Queen’s. 
There were four lead changes early in the first set, but the Lions were unable to hold on and lost the set 25-21. 
The Lions were on the brink in the second set. Down 25-24, an error by Queen’s tied the game up at 25. An ace by fifth-year Sarah Williams gave the Lions the lead, which they were able to hold onto to win the set 27-25. 
Unfortunately, they were unable to hold onto that momentum and faced disappointing losses at 25-19 in the third set and 25-17 in the fourth set. York’s Kayla Clennon had a team high 10 kills with Queen’s Arielle Palermo at 11. Ciara Da Silva of the Lions assisted on 16 points, while the assist leaders for Queen’s was Shea Baker, who accumulated 27.
Both the men’s and women’s teams will be back in action today Wednesday, October 30 in the Tait McKenzie Centre when they host the Ryerson Rams. The men will play at 6 p.m. followed by the women at 8 p.m.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
The Lions field hockey team did not have the playoff run they had worked for this season. They were pushed out of gold medal contention by the Toronto Varsity Blues on Saturday, and they were defeated the following day by the Waterloo Warriors in the bronze medal match.
Saturday’s semi-final match saw the scoring get off to an early start, with Lexi Hannah of the Lions scoring six minutes into the opening quarter. The Varsity Blues responded with a goal of their own, with Hilary Ziraldo scoring in the final minutes of the quarter. Emily Ziraldo scored the second and final goal for the Varsity Blues at the 20-minute mark. The score would remain 2-1 in favour of the Varsity Blues, who would advance to the gold medal round while the Lions had to settle for the bronze medal round.
In Sunday’s bronze medal match against the Warriors, the Lions saw every one of their shots blocked by their opponents. After two scoreless quarters, Miranda Hunter of the Warriors was able to score off a penalty corner in the third period to put the Warriors up 1-0 over the Lions. Despite the Lions’ best efforts to come back from this one-point deficit, they ultimately had to concede to the Warriors and finish just off the podium.
The weekend was not all a wash for the Lions though. One of their own received OUA All-Star accolades for her performance this season. Frankie St. Louis, a third-year defender and active leader both on and off the field, recorded four goals this season and started all 12 regular-season games.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Samia Akhar | Contributor
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image courtesy of York Lions
With Alex Frigon of the UOIT Ridgebacks scoring in the first eight seconds of the match, the York Lions knew they had to bring their best to their home opener, and they did.
By the end of the period, the Lions finally made their way onto the scoreboard when Kelsey McHolm scored with the assistance of Taylor Davison to tie the Ridgebacks 1-1.
By the end of the second period, the Lions were up by two with a score of 3-1. Third-year forward Courtney Gardiner scored unassisted early in the period, and Tayler Murphy capitalized on a pass from Erin Locke to add another goal for the Lions.
The Lions continued to outshoot their opponents in the third period. Rookie forward Becky Higgs scored her first goal as a Lion with the help of Davison. The Ridgebacks were able to come back and score on a power play in the final minutes of the game, with Megan Johnson scoring with the help of Katie Heath and Erin Ross.
The Lions are off to an exceptional start to the season, with three wins under their belt and only one loss to Western two weeks ago.
The nationally-ranked Lions hope to continue their winning streak when they take on the Brock Badgers on Thursday, October 31 at 7:15 p.m. at Seymour-Hannah Arena in St. Catherines.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured Image: Jotam Chouhan moments before her game-winning goal against Guelph. | Courtesy of Jojo Yanjiao Qian/York Lions
The Lions women’s and men’s soccer teams have experienced abundant success early in the playoff season.
The women’s team took on the Waterloo Warriors last Wednesday in the first round of playoffs. After a scoreless first half, the Lions rallied to get on the scoreboard in the second half.
Rookie Marissa Castellano scored off a pass from Kiyani Johnson to put the Lions up 1-0. The score would remain this way until the end of the game, with Lions goalkeeper Danzita Indacochea making five saves in the second half to keep the Warriors scoreless.
They then travelled to Guelph on Saturday to take on their biggest rival in the OUA West: the Gryphons. After a scoreless 90 minutes of play, the quarter final game went into overtime.
It was the Lions who would get onto the scoreboard at the end of the first of two overtime periods, with Jotam Chouhan making a huge goal against the Gryphons. The Gryphons could not recover, and the game ended after two hours of play with a score of 1-0 in favour of the Lions.
The women’s team now advances to the final four for the first time in four years. They will welcome the No. 2 nationally-ranked Ottawa Gee-Gees to Alumni Field Friday night.
On the men’s side, they enjoyed some down time thanks to a first round by. They played their first match of the playoff season Sunday night when they hosted the McMaster Marauders. The Lions easily took down the Marauders by a score of 4-1.
The Lions were the first to score, with Christopher Jacovou finding the back of the Marauders’ net 15 minutes into the opening half; assisting him was Cristian Cavallini. Jacovou scored again shortly after, this time with the help of Vaughn Bianchi and Jorgo Nika.
Jacovou stepped up to take a penalty shot at the end of the half where he once again found success and added his third goal of the game.
Merci Yuma added the fourth and final Lions goal in the second half, and Bianchi recorded his second assist of the match. At the end of the game, Dusan Kovacevic of the Marauders was able to get through the Lions defence and net a goal out of reach of goalkeeper Mike Argyrides.
The men’s team will take on the University of Toronto Blues in the semi-finals this coming weekend on home turf.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
