 
Victoria Silman | News Editor
Featured image courtesy of Lung Liz
The Faculty of Health will no longer be moving some of its programs from the Health, Nursing, and Environmental Sciences (HNES) building to Stong College. However, the faculty is on a hunt for an even better option.
Though the building is relatively inaccessible and black mould in the building does exist, Dean Dale McRonald, says the move comes in light of Stong being deemed not unsafe enough.
“We decided to move the faculty of health to Stong College, mainly because it would present some irony for the students within our programs that would truly provide them with a well-rounded York experience,” he says.
Lee Onhert, a second-year nursing student within the Faculty of Health, says the move to a building that poses health risks would be beneficial to her education.
“If I’m going to be learning about health related things, I might as well feel what it’s like to be unhealthy. Treating myself for mould exposure will give me better real-world experience than any textbook-oriented class could offer,” she says.
The faculty is currently looking for a new building to host programs within the Faculty of Health, however, the process may take some time.
Regarding this, McRonald says: “It appears I was wrong on the state of Stong. The health department was in to assess the building, and deemed it relatively safe, though they did spot some black mould on the floor they were going to move our faculty to.
“We are currently in the process of finding a building to send the faculty, which complies with the mould standards the faculty of health seeks. We are looking for suggestions from the community, and will be putting together a search committee to seek the next best viable option for the faculty,” he adds.
The change comes with some concerns from the community. Elios Dias, a third-year disaster and emergency management student, says he is concerned his program will be moved to Stong instead because of the change.
“I don’t understand why they don’t just leave them in their current building or just move them to Stong like they originally planned. What are they going to do with Stong if they don’t go there? Put a different program there? I don’t think so. They were talking about moving my program there but I don’t want to have to sit in that disgusting building,” he says.
Brenda Ranton, media relations spokesperson for York, says the university is providing every resource they can to assist students and faculty affected by the changes.
“We understand the concerns from the Faculty of Health, and we take these matters seriously,” Ranton says.
“We will offer support to the faculty and students in finding another building to host the faculty. Our hope is that the Dean can find a worse environment to expose the health programs to.”
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ethan Saks | Contributor
Featured Image: After significant pleas from the York community, security services has decided to halt the constant security bulletins. | Fatema Ali
After much controversy, the university administration has decided to listen to the students by permanently halting the constant onslaught of what feels like weekly security bulletins. The decision ironically arrived in student inboxes around noon on March 23.
York’s media director, Carol Grace, says that the decision was “a long time coming,” and had been widely anticipated by students and faculty alike. “These changes are drastic but necessary,” she says.
Bulletins that will no longer be annoying students include: witness reports, police alerts, notifications of suspect detainment, and notifications of specific crimes, such as sexual assaults, and potentially dangerous suspects. Students will also no longer receive bulletins from the Toronto Police reaching out for potential witnesses regarding a crime.
Mike D’Mari, Osgoode Hall professor emeritus, agrees with these changes. “York needs to leave the robberies to the lawyers—students need to focus on their assignments,” he says.
D’Mari is not alone. Complaints have been flowing in by the thousands about the distracting email notifications. Students are wondering why they need to know about a crime that already happened—if it didn’t happen to them, what’s the problem?
But some officials believe that the university is missing the bigger picture. Constable Alessia Hawkins, spokesperson for the Toronto Police 666 Division, hopes that members of the university can eventually come to the understanding that these security bulletins are essential.
“They save lives,” she says. “They keep students informed about the area they spend a large majority of their youth in.”
Students are not convinced of Hawkins’ plea. Some of them believe that instead of sending out security bulletins about a string of sexual assaults, the police should simply do their job.
“Every time I get an email about some armed robbery it just makes me anxious,” says Kia Phillip, a third-year political science student. “Why can’t they just arrest the guy instead of telling me to watch out. Why do I have to do the policing?”
Phillip’s opinion is shared by a majority of students. They claim that the email bulletins make them nervous that there might actually be crime near the university.
“I don’t want to hear about a murder that didn’t impact me,” says Fabien Mason, a first-year criminology student, who claims to be very educated on these circumstances due to his degree choice. “If I’m not the one who got stabbed, then don’t tell me about someone who was stabbed. Let security deal with that.”
Despite outcry from the TPS, the move seems to have been embraced by students. Students can now focus less on emails, and more on assignments. “This is university, after all, not an asylum,” says Phillip. “Let the police do their job, and let students focus more on trying to get one.”
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
Mahdis Habibinia | Executive Editor, Online
Featured Image: Students can expect a decrease of many university services as of Fall 2019. | Fatema Ali
A recent report released by York’s administration reveals that all students at York have confirmed to opt-out of ancillary fees for the 2019-2020 school year.
Every student’s tuition includes levies dedicated towards funding sports and recreation, cultural and special services, counselling, the YFS, the Student Centre, and Excalibur. All of these services will be removed.
“The newspaper will no longer publish articles as of yesterday,” says Pat Lyonn, executive editor in chief of Excalibur. “Not like anything big is coming up or happening nowadays anyway. But if you’re not staying up to date on what’s happening that’s a you-problem.”
Regarding the Lions’ sports teams, Director of Athletics Myke Miers says: “It’s an unfortunate loss for our Lions considering how far we came this season across the board. The university is advising us to either sell or melt down our medals, trophies, plaques, anything and everything worth a nickel. The end is nigh.”
Students expressed why they wanted to start this ancillary fee apocalypse, many complaining about the fee’s lack of relevance and effectiveness to their lives.
“I opted out of those fees because what truly makes my university experience is the striking education I get here,” Jocelyn Jacuzi, third-year common sense studies student, says. “I don’t need to know what’s happening on campus or around me.”
Macks Boing, second-year aviation student, says: “These fees are a waste of my parents’ money. I could be putting that cash towards something more useful like the double transit fare I need to pay to get to campus.”
Due to the $7.5 million loss the university is expecting to face, Brenda Ranton, media relations spokesperson for York, says that clubs and groups on campus are expected to shutdown as well. This drop also means that the YFS is set to crumble into ash, along with all the student dollars that went into supporting them and their rambunctious efforts to improve student life. 
The YFS is responsible for the health and dental insurance that students receive. Although M. P. Peters stated that fees pertaining to health and safety are non-negotiable, that statement was retracted once students started protesting the changes.
Due to the unfortunate fate of the Fall 2019 term, enrolment has seen a drastic decrease. Across the board, York is expected to see only a total of seven new students next year. As a result, the university will “increase tuition for future and current students by 123 per cent in order to keep certain services, like my business trips, running,” Ranton adds.
“My tuition will go up by $51,940. I feel like the YFS has an even bigger and more realistic reason now to ask our debt-induced province for free education,” Boing says.
According to Peters: “We’re working with the university, student groups, and administration on tailoring an entirely new educational experience for students. We’re working on guidelines going forward and we’re always happy to engage students. We understand that some community members may be concerned, but these mandatory fees that were compulsory once upon a time did nothing to better students’ university experiences.”
 
Mahdis is a York University graduate with an Honours BA in Professional Writing, a Certificate in Spanish Language Proficiency, and an expected Master of Journalism '23. She is also fluent in Farsi. She began her journey with Excalibur as a contributor in 2017 then worked as executive editor from 2018-2020. For the 2020-2021 year, Mahdis served as editor-in-chief. She is curious about the world, BIPOC stories, and passionate about writing as a platform for advocacy and representation. She hopes to one day add to the diversity of Canadian media both in the content it produces and as a staff member. When Mahdis is not writing or editing or correcting people on the spelling of her name, she is likely marathon-viewing thrillers and crime shows that oddly bear no impact on her sleep. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Shahroze Rauf | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Transit services will operate on campus at a terminal outside Seneca College, exclusive to Seneca students. | Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Transit systems including GO Transit and the YRT have returned and are now operating on campus. However, the new terminal, now located just outside the Seneca @ York building, will only be available to Seneca students with a valid student ID.
Salami Sting, media relations spokesperson for Seneca @ York, describes the agreement the college made with the transit systems this week. GO and YRT have joined together through a union which has been officially named ‘GOYRT.’   
“We are proud to have established an agreement with GOYRT to provide better accommodations for our students as an institution on a commuter campus,” he says.
Sting says though the aim of Seneca is to help students, their help does not extend beyond the college’s own students.
“Though we would love to share our services with students from York, much like their larger gym, our transit services are exclusive to our students.”
Some Seneca students expressed their relief with the agreement, describing that transit disagreements between York and other transit systems should not have affected Seneca.
“I’m just so grateful that busses are back. These disagreements were getting ridiculous on both sides, and as students we suffered a lot, especially financially because of transit decisions,” says eighth-year pottery studies student  at Seneca, Paroline Cetrucci. “I mean, next thing you know, transit systems would be demanding that universities pay students back! Could you imagine that?”
To make sure the agreement is respected by York students, Seneca has also loaned $45 billion to transit services to  fund a Transit Security Team (TST)  together with GO and the YRT.
“Our anti-York task force—I mean the Transit Security Team—will operate solely in a regulatory fashion to ensure that transit services remain available only to Seneca students,” says Captain Gary-Jane Beryl from the TST.
However, the TST will not regulate other safety concerns and will only focus on making sure not a single student of York boards busses from the Seneca terminal.
“For safety purposes, each TST member will be armed with standard firearms, tasers, and pepper spray, in the case of extreme circumstances. We advise members of the York community to follow procedure and allow Seneca students to board busses peacefully.”
As for services returning to the York campus, GOYRT is asking for $45 billion from York, as well as a written apology from TTC.
“We at TTC strive to provide students affordable transit options,” says Media Relations Spokesperson for TTC, Stacy Pawvurtee. “However, we are not yet sure whether our corporation will be able to write an apology to transit services for a contract they signed. Our main concern rests with students, but again, our reputation as a corporation is important to us.”
York students were not surprised to hear that agreements between other institutions went well.
“Wait, what? No, I am very surprised,” says fourth-year herbology and divination studies student at York, Dashveer Jaboo. “Is that even legal? I’m pretty sure only police are allowed to be armed with firearms, no?”
Media Spokesperson for York media, Brenda Ranton, says that as York cares about its students and the environment of the Harry Arthurs Commons, they may not be able to raise enough money to bring transit back.
“We have invested $95 billion into facilitating committees that overlook such issues on campus. At at time like this, York regrets to inform the public that raising an amount of $45 billion is not possible at the moment. Our finances are dedicated to improving student life on campus and the education of our students.”
Once again, the YFS was unavailable for comment at the time of publication.
DISCLAIMER: Everything published in this week’s issue (with the exception of advertisements) is satirical; it is not intended to communicate any true or factual information.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
