Concerns and case numbers alike are seeing a spike as COVID-19 figures continue to pass the 400 mark. Sunday, September 27 saw a total of 491 cases, while the following Monday saw an astronomical leap to 700 cases — 344 of them being in Toronto and 104 in the Peel region. 
On Tuesday, Ontario reported 554 new cases of COVID-19 following Premier Doug Ford’s official announcement the previous day on September 28 that the province is now in its second wave. 
“Toronto remains the virus hotspot in Ontario,” according to CityNews.
Ford also stated that reverting back a stage is not out of the question — a measure that the Ontario Hospital Association is actually recommending. 
These cases have also followed the continual trend of around two-thirds of them being found in people under the age of 40. Fortunately, no new deaths were reported at the time of publication.
As new data continues to reach the eyes of the public, the conclusions drawn seem to be apparent: the next stages of reopening will not happen anytime soon. In fact, prior to Ford’s announcement on Monday, some parts of Canada were reporting that they were already in their second wave.
Earlier last week, Prime Minister Trudeau addressed the nation grimly, stating that we may potentially see a fall that could be even worse than the spring, when the lockdown first went into effect.
“The numbers are clear — back on March 13 when we went into lockdown there were 47 new cases of COVID-19. Yesterday alone, we had well over a thousand,” Trudeau said.
To get the second wave under control, Trudeau reminded the public of the guidelines we have been hearing for months now: to wash our hands, wear a mask, and stick to our own social bubbles.
As the pandemic continues to evoke feelings of uncertainty, former York student and current first-year medical student at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Swar Shah is able to see some of the positives of all the new data we are receiving, and shares his predictions on Ontario’s moves going forward.
“While there seems to be a general apathy in the public leading to gross negligence of the situation, the increasing in testing availability is also allowing us to provide more accurate numbers. I doubt the province will be going into lockdown again, however I do believe that stricter measures will be added to ensure further exacerbation, such as decreasing limitations on public gatherings,” says Shah.
Only time will tell if Shah’s predictions ring true. 
“We know that this wave will be more complicated and more complex. It will be worse than the first wave we faced earlier this year,” said Ford. 
To combat the uptick, Ford has taken action towards steps that will be in the best interest of Ontarians. Last Tuesday at Queen’s Park, Ford unveiled a $70 million plan — a large chunk of which will go towards bringing in 5.1 million flu vaccine doses. 
Additionally, in his latest address to the province, Ford announced another $52.5 million to be spent on adding 3,700 workers to hospitals and long-term care facilities along with a budget of $1 billion to improve COVID-19 testing and contact management. 
Ontario has ordered all strip clubs to temporarily shut down, and has imposed new regulations demanding that all bars, restaurants, and nightclubs stop serving alcohol by 11 p.m., and close entirely by midnight. This is an effective measure given the COVID-19 statistics among the 20 to 39 age group, and that Toronto’s Rebel Night Club and two different strip clubs have contributed to at least 13 infections total.
Popular online rental marketplace Airbnb has also announced that it took down more than 40 listings in Ontario as it attempts to reduce house parties as much as possible.
Health Minister Christine Elliott announced that COVID-19 testing would be available at up to 60 pharmacies across Ontario as of Friday, September 25. Asymptomatic people should book testing by appointment and there will be no charge.
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
This semester, the Faculty of Liberal Arts and Professional Studies (LA&PS) is hoping to make the transition from high school to university easier with a new course, University 101, especially despite the pandemic. The three-credit course is offered as an elective for first-year students, and will count towards degree completion.
Associate Dean of Teaching and Learning for LA&PS, Professor Anita Lam, says she began her role as associate dean in February, and began planning for the course in April after incoming high school students expressed their concerns with beginning university. The pilot course is intended to ease many of the anxieties students face when coming from high school to university. 
“I think we were due for a course that did the transition from high school to university in a more thoughtful and careful way, without loading all the students with the other course-specific learning objectives,” Lam says.
Lam also acknowledges that the shift from high school to university “comes with a lot of anxieties,” and that this year those anxieties were emphasized. “We are working with students in different time zones, and different geographical locations. 
“How do you handle the transition? How do you ensure that they know what advising is?”
With these questions in mind, Lam, along with the faculty within LA&PS, designed the course to deal with the complexities of starting university. 
“The course introduces first-year students to university life and teaches them all they need to succeed, from stress management and note-taking methods to academic writing and research skills,” says Associate Professor Natalie Neill.
One thing students can expect to learn in this course is note-taking, “and how to take effective notes while actively listening during lecture,” Lam says.
“I played them two versions of me doing a lecture, the first was sort of an asynchronous lecture which was a narrated PowerPoint presentation, and how I would do the same thing but in person, as best as I could simulate over Zoom for them,” Lam says.
According to Neill, the pilot course is off to a great start. “The first weeks of the course have been a lot of fun. The students are so smart and delightful. I have really enjoyed meeting many of them in my virtual office,” Neill says.
Lam echoes these sentiments, saying she believes students are enjoying it, especially with structuring the course like a game — also known as gamification. 
“Unlike some of the other courses, we don’t do high-stakes testing,” Lam says. “Because we are serious about skill-building, we’ve been doing small assignments every week.” 

University 101’s interactive tutorial map. (Photo Credit: Anita Lam)
“I’m trying to gamify the two tutorials because I’m curious about how gamification works in this environment,” Lam adds. This is done through a points-based system.
The class is a pass/fail course, with the minimum requirement of 65 per cent. However, students gain experience points (XP) in the course by completing assignments, and the more they gain, the more merit they achieve. 
With 65,000 (65 per cent) XP, students receive a certificate of completion, but with 75,000 XP (75 per cent), students are awarded a ‘With Distinction’ notation of the certificate. With 80,000 XP, students earn a notation of ‘With High Distinction.
The class is running as a pilot this fall, which will be assessed in the winter by interviewing students who were enrolled in the course. 
“The goal here is to eventually think about how this course would work for all incoming students in LA&PS,” says Lam. “To go from 125 to over several thousand students is a big scaling-up, so we want to assess what happened this fall in a rigorous, careful, and thoughtful way before we scale-up.”
Lam says that once the course has been tested in a larger setting, it could be offered in all three semesters. 
Regarding her thoughts on the course, Neill says: “I am excited to be part of this important new course because I know that the students will benefit from it enormously.” 
Lam adds: “We really want it to be a meaningful experience for our students, who I know are making the best of it. I think we just want to help them as they are trying to make the transition in a way that makes sense to them and in a way that feels nurturing and encouraging to them.”
 
Victoria is a Documentary and Non-fiction Media Production student at Seneca@York, as well as a Technical Writer at Knockri. She has a distinct passion for politics, and a dedication to grammar. When she isn’t busy writing and editing, you can find Victoria winding down with some yoga or video games. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
