COVID-19 has made life difficult for humans all around the globe. But who would have expected that this pernicious pandemic would severely affect the shark population as well? 
Yes, you read that right — sharks. And not just one or two, approximately 500,000 according to expert estimates. But how can this be so? 
All vaccines contain something known as an adjuvant. The adjuvant’s role is to produce a more vigorous immune response. It also aids in minimizing the vaccine amount needed for each patient, which would prove worthwhile for a vaccine needed to be produced at large. 
Squalene oil, a naturally occurring substance in the livers of sharks, is commonly used for vaccines designed to tackle influenza strains. It is already commonly used in existing medicines and cosmetics. 
Three million sharks are already killed for this oil every year, according to current estimates. And with the high demand for COVID-19 vaccines looming, the already endangered shark species does not seem to be in for a hopeful future. 
A petition with almost 100,000 signatures to date was launched calling for an alternative, more environmentally friendly adjuvant to be used in vaccines, rather than squalene oil from sharks. The petition states that the oil is used because it is the easiest to come by, but not because it is the most effective. 
    “Sharks are apex predators and thus play an important role in maintaining the overall ocean health and ensuring species diversity. Sharks don’t reproduce in large numbers, so their extinction could lead to a series of chain reactions and affect the ecology negatively.” 
For one tonne of squalene to be produced, approximately 3,000 sharks need to be killed. And with a lack of clarity still surrounding the amount of dosing each patient would need, exact numbers are difficult to ascertain, though likely to be very high. 
First-year environmental studies student Jui Joglekar shared her concerns for the declining shark population, as well as potential alternatives for the oil found in their liver. 
“Sharks are apex predators and thus play an important role in maintaining the overall ocean health and ensuring species diversity. Sharks don’t reproduce in large numbers, so their extinction could lead to a series of chain reactions and affect the ecology negatively. 
“Sharks also play an important role in regulating the oxygen level in the ocean. These are just a few reasons of many, but enough to look for alternative solutions. Squalene can be extracted from other sources such as olives, sugar cane, yeast, bacteria and algae. They all take more time and are more expensive, but are equally effective and less toxic,” says Joglekar. 
Swar Shah, former York student and current first-year medical student at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, also imparted his opinion on the situation, emphasizing that though the vaccines may have their drawbacks in terms of the environment, human lives do come first. 
“The recent news on using squalene for a COVID vaccine rightly has many people concerned about the use of shark livers to obtain the compound. I believe that the initial goal should be the development of the vaccine at all costs, as human lives should be the most valued. 
“However, if it is synthetically possible to use non-shark squalene, those options should be explored in the most economically feasible way.”
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Following the closure to the Canadian Emergency Response Benefit (CERB) and the Canadian Emergency Student Benefit (CESB), the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has opened three new transitional relief benefits for those who do not qualify for Employment Insurance (EI); one of which being the Canadian Recovery Benefit (CRB). 
Technical difficulties on the first day of applications, October 12, left many unable to access and continue their transition from the CERB and CESB grants until the glitch was fixed.
 The CRB’s purpose is to support those who qualified for the CERB or the CESB, but do not qualify for EI. 
Charles Drouin, media relations representative for the CRA says the CRB is set to help those who have been impacted by COVID-19.
“The CRB will provide eligible applicants with $500 per week (taxable, tax deducted at source) for up to 26 weeks for those who are not employed or self-employed due to COVID-19, and who are not eligible for EI, or had their employment/self-employment income reduced by at least 50 per cent due to COVID-19. This benefit will be paid in two-week periods and applications made on a retroactive basis.”
There are certain criteria to qualify for the CRB, all of which can be found on the Government of Canada’s website. A few of these qualifications include: being over 15 years old, having a valid Social Insurance Number (SIN), not being employed during the COVID-19 pandemic, and not turning down work for the period in which you are applying for. 
“As many individuals are still being impacted by COVID-19 and require temporary income support,” Drouin adds, “the Government of Canada launched three new benefits, delivered by the CRA: the Canada Recovery Benefit (CRB), the Canada Recovery Sickness Benefit (CRSB), and the Canada Recovery Caregiving Benefit (CRCB).” Each of these benefits have their own list of specific qualifications, which can be found on the CRA’s website. 
  “Faced with the countdown of a grace period to repay upon graduation or ending their studies, this time frame does not account for the pandemic and how much harder it is to find reliable jobs. This is also not factoring in that some are worried for their health…”
While the CRA’s information on how the CRB will affect specifically students is limited, Riaz Nandan, vice-president of operations for the York Federation of Students (YFS) and fifth-year kinesiology & health sciences student, addresses the financial concerns of York students in relation to the CRA’s available services. 
“While the CRB is helpful for all Canadians who are faced with unemployment and financial crisis during these times, it is not enough for lower-income students when considering the high costs associated with student life,” Nandan says. “Students are struggling to make ends meet, and should not be met with rising fees.”
Additionally, the student loan grace period came to an end on September 30, 2020, which had frozen students’ loans and interest during the COVID-19 pandemic. With the end of this grace period, which sees students resuming the payment of their schooling debt, Nandan ensures that worries over student loans and financial halts during this time are valid. 
“Faced with the countdown of a grace period to repay upon graduation or ending their studies, this time frame does not account for the pandemic and how much harder it is to find reliable jobs. This is also not factoring in that some are worried for their health when being pushed to re-enter the job market while we are still battling a pandemic,” Nandan says.
“Students deserve more leniency and understanding when faced with these high-interest student loans, pandemic or not, and we believe that student debt should be forgiven,” he adds.
For students struggling with loan payments, the CRA offers the Repayment Assistance Plan to aid students who are financially struggling with the resumption of their loans. 
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
