 
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: Excalibur 
This morning, York University and Seneca College announced they are suspending all classes as of Monday, March 16 and moving them online. This is in addition to University of Toronto suspending their classes this morning, alongside Laurentian University and Western University. More institutions are expected to follow suit by the end of the day.
The decision by both institutions is a result of the growing and evolving COVID-19 pandemic.
“We are committed to completing the term and will deploy all of our resources to support faculty and students through this transition,” reads York President and Vice-Provost Rhonda L. Lenton’s statement. 
The statement adds that more information will be released regarding lab and studio requirements and examinations, as well as work and clinical placements. York also says that all non-essential events will be cancelled or postponed.
“We will also be closing the Tait Mackenzie Centre and the Glendon Athletic Club until April 30, 2020. Our Keele and Glendon campuses will remain open and research activities will continue.”
The statement urges students and faculty to stay home if they exhibit symptoms or feel unwell to minimize risk of further outbreak to the community. More details will be released as the situation unfolds.
Seneca College, including their Seneca@York campus, will also be suspending classes according to a statement by Seneca President David Agnew.
“All in-person classes are suspended for one week, starting Monday, March 16, to give faculty an opportunity to work at moving as much academic programming as possible online,” the statement reads.
Online courses that have been running will continue to do so, the statement adds. The campus and all facilities will remain open. Suspended courses are set to begin online on March 23. Out of these, courses that require in-class presence will run again in person on April 6.
“With this approach, we should be able to finish the semester on schedule on April 17. It will also substantially reduce the number of people on campus, helping to lower the risk of spreading the virus,” reads the statement.
Like York, Seneca is cancelling or postponing all campus events until the end of April as they will continue to monitor the situation.
Students can access more information on Seneca’s COVID-19 site, York’s COVID-19 website and can email questions to coronavirusinfo@yorku.ca.
 
More to come on this developing story; details will be updated as the situation unfolds.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
