A new study published in the Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease recently found an ‘indisputable’ link between the neurodegenerative disorder and composites excreted by gut bacteria.
Approximately 747,000 Canadians are living with Alzheimer’s or another form of dementia right now. Alzheimer’s is the most common cause of dementia and remains incurable to this day. This makes the relation between human gut bacteria and the nervous system (something science has already been studying for quite some time) that much more pertinent. 
“Watching someone you love deal with Alzheimer’s disease is very tough. Though they may not seem so bad physically, you know everything is not okay inside, and it becomes visible over time. It’s very hard knowing you can’t do much to help,” says fourth-year health studies student Jeevan Singh, whose grandmother had Alzheimer’s. 
At the helm of this new research is neurologist Giovanni Frisoni, director of the University Hospitals of Geneva’s (HUG) Memory Centre in Switzerland and professor at the Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics of the U niversity of Geneva’s (UNIGE) Faculty of Medicine. 
“We have already shown that the gut microbiota composition in patients with Alzheimer’s disease was altered, compared to people who do not suffer from such disorders. We have also discovered an association between an inflammatory phenomenon detected in the blood, certain intestinal bacteria and Alzheimer’s disease; hence the hypothesis that we wanted to test here: could inflammation in the blood be a mediator between the microbiota and the brain?” stated Frisoni. 
There are numerous pathways through which functioning in the brain can be influenced by intestinal bacteria and have an impact on neurodegeneration. These pathways can have an effect on the immune system as well and can consequently change the interaction between the immune system and nervous system. 
A protein known as lipopolysaccharides, which is located on the membrane of bacteria with pro-inflammatory properties, has been found in amyloid plaques and surrounding vessels in brains of people with Alzheimer’s disease. 
The related intestinal microbiota also produced metabolites, which are substances formed to facilitate the metabolism. These metabolites have neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties that directly and indirectly affect brain functioning. 
To put their hypothesis to the test, the authors of the study recruited 89 volunteers in the age range of 65-85, some of whom were healthy and some of whom were suffering from differing degrees of neurodegenerative impairments. Using a technology known as positron emission tomography (PET), participants’ brains were scanned for amyloid plaques, which are a big indicator for Alzheimer’s. Blood samples were also collected to test for gut bacteria metabolites. 
Results showed that participants with more amyloid plaques in their brains were apt to have higher levels of lipopolysaccharides in their blood. 
Study author Moira Marizzoni stated that “these results are indisputable: certain bacterial products of the intestinal microbiota are correlated with the quantity of amyloid plaques in the brain.”
“I think the results are incredibly encouraging. Knowing this information will allow us to help those who need it so much sooner. The thought alone of all the potential lives that could be saved by getting to the problem sooner through the information published in this study is very motivating to think about,” says third-year health studies student Josh Williams, who hopes to one day work with patients who have neurodegenerative conditions. 
While the study yielded promising results, Frisoni reminds the public not to rejoice too quickly, as this information itself will not directly lead to a cure. What it will do, he explained, is enable more effective identification for people at risk of developing neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer’s, allowing for earlier intervention. 
“We must first identify the strains of the bacterial cocktail,” says Frisoni. “Then, a neuroprotective effect could only be effective at a very early stage of the disease, with a view to prevention rather than therapy.”
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
On November 27, York announced that both the winter 2021 and summer 2021 academic terms would remain online, applying the same approach to course delivery used in fall 2020 to the two upcoming terms. Certain circumstances may allow for limited in-person offerings, but these will be the exception, not the rule. 
“The same approach to course delivery approved for the upcoming winter term will also apply to the summer 2021 term. As guidance from public health authorities evolves, we will continue to explore opportunities to offer more in-person learning when it is safe to do so,” stated Lisa Philipps, provost & vice-president academic, in a November 27 statement.
York’s Deputy Spokesperson Yanni Dagonas cited safety and health as the motivation behind this decision, in light of the continued risks of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“York is guided by public health and government guidelines. Within those guidelines, our goal and first priority is to safeguard the safety and health of our community,” he says. “Our goal is to make the best use of our facilities to meet urgent needs of students, faculty, and staff in ways that put the health and safety of our community first.”
York is not the only Toronto university staying online for the winter term. Ryerson University and the University of Toronto have also confirmed that the majority of their courses will stay virtual for the remainder of the academic year. 
“In the midst of a pandemic, it has allowed me to feel safe as I do not have to take public transit nor do I have to interact with other individuals and worry about the spread of COVID-19,” says Maha Noor, a second-year nursing student. “
For the most part, it appears as though the winter term will remain almost exactly the same. However, Phillipps stated that opportunities may be somewhat expanded in the summer term, most likely due to improved weather.
“Our colleagues in Facilities are currently investigating the potential to use outdoor spaces on our campuses to modestly increase the opportunities for in-person learning in summer 2021.”
“Our colleagues in Facilities are currently investigating the potential to use outdoor spaces on our campuses to modestly increase the opportunities for in-person learning in summer 2021.”
Students who may be unable to attend any potential in-person course components on short notice need not worry; courses for which in-person activities are optional are also required to have a fully online track so no student gets left behind.
There is currently no information regarding what the fate of graduation will be under these circumstances. 
“No decisions have been made at this time regarding spring convocation,” says Dagonas. “We will communicate with upcoming graduates and our community when we have more information to share.”
As for the future beyond these two terms, the outlook remains uncertain.
“We are actively monitoring the rapidly evolving public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic in order to inform planning for the fall 2021 term,” said Philipps. “As announcements on vaccine availability are made, we will continue to update our response during the winter 2021 term.”
Post-secondary students everywhere have expressed mixed emotions about the major repercussions of the shift to online learning. For some students, despite being a major change, it provides benefits.
“Online school has been an enormous change for students in regards to their environment, the way they are being taught, and the amount of content being given,” says Noor. “I feel it has been easy for me to complete as I am able to manage my time better, solely due to the time I save from not having to transit hours back and forth.”
“Though I do miss the structured in-person classes where I retained more information, I personally enjoy learning online more,” she adds.
On the other hand, students have cited heavy workloads and increased stress from online learning as contributors to feelings of major burnout. 
“I thought it would be an interesting change and I could finally work at my own pace. I thought that I would finally have enough time to do my notes, assignments, and readings — but I was definitely wrong,” says Sana Mohammed, a second-year nursing student at Ryerson. “Soon enough, online school started to become mentally draining, and it still is! Even though I am in the comfort of my own home, I am not comfortable at all.”
Similarly, a post on the unofficial York subreddit about feeling ‘horrible’ due to the effects of online school burnout garnered over a hundred upvotes. 
“I don’t get to see my friends and classmates, who were my support group during the school year, and I don’t get to see my campus,” says Mohammed. “I am stuck in my room all day, with no change of space. I mean, even if I go out for a walk, I know I am coming back to the same room, same desk, trying to catch up on my school work that I had previously thought I would have been ahead in,” she adds. “I realized that the environment I had during in-person school really motivated me to be successful in school and gave me that push, even when I did not feel like it.”
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
