We’ve all had the experience of waking up suddenly in the middle of the night in sheer panic as we dreamt our way through a situation that felt all too real. Maybe you ran into someone you never wanted to see again. Maybe you forgot to hand in that assignment that was worth a quarter of your grade. Whatever it was, you can eventually lay back in relief knowing it was all just a dream. But what exactly was happening in your mindthere?
Dreaming is a fascinating human occurrence that has been pondered and fixated on since the days of the ancient Egyptians. From a neurological perspective, the entire brain is involved in the process of dreaming, from the brainstem all the way to the cortex. Dreams typically occur during the rapid-eye movement (commonly known as REM) stage of the sleep cycle. REM sleep is centered around the reticular activation system in our brains, responsible for sleep-wake transitions. 
The limbic system, located in the middle of the brain, also plays a big part in our dreams. This part of the brain is primarily responsible for emotions and also includes the amygdala, the part of our brain responsible for fear. 
When it comes to the crazy content often found in our dreams, it is the cortex that is responsible for this. Specifically, the temporal-occipital cortex (found in the back of our brains) produces the realistic and ongoing visuals we experience during our dreams. 
The frontal lobes are least active in our dreams. This is the part of the brain associated with movement, organization, the ability to self-monitor, and other executive functions of the brain. With the logical side of our brains dulled down, it makes sense why we interpret our dreams as reality in the moment. 
Though we may hardly remember our dreams, research suggests that the average person dreams between three to six times per night, with each one lasting between five and 20 minutes. 
It has been suggested the brain may be using this time to consolidate learning and memory tasks that would support our waking consciousness. It may also be a method of preparing us for possible future threats through a cognitive simulation of sorts.
Second-year psychology student Preet Dhaliwal has taken an interest in his dreams and what they may represent. He even makes an effort to keep track of them. 
“I find dreams really fascinating and I love to reflect on them when I’m conscious and alert. To do this, I started keeping a journal by my bed and whenever I wake up from an intense dream, I quickly write down what happened so that I can revisit it later,” says Dhaliwal.  
So, why exactly do we dream anyway? What purpose does it serve us as humans? Well, scientists are still not completely sure; however, many plausible explanations have been put forth. 
It has been suggested the brain may be using this time to consolidate learning and memory tasks that would support our waking consciousness. It may also be a method of preparing us for possible future threats through a cognitive simulation of sorts. It is also thought to be a time during which we are able to reflect on our unconscious mental functions in a psychoanalytic way, and to perhaps even confront subconscious emotional trauma and repressed memories. 
How much or how little we sleep is thought to have a big impact on our dreams. When we are sleep deprived, it’s likely our dreams will be a little wilder than usual as we have missed out on REM sleep for an extended period of time. Third-year health studies student Shelly Persaud can attest to this experience. 
“I’ve definitely noticed that if I go a long time without much sleep, when I finally do get around to catching up on some Zs, my dreams are extremely vivid and connected. I see things that confuse, excite, and intrigue me, and it really makes me wonder about everything going on in the mind while it’s happening,” says Persaud. 
Though dreaming may seem like an effortless activity, it’s clear that our brains are doing a lot more during the process than we may have thought.
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
On November 24, TVO premiered the documentary Running Wild: The Cats of Cornwall. The 70-minute film delves into Cornwall, a small city in Ontario with a large feral cat population. It explores the ecological effects of this crisis, featuring an appearance from biologist and York professor Dr. Bridget Stutchbury. 
“It was great to be able to feature some really well-known scientists here in Ontario, including Dr. Bridget Stutchbury,” says Aaron Hancox, the film’s writer and director. “At Markham Street films, we were really interested in making a film about the lesser-known side of stray cats, which is really the ecological impact — the fact that cats are an invasive species.”
“Cats are cute, but they’re also causing a lot of problems when they’re outside,” Hancox adds.
The ecological impact of the feral cat crisis is linked to the death of wild birds, which Dr. Stutchbury is an expert in.
“Lots of papers have been published estimating the total number of bird fatalities from most pet cats and unowned cats,” says Dr. Stutchbury. “Certainly these studies show unowned cats that don’t go home every night and get fed by their owners kill more birds naturally.”
According to Dr. Stutchbury, feral cats have a massive impact on Canadian bird populations, with a staggering number of deaths:
“There are a lot of behavioural studies that can be really informative for trying to understand cat behaviour and how that differs between owned cats and unowned cats,” she says. “I’m trying to take these studies and scientifically scale them up to a national level, to sort of capture what’s happening across Canada or across the U.S. In Canada alone they estimate 200 million to 300 million birds are killed a year by cats.”
Each individual feral cat is just “one piece of a big problem” for wild bird populations, says Dr. Stutchbury.
The film follows citizen activists who are dedicated to solving this problem, including concerned Cornwall residents Mellissa Alepins and Mary Jane Proulx. These cat rescuers trap, neuter, and release (TNR) cats on their own, while also urging the city to take action. 
“Working with our main characters was amazing,” says Hancox. “Mellissa and Mary Jane are such compassionate people and they’re so inspiring to be around, to see how much they genuinely love the animals and are doing this work just out of the goodness of their own hearts.”
Hancox believes the city of Cornwall was ideal for a film that explores the intersection of many issues:
“We had this interest in making a film about cats and other invasive species, and we had an interest in spotlighting the human work behind the scenes saving cats from a bad fate,” he says. “All of this came together when I discovered the story of Cornwall, which is really amazing that we had this real-life example of all these issues happening in one place, in basically our backyard.”
Hancox describes how filming in Cornwall came with many surprises: “Every time we went to Cornwall, something amazing would happen.”
Hancox adds: “The very first time we filmed in Cornwall, Mellissa seemed a little bit disappointed for me, saying, ‘well, I don’t have any kittens under my care right now.’ And within a few hours, she got a phone call from somebody at the local dump saying, ‘hey, I have a box of kittens that we just discovered, can you rush over here and save these kittens?’”
The rescue of these tiny kittens from the dump actually turns out to be one of the film’s opening scenes.
Previously, Hancox co-directed the 2018 documentary, Catwalk: Tales From the Cat Show Circuit, which explores Canada’s fancy cat world and the realm of competitive cat shows. Running Wild sticks to the feline theme, but in the opposite direction. 
“Catwalk and Running Wild are so different in terms of how they were made and the feel of the film. They’re kind of opposites in a certain way, but I’m really proud of both of them,” he says.
The film sheds light on rescue cats, who may be less fancy but are no less deserving of love.
“There are so many cats that need help out there. I’ve been really moved by my own journey with rescuing cats and loving and caring for these animals, and meeting the people who fostered both of my cats,” says Hancox. “I felt very strongly that the world needed to know more about the people involved with helping rescue cats.”
Running Wild: The Cats of Cornwall is available for streaming on TVO.org 24/7. It will also air on Saturday, November 28 at 9 p.m. EST and Sunday, Nov 29 at 10:30 p.m. EST.
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                
This is rubbish.  Human behaviour by far has the biggest impact.
This feral cat problem is in addition to our behaviour.

 York University Community Newspaper 
