The pandemic has been in the spotlight for nearly a year and the lack of a cure has led many to look for alternative solutions. Exercise and healthy nutrition have been one of the more prevalent and accurate ideas among many.
When it came to supplements there was a lot of debate over their benefits and whether they provided any substantial results. Experts debated and often disregarded the effectiveness of supplements in protecting individuals against COVID-19.
In fact, many articles were released with doctors warning the general public that supplements had no positive effects, often calling them useless. 
However, two studies published in the last month have shown that vitamin D and zinc can be vital in reducing the severity of the disease.
A team of researchers at the Reina Sofia University Hospital in Cordoba, Spain, led a study which shows that “Early calcifediol treatment to hospitalized COVID-19 patients significantly reduced intensive care unit admissions.”
This means that patients with COVID-19 who are treated with calcifediol (found in vitamin D) are likely to have the intensity of the disease significantly reduced.
This includes daily intake of vitamin D as a supplement. Although it does not prevent or reduce the chance of succumbing to the disease, if one is infected they will experience less severe symptoms
The study was conducted on a random basis with the patients split into two study groups, one which received calcifediol treatment and one that did not.
The results were quite staggering. Out of the group which received treatment, only one out of 50 (two per cent) required admission into the intensive care unit (ICU). The group which did not receive the treatment had 13 out of 26 (50 per cent) of the patients requiring the ICU. 
The second study was conducted by Dr. Roberto Güerri-Fernández and colleagues at the Hospital Del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. This study focused on zinc levels in blood relative to patient mortality. 
The study found that patients with lower levels of zinc were twice as likely to pass away from COVID-19. Patients admitted to the hospital had their zinc levels monitored throughout their stay.
The study was conducted with 249 patients out of which 21 passed away. The median levels of zinc for the survivors was 63.1 micrograms per deciliter (mcg/dl). Those that died had a significantly lower median at 43 mcg/dl. 
After adjusting several factors, the study concluded that a higher level of zinc contributed to a seven per cent reduced risk of mortality, meaning higher levels of zinc could increase the chances of survival for those admitted to the hospital with COVID-19.
These two studies highlight the benefits of zinc and vitamin D, however, they only reduce the severity of illness caused by COVID-19. These are not equivalent to a vaccine or a replacement for social distancing and facemasks.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
In past years, Theatre @ York has hosted sold out performances of live theatre. Productions of established plays, devised theatre pieces, and new plays written by York students are all part of a standard Theatre @ York season. 
These shows are performed throughout York’s performance venues, including the 360-seat Sandra Faire and Ivan Fecan Theatre, the Joseph G. Green Studio Theatre, and include elaborate sets that are designed and built by York’s theatre production students.
This year, Theatre @ York’s season is staged a little bit differently. Fall term performances will be produced in an online format. This strategy is becoming more common across the industry of live performance as artists search for ways to make their work accessible to audiences amid physical distancing restrictions associated with COVID-19. 
The purpose of Theatre @ York is to showcase the work of York’s theatre department. Part of York’s Faculty of the Arts, Media, Performance, and Design (AMPD), theatre students have the opportunity to specialize in different components of the theatre industry including production and design, acting, and performance creation, which includes devised theatre and playwriting and new play dramaturgy. 
Sara Masciotra-Milstein is a fourth-year theatre student specializing in new play dramaturgy and is experiencing opportunities that are specifically catered to new industry challenges. 
“Theatre @ York’s season has adapted this year to include two specially commissioned pieces of theatre, written by Canadian playwrights Aaron Jan and Tabia Lau,” Masciotra-Milstein says. “This continues to be an exciting experience for the undergraduate students involved.”
Both of these works were written specifically to be produced in an online format.  
In a statement released on the theatre department’s website, Chairperson Professor Marlis Schweitzer also highlighted these specially commissioned works. “The plays are directed by faculty member David Jansen and feature a cast and crew of students in performance creation, with support from masters of fine arts (MFA) students, designers, and others. This is a new venture for the department and we’re excited to see how it develops.”
Masciotra-Milstein is working as a dramaturge for both plays. “These pieces of digital theatre demonstrate artists’ willingness to rethink what “theatre” is and adapt it to our new reality. The plays are exciting and thrive because of their digital realms, not in spite of them,” Masciotra-Milstein says.
These new plays are not the only Theatre @ York event that will be produced remotely this year. “The Ashley Plays will kick things off with a bang on October 25 with a series of site-specific plays from the third- and fourth-year playwriting class, presented remotely,” Schweitzer said.
The Ashley Plays are a series of short monodramas produced by the theatre department’s playwriting class. Each monodrama features a character named Ashley and is associated with a specific setting—traditionally this event takes place as a walking tour on York’s campus. This year, settings are determined by the playwrights, and the monodramas will be filmed.
In her statement, Schweitzer did not specify if winter term events will be performed remotely.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
While the majority of York’s campus still remains closed, as of September 21, certain libraries have made study spaces available for students to book in advance. However, many new health and safety precautions have been put in place to ensure student wellbeing during the ongoing pandemic.
“The COVID-19 lockdown has required York University Libraries (YUL) to get creative with our services,” says Joy Kirchner, dean of libraries. “Although business will be far from usual in fall, thanks to the determined efforts of YUL’s employees we’re proud to be able to deliver many of our core services and provide additional, remote support.”
Currently, only the first floor of Scott Library has opened back up, operating at a limited capacity. Individual seating, some study rooms, the Adaptive Lab, and select computer workstations are available for student use. Students will also be able to access printing services.
“Library branches remain closed to the public as they have been since March,” Kirchner continues. “However, we’ve developed a multi-pronged approach to ensure that students can still access the wealth of resources held by YUL as we begin a safe and phased opening of our libraries in accordance with public health and university guidelines.”
If things continue as planned, the second floor of Scott should open up by October 1, followed by additional study spaces at Steacie Science & Engineering Library and Frost Library later in the month.
Students have responded positively to the news that libraries are beginning to reopen.
“I think the study spaces are a good idea,” says Ahmed Jaffer, a second-year kinesiology student. “If gyms are opened and proper social distancing can take place there, then surely we can pull it off in a library in an even safer manner.”
To ensure this safe environment, many precautions have been laid out by YUL.
Spots at the study spaces are limited to preserve social distancing, and students, staff, and faculty must reserve them in advance using an online booking system. Once they arrive, library patrons will have to check in and out using their YU cards, in order to ensure that the appropriate number of people are in the building at all times.
Within the library, masks are mandatory, and food consumption is not permitted. Moreover, seating is fixed and custodians will be performing regular cleanings.
While Jaffer appreciates the idea of the study spaces, as a commuter student he doesn’t consider them a viable option. 
“I don’t think I’ll end up using these study rooms,” he continues. “It’s just that I would have to commute to campus, and that isn’t really something I’ll be looking to do especially in these times unless absolutely necessary.”
Given the stringent level of requirements in order to access the spaces, their appeal is mainly geared towards students already living on campus or who are required to be there.
“Students living in proximity to campus, in undergraduate residences, York Apartments and The Quad have indicated a need for accessible, quiet spaces with reliable internet access to study and work on projects,” said Vice-Provost Lucy Fromowitz in an online statement. “In response to this need, York is making a number of student study spaces available to students.”
For the rest of the student body, a triumphant return and reopening of campus still remains in the distant future.
“I’ll feel comfortable returning when in-person classes resume,” says Jaffer. “If classes were to be held in person it would probably mean that the situation has improved enough for it to be safe. It might be a while given the size of our school, but I trust the judgement of those who will make those decisions.”
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
