 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
Why are there still people out there that don’t trust scientists, or worse, even science itself?
The modern age is one of misguided antics, mystery pandemics, misinterpreted facts and misinformation. We spend our days grovelling over social media, absorbing what we believe to be factual information instead of doing the research where it matters. Our degrees are earned on YouTube, and our egos are built in nonsense. We call ourselves “woke,” educated, and informed, achieving a level of confidence akin to a king, but becoming nothing more than a jester.
If that isn’t a recipe for societal disaster, I don’t know what is.
Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, while we run amok clinging desperately to toilet paper and dropping our dignity, there is no better time to be aware of the contribution that science has made to humanity. 
It is because of science that we have any semblance of hope for the future, and it is because of science that we will survive. It is not your local “wellness” store that will save you, nor will planets in retrograde or full moons on Fridays. It is the hard work of dedicated, passionate researchers, men and women of science who chose to take a more difficult road, a road of logic, reason, and most importantly, humility.
A scientist must be humble. They cannot be afraid to say that they do not know, or that they are wrong, and therein lies their power. Can the same be said of the online charlatan trying to sell you their snake-oil miracle cures (I’m speaking to you, Alex Jones)?
But how could being wrong be a good thing? Because when a scientist learns they are wrong, they are one step closer to learning what is right.
It is the truth that matters, above all else, and a true scientist understands this. Would you rather live in a world of ignorance, making your choices with dice as if the only life you had was a board game, or would you rather trust in science, and know with confidence that every step a scientist takes is towards the truth?
Now you may ask, how do I know science is the answer? I don’t know, but what I do know is that a scientist, the “building block” if you will of the greater scientific body of knowledge, is trained to look at things logically — to take careful, consistent records and above all else, to be objective. It is this empirical approach to information gathering that forms the steel of all our greatest machinations. Without it, that greater scientific body of knowledge would buckle under its own weight. 
But alas, its structure holds firm. After all these years, the truths of the past are still truths of the present. Can we say the same of other “sciences”? Have we not proven that burying toads in our backyards, or rubbing lavender oil on our foreheads will not cure us of our ailments? Why then do we still believe in such archaic notions?
For example, it baffles me to know that there are people out there who still believe the world is flat. What kind of inhuman mental gymnastics do you have to perform to believe such nonsense? Do you have any idea what kind of undertaking it would be for the government to hide such a fact? Better yet, why would they? It doesn’t make any sense!
And of course, the same goes for vaccinations. In our complacency we have become FUBAR-level stupid, mistrusting the very creations that have done nothing but save us from agonizing, soul-wretching deaths, from the tortuous experience a truly uncontrolled plague would be. 
If only the memories of our ancestors would reemerge and pull us back to dark realities we know nothing of, maybe then we’d understand just how good we’ve got it today.
And why do we “have it so good”? Because of science, people. The reason we have everything from clean drinking water to high-definition TVs, cars that move to planes that fly, is because of the millions of dedicated hours of careful note-taking, tinkering, and experimentation. It is because of the empirical method that you aren’t dumping your toilet bucket on the streets, or curing mental disorders with bloodletting.
So the next time you decide to “save” your dying child with berries and herbs, or launch yourself into the stratosphere in a homemade rocket to prove those conniving, dastardly, round-world scientists wrong, remember why you have the time and liberty to question such things in peace. 
In an unenlightened, science-less world, proving science wrong would be the least of your concerns.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Strassler | Copy Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
We continue to repeat the age-old saying, “beauty is in the eye of the beholder,” yet we continue to be influenced physically and psychologically by those who try to tell us what beauty is supposed to be. And this is not our fault. 
What exactly is beauty, according to those that shape this definition? Why can we never achieve beauty? Or rather, why do we feel as if we can never achieve it?
According to Psychology Today about 54 per cent of young women and 41 per cent of young men, both ages 13 to 19, said they are dissatisfied with their appearance; 57 per cent of women and 38 per cent of men ages 20 to 29 made the same claim.
Both men and women are faced with high standards of beauty, but there is an extraordinary amount of pressure on young girls and women in particular to meet these unrealistic expectations.
Rebecca De Santo, third-year sociology student at York, says that there is a difference in expectations because of “the way we structure society.”
   Throughout history and especially in our society today, women are sold an idea of beauty from such a young age, which can develop negatively throughout their lives,” explains De Santo.
Milena Giangrosso, third-year biomedical science student, comments: “Historically, the people who made up the voice and power of a society and culture were the straight men. The way a woman ‘should’ look was dictated by the wants and fantasies of the people in power; they were able to spread iconography of ‘ideal beauty for women.’”
Silsila Bahrami, fourth-year communication studies student, also says that this difference exists because of “the cultural influences that impacted a woman’s upbringing in the patriarchal world.”
“In most cultures, men typically hold the most power and can use this power to further their own interests,” adds Bahrami.
This standard of beauty for women is referred to as the “feminine beauty ideal.” This is a social construct, and it revolves around the flawed idea that physical attractiveness is an important asset that all women should strive to achieve, and once they do, to maintain it.
The feminine beauty ideal can be traced back to old fairytales, typically written by men. These stories would describe women as having certain characteristics of beauty.
For example, in the story “Snow White” by the Brothers Grimm, the titular character is described as being “beautiful as the light of day,” with “skin as white as snow, lips as red as blood, and hair as black as ebony wood.” Antagonists in fairy tales were often described as old hags and physically unappealing.
The relationship of “beautiful princesses” and “ugly villains” was thus exposed to us as infants. This made us believe that if we did not look the way that princesses like Snow White did, we were the Evil Queen disguised as the dreadful witch by default.
Ideas of beauty have changed throughout history and within cultures. For example, during the Middle Ages and early modern period, beauty was associated with a pale complexion and a larger weight; this meant that one did not have to work outside and could eat as much as they desired, which was a sign of wealth.
In contrast, those who had a more tanned complexion and a smaller weight represented an undesired physical appearance; it signified a poorer individual who had to work in the sun all day and did not have as much access to food.
However, the association to these types of physical characteristics have reversed in today’s culture. It is fascinating to see how these standards of beauty have changed over the years. What was once associated with beauty is now what we are told to avoid.
We focus on trying to meet these expectations of beauty that are relevant today, yet they could change in a matter of weeks, months, or years. We spend our money, time, and energy to meet these standards only for them to change in just a matter of time.
This dedication to understand what is and what is not beauty takes a toll on not only our physical appearance, but also our psychological well-being. How can we keep up with these changes?
The reality is, we cannot. We can try to, but it is difficult to meet these physical demands put on to us. But who is putting these demands out?
Businesses and brands are often the ones who create these standards for us to meet. We are shown commercials and campaigns that tell us what we need to do away with: weight, stretch marks, cellulite, dandruff, pimples, scars, dark circles, fine lines, and wrinkles, to name a few.
What these advertisements refrain from telling us is that these elements are what make us human. Instead, we are convinced that we should never have had these natural traits in the first place.
If we were not told over the years of campaigning that these are “ugly” traits, we would never associate them with this term. We should want to lose that weight or use a 10-step skincare routine to help ourselves feel better, not to remove ourselves from this classification that considers us unattractive.
Young girls and women are faced with a number of issues, with the battle for clear and “baby-like” skin being one of them; we are told that any pore in sight is unappealing. Laura Maiolo, third-year kinesiology and health science student, explains her experience in responding to these standards of beauty.
“I usually cover acne breakouts with makeup because there is an expectation of women to have clear skin. People associate acne with a lack of hygiene, but in reality, it’s not something that can always be controlled,” says Maiolo.
“As a teen, I was very self-conscious of my acne; I didn’t have makeup and I didn’t know how to use it. I felt a lot of pressure to fit into a mould of beauty that I had very little knowledge of, and my socio-economic standing didn’t allow me to always have the newest things,” adds Giangrosso.
Social media is also another culprit in creating these unrealistic standards of beauty. When we are constantly on our phones and scrolling through social media, we are exposing ourselves to these beauty expectations. We expose ourselves to those athletic and tanned models without either pores or wrinkles, and with lusciously voluminous hair.
This is not the norm. The norm is love handles, back fat, hyperpigmentation, flaky scalps, split ends, and dry skin. We don’t realize this is the norm though because those who have these traits are often too self-conscious to post a vulnerable photo or a tweet disclosing their imperfections.
Jennifer Mills, an associate psychology professor at York, conducted a survey in 2018 where she asked female undergraduates to take a selfie on an iPad and upload it to social media.
Mills and her colleagues discovered that all the participants, including those who had the chance to edit their photos, felt less attractive and less confident after posting their selfies compared to when the experiment began.
“Even though they can make the end result look ‘better,’ they are still focused on aspects of what they don’t like about the way they look,” Mills explained.
If we are at risk of reaching obesity, or we have an itchy scalp, or we have scarred skin, we should want to change these issues for our own personal benefit, not because a business or a social media platform tells us to change.
   I find that my feelings about my appearance are most magnified when I see other women on social media. My thoughts gravitate towards the feeling that my features should resemble these women and that I could have these features if I had certain procedures done, or if I bought specific clothes, food, or beauty products,” says Bahrami.
Trying to meet these expectations of beauty is physically demanding. We starve ourselves to reach that weight goal. We spend hours at the gym, and we are conscious about what we can and cannot eat throughout the day.
We get nose jobs and lip fillers because we see other celebrities or social media influencers doing so. We move fat into our bust and rear to plump those areas because we see that the hourglass figure is the ideal and the most complimentary figure of beauty. We make our faces more symmetrical; we give ourselves new chins and cheek bones.
We erase ourselves. We stray as far away from who we are naturally because we are convinced that we are not good, or beautiful, enough.
Cassandra Carcasole, third-year English student, says that beauty standards resemble “the grass is always greener on the other side” mentality. 
“I have curly hair, but when I see someone rocking straight hair, I wish I had that. Then when I straighten my hair, I think it’s too flat and I wish it was curly,” explains Carcasole.
Trying to meet these standards is psychologically exhausting. Being told repeatedly that we aren’t beautiful enough takes a toll on our mental and emotional well-being. This often leads to issues in our mental health including anxiety and depression for the fear and disappointment many face of not being able to reach these goals.
We continuously fill our minds with thoughts of, “Why can’t I look like that?” or, “Why did I have to be born this way?” which leads to further negative consequences on our mental well-being. According to the BBC, a journal article in ScienceDirect conducted a survey of 227 female university students, where “women reported that they tend to compare their own appearance negatively with their peer group and with celebrities.”
It is ironic that we look to social media moguls and celebrities as an inspiration for beauty that we want to resemble because these individuals often don’t even look the way they do in their posts.
With the help of Photoshop, filters, air-brushing, and fine-tuning programs that are getting more accurate and realistic by the minute, we are fooled into believing that a certain person has zero pores or wrinkles with a tiny waist and large bust. We are convinced that we should be able to reach this level of perfection, when that person cannot even do that themselves.
Instagram in particular is a social media platform that plays a major role on how we view ourselves. On a platform where we scroll on a feed full of these models and celebrities, we are constantly comparing ourselves to what we are not. These expectations of beauty tie in with the psychological notion of wanting what we can’t have, as opposed to embracing what we do have, as Carcasole mentions.
It is tiring scrolling through Instagram seeing these people who have perfect bodies, skin, and hair. We constantly crave for “real” people represented in advertisements and social media, as well as in television and film.
There is a desire for not only representation of different races, genders, sexual orientation, and cultures to exist on large platforms, but there is also a need for representation among those who do not reach these unrealistic beauty standards.
We go through hell and back just to reach a standard set by a company who wants us to buy their luxury moisturizer, weight-loss plan, or gummy vitamins. Why don’t we try as best as we financially, emotionally, and physically can to reach goals set by ourselves that are actually attainable? 
Why do we try to go down ten sizes instead of working on going down one size at a time? Why do we try to give ourselves an entirely new face instead of working on one skin concern at a time? Why are we in such a rush and panic to change ourselves?
We need to set realistic goals. There is nothing wrong with trying to change your physical traits if you are personally unhappy with how you look. There is nothing wrong with losing weight, getting a nose job or lip filler, eating healthier, or investing in skincare. However, we should not be trying to change our habits and our appearance because a business or social media platform manipulated us into doing so.
We need to make these changes on our own account. We need to want these changes to make ourselves happy because we will look in the mirror and see someone who is beautiful in our own eyes, not in the eyes of someone else who only wants our money or attention.
There are a variety of changes to make if you find yourself physically and/or psychologically exhausted from trying to meet these standards of beauty.
One recommendation Mills made is to simply put down our phones. “Take a break and engage in other activities that have nothing to do with appearance and comparing yourself to other people,” suggests Mills.
   Don’t compare yourself with other women or the unrealistic expectations that are placed on women. Obviously, this is easier said than done, but I think that minimal changes over time can be very impactful in the long term,” advises Maiolo.
“Who and what we surround ourselves with can greatly influence our feelings towards ourselves. Putting an end to beauty standards starts with loving yourself as who you truly are in this moment and actively taking steps towards building self-confidence,” recommends Bahrami.
“As women, we need to continue the conversation of what it means to be beautiful. Once we all come to understand that there is not one form, size, shape, or style of beauty, we will be the most beautiful versions of ourselves,” adds De Santo.
“Try to stop listening to beauty media, watching that Instagram model who surgically removed some of their ribs to look unnaturally skinny, and prescribing to the idea that you need to look a certain way,” advocates Giangrosso.
“Dress how you want to, put on what you’re comfortable in, and don’t give a damn what anyone else thinks. Live for you.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
Medicago, a Canadian bio-pharmaceutical company, has recently made what is known as a virus-like particle (VLP) of the Covid-19 virus — an important step in producing a vaccine.
But why is this step so important, exactly?
A virus-like particle is a molecule that resembles a virus very closely, but is non-infectious as it contains no genetic material. This makes them easier to analyze by researchers.
On top of this, the VLP can much more efficiently present antigens to the human immune system.
As effective as the VLP is in the search for a vaccine, the real trick up Medicago’s sleeve is the company’s rather innovative, time efficient and cost effective process of vaccine production involving plants.
 “The pace of our initial progress in Covid-19 is attributable to the capability of our plant-based platform, which is able to produce vaccine and antibody solutions to counteract this global public health threat,” said Medicago CEO Dr. Bruce Clark.
   The ability to produce a candidate vaccine within 20 days after obtaining the gene is a critical differentiator for our proven technology. This technology enables scale-up at unprecedented speed to potentially combat Covid-19.”
Normally, chicken eggs are used as an incubator for the production of vaccine proteins. Many, many eggs are required and as such, the process becomes very expensive and time-consuming.
What this new plant-approach to incubation involves is the use of altered agrobacterium. Each bacterium has the virus’ genetic sequence injected into them, then it is put into the plant’s soil and left for the plant to absorb. When this has happened, the plant will produce the virus proteins necessary to develop a vaccine.
“That’s the difference between us,” Clark said. “We go directly to producing the vaccine or the antibody without having to propagate the virus.”
Medicago’s process is so effective, back in 2009 they were able to produce an H1N1 vaccine within 19 days. Then three years later, within the time-span of one month, they made over 10 million doses of monovalent influenza vaccine for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
With such ambition, it is no surprise to hear that the company is hoping to enter phase I trials of human studies by July, a goal that may require some cut corners. “It would depend, quite extensively, on the decisions the regulators make in terms of the hurdles they want us to have in the normal course of development,” said Clark.
But if all goes well, the vaccine could be made available to the public by next November. 
“I won’t put words in their mouths. I will say our intention, taking a very standard approach, is that by November of 2021 we will have completed phase III,” continued Clark.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image:  A set of mannequins all dressed in evening gowns, and some of the labels ascribed to these aesthetics are “girly-girl,” “diva” and “cutesy.” | Courtesy of Miriam El Abbassi, Excalibur
The concept of identity and gender has, for a long time, existed within rigid boundaries. The binary (i.e solely male and female) has defined much of what society knows about gender and gender expression, as well as what is considered acceptable forms of expression for each. 
The exhibition, Re:Framing Gender curated by Jason Cyrus, seeks to explore the different ways one may express their gender, and go beyond what is stereotypically considered masculine or feminine. 
As soon as you enter the space, there is a white wall that has a list of terms that revolve around gender and sexuality, as well as their respective definitions. Some of these terms include: “hijra” (a legally recognized third gender specific to the South Asian subcontinent), “QTIPOC” (a queer, trans, and intersex people/person of colour), and “agender” (meaning “without gender”, and is used by someone who understands themselves to be genderless or gender neutral). 
The rest of the exhibit consists of a lineup of mannequins dressed up in different kinds of attire, each with stereotypical labels placed beneath them. The lineup starts with a set of mannequins all dressed in evening gowns, and some of the labels ascribed to these aesthetics are “girly-girl,” “diva” and “cutesy.” 
 

Click image for full picture. Courtesy of Miriam El Abbassi, Excalibur
 
There is also a quote that hangs above, describing how a hyper-feminine appearance (which is enforced by the clothes one wears) is generally what a heterosexual man finds attractive, and that when trans people adopt that certain aesthetic, they’re crucified for supposedly reinforcing gender stereotypes. 
At the end of the lineup, there is a clothing rack displaying menswear in its various different forms. In this section, there is a focus on suits, and how that is ingrained into masculinity. 
Some of the labels that sit beneath these pieces are “rebel,” “playboy,” “tycoon” and “jock.” The quote that hangs above describes how gender stereotypes are so ingrained, that if one were to slightly deviate from them, that would essentially mean “game over. 
Located in the Joan and Martin Goldfarb Centre for Fine Arts room 275, Re:Framing Gender was scheduled to be on display until April 17. However, with the rise of the COVID-19 pandemic, the gallery is closed and it is currently unknown when the gallery, and the exhibit, will reopen. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Growth is a sculpture of a human/non-human hybrid (although, this is not apparent at first). Courtesy of Miriam El Abbassi, Excalibur
The 2020 Festival of Art and Science Exhibition, (BE) Coming An Exhibition of Experimental Contemporary Art, co-sponsored by Sensorium: Centre for Digital Arts and Technology, ArtSci Salon, and The Fields Institute at the University of Toronto, is a unique collaboration between York’s School of the Arts, Media, Performance & Design (AMPD) artists and artists outside of the York community. 
This exhibition seeks to explore the idea of change and its inevitability, as well as its process. Humans collectively tend to fear change and try to avoid it as much as possible, but often forget that there is no stability without instability — that change, or rather transformation, is an essential part of life. 
One of the first exhibits that is visible when entering the space, titled Growth, is a sculpture of a human/non-human hybrid (although, this is not apparent at first). Created by fifth-year AMPD student, Esther Kim, this sculpture is actually a segment of a human torso, with a network of coral growing from the top of it. The torso is casted from plaster while the coral is casted from aqua resin. 
 

Click image for full picture. Courtesy of Miriam El Abbassi, Excalibur
 
“The fragility of the human body casted in plaster is contrasted with the solidity of the resin, an excrescence to the human body. This unnatural growth of corals acts as the skeletal framework holding the body in place and completing its form,” Kim described in her artist statement.
Another eye-catching display is titled Ovum created by Suzanne Anker. It is a set of five egg yolks each contained within a petri dish that addresses the age-old question, “which came first, the chicken or the egg?” 
“The ontological question of which came first can be explained in Darwinian terms. During evolutionary processes of the transformation of species over vast amounts of time, the chicken as we know it today emerged as a proto-species, which had the capacity to produce calcium carbonate for its shells,” said Anker in her artist statement.
Anker describes the egg yolks as being seeds, which move towards crystallization.
This exhibit was located in the Gales Gallery, within the Accolade West building, until March 12, 2020.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
