The rise of esports was slow and cumbersome but had an explosive surge in the mid 2010s which continues to grow at a rapid pace. 
In 2018, the League of Legends World Championship had a larger viewership than the Super Bowl. Although it has been growing, this news brought mainstream attention to the world of gaming. 
The impact of esports has been so great that “post-secondary institutions have been looking at creating esports leagues to allow people to stay connected and play together in this uncertain time,” explains Mohamad Agha, president of York’s official esports club, York Esports.
Agha was asked his opinion on whether the industry will ever be on par with traditional sports.
“The hope is that it will. As it stands, esports viewership has been on par, arguably even bigger than some of the biggest sporting events. In 2019, the League of Legends World Championship Final had 44 million concurrent viewers, while the 2019 NBA Finals had roughly 15 million viewers.”

(Photo Credit: Mohamad Agha, President of York Esports)
Titles like League of Legends, Dota 2 and Counter Strike: Global Offensive have amassed large audiences and massive prize pools reaching over $34 million, far above most traditional sports.
“The industry is still relatively new, but it has a massive following given the popularity of gaming in our current culture. ESPN now covers esports, how rad is that?” says Casey Wang, VP of York Esports.
Many analysts have predicted that esports will only keep growing, now with most of the world under lockdown those predictions are increasing even further.
Predictions show that by 2022 the industry will produce around $3 billion, and it is still in its early stages. The potential for this industry seems endless and the pandemic has only encouraged further growth. 
Agha touched on this stating: “Many organizations and groups are now looking at esports in order to fill the void of activities that have been left in the wake of COVID-19 and as a result, we’re seeing an unprecedented rise in the amount of online esports events.”

(Photo Credit: Mohamad Agha, President of York Esports)
This is evident as gaming is becoming more mainstream, entering popular culture and media. Events like the creation of a dedicated esports team at ESPN or the Associated Press ruling on the correct spelling and including “esports” into its guidebook further cement this.
The lack of social interaction is one of the main reasons for this upsurge in players, and, as researcher Regan Mandryk told the Saskatoon StarPhoenix: “Right now as people are socially isolated, they are turning to games to self-manage their need for social contact. It’s about taking back control of our own well-being.”
Wang says they used gaming in the esports club to escape the isolation that came with COVID-19.
“Gaming can be communal, which allows you to connect with people worldwide. Pick up a game and join a Discord voice call and you’re all set—for hours—to have a fun day and pass time,” Wang says. 
Wang adds: “The interactivity of video games is what’s unlike any other medium of entertainment that you consume. You’re bound to find something you enjoy, whether it’s on your own or with others!”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
On September 30, the All Out Strike will take place after months of protests and civil unrest against systemic racism sparked from the deaths of many Black, Indigenous, and people of colour (BIPOC) at the hands of police, including George Floyd and Breonna Taylor. 
According to its official Facebook page, All Out September 30th is to “commemorate Orange Shirt Day and to strike to support Indigenous & Black students, staff, and faculty, at our post-secondary educational institutions.” 
In an Instagram Live session, York Federation of Students (YFS) Vice-President of Campaigns and Advocacy Jessie Whyte says it’s “a group of Indigenous, Black, racialized, and allied students, staff, faculty and people, all across the board, who are joining together to strike for a number of different demands.” 
YFS Vice-President of Operations, Riaz Nandan chimes in: “You know we have a collective of Indigenous, Black, and racialized student leaders from across the province of Ontario and Canada. We’re your student union, we gotta protect our most marginalized people and advocate for them. It’s gonna be a huge movement and honestly I can’t even do it justice by talking about it.” 
“I really encourage everyone to follow All Out on social media to make sure you’re staying up to date with the demands and the testimonies that are coming in,” Whyte further adds.
According to their website, the annual Orange Shirt Day on September 30 opens the door to global conversation on all aspects of residential schools. It’s an opportunity to create meaningful discussion about the effects of residential schools and the legacy they have left behind. 
“Orange Shirt Day is a legacy of the St. Joseph Mission (SJM) Residential School (1891-1981) Commemoration Project and Reunion events that took place in Williams Lake, BC, Canada, in May 2013. This project was the vision of Esketemc (Alkali Lake) Chief Fred Robbins, who is a former student himself,” their website states.
Whyte further echoes the Orange Shirt Day efforts by encouraging students to participate in learning initiatives that will take place during the strike. 
“We’re going to learn a lot about Orange Shirt Day, the day speaks to the experiences of residential schools. I really encourage everyone to join our teach-ins, there’s a lot to be learned that day,” Whyte says.
York’s Deputy Spokesperson Yanni Dagonas says the university recognizes the importance of the day. “We encourage all community members to reflect on the meaning and importance of this day, to honour the Indigenous children and families who suffered greatly, and those who died, because of the racist residential school system in Canada.”
The host of the Instagram live session, YFS Vice-President of Campus Life Jaskarn Duhra elaborates further on the post-secondary education system.
“My favourite campaign is actually our ‘education for all’ campaign, eliminating all the systemic barriers to accessing post-secondary education,” Duhra says.
Nandan further echoes Duhra’s sentiments, stating: “We have such a diverse and rich campus culture and that is because of the people.” 
According to Duhra, the entirety of the education system means education reform. “We know how discriminatory the education system is.”
Dagonas states that York recognizes its responsibility to help build a more equitable and inclusive community. The university is actively engaged in identifying and implementing additional strategies to fight racism. “We will continue to bring forward initiatives, programs and education that help create a more equal university experience for all,” Dagonas adds.
“I think these incremental steps are great for educating people, but in effect puts little pressure on the university because of how much money and power they have. Though I don’t think any of that undermines this show of student solidarity, every step is important,” states Gunes Agduk, a third-year theatre student.
Dagonas adds that members of the York community “who wish to be out of class or miss work for any reason, including the All-Out action, should refer to the university policies in place related to absences.”
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
