LSD, less commonly known as lysergic acid diethylamide, has gained a reputation throughout the years as somewhat of a “hippie drug,” allowing its users to “expand their consciousness” and experience the world through a lens they would otherwise never be able to.
As time has gone on, and the stigma around it has lessened, we have been able to learn more about LSD and psychedelics in general. 
“LSD makes you feel really in touch with the world; I’d consider it a spiritual journey. But it can definitely also make you think too much, and just be in your own head,” says Allen Rotger, a fourth-year economics student. 
Modern day pundits such as Joe Rogan have emphasized that psychedelics make him “more compassionate, more aware, more vulnerable.” And Steve Jobs, the late founder of Apple, was even quoted as saying that taking LSD was one of the most profound experiences of his life. 
And now, science has something to say about the drug as well. A study published this past August set out to discover the effects of taking very small doses of LSD (a phenomena now known as microdosing) in relation to productivity, depression, and other mental health issues. These aspects were investigated after long standing anecdotal reports. 
The study gave 27 volunteers a placebo, as well as actual LSD, on separate days while monitoring their brain-derived neuropathic factor (BDNF) blood plasma levels every two hours. 
The study found that at a dose of five micrograms of LSD, BDNF increased and peaked after four hours, while 20 micrograms also saw an increase with a peak time of six hours. 
What exactly is BDNF, you may ask? Tya Vine, second-year medical student at the Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine with a BSc in neuroscience, sheds some light on the subject.
  “The research was conducted on healthy volunteers, so I think much more research, including potential clinical trials on patients with mental illnesses, would be needed before concluding that microdosing LSD could be considered a form of treatment for mental illnesses.”
“BDNF is a growth factor that is important for brain development and maintenance. BDNF production and release is activity dependent, which means that properly functioning neurons produce more BDNF, which in turn maintains the healthy neuron and its synapses. It is important for both supporting the survival and health of existing neurons, as well as encouraging growth and differentiation of new neurons and synapses,” says Vine. 
BDNF also plays key roles in learning, memory functioning,  and neuroplasticity — the capacity of our brain to rewire itself. This is fundamental to depression and neurodegenerative disorders like dementia, all of which are tied to a decrease in BDNF levels. 
So, with all this research done and anecdotal stories recounted, does LSD really give its users any support when it comes to the busy workday or the distress of mental health issues? The answer is: maybe. 
In the aforementioned study, a 10 microgram dose of LSD had no effect on BDNF levels, even though a five and 20 microgram dose did. This shows that our understanding of the way this substance behaves is still far from plain sailing. 
In reviewing the study, Vine shared some potential changes that could be taken into account for future research. 
“The research mentioned in the article was conducted on healthy volunteers, so I think much more research, including potential clinical trials on patients with mental illnesses, would be needed before concluding that microdosing LSD could be considered a form of treatment for mental illnesses,” says Vine. 
The study itself indicates that though results were promising, “new studies performed under modern standards are necessary in order to strengthen our knowledge.”
Positives and negatives aside, it is still important to keep in mind that the unauthorized consumption of LSD and most other psychedelics is still illegal in Canada. 
The content in this article is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment; nor is it intended to promote, recommend, or endorse the use of this substance, or any other substances, in any way. 
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
York International hosted several events throughout October, displaying how their study and work abroad programs have been adapted in the face of COVID-19 travel restrictions. For the first time ever, York will be offering remote global internships in Winter 2021. Several international universities have also made remote study options available for York students.
“These are offered through our direct partner organizations, and they may or may not include a program fee — most of them do not,” said International Internships Assistant Natasha Pursun, at a Global Internships Q&A session. “The selection process is handled by both York International and the organization.”
These remote internships are three months long, and interested students can apply directly to York International. Short-term remote internships are also available and will be offered year-round through external providers. 
Current remote opportunities include fields like accounting, marketing, non-governmental organization (NGO) management, and conservation, in countries such as China, England, France, Japan, Portugal, and Peru.
While these internships no longer provide students with a physical international work experience, they still retain the financial benefits. Students are eligible for a funding of up to $3,000 for these opportunities.
Depending on the travel situation, there may still be some international opportunities available in summer 2021. However, they will not be hosted through direct partners like the remote opportunities.
“These are organizations we’ve partnered with through faculty connections here at York,” said Pursun. “We reached out to faculty members here at the university and we asked them for any connections they had in the field, either working with other organizations or working with other universities.”
    “Obviously it was upsetting, having the trip cut off and flying home, but at the same time the situation was getting really scary in Europe, and Canada had it better under control in that sense.”
In terms of educational opportunities, many international universities have pivoted to virtual learning as well. While summer 2021 opportunities have yet to be posted, fall/winter virtual opportunities currently listed include the European studies program at the Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich, and the Winter Abroad program at South Korea’s Yonsei University.
Fourth-year Schulich iBBA student Meena Shanmuganathan can speak to the benefits of her own exchange term this year: “I loved my exchange experience, it was a fantastic time. I really got to discover independence in a new country, in basically learning the language and everything I had to do there. I did get to travel alongside the South of France, I went to Aix-en-Provence on exchange.”
However, Shanmuganathan’s experience was cut off early due to the onset of COVID-19. The time of her return marked the beginning of York’s overall transition to virtual international opportunities.
“Obviously it was upsetting, having the trip cut off and flying home, but at the same time the situation was getting really scary in Europe, and Canada had it better under control in that sense,” she says. 
“It was definitely my first time travelling that long on a plane alone, and I travelled without my suitcases because I’d left them all in France. I flew straight home from London, kind of like an emergency flight.”
While Shanmuganathan enjoyed her own in-person exchange, she still believes it’s worth it for those virtually studying abroad.
“Of course I think exchange isn’t all just about the school you go to, it’s about learning to live in that environment with the locals as well. But the good thing is, I actually really like the virtual study tour opportunity, where I believe you get to meet other businesses or you get to meet people from different parts of the world, so it’s really eye-opening in that sense.”
“Some of these schools are highly prestigious,” she adds. “To be able to say you studied from them, even virtually, is always going to be an asset for you on your resume.”
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
