 
Tyler McKay | Assistant News Editor
Featured Image: Teck Resources Limited’s CEO Don Lindsay. | Courtesy of Reuters/Rodrigo Garrido/Financial Post
Teck Resources Limited has officially withdrawn its application for the Frontier Mine. This Mine has been in the news lately due to vocal opposition preceding an expected decision by the federal government this week on whether or not to let the project continue.
This comes after the environmental impact assessment began over eight years ago on January 19, 2012.
The Teck Frontier Mine was proposed for the extraction of bitumen from the oil sands in Alberta. This mine would span 240 square kilometers, which is roughly the size of Brampton.
The mine would have been located north of Fort McMurray and was projected to produce 260,000 barrels of bitumen per day. The mine would cost $20.6 billion to construct with a projected revenue of $70 billion over its 40-year lifespan.
In the 2015 and 2019 elections however, Prime Minister Trudeau promised to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to meet the goal of a reduction of 30 per cent below 2005 levels by 2030. This was agreed to in the 2016 Paris Agreement.
If this project had been approved, it would unveil a hypocrisy on the issue. How can we reduce our GHG emissions while approving pipelines and open pit oil sands mines? Don Lindsay, president and CEO of Teck Resources Limited, seemed to recognize this.
“Global capital markets are changing rapidly and investors and customers are increasingly looking for jurisdiction to have a framework in place that reconciles resource development and climate change, in order to produce the cleanest possible products. This does not yet exist here today.”
This was from the application withdrawal letter to the federal government.
“Unfortunately, the growing debate around this issue has placed Frontier and our company squarely at the nexus of much broader issues that need to be resolved. in that context, it is now evident that there is no constructive path forward for the project,” continued Lindsay.
While it is true that Canada only emits 1.6 per cent of global GHGs, Canada is in the top 10 of per capita emitters. It is important for us to make changes to curb these emissions, not simply to reduce the total, but to show that we are serious about addressing the issue of climate change.
In a recent interview with the Financial Times, Deputy PM Chrystia Freeland said: “Even if all Canadians ceased emitting carbon dioxide, we wouldn’t move the dial. A big part of our task needs to be leading the multilateral challenge.”
Our climate goals are about providing an example on the world stage that other nations can follow. The construction of the Teck Frontier Mine would sully the image of Canada being serious about confronting global climate change.
As for GHG emissions, according to the Impact Assessment of Canada, approximately 4.1 megatons of CO2 equivalent would be emitted per year.
This represents 5.4 per cent of total oil sands emissions based on 2016 data. This one project would increase the emissions of the oil sands by an unacceptable amount. The Paris goals would not be met if this project had continued.
The Mine issue is not just about Canada meeting its Paris climate goals, but also protecting local environments.
This Mine would destroy swathes of wetlands and boreal forest. Wetlands are a key part of the biodiversity of a region and are important in the sequestration of carbon. So, not only would the mine emit more CO2, but it would also eliminate the ability of the environment to naturally contain those emissions.
Another crucial concern is the proximity of the mine to Wood Buffalo National Park. According to the assessment report, the mine would be 27 kilometers away at its closest point. This puts environmentally sensitive locations in jeopardy, including old-growth forests and many species at risk including woodland caribou, fisher, lynx, and bison.
It is worth considering these factors when assessing Teck’s decision to withdraw their application. There is more at stake here than the economy. It would be far more beneficial to make the move towards the less environmentally detrimental renewable energies.
Great strides are currently being made in solar and wind energy. It is crucial that we pursue these technologies ahead of fossil fuels, and the cancellation of the Frontier Mine provides more of an opportunity to do just that.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Caroline Petrucci | Contributor
Featured Image: Schulich has the highest participation rate of student engagement survey in its launch week. | Courtesy of Caroline Petrucci
The Schulich School of Business is leading the first week of the NSSE championship — a competition to encourage students to participate in the National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE). 
Since February 10, the NSSE survey has been available to first and fourth-year York students. Over 600 universities across North America participate in the survey annually. Some Canadian universities and all Ontario universities participate every three years with a modified Canadian version. 
To encourage participation across campus, NSSE organizers at York have created a competition between the various faculties, excluding Osgoode Hall Law School and the Faculty of Education. The faculty with the highest response rate will win the NSSE Champion Cup. 
Recent results show that Schulich is currently in first place, followed by the Faculty of Environmental Studies in second. The Schulich School of Business has formerly won the championship cup in 2014 and  in 2017. 
“I think Schulich is leading the NSSE Cup because we frequently receive emails from the faculty reminding us to fill it out. The emails also include the current faculty standings that further entice Schulich students to fill out the survey and maintain our lead,” says fourth-year Schulich student Muhammad Asif.
Each student is sent an email from York’s president, Rhonda Lenton. If they do not complete the survey, which runs until March 31, they will be sent a follow-up email. 
“I think in addition to emails, it would be helpful for the university to leverage popular social media platforms to further promote the survey,” says Asif.
To further entice students to participate, each student will receive a virtual coupon for a grande-sized beverage at Starbucks in the Centre for Film & Theatre on Keele Campus or a large coffee at Glendon Marche. The coupon is also interchangeable for a $5 gift card at York Lanes or The Underground. Each student will also be entered for a chance to win one of two $500 tuition waivers. 
The survey takes 15 minutes to complete and can also be found on students’ Moodle accounts. 
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Devon Clare Banfield | Staff Writer
Featured Image: Dr. O’Reilly founded the first-ever academic motherhood program and has won many accolades for her groundbreaking studies. | Courtesy of yFile
On February 8, York professor Dr. Andrea O’Reilly was presented with the 2019 Status of Women and Equity Award of Distinction. O’Reilly founded the Motherhood Studies program at York, and also founded the independent feminist publishers Demeter Press in 2005. She has organized over 50 mother conferences during her career.
“She is an outstanding scholar, teacher, mentor, publisher, and leader within the academy,” said Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations president, Rahul Sapra during the award ceremony, according to a yFile article. 
He continued to say that her contributions to the study of intersectional feminism have changed lives both on and off campus. York students seem to be in agreement with this.
“I think when you value motherhood and focus on educating children you are investing in a better society,” says Luana Saturino, York student and mother of a two-year-old. 
Patricia Mohammed, a 33-year-old mother of three agrees. Mohammed’s children range in age from five to 15; she says that she believes all aspects of motherhood need to be researched. 
“Motherhood should be studied! When you become a mother so many things change, physically, mentally, emotionally. The body and mind react differently to situations than someone who isn’t a mother,’” Mohammed explains.
“Researching these things and explaining why moms act and think they way they do will help mothers not to feel like something is wrong with them. It’ll also educate non-mothers and people in general about why we are the way we are. Motherhood is a beautiful thing that isn’t understood by everyone, even mother’s themselves.”
Back when O’Reilly first founded the program over two decades ago, she would receive letters from students all over the world asking her to convince their academic supervisors that motherhood should be studied. 
“For me, it’s very affirming because this has been an uphill battle,” O’Reilly said on receiving the award.
O’Reilly was the first inductee into the Motherhood Hall of Fame at the Museum of Motherhood. The museum is also home to the Andrea O’Reilly Library. 
She has written, edited and published 18 books as well as founded the Association for Research on Mothering at York in 1998. She ran the facility until it’s closure back in 2010. Afterward, O’Reilly founded a new organization — the Motherhood Initiative for Research and Community Involvement.  
She went on to become the founder and editor-in-chief of the Journal of the Association for Research on Mothering, now rebranded as the Journal of the Motherhood Initiative for Research and Community Involvement. O’Reilly is also the founder of the feminist mother group called “Mother Outlaws.”
O’Reilly coined the term “Matricentric Feminism,” which refers to the feminist focus on motherhood. According to Matricentric Feminism: Theory, Activism, Practice by O’Reilly: “Mothers are oppressed under patriarchy as women and as mothers. Consequently, mothers need a feminism of their own — one that positions mothers’ concerns as the starting point for a theory and politics of empowerment.”
Anastaysia Ivonova is a 27-year-old mother and professional writing graduate, who is currently completing a diploma in journalism. 
“There is a lot of fear surrounding motherhood and career development in combination, from my experience. There is a separation between the two: a woman has to either sacrifice motherhood for a thriving career or vice versa. At the same time, if a woman is able to balance the two, it is extremely difficult mentally and physically,” Ivonova says.
“But what people don’t realize is that a mother who chases a career is doing it to contribute to society as best as she can and to secure a good future for her children.”
O’Reilly says that both her activism and academic work are important, and she sees that reflected in her students. 
This type of academic focus is important when, according to the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, 22 per cent of all undergraduate students have children.
UPDATE: This article has been updated to include accreditation to yFile.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Mahdis Habibinia | Executive Editor, Online
Shahroze Rauf | News Editor
Featured Image: The conflict between Coastal GasLink and the Wet’suwet’en community has sparked protests across Canada, blocking main rail routes. | Courtesy of newsmaven.io
At the centre of Canadian discourse remains the weeks-long tensions that have been rising as railway blockades and protests in support of the Wet’suwet’en hereditary chiefs continue.
The OPP sent dozens of officers to the Tyendinaga blockade this past Monday to dismantle it. Protestors at the blockade, in solidarity with the Wet’suwet’en protests against the Coastal GasLink pipeline, had been blocking traffic on the railroads in the Belleville area for more than two weeks. 
The Coastal GasLink pipeline is a $6-billion, 670-kilometre project meant to transport natural gas from Dawson Creek, in northeastern B.C., to a coastal LNG Canada export terminal in Kitimat. 
Coastal GasLink signed agreements with 20 elected Indigenous councils for this construction, but the pipeline is opposed by some of the Wet’suwet’en hereditary chiefs. The latter claim rights over the unceded land that the pipeline will pass through. The chiefs and their supporters are demanding the B.C. government withdraws permissions for the project to continue.
Across the country, Canadians have gathered in solidarity with the Wet’suwet’en Nation, protesting and blocking rails, streets, bridges, and ports. Via Rail has cancelled most of its service across Canada, and CN has shut down its rail network in Eastern Canada.
    “The RCMP are inflicting force and terror on a group of people who acquired land fairly and justly and are now being criminalized for following the same exact laws the government laid out for them.”
Nationwide protests began in early February after the RCMP began enforcing an injunction that would clear the way for construction of the pipeline. Then on February 6, the RCMP began making arrests and clearing the way for Coastal GasLink workers.
“This is not the outcome we wanted. We have made exceptional efforts to resolve this blockade through engagement and dialogue,” said Coastal GasLink President David Pfeiffer in a statement posted on their website.
“The RCMP are inflicting force and terror on a group of people who acquired land fairly and justly and are now being criminalized for following the same exact laws the government laid out for them,” says second-year Seneca@York journalism student Matt McCune.
According to a statement released by the OPP, its liaison team tried to negotiate with protesters over the past few weeks, but “decided to take action to uphold an injunction to clear the railway.”
“We have remained respectful of the ongoing dialogue, including issues of sovereignty between our Indigenous communities and various federal ministers, and have hoped for productive communication leading to a peaceful resolution,” said OPP spokesperson Bill Dickson.
This was following Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s emergency Incident Response Group meeting. After the meeting, Public Safety Minister Bill Blair announced support for the government’s decision to end these blockades.
    “Other than highlighting our prime minister’s inability to solve problems, I fail to see further benefits to this form of protests. Similar to how our local CUPE unit incorrectly believed halting traffic would propel their agenda forward, the rail blockade seems to only succeed in upsetting Canadians, pushing them further from sympathy.”
“Other than highlighting our prime minister’s inability to solve problems, I fail to see further benefits to this form of protests,” says English MA student at York Ethan Saks. “Similar to how our local CUPE unit incorrectly believed halting traffic would propel their agenda forward, the rail blockade seems to only succeed in upsetting Canadians, pushing them further from sympathy.”
However, solidarity protests and support for the hereditary chiefs remain prevalent. York University’s School of Social Work provided an official statement of solidarity with the Wet’suwet’en community.
“We seek to lend our voices to the chorus of those in support of the Wet’suwet’en people, their clan governance systems, and hereditary chiefs, while also condemning the actions of the Canadian government for violently interfering on this territory and with the bodies of those defending the land and its people,” the statement read. 
The York Federation of Students also offered their support, sending an official letter to B.C. Premier John Horgan and Prime Minister Trudeau, citing the actions of the Canadian government as unlawful and infringing upon indigenous sovereignty. 
“The Wet’suwet’en live on unceded territory — their rights and title to their land have never been relinquished; the actions of your government fail to respect that, only furthering colonial violence,” the letter read. 
Though individuals like McCune echo these sentiments and support the protestors, Saks feels that drastic protests such as the railroad blockades will only lead Canadians further away from reconciliation with Indigenous communities.
“Protests can not block a court house because they inhibit the administration of justice. Why are we allowing groups to inhibit movement as well? I feel as though there are better ways to get this point across — a way that does not degrade the rights of other Canadians, and a way that aims to make Canadians sympathetic with their views rather than admonish them,” says Saks.
With files from CityNews and The Canadian Press
 
Mahdis is a York University graduate with an Honours BA in Professional Writing, a Certificate in Spanish Language Proficiency, and an expected Master of Journalism '23. She is also fluent in Farsi. She began her journey with Excalibur as a contributor in 2017 then worked as executive editor from 2018-2020. For the 2020-2021 year, Mahdis served as editor-in-chief. She is curious about the world, BIPOC stories, and passionate about writing as a platform for advocacy and representation. She hopes to one day add to the diversity of Canadian media both in the content it produces and as a staff member. When Mahdis is not writing or editing or correcting people on the spelling of her name, she is likely marathon-viewing thrillers and crime shows that oddly bear no impact on her sleep. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Bryden Doyle | Contributor
Featured Image: At TIFF Bell Lightbox, a Skype Q&A with Premature director/co-writer Rashaad Ernesto Green (left) and star/co-writer Zora Howard (right). | Courtesy of Bryden Doyle
After TIFF Next Wave screened Rashaad Ernesto Green’s Premature, Green and star/co-writer Zora Howard appeared via Skype at the TIFF Bell Lightbox to discuss the film.
Premature is a New York love story about two young African-Americans. “We felt like there were a lot of films that dealt with Black pain, suffering, victimization, and fear. We wanted to contribute something on the other side of that equation,” stated Green.
Premature is the kind of underrated work that grows in estimation upon further reflection. It’s not without its imperfections, including some unnecessary third-act drama. There’s also much to admire in Green’s sensitive direction, the keenly observed dialogue, and Howard’s heartfelt lead performance.
Howard stars as Ayanna, a 17-year-old from Harlem spending her last summer before university hanging out with friends and writing poetry. One day, she meets Isaiah (Joshua Boone), the slightly older cousin of a mutual acquaintance. Though initially wary of his charismatic persona, Ayanna quickly becomes enamored as they bond over their artistic aspirations – writing for her, music for him – and as he expresses genuine care for her thoughts and interests.
In the courtship scenes, Green is effective in subtly showing the strengthening of this emotional connection. For Ayanna and Isaiah’s first date, Director of Photography Laura Valladao initially films the couple in a wide shot. When Isaiah asks Ayanna a question about her own interests, the film cuts to a close-up of Ayanna’s face to convey how this personal question cuts through her stoicism.
Howard makes Ayanna’s emotional restraint riveting to watch. Even when they’re happy, Howard always keeps their guard up. When Ayanna and Isaiah first lock eyes, Howard purses her lips while smiling, masking her vulnerability.
When Ayanna and Isaiah first have sex, she self-consciously covers her chest. Later, when staring at her own reflection in Isaiah’s bathroom mirror, Howard portrays Ayanna as genuinely nervous before rubbing her face, as if to regain her composure and put on a brave expression for him.
Premature is at its loveliest when simply observing these characters in their everyday interactions. Green and Howard have strong ears for dialogue in the freewheeling hangout scenes.
For instance, when Isaiah caps off an earnest speech by dramatically snapping his fingers, one of his friends calls him out for how rehearsed the gesture seems and the rest of the group erupts into laughter. There are also some strikingly specific details that one doesn’t often see in films today, like a throwaway shot of Ayanna brushing her braids with a toothbrush.
When Ayanna and Isaiah face their inevitable conflict and separation period, Premature loses momentum as characters go through the motions of plot. The film’s treatment of Isaiah is also questionable. At times, his kindness isn’t as convincing as the film intends. When he reads Ayanna’s journal without her permission, the film justifies this invasion of privacy by having him encourage her “lyrical” artistic expression, which ends up playing a significant role in the film’s ending.
That said, what lingers most are the many scenes in which we get to enjoy the company of these characters. At one point, Isaiah discusses the importance of enjoying life’s little moments before they end. That’s the way to enjoy Premature – by embracing its little moments.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Miriam El Abbassi | Arts Editor
Featured Image: Parasite is the first foreign language film to win the title of Best Picture at the 2020 Academy Awards. | Courtesy of MUBI
Parasite (2019), directed by Bong Joon-Ho, broke many barriers within the world of cinema, and even set new records during this past awards season by being the first foreign language film to win the title of Best Picture at the 2020 Academy Awards. 
The film follows the lives of the Kim family, who live in poverty on the outskirts of Korean society, doing odd jobs to get by. By a stroke of luck, the Kim family manages to con their way into becoming servants for the Parks, who in contrast are incredibly wealthy. Things begin to take a turn when outside forces threaten to expose the Kims’ web of lies. 
On the surface Parasite feels like a dark comedy with hints of thrilling elements, keeping the audience on the edge of their seats as they watch the story unfold. 
However, Parasite is much more than a poor family trying to weasel their way into the lives of the rich. It is a social commentary on the structures of inequality that exist, as well as an introspective look at the class struggle within today’s society. 
This film is loaded with symbols and metaphors, one of the most important being the presence of stairs that creates a separation between the upper and lower class. 
The Kim family lives in a semi basement apartment, meaning that the majority of their living space is below ground while the top sliver is above. Their place exists at the bottom of a sloping street, while the Park family’s home seems to exist on top of a hill. 
This division is further expressed when the Kims’ apartment (as well as their entire street) is flooded because of torrential downpour, yet the Parks’ home is unaffected because they live high above ground. 
The term “parasite” is defined by the Oxford English Dictionary as: “An organism that lives in or on an organism of another species (its host) and benefits by deriving nutrients at the other’s expense.” 
It’s easy to take the film at face value and perceive the Kim family as parasites, as they leech off their rich employers, but couldn’t the same be said about the Park family? 
They exploit the Kim family for their services, and rely on them to complete menial day-to-day tasks. In essence, the Parks benefit from the Kims just as much as the Kims benefit from the Parks, creating a symbiotic relationship. 
The film does a good job of implicitly stating who exactly are the parasites, as a strong argument can be made for either family. Depending on the perspective taken, each family can become the villain, and maybe they both are. 
The film, Parasite, may raise more questions than it cares to answer.  
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: There is still hope for those long-term smokers looking to “butt out” for good. | Courtesy of Pixabay
If there’s one phrase that’s most common among heavy, long-term smokers it’s “the damage is done.” But what if that damage was reversible?
Research conducted in the UK as part of a larger, $26-million endeavour involving the Wellcome Sanger Institute and the University College London (UCL), referred to as the Mutographs of Cancer project: a Cancer Research UK Grand Challenge initiative, found that in relation to current smokers, former long-term smokers have more genetically healthy lung cells which are much less likely to develop into cancerous cells.
This finding essentially shows that smokers, even those who have been smoking for 30 to 40 years, still have the ability to rejuvenate the inner cellular lining of their airways.
Joint senior author of the study, Dr. Peter Campbell from the Wellcome Sanger Institute, explained the significance of their team’s research. 
“What is so exciting about our study is that it shows that it’s never too late to quit — some of the people in our study had smoked more than 15,000 packs of cigarettes over their life, but within a few years of quitting, many of the cells lining their airways showed no evidence of damage from tobacco.”
Their analysis of 16 lung biopsies belonging to smokers, former smokers, non-smokers and children determined that 90 per cent of the lung cells of those who smoked contained an average of 10,000 mutations. Of the 632 non-cancerous cells analyzed from each biopsy, more than a quarter contained what are known as cancer-driver mutations — genetic changes that are understood to increase the risk of the host cell becoming cancerous.
Dr. Kate Gowers, joint first author from UCL, clarified that even though these are non-cancerous cells, they “can be thought of as mini time-bombs waiting for the next hit that causes them to progress to cancer.”
However, in former smokers it was found that a significant amount of lung cells had avoided the damage — approximately 40 per cent. In comparison to a smoker, this amounted to four times more cells that are just as healthy as a non-smoker’s lung cells.
“Our study has an important public health message and shows that it really is worth quitting smoking to reduce the risk of lung cancer. Stopping smoking at any age does not just slow the accumulation of further damage, but could reawaken cells unharmed by past lifestyle choices,” said Professor Sam Janes, joint senior author from UCL. 
“Further research into this process could help to understand how these cells protect against cancer, and could potentially lead to new avenues of research into anti-cancer therapeutics.”
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Dylan Stoll | Health Editor
Featured Image: Researches analyzed the hair follicles of mice to determine the link between stress and grey hair. | Courtesy of Pixabay
Stress can cause all sorts of problems for your body. It’s known to cause headaches, depression, heartburn, and insomnia. It can increase your blood pressure, weaken your immune system, upset your stomach, and according to recent research, even turn your hair grey.
Researchers at Harvard University discovered the correlation between loss of hair colour and increased stress levels after they analyzed the hair follicles of mice, in particular the sympathetic nerve system (SNS) that they are connected to. 
The sympathetic nerve system is responsible for the “fight or flight” response in animals. When there is an increase in stress, the SNS releases norepinephrine, a hormone and neurotransmitter, into the hair follicles. 
Each hair follicle contains pigment-regenerating stem cells. When these stem cells are exposed to high levels of norepinephrine, they are destroyed irreparably. This results in what many have anecdotally said to occur — the greying of their hair after extremely stressful situations.
For many whose noses are stuck in the crease of their textbook, perhaps extreme stress has become a reality of their day-to-day lives. Though we are often encouraged to fight through the pain, so to speak, high stress levels will cause issues for your body. It is up to you to decide if those issues are worth those all-nighter, energy-drink-fuelled study marathons.
Ya-Chieh Hsu, the Alvin and Esta Star Associate Professor of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology at Harvard, explained to ScienceDaily just how much of a problem stress can become. 
“When we started to study this, I expected that stress was bad for the body — but the detrimental impact of stress that we discovered was beyond what I imagined,” Hsu said. 
“After just a few days, all of the pigment-regenerating stem cells were lost. Once they’re gone, you can’t regenerate pigment anymore. The damage is permanent.”
But, as we all know, stress is an unavoidable part of life. The key lies in stress management. Getting regular exercise, eating healthy, acquiring enough sleep and managing your time effectively will assist greatly. As will other less obvious methods: being assertive, setting limits with others, maintaining a positive attitude, and accepting that there are events out of your control.
If you are experiencing early hair colour loss, but you feel that stress is not the culprit, you may have fallen victim to other ailments, such as a vitamin deficiency. A lack of vitamins B6, B12, D, E, or biotin may be the reason.
Excessive use of hair products, such as dyes and shampoos, may also contribute to early greying. Most dyes contain hydrogen peroxide, and many shampoos contain chemicals that may be damaging to melanin reserves. 
Bleaching, a common hair treatment, is also correlated with melanin deficiencies. Anyone who bleaches their hair regularly will more than likely have experienced some degree of hair colour loss as a result.
But, if you see a few grey hairs here and there, don’t worry yourself too much — this is entirely normal; it is only when significant hair colour loss occurs that you should consider a lifestyle change.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
