 
Letter to the Editor
Re: Professor Suzanne MacDonald featured in CBC wildlife docuseries
News» Jan 22, 2020 
I found the article on York psychology and biology Professor Suzanne MacDonald’s research on urban wildlife extremely interesting and, on a personal note, relevant to material I cover in my psychology classes on animal behaviour (e.g.,  psychology of motivation). Prof. MacDonald’s research on the environmental value provided by various animal species living in our midst is informative and impressive, and is in keeping with the legacy of the naturalist Charles Darwin that there is merit in the comparative study of other species. 
The article makes it clear that the animals she has studied (e.g., raccoons, opossums) actually benefit us;  “recycling mountains of consumer-generated waste in cities around the world.” As your article points out, Prof. MacDonald also confronts various myths about urban wildlife, as these animals are generally viewed as dangerous and dirty, responsible for disease.  By “eliminating enormous amounts of consumer waste,” she says, these animals actually make our cities healthier.  
For those of us who live in an urban environment, our contact with urban wildlife may be coloured by misinformation that generates negative views (e.g., see the late Rob Ford’s views on the opossum).  Growing up in a city with its shopping plazas and malls may not give much of an opportunity to take note of the natural world and the creatures with whom we co-exist, except as seeing them as intruders and pests.  
Through her work on animal behaviour, Prof. MacDonald not only provides insight into the habits of urban animals, which is in itself interesting,  her research, by reaching a wider audience through a docuseries such as CBC’s, The Nature of Things,  also contributes to fostering more tolerant and benign attitudes towards these creatures and remind us that we, too, are biological animals sharing our ecological niches with other species.  Let’s not forget, we are the waste makers and these animals, by being the ‘clean-up crew’, are doing their best to adapt to the environments that we continually destroy and create. Their creative ability to adapt to the challenges they confront in our urban spaces is even more remarkable for in the process of making our living spaces healthier,  these animals do not contribute to further environmental contamination or deterioration. 
In a consumer-driven culture such as ours, with our bloated overblown sense of narcissistic omnipotence, these animals can teach us a lesson in humility, a lesson in eco-consciousness, by reminding us that we are custodians, and not rulers, of an ecosystem we all share and should protect.
— Frank J. Marchese, PhD
Course Director, Dept. of Psychology
York University
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ameer Shash | Staff Writer
Featured image courtesy of Jordan Chu, Photo/Video Editor
It was a near-annual pilgrimage back to her native homeland of Sylhet, Bangladesh. Nanjeeba Chowdhury-Mohammad had been waiting to meet with family and partake in cultural ceremonies and gatherings. Although Sylhet’s economy has been thriving in recent years due to its production of gas and tea for all of Bangladesh, its residents continued to persevere through difficult living conditions. Many of the people living in Sylhet are elderly and are stricken with illnesses that make life debilitating. 
Nanjeeba says everything feels different than what it is in Canada — a lot more “hustle and rush.” 
Grime and dirt-stained cars and lorries dangerously weaved through traffic. Run-down buildings and services in the village is a byproduct of the crippling economy. Merchants and business owners nearby try to keep their head above water to sustain their family. The demise of a notorious, poverty-stricken community being illuminated by the cultural preservation that still exists.
Nanjeeba’s experience, for the most part, is consistent with mine when I had travelled to Harar, Ethiopia in 2007. The city of Harar is walled with notable features of the region being its homes that are built from stone and wildlife (specifically hyenas). During my first visit, I recall seeing merchants scattering the streets on the hard rock surface selling their fresh produce and clothing in desperation to survive. 
Though I have only travelled back home once, I remember trying to immerse myself with how life was lived there. Doing so forces you to wonder about all of the first-world luxuries you take for granted: a nice bed to sleep on, a lack of nuisance-causing mosquitoes, a free healthcare system, a transit system that gets you places without compromising your safety, and a lack of air raid sirens. When we go back to our homeland, we say our hellos, stay a while for leisure, and just leave without so much as lending a helping hand once we leave.  
Humanitarian agencies identify many nations, like both Ethiopia and Bangladesh, as underdeveloped or developing. Most of all, these countries are in need of relief from famine, war, water contamination, disease, and deplorable living conditions.
You have seen the campaigning and programming time and time again: starved and traumatized children shedding tears in front of a camera. So although we as immigrants have the privilege of living in Canada now, we cannot forget our roots. 
Be it donating to non-profit organizations, volunteering with programs or volunteering abroad, donating clothes back home during leisure visits, donating insecticide-treated bed nets, sponsoring a child, or directly contributing to education reform, the smallest of sacrifices will make all the difference.
In hopes of reshaping and restructuring people’s lives in these nations, merely a small amount of time out of our days is required. After all, it is a delegation and duty that we do our part in contributing to our motherlands, as to show we are not abandoning them.
 


I like this piece. Maybe say that World Vision is an agency – orient people with it?

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Matt Render | Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Jordan Chu, Photo/Video Editor
I hear a lot of apologizing today. A lot of people are made to feel ashamed of themselves and their identities. A lot of people who are being silenced based not on what they say, but who they are. I’ve seen people who accept the role assigned to them as some sort of enemy based on what they look like or what they believe in. People who apologize for their own existence. I’m not one of those people. I do not apologize for being white. I do not apologize for having red hair, either. And I surely won’t apologize for being Jewish. I’d like to emphasize that last point. I will neither apologize for being Jewish, nor will I remain silent while the cloud of anti-Semitism looms darker by the day.
Instead of listing off the daily news events in the Jewish world, from the ongoing anti-Semitic attacks that have gone rampant in France, England, and throughout North America, I will single out two Canadian events. They speak to a larger issue that is at hand. These are not isolated incidents. They are indicative of the current political climate in Canada, and surely in other parts of the world as well. These are not the exception, but rather, the new normal.
Instead of generating intellectual discourse, university campuses have become a breeding ground for hatred and thought control. At McGill University, it has been outlawed by the school newspaper to publish any pro-Zionist content whatsoever. This has been passed and enforced under the guise that any pro-Zionist speech is “hate speech.”
Forget the fact that I’m writing this as a Jew. This is a university we’re talking about here. A university that has effectively silenced an entire group of people. I don’t care who you are or what you stand for, that is anti-democratic. How that could ever pass is beyond my imagination, but I will venture to explain it this way: hating Israel (and Jews by default) is not just trendy, it is now politically correct.
If you are confused as to why Jews were included in that equation, you shouldn’t be. It’s simple math, really. If people hate Israel, believing it to be an evil, apartheid state, without the right to exist, and Israel is the homeland for Jewish people, is it a big intellectual leap to say those same people who hate Israel probably hate the Jews? That, coupled with the statistically most violent last couple of years in the history North American Jewry and the rise of anti-Zionist activist groups may help to elucidate the point a little clearer. If Israel is the enemy, then so are the Jews.
Let’s be clear: the point isn’t to say anyone can’t disagree with Israel (or Judaism for that matter). Go right ahead and disagree. But, don’t forcefully break up a lecture being given by a veteran of the Israeli army while hurling anti-Semitic slogans and death threats under the guise of “social justice.” Here, I am referring to the incident on York’s campus where a pro-Israel group had their event shut down by a protest from Students Against Israeli Apartheid which quickly resulted in violence, anti-Semitic slogans, and death threats.
If this is what’s going on in our universities today, and if students are being bullied, belittled and denied their own voice, then the future is looking pretty bleak. Censorship and physical violence have no place in any democratic institution.
This has nothing to do with me being Jewish. This has nothing to do with me being pro-Israel. This is about hatred. No group deserves to be bullied into silence. No group deserves violence against them.
I don’t care what group you belong to or what you think you stand for. I stand for what’s right. I stand for the truth. If that makes me the enemy, then so be it. I will not apologize for that.
 


This is such a bad take, are you forgetting that it’s a settler colonial state and people have literally been displaced and had their homes destroyed and bulldozed in droves? I’m not sure what anti semitic slogans were actually said when the only alleged one was debunked and heard by no one there, but to answer your point the PREMIER of ontario and PRIME MINISTER of canada publically shamed the grassroots student protest because of one alleged comment that wasn’t actually said. So you have to ask yourself at some point, who has the real institutionalized power here, and who is actually being shamed for their opinions when any human rights activist in this country is smeared as being anti-semitic (google Canary Mission if you don’t believe me) and deplatformed/fired. What did actually happen was an FBI-recognized terrorist group, the JDL full of grown men, came and urinated on a Palestinian flag (Captured on video, see the yfs link) and assaulted student protestors. And sorry, yes it is strange to have members of a foreign military on our campus speaking because they are being paid heavily to do so by herut, a right wing, fascist political party. There is nothing wrong with criticizing israel’s policies when they have blatantly committed many human rights violations and many students have personal histories of their families being affected by these facts.
i agree with bh. this is a very strange take on the situation. i absolutely understand the hurt & hatred one must feel when they’re standing up for something that others don’t believe in, but you have to recognize that this was not an antisemitic event. the rally was against having former soldiers who have killed innocent families in our place of education. as a palestinian supporter, i had a grown woman flip me off from behind a police officer & gesture as though she was spitting at me. all i had done was make eye contact w her. the “antisemitic chants” were debunked as a rumour a JDL member had started. as a rally attendee, i promise you there were no antisemitic chants. find me a video where that was chanted & i’ll side w you in a heartbeat.

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Victoria Meyer | Contributor
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
Currently, the minimum wage in Ontario is $14 an hour, which falls short of ensuring full-time work pays enough to make a living. It was scheduled to rise to $15 an hour this year, but the current provincial government has decided, instead, to freeze the minimum wage at $14.  
  I believe that $14 an hour is too low as compared to the current living wage, but $15 would have been a large increase and a good start to catch up with inflation,” says Sheila Block of the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives “$14 is still good progress, but since it was rolled back it affected minimum wage workers negatively.”
The minimum wage is regarded as the legislative floor for hourly wages, and it should cover everyday costs for all workers. However, there are a number of exclusions not taken into consideration.
Since the minimum wage is so low in Ontario, young adults struggle to pay for their daily expenses including schooling, transportation, housing and groceries. Regardless of where they are in their life, a minimum wage job does not cover the living expenses of Ontario.
According to Statistics Canada, 52 per cent of Canada’s working population aged 15-24 earn the mandated minimum wage — 77.8 per cent of those minimum wage workers live in Ontario. 
Many students can relate to the struggles of having to keep up with living expenses. 
University of Guelph-Humber student Lucas Neto, 21, says he worked a minimum wage job from age 16 to 18. 
“For me, at this age, I had a lot saved up and purchased my first car and paid off my first year of university. Of course, I had help from scholarships and my parents paying my car insurance. Without this financial assistance my perspective would be completely different,” says Neto.
Now, Neto earns $20.81 an hour and was able to work full-time over the last few summers, which helped pay for his university tuition. Still, he struggles to stay on top of other expenses.
“Although I have been fortunate to work at a higher wage job, this doesn’t leave me with too much room to spend more money,” Neto explains. “I can only imagine how difficult it is to work the minimum wage while having to pay for tuition, books, food, residence, a car, insurance, etc.”
University of Guelph-Humber student Brooklynn Lake, 21, has been working a minimum wage job for over six years. Lake explains: “Although my job has provided me with some funds for schooling, I still have to make sure that I have done the extra work to receive scholarships to cover my school payments. As well, it has made it difficult for me to ensure that I have enough funds for transportation as well, with bus fares increasing and not being able to afford a car for school and work”.
Lake believes that the minimum wage is not comparable to a living wage. “It has been difficult to live off of the wage I have been receiving for these six years”.
Young adults feel pressured to further their education in hopes of getting a well-paid job, but this also comes with the uncertainty of getting the occupation for which they studied so hard. Many are stuck working minimum wage jobs while paying off their student loans.
York alumnus Alex Few, 23, says that student debt can often weigh heavy on young adults’ shoulders. “Most of us have the hope that post-secondary will bring a well-paying job, but in reality, that’s not always the case,” says Few. 
“I have friends who work in retail and other underpaid positions to help pay for school or other necessities, and I have first-hand seen the stress that results from large expenses and low salaries”
Few believes that the minimum wage needs to reflect growing expenses so that the wellbeing of people her age don’t have to be at stake.
According to a 2013 report by Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, a large majority of millennials who work in minimum wage jobs are characterized by four main things: low pay, few or no benefits, part-time or casual work, and greater risk of injury. Many minimum wage workers also have no choice but to rely on low-income jobs to support themselves.
Some people worry that raising the minimum wage to a more adequate living wage could lead to job losses and would affect employees positively or negatively. However, this is not the case, according to Block.
  Extensive academic research has been progressive on this issue and claims that the minimum wage increase does not increase unemployment but, instead, it increases wages for families as well as increases the pay rates of workers earning slightly over the minimum wage,” Block says. 
“So, overall, it is a positive impact.”
The bar is set too low in Ontario and it is time for the Ontario government to increase the minimum wage to benefit all low-income workers.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Ameer Shash | Staff Writer
Featured image courtesy of Pixabay
As midterms approach, tensions and emotions run high. Families are pressing their children to reach their maximum potential to secure their dream job that “pays well,” build a name for themselves, and uphold family dignity. For hours on end, students will immerse themselves in textbooks and hurriedly submit documents online.  
In many families, though, speaking about mental health is practically non-existent and having a mental illness is shameful in some cultures. January is half-way point of the school year, and students just hope to be able to plow through the remainder of the year with decent grades. Being caught up with studies and sometimes a part-time job can mean forgetting about self-care — physically and mentally. Fortunately, many corporations and businesses are taking a stand by letting social media be a voice to many who sit in silence to the stigma surrounding mental health.
January is renowned for Bell Let’s Talk Day: an initiative created by Bell Canada to advocate and educate others about mental health awareness and self-care. Their initiative, which began in January 2011, encourages Canadians to use hashtag symbols in conjunction with ‘BellLetsTalk’ and ‘MentalHealthAwareness’ on social media with their posts. 
Alternatively, if you are a Bell Canada customer, every text or call made on their network contributes to the cause. The power of medical innovation is, quite literally, at the tip of your fingers. The annual initiative also aims to destigmatize mental health and open up a conversation about the struggles of living with mental illness.  This is also the time where on-campus support services are the most critical.
While technology can aid so much in advocating for a great cause, if you are a student who believes studying comes before self-care, you may want to reassess your disposition. When your brain is fogged and in the clouds, how can you expect to achieve success in school? 
Unfortunately, many students deal with adversities during their learning. The loss of a family member, emotional abuse from a loved one, a traumatic event — and especially when it happens for the first time, one can be at a standstill. It takes a lot of time for someone grieving to rationalize what has happened. Time can heal, but time can also manifest itself into a spreading “infection” on the brain. This is why it is important to seek help when and where possible, and without delay. 
If you’re someone who is feeling down, put your head up and look around. Our school’s community has an array of support groups, services, and clubs where one can open up without feeling judged or ashamed. Mental health initiatives are imperative for us all, and we must continue to talk about this not only in January, but every day of the year. 
Since #BellLetsTalk’s inception, $100 million dollars has been raised for the cause. Canadians remain hopeful that technological advancements in both medicine and social media enhance the lives of those living with mental health challenges.
 


When I was 19, I met my girlfriend who was 18 at the time. Her ex had herpes and didn’t tell her. Then she had a breakout, but we didn’t know what it was until after it went away. We had sex a few days after that. I was itching all the time. I went to the doctor to find out I had herpes. My herbal doctor (DR JOE) gave me HSV HERBAL REMEDY, and I took two teaspoon daily for good one month and three weeks just as instructed. I haven’t had a breakout yet, and My last test came out Negative. For more information about this remedy, visit: ww w. besthealthherbalcentre .c om

 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image courtesy of Jordan Chu, Photo/Video Editor
Bell Let’s Talk Day has arrived and across campus you can see people donning blue toques with the little white smiley-face-and-speech-bubble logo. It’s a time when student groups and the university alike go all-out to talk about mental health and wellness.
There are so many resources and services available to help with feelings of stress, anxiety, depression, and the like at York that it can be overwhelming figuring out what the best option is for you. At least the options are there, unlike at some other universities that have little to no support available for student mental health needs.
It’s great that we’re finally moving into a place where we can discuss all of our feelings — not just the shiny, happy ones. And, it’s great that Bell Let’s Talk Day has played a major role in this movement.
However, in these conversations about mental health, what’s often excluded is mental illness.
Yes, when negative mental health exists long enough it can turn into an illness, so it is important to focus on strategies to improve and reflect upon one’s mental health. However, stopping at mental health doesn’t help those who are already at the point of illness, both diagnosed and undiagnosed. It also doesn’t help that we only speak about mental health meaningfully at this time of year, and that for a few weeks its social media filters and tags are the new fad before mental health and wellness fades into the background.
Emphasizing positive mental health practices — such as exercising regularly, eating a balanced diet, getting enough sleep — isn’t enough for those who struggle on a regular basis, not just in January. It can make those who are mentally ill feel like they did something wrong, that somehow their illness is entirely their fault, and that can be dangerous to someone who is already struggling with mental illness(es).
So, in the same way that we’re moving forward and breaking down the stigma around discussing mental health, we’re often neglecting thoughtful conversation and education about mental illness. We’re neglecting an already vulnerable group who doesn’t feel like they belong, and further ostracizing them. 
What Bell Let’s Talk festivities need isn’t more talk about mental health, it needs more talk about the illnesses that can result from prolonged poor mental health. It’s talking about what anxiety can look like, or depression or obsessive compulsive disorder, or any other number of mental illnesses. And, it’s talking about how harmful it can be when someone who doesn’t have one of those illnesses uses them as adjectives to describe their quirks.
The Bell Let’s Talk initiative raises a lot of money every year that goes toward making mental health support services more accessible, and the conversation it sparks at this time of year is important. However, it’s a conversation that needs to be continued and be made more inclusive. Mental health and mental illness are equally important every other day of the year. 
If we can’t have comfortable conversations about mental illness, we’ll struggle to understand why those who practice good mental health habits can also be the same people who have a mental illness.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured image courtesy of Jeremy Zheng/York Lions
The Lions were looking to snap their 11-game losing streak this past weekend, and did just that when they travelled to St. Catharines to take on the Brock Badgers on Thursday. However, when they returned onto home ice the following night to take on the Guelph Gryphons, they could not repeat their success.
The Lions had defeated the Badgers by one point at the beginning of the season, but the Badgers had in turn won their last contest by the same margin.
In Thursday’s match, the Lions beat the Badgers 5-4 in overtime. Tyler Higgins got the Lions onto the scoreboard first, netting a goal at 13:37. Twenty seconds later, Xavier Pouliot added a second goal for the Lions. Brendan Browne assisted on both of these goals.
The Lions added two more goals in the second period, the first of these coming from Justin Bean. Brandon Yeamans followed up with another goal less than a minute later, bringing the score to 4-0 for the Lions.
In the last half of the same period, the Badgers took control of the puck and scored three consecutive goals. Tyler Rollo scored twice and  Jordan Sambrook added another to close out the period one point behind the Lions at 4-3.
The Badgers tied the score in the third period when Ayden MacDonald scored on a power play.  Neither team was able to score after that, and the game went into overtime. 
Early in the period, the Lions were able to once again find the back of the Badgers’ net and regained the lead at 5-4. This goal came off the stick of Nic Coric, with Yeamans and Mark Wilson assisting. 
The Lions’ defence stayed strong for the rest of the game, and the Lions took home their first win since November.
Friday’s match against the Gryphons was a tough contest. The Gryphons had defeated the Lions in both of their prior matches this season, and were looking for a third. The Gryphons achieved just that, edging out the Lions in overtime for a final score of 4-3.
The Gryphons scored early in the period, with Mikkel Aagaard and Justin Lemcke teaming up to get past Lions goaltender Cole Ceci. After battling it out for another 18 minutes, the Lions found their way to the Gryphons’ net. Peter De Coppi scored first for the Lions, and was assisted by Coric and Browne. The first period ended tied 1-1.
The Gryphons took the lead in the second period. Ryan Valentini and Ted Nichol scored once each to put the Gryphons up 3-1 over the Lions.
Shortly after Nichol’s goal, Morgan Messenger of the Lions found his way to the net. Alex Mowbray and Scott Feser assisted on this goal.
The Lions scored again in the third period while keeping the Gryphons at bay. Bean scored his second goal of the weekend, with Feser and Messenger assisting. This left the game tied at 3-3, and the game went into overtime once again.
This overtime did not go as well for the Lions as it did the night before. Connor Bramwell of the Gryphons scored 40 seconds into play, and the Lions were unable to regain the lead. The game ended 4-3 in favour of the Gryphons.
The Lions are now at 6-16 for the season, up to 14 points but still last in the OUA West rankings.
They will be back in action tomorrow on Wednesday, January 29 at 7:00 p.m. to take on the Badgers once again, this time at Canlan Ice Sports.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Emily Goodwin | Editor-in-Chief
Featured Image: Lauren Golding goes in for lay up in Friday morning’s match against the Nippissing Lakers. | Courtesy of Jojo Yanjiao Qian/York Lions
The Lions’ basketball teams were back in action at home this past weekend. They took on the Nippissing Lakers on Friday and the Laurentian Voyageurs on Saturday. The women’s team picked up two more wins, extending their winning streak to five in a row. The men’s team had a tougher time and lost both matches.
Friday’s school-day match against the Lakers saw the women’s team start strong and maintain their lead throughout the game. By the end of the first half, the Lions were already up 39-28. 
The Lakers desperately tried to close the gap, but they were no match for the Lions. The game ended 84-70 for the Lions.
Lauren Golding once again lead the Lions in points, scoring 28. Katrina Collins-Samuels lead in rebounds with 19.
When the men took to the court, their skills were not enough to keep up with the Lakers. After the first quarter ended in a 19-all tie, the Lions increasingly fell behind each quarter. At halftime they were down 43-35.
The Lions struggled for the remainder of the game, which ended 82-67 for the Lakers.
Saturday night’s matches against the Voyageurs saw the women’s team replicate their first half success from the previous night. They were up 31-22 over their opponent at half time, and picked up the pace in the third and fourth quarters.
The Voyageurs struggled to keep up with the Lions in the last half of play, and continued to fall further behind. A massive 26-point fourth quarter from the Lions sealed their fifth straight win, with a final score of 75-48. 
Golding and Megan McLeod shared top point accolades, scoring 18 each. McLeod also lead in rebounds with 10.
Where the women’s team replicated their success, the men’s team had an equally hard time in Saturday’s match. After trailing in the first, the Lions came back to score an equal number of points to the Voyageurs in the second period. This burst of energy did not extend into the last half of the game though, and the Lions lost their third straight game 84-76.
Prince Kamunga and Tyler Prince led in points during Friday’s game, earning 13 each. Kamunga took the lead for the Lions in Saturday’s game with 26 points.
The women’s team now sits in third in the OUA Central division, with 20 points and 10-6 for the season. The men remain in last with just four points, and two wins to 14 losses.
The Lions will be on the road for their next four games where they will take on Brock, McMaster, Windsor, and Western.
They will return to the Tait McKenzie Centre for their final games of the regular season, the first being Wednesday, February 12 against the UOIT Ridgebacks. The second and final game will be on Friday, February 14 against the Queen’s Gaels. Tip-off for both games is at 6:00 p.m. for the women and 8:00 p.m. for the men.
 



 York University Community Newspaper 
