Everyday, 27 Canadians are diagnosed with a brain tumour, according to the Brain Tumour Foundation of Canada. Treatments like radiation therapy, chemotherapy, surgeries and various medications have been the norm in aiding this form of illness for years. A recent study may be able to offer new hope in the field, as a potential brain cancer vaccine has yielded positive results in its initial human trial. 
Brain tumours are defined as “a mass or growth of abnormal cells in the brain.” Tumours are classified into two groups: benign (noncancerous) and malignant (cancerous).
Brain tumours can either be primary, meaning they originate in the brain, or they can be secondary (also called metastatic), meaning the cancer began elsewhere in the body and then spread to the brain via bloodstream. The speed at which tumours grow varies based on the individual. To date, more than 150 different types of brain tumours have been identified. 
Primary brain tumours begin when healthy cells gather mutations in their DNA, leaving them with errors. Due to the mutations, cells then grow and divide at a rate that is far quicker than the norm, and continue living when a usual cell would have already died off. This results in a mass of mutated cells, forming a tumour. About one-third of brain tumours are cancerous. 
The study in question deals with a specific type of primary brain tumour known as gliomas. 
Gliomas are tumours that begin in the brain or spinal cord, and have subtypes known as astrocytomas, ependymomas, glioblastomas, oligoastrocytomas, and oligodendrogliomas.
The recent vaccine study was carried out from May 2015 to November 2018. 
The vaccine targets diffuse gliomas, which can be seen throughout the brain and often can not be addressed through conventional cancer treatments like the aforementioned chemotherapy, surgery or even radiotherapy. 
Seventy percent of patients with diffuse gliomas develop a specific change in the isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) enzyme that develops, through mutation, into a protein known as neo-epitope — something the immune system recognizes as foreign to the body. 
By isolating this vulnerability in diffuse gliomas, researchers were able to narrow down the fact that their vaccine should ideally prompt an antibody response and consequentially eliminate the mutated protein. 
Researchers already had some context when it came to their plan, as prior to the trial, they had synthesized IDH1 and used it to stop the progression of protein-mutated tumours via inoculation in mice. 
Fourth-year health studies student Jordan Cooke was able to shed some light on the reasons behind why mice and rats are so commonly used in scientific trial studies. 
“Mice are small, they reproduce quickly, and more importantly, they share over 30,000 of the same genes as humans. This allows for more predictability when you move to humans in the next trial phase of a study,” says Cooke. 
Forty-four patients were screened in the study, while 33 were chosen to participate in the trial. 
Just over 93 per cent of patients who were vaccinated saw an immune response that encompassed a large number of T cells being developed. Swelling of the tumour was observed, which is indicative of the fact that immune cells are indeed targeting the mutated IDH1. No side effects were reported at the conclusion of the Phase I trial. 
Of the 93 per cent who saw an immune response, 82 per cent had no tumor growth whatsoever for two years after the treatment. The study also reported that 84 per cent of patients survived for three years post-treatment with 64 per cent seeing a cessation of growth in their tumours in this time. 
“The safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine were so convincing that we continued to pursue the vaccine concept in a further phase I study,” stated Michael Platten, medical director of the Department of Neurology of University Medicine Mannheim and Head of Division at the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ). Platten led the study with his colleagues. 
Though optimistic about the results, Platten affirmed that more placebo-controlled trials of this nature will need to be conducted before conclusions can be drawn with certainty. 
Third-year health sciences student Jasmine Sidhu is eager to see how the study will continue. 
“I am glad to see some progress being made in this field. Having your family directly affected by brain cancer is devastating, and it’s also worrying knowing it is in your family history because it can be hereditary. I would love to follow this study along and see how the next trial phase goes,” says Sidhu. 
As for phase II of the study, Platten stated that it will see the vaccine combined with checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. This could allow for white blood cells to destroy gliomas found in the brain through an even more active immune system. 
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
The Ministry of Colleges and Universities’ appeal to the Student Choice Initiative (SCI) was heard on March 23 and 24 in the Ontario Court of Appeals. 
The SCI policy, first introduced in January 2019, would allow students the option to opt-out of “non-essential” (and previously mandatory) student fees. This would include funds for on-campus media, student clubs and societies, as well as certain student support groups. 
According to Kayla Weiler, national executive representative for the Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario (CFS-O), student unions and groups have acted as major supports for students during the pandemic, and argues that the SCI puts this student work in jeopardy. 
Weiler explains that the SCI would threaten student democracy, especially hurting “student unions (who operate the fees/services that were determined essential even when their fees were not), pride/LGBTQ2S+ centres and women’s centres, as well as cultural groups and clubs, campus media, and other democratically determined fees on campus.”
In November 2019, a unanimous decision within the Ontario Divisional Court ruled that the SCI was unlawful. The Ford government requested an appeal to the ruling in December 2019, which was just heard at the end of this past March.
Student unions across the province have continued to fight back against the recent appeal. According to Jaskarn Duhra, vice-president of campus life for the York Federation of Students (YFS), the arguments made in court by their representative council primarily focused on the autonomy of student associations and universities.
Duhra adds it was argued that the SCI undermines student autonomy by deeming what services deserve to be essential or non-essential, “when these organizations, fees, and mandates, since their inception, have been governed and introduced by students via referendum.”
“An argument made was about universities and the provincial legislation that established each institution,” says Weiler on the CFO council’s arguments made in court, “stating that the SCI policy was overstepping those pieces of legislation. Our last argument was in regards to the Colleges of Ontario Act, which underlines the ministry’s limits in meddling with students’ unions and groups affairs.”
Weiler continues that the minister does not have the authority to direct relationships of post-secondary institutions while “ignoring the legislation, which makes them autonomous.”
When first introduced in 2019, Ford asked for this initiative to be implemented within Ontario colleges and universities, otherwise funding for said institutions would be reduced. Duhra claims that Ford’s financial attacks on students wasn’t an issue solely introduced with this initiative, going on to say, “If the Ford government really cared for supporting students and saving students money, it would prioritize making education free and accessible to all students while supporting the organizations that students enjoy.”
So what is the future of post-secondary education within the province and on-campus life for York students if this initiative is approved?
Duhra infers: “Significant cuts to funding would require the shut down of support services such as the YFS Wellness Centre and Food Support Centre. Student services that contribute to campus life, including our radio station and newspaper Excalibur, would no longer exist while clubs and college councils would be operating at a minimal capacity.” 
“Overall, I would hate to see all the amazing services that made my experience as a student so much better be taken away as a result of the Ford government’s actions,” Duhra concludes. 
When Excalibur reached out to the Ministry of Colleges and Universities, press secretary Scott Clar stated that as the matter was currently in court, it would be “inappropriate to comment further at this time.” 
They did, however, provide the following statement: “Our government will continue to promote affordability and transparency for Ontario students and their families, and is appealing the court decision from November 2019.”
This is a developing story. The court’s decision is said to be made within two to four months. 
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
