On November 18, 2021, York along 46 universities and colleges across the nation, signed a 22-page charter; the Scarborough Charter, addressing ways and methods to address anti-Black racism within campuses.
Dr. Carl E. James, professor and the Jean Augustine chair in education, community and diaspora in the faculty of education, says that “beyond signing the charter from all these universities, we need to see how they operationalize what they mean.”
As a step forward last year, York introduced a Black Canadian Studies Certificate in the department of humanities to “learn from a diverse group of internationally recognized faculty in the areas of Black Canadian culture, race and social policy, Black resistance and identity, and much more,” according to the program’s website.
Professor Leslie Sanders, co-coordinator of the Black Canadian studies certificate says they look forward to the way “in which the policy will support the development of an even more robust Black Canadian studies degree, both at the graduate and undergraduate level, supporting our students and making York a leader in the field.”
Professor Lorne Foster, York research chair in Black Canadian studies & human rights, further comments, “The Scarborough Charter on Anti-Black Racism and Black Inclusion In Canadian Higher Education lays out a path for equitable participation at the student, staff, faculty, and senior administration levels that includes concrete and scalable outcomes. To my knowledge this is the first official sector document that clearly acknowledges that disaggregated race data is the lynchpin between our equity aspirations and our human rights obligations.”
In addition, York also provides a certificate program for anti-racist research & practice, where students learn and ”develop comprehensive knowledge about how to challenge systemic and institutional racism, with a special focus on addressing issues in the workplace, educational and health care sectors, immigration, law enforcement, media, and the expressive arts,” according to the program’s website.
Genelle Pollydore, York alumna and founder of Swen Equity, was the recipient of the Skinner Agents of Change Leadership Award and a graduate of the anti-racism research & practice certificate. Pollydore discusses her experience when gaining this certificate: “What I learned throughout this certificate was transformational, and that is a transformation that every student, not just at York and not just in the global health program should have information for. I firmly believe that we should not have to seek out ‘additional education’ to get some of the foundational concepts, because it really does relate to all different disciplines.”
York President Rhonda Lenton acknowledges, “The charter affirms our collective commitment to addressing the systemic anti-Black racism that pervades academia, and to foster pan-Canadian communities of learning that build inclusive, substantive equality.”
Head of Mclaughlin College and Associate Professor Dr. James Simeon says, “Personally, I am very pleased that our university has been part of this initiative from the outset and that Lenton has signed the Scarborough Charter on the York community’s behalf. I am also very pleased at the way our faculty and the university has taken the initiative to implement positive change to address systemic anti-Black racism on our campuses.”
To further address these issues, an advisory committee was formed. Made up of staff, professors, and students, the committee aims to “bring unique perspectives to LA&PS’ efforts to combat anti-Black racism,” according to the Addressing Anti-Black Racism page on York’s website.
What do students think?
Third-year bachelor of commerce student and member of the Anti-Black Racism Advisory Committee Nathaniel Boateng gives his remarks: “The Scarborough Charter is a step in the right direction. I am glad to see that the university is listening and helping address the flaws in the system. Giving more students the chance to reach their full potential puts more creative and intuitive minds on our campus and in our communities. There’s still work to be done, but I am happy to see where we will be real soon.”
Aija-Simone White, fourth-year health studies student, says, “It’s going to be very easy for all of these universities to sign off on this document, but there has to be action and then an accountability aspect. 
“Who’s going to keep them accountable?” White asks. “Black students want action-measurable and visible change.”
The York United Black Students Alliance (YUBSA) says that YUBSA “welcomes and encourages the signing of the Scarborough Charter. The signing of this document presents an opportunity for York and other post-secondary institutions to focus on improving their inclusion of the Black members of their communities. 
“As we continue to fight for inclusion and representation at York, we hope that the university seizes this opportunity to improve the experience of its Black community members. Reports of anti-Black racism in Canadian post-secondary institutions have become widespread and YUBSA hopes that the signing of this charter serves to reverse that trend,” they continue.
Students, faculty, and staff all hope the Scarborough Charter provokes positive steps to be taken in the near future, and for action and change to be truly implemented, and that through these changes, inclusivity and representation will be attained and continued.
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
A report published by One Voice Canada (a not-for-profit focused on amplifying international student concerns) in January of this year has shown that suicide rates among international students is growing, stating that “international student suicides have become a disturbing trend in Canada. The economic impact of COVID-19 seems to have only exacerbated these problems.”
While the report doesn’t give specific numbers, it does posit that economic burden affects nine out of 10 international students, with many families overseas taking out loans in order to support their students’ academic journeys. Due to this, many international students are often subjected to various forms of exploitation as many are facing the need to work illegally, especially since the COVID-19 pandemic. 
International students, those who are separated from family members, and those studying abroad are facing hurdles that domestic students don’t deal with, and need support in place for those struggles.
Ghazala Ayubi, a first-year global health student says, “For most people with extended family members abroad, global crises such as the Afghanistan crisis, the Greece wildfires, and the Syria crisis can have a major impact on their mental health. I was no exception. 
“During the crisis in Afghanistan, my family and I worried about the well-being of our relatives. It was a very stressful time. In terms of academic progress, most students feel demotivated and begin to procrastinate during this time. Personally, when there is a crisis in my home country, I cannot focus on my studies; in particular, it is difficult for me to keep up with the deadlines, Ayubi continues.
Strict deadlines and standardized tests and exams have proven a struggle across the board — Sinan Reis, a fourth-year computer science major; Rebecca John, first-year computer security; and Ian Ahmed, third-year environmental studies, have all stated exactly this. 
John goes further, stating “there are quite a lot of things that have to be dealt with as an international student: lack of ways to communicate, time zones, etc. Overall there is anxiety whether or not we would be able to come back to university and what would happen to us if Canada imposes a travel ban.” Reis and Ahmed also cite stresses with administration and paperwork, like changes to OSAP applications being particularly difficult. 
One Voice Canada’s report also stated that “in Canada, business and public finance interests have become dependent on international education. Revenues from international students have allowed the B.C. and Ontario government to decrease their proportion of revenue for post-secondary schools.” 
With that in mind, surely there should be sufficient support systems in place for international students, students with separated families, and those studying abroad. 
When asked if York had supported them enough, Ayubi, who is not an international student, but is new to Canada by two years and with a separated family, states, “There were a few emails that I received about mental health and support programs, but I don’t think they were enough. Most mental health support programs are only mentioned during the first week of classes, and that’s it. I am sure that many students are not aware that these programs exist, since York usually sends mental health program support information through email, and most students don’t read them. 
“Raising awareness about health and talking about global issues will help students feel that they are not alone. This will help them see York as a community where they can talk about their struggles and emotions,” Ayubi finishes.
Currently, York has created a mental health support initiative, #YIFEEL, focused on mental health and wellness for international students specifically, which connects them to mental health services at York and to other international students within the York community. However, the site has neglected to post about real programs or events that have happened since 2018, aside from an article published by York in 2019.
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
