In light of the recent announcement pertaining to York’s partnership with Oak Valley Health, the university continues to look forward to the brand new and highly anticipated Markham Campus. 
Earlier this year, York announced its creation of Canada’s first Centre International de Formation des Acteurs Locaux — or International Training Centre for Authorities and Leaders (CIFAL) — in collaboration with United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR). CIFAL serves as an epicenter that shares knowledge among government officials, academia, the private sector, and civil society, providing training for those affiliated all around the world.
Additional developments regarding the campus’ progress included the pouring of the foundation on April 17 earlier this year. Starting next fall, students will also be welcomed to apply for admission for the fall 2023 semester.
The Markham Campus will offer a multitude of undergrad and graduate programs pertaining to sports management, computer science, and other technologically-centred subjects. Per the campus’ website, incoming Deputy Provost Dr. Gordon Binstead echoed those opportunities noted above: “The new campus is an opportunity to further strengthen the university’s contributions to the social and economic well-being of communities in the surrounding York Region and beyond.”
York News Manager and Deputy Spokesperson Kayla Lewis echoes Dr. Binstead’s statement, going on to add that the new campus will embed the university in one of the most dynamic communities in the country. 
“Reflecting the local economy, academic programs and research will revolve around the core themes of technology and entrepreneurship and how they are driving innovation across all areas of knowledge and society. Challenging the traditions of what a university campus can offer, Markham Campus will act as a unique meeting place for students to interact directly with employers, start-up companies, and community partners from across the York region,” says Lewis.
The Markham Campus will provide an overarching focus on supporting student entrepreneurs to develop the foundations for their small businesses, where they will receive guidance and mentorship as they venture into the world of potentially running their own company. Further opportunities will allow researchers to translate their work into “economically and socially viable innovations,” according to the FAQ page for the Markham Campus.
Lewis mentions that the university’s intent is to “accommodate for 4,200 students” and “promote unexpected connections by bringing people together to create positive change.”
Regarding inclusivity and diversity, Lewis acknowledges that “Markham Campus will be co-located with YSpace and the IBM Innovation Space — Markham Convergence Centre. The campus will include a multi-faith space, Indigenous learning circle, and enhanced accessibility features to create an inclusive and welcoming environment for all.”Most recently, York hosted a virtual open house on November 15 that discussed the campus’ progress and detailed further inquiries pertaining to programming, collaboration opportunities, and more. Further questions can be directed to the campus’ official email at markham@yorku.ca.
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
This past OUA season has been a tough one for the Lions. Giving their all on the field only to come up short is slowly becoming rather typical. The men’s soccer team lost by 3-2 in the OUA finals, the men’s football team didn’t make it to the play-offs, and the women’s soccer team lost 0-1 in the playoffs. 
But a case for a potential silver lining can be made — at least for the women’s soccer team. This season, alongside their award winning coach, two players stood out: goalkeeper Patricia Vrysellas and OUA All-Star midfielder Kalifornia Mitchell.
Majority of the games the Lions played this season were down to the wire, where the game was either tied or one of the teams led by one goal only. As is typical in soccer, in these games, all eyes are on the goalkeeper. 
For Vrysellas, a third-year kinesiology and concurrent education student, that meant there was no room for mistakes. Her focus was to anticipate plays before they were being made by the other team in hopes to maintain a tie or a lead. Throughout it all, Vrysellas wanted to make sure that the team’s momentum did not break. However, not all of that came to fruition, as mistakes were made and the pressure to perform increased. 
In regards to the immense scrutiny a goalkeeper faces Vrysellas says,“ If we make a mistake or couldn’t block one shot then everyone knows. And they forget all about the ‘big saves.’“
Elaborating further, Vrysellas comments on a common stereotype regarding goalkeepers — that their only job is to protect the net. “There is a misleading notion that attempts to cast the goalkeeper’s role as merely saving the ball and protecting the net. But it goes so much more beyond that. There are games where I receive 15 shots and games where I receive zero shots. But that job is still not done. I still have to communicate and play on my feet and perform other tasks that may not involve stopping the ball but are still necessary for winning the game. As a goalkeeper, you need to have the foresight to anticipate plays from the other team and help the ‘backline’ (defensive players). 
A rookie goalkeeper, Vrysellas had to maintain her calm even when walking into high pressure situations. For her, the key was confidence and not letting the stereotypes psych her out. 
“To counter this pressure, you just have to remind yourself that you are talented, that you worked hard to be a part of the starting lineup and that your mistakes do not define you.” 
All in all, both Vrysellas and Mitchell are proud of the way they performed this year. They believe that this season was a learning experience for them because as a young team (with not many seniors in the starting lineup) they got the opportunity to better work on their chemistry. 
Mitchell, in her fourth year of the children, childhood & youth studies program, reflects on this past year’s performance and attributes her work ethic for her consistent performance as a top-notch midfielder. While she does not think that they were the underdogs, she too agrees with Vrysellas that it will only get better from here. 
For both Vrysellas and Mitchell, now the focus is on preparing for finals season but also maintaining their fitness for next season. 
Vrysellas’s final thoughts on this season, which are also echoed by Mitchell, are, “Underdogs or not, next year the OUA will not know what is coming at them.” 
 
Maryam is a fourth-year student majoring in Kinesiology and Health Science. She's a huge fan of anything sports related, but loves to explore the sports realm beyond the stats and the numbers. When she’s not fielding calls from ESPN, you can find her studying, re-watching Crash Landing on You, and listen to the Taylor’s Version albums — all at the same time. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
