On October 23, 2020, The Queen’s Gambit made its debut to stream on Netflix. Now, three months later, the show is the most successful scripted limited series on the platform. But why has a period drama about a female chess player become such a popular show? 
When asked why he thought the show seems to resonate with audiences, Josh Martell, a first-year history major, says the storytelling is to credit.
“It was so accomplished in its thrilling storytelling that a whole new generation of kids have become inspired to pick up chess. It reinvigorated the game while being a top-tier show at the same time,” Martell says.
Let’s be real, not many of us have seen a film or a series about chess before. But would we be as interested in watching a series about a male chess prodigy? 
Chess is already a male-dominated sport. Watching a series about chess with a male protagonist would not have the same effect on viewers. But a story about a woman defeating men in their own game is much more compelling. It’s unexpected and exciting. 
Moreover, the cast is absolutely amazing. Anya Taylor-Joy was a perfect fit for the role of Beth Harmon, the series’ complicated antihero. Taylor-Joy is supported by stellar performances from Bill Camp (12 Years a Slave, Joker), Harry Melling (Harry Potter), and Thomas Brodie-Sangster (Game of Thrones, Maze Runner). 
It is the character of Beth that is the best thing about the show. A powerful, beautiful, gifted young woman who has her share of personal struggles has become a relatable character for viewers worldwide. 
Taylor-Joy describes her character’s journey throughout the show.
“The Queen’s Gambit follows an orphan who is a chess prodigy. You get to spend seven hours with her as she tries to figure herself out, tries to figure out how she relates to the world of chess, but also has to overcome her personal demons.”
Awards buzz surrounding the show has been steadily growing. The show already has an IGN award for the best drama series of the year and is nominated for the Critics Choice Television Awards in three different categories. The Emmy Awards are slated to take place in June, and it’s all but guaranteed that The Queen’s Gambit will top the nominees list.
Overall, the show is a huge success for Netflix, with a 97 per cent rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and a score of 8.6 on IMDB.
If you haven’t yet watched TheQueen’s Gambit, you are missing out. I can easily recommend it as a series that has earned all of its accolades.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in Canada has caused the first decrease in jobs since April 2020. This new downturn has resulted in heightened concerns about employment prospects, especially as summer approaches for university students.
The onset of the pandemic in March and April 2020 caused the loss of 3 million jobs in Canada, and unemployment levels remain higher than they were before the pandemic. A decrease in COVID-19 cases in the months that followed, accompanied by a loosening of health measures, allowed the Canadian economy to rebound and regain 1.7 million jobs in the summer months. 
However, the tightening of public health restrictions in the face of record-high cases in the fall and winter has led to the loss of 63,000 jobs last December, causing many students to worry about the state of the job market this year.
“The resurgence of the virus is hitting Canada hard. Sharp increases in caseloads and hospitalizations are leaving provinces with little choice but to impose or prolong restrictions on an economy that is but a shadow of itself,” stated TD Senior Economist Sri Thanabalasingam in a response to this data. “It will be a rocky road for the Canadian economy until vaccines can be widely distributed and normal life can resume.”
David Ip Yam, director of the Career Education and Development Centre at York, has acknowledged that the economy is currently experiencing a downward trend. “Students and recent grads have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the pandemic,” he says.
However, he emphasizes that not all industries are equally affected by the pandemic. The pandemic may have brought with it a change in working habits that are similarly industry-specific, such as working from home. These new practices may continue even as health restrictions are loosened and the economy gradually reopens.
“However, labour market trends have and continue to evolve,” Ip Yam says. “In certain industries, job postings have gone up compared to 2019 while in some other industries, job postings went down.”
Ip Yam remains optimistic that job prospects will improve this year.
“While we cannot predict what 2021 will bring, we can say that employers are still hiring new grads and we’re incredibly grateful to see many summer job opportunities on our job portal right now. We believe that remote work has opened more opportunities for York students. In fact, the federal government has just finished working with York to fill over 200 positions, including many full-time ones.”
Even as Canada continues to struggle as it records on average 6,000 new cases of COVID-19 per day, companies have continued to seek out students and recent graduates. 
“While we saw an overall 21 per cent decline in job postings in Canada from January to September 2020, compared to January to September 2019, we are hearing from our employer contacts that they are still hiring new grads,” explains Ip Yam. “This is why we’ve not stopped promoting and hosting so many employer and alumni networking and recruiting events for students to access.”
The Career Centre continues to provide assistance to current students and recent graduates during the pandemic, including work opportunities and career advice:
“Get in touch with the staff and students at Career Education & Development. The schedules and registration information are on our Experience York platform. There’s a LOT there, so if you’re not sure where to begin, start with a virtual drop-in session at the Virtual Career Lounge where a trained peer career educator can point you in the right direction. We’re here for you!”
 
Diego is a communications student at York University’s Glendon campus. As a Filipino international student, he is deeply passionate about issues affecting racialized and immigrant communities, as well as LGBTQ+. Through his writing, he hopes to shed light on these issues within a Canadian context. In his free time, Diego likes to play guitar and learn new languages. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
