Through the years, especially with the turn of the 21st Century, society’s progression and changes are starting to come from the youths leaders. Those who, no matter the age, push for progress; to provide spaces for an array of demographics.
Founded in 2021 by Jesse Lafontaine, a medical student at the University of Alberta, and Jayelle Friesen-Enns, a medical student at the University of Manitoba, the Indigenous Medical Students’ Association of Canada (IMSAC) strives to be a “safe space of peers in medical education to grow & collaborate, much like other BIPOC groups.”
Now representing over 8,000 medical students across the nation, IMSAC strives to build community within Indigenous medical students and increase Indigenous representation overall.
Second-year medical student at Northern Ontario School of Medicine (NOSM) and artist Jamie Thompson was an inaugural member who aided in the IMSAC brand and social media, and is now being elected as the Director of Advocacy and Representation. 
In a CBC article, Thompson said, “It’s definitely a passion. Advocacy is something I do throughout the year and this is an even bigger platform. I’m encouraging other Indigenous medical students from NOSM to become members and apply and/or participate in nominations.”
Thompson continued, “I’m hoping to see NOSM students in some of the other roles at Indigenous Medical Students Association of Canada both this year and in the coming years.”
Dr. Marcia Anderson, a Cree-Anishinaabe and vice-dean of the Rady Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Manitoba, gives her message to the leaders of IMSAC. 
“I offer the Indigenous students who led the development of the Indigenous Medical Students Association my congratulations and support,” says Anderson. “This initiative to create an Indigenous-led association that centers the needs of Indigenous learners is important for hearing Indigenous medical student voices, supporting Indigenous medical students and ensuring Indigenous leadership in the many challenges and issues that affect medical students.”
Though IMSAC has just started off, there is no doubt that it will continue to strive and reach new heights. “It’s still in its early stages. But I’m really hoping it to be that student council kind of space for Indigenous students to connect, build community, hear about opportunities and just hopefully do right by that student population,” Thompson explained in the article.
Lafontaine further comments on Thompson’s involvement: “Jamie has been an amazing asset to the IMSAC development team and now our Leadership Circle. She brings so much insight and I continue to learn so much from her throughout our journey to developing IMSAC. She is an incredible advocate for our people and I am looking forward to the amazing things she will do with IMSAC and as a physician in the future.”
Indigenous physician and Director of the Northern Medical Services in Saskatchewan, Dr. Veronica McKinney, expresses, “As an Indigenous student, there are many issues and hurdles that are unique to their experience as opposed to the general medical student population, not the least of which is the racism that they personally may experience as well as what they may witness within the health care system. Added to this is the fact that most Indigenous students are few in number and feel that they have to ‘walk softly’ to avoid any potential of not being allowed to continue in medicine.”
Dr. McKinney says that having a nationwide group composed of other Indigenous students provides the opportunity “to speak openly in a safe space, sharing their experiences and potentially developing strategies to address issues as a collective is very powerful.” They add that it also provides peer support for the students involved.
“There are other student groups at a national level addressing various issues depending on the group so this is a natural progression and in some ways is reflective of the increasing numbers of Indigenous students, which is a real accomplishment,” says Dr. McKinney.
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Land-based learning is not simply going out into nature and observing or picking about and taking notes, it is learning through Indigenous teachings and methodologies and acknowledging that the land we are currently on is connected on a spiritual level to all living things. It is a formed and sentient being that educates us and also provides for us. Further, it is acknowledging that we are on colonized land, the result of which has been the attempt at erasure of traditional Indigenous pedagogies and ontologies, as education and learning are also deeply rooted within the land in Indigenous practices. 
Ruth Koleszar-Green (Kanien’kehá:ka/ Mohawk and Celt) of the school of social work at York said it best in York’s Understanding the Land Acknowledgement video: “This is a settler institution occupying Indigenous land. The fact that Indigenous communities have thrived in this territory since time immemorial needs to be acknowledged.”
With that in mind, Jessica Vorstermans decided to include land-based experiential learning within the Faculty of Health, through courses taught by Sean Hillier and herself, and by fostering a partnership between Joce Two-Crows and Jennifer LaFontaine at the Sweet Grass Roots Collective at Black Creek Farms.
Vorstermans, an assistant professor of critical disabilities studies and health policy & equity, developed the program because “students have been asking for Indigenous-based programs and courses, like the need for a first-year Indigenous Health course, and as an institution we need to be responding to that. Students need to know where they can go and request courses and programs like this, and as an institution, it’s our responsibility to educate our students, especially in these areas, and to acknowledge our positionality with that system and our responsibilities, especially in terms of reciprocity.” 
Koleszar-Green also stated in the video that “land acknowledgements are relational to who we are and the land we are on. It is important that non-indigenous people reflect and understand their responsibilities to this as well.”
This is a primary concern of land-based learning and its place within the health sector, as food and medicine come from the land, and the food we consume very much contributes to our health, both physical and mental. This is something that Joce Two-Crows touched on during York’s Faculty of Health’s video, Land Based Learning in the Faculty of Health, when they stated that manufactured food — particularly corn, which is incredibly prominent in our food structure — is not developed and harvested based on its nutritional value, but based on its abilities to handle the thousands of chemicals sprayed on them and for their transportability. 
It is the aim that the inclusion of land-based learning can help decolonize health systems and others, such as food systems (as the two are inseparable from one another and Indigenous cultures themselves) and foster more abundant place-making spaces. 
Hillier, an assistant professor & research chair in indigenous health policy & one health, and Vorstermans both point out that “the current health system is not providing real care, mentally or spiritually” and this is where understanding how concepts such as land-based learning are inherently tied to the health system is essential. Spirituality and health are not mutually exclusive concepts, and spirituality should not be a foreign concept to our healthcare system as it already has some bases in spirituality, “like when we see hospitals like St. Michael’s and the Catholic influence still present from colonization. That space then isn’t a welcome space for the Indigenous community, and isn’t open to everybody.” This is where place-making becomes essential.
Further, in order to avoid co-opting cultures and practices under the umbrella of education, “we need to build relationships, support the community, and not just enter a space and learn for a day and leave,” points out Hillier.
Partnerships and experiential learning programs such as these are essential in reforming more equitable health systems and policies, among many other institutional structures and systems that are inherent products of colonization. Place-making is essential to this process as is indigenization and learning directly from the source — the land.
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
