The ‘meet cute’ movie trope refers to the funny, awkward, or endearing first meeting of two characters that sparks their romantic journey. From the prime minister meeting his potty-mouthed assistant in Love Actually, to Summer singing The Smiths with her future partner in an elevator in 500 Days of Summer, the ‘meet cute’ introduces us to two characters who are destined to be together in the romantic comedies’ safe and optimistic setting.
But offscreen, it’s clear that these movie meetings just can’t cut it in our modern world. I mean, having a man stare you down in an elevator isn’t always an indication of romance. 
Oftentimes, it’s just plain creepy.
Now I’m not a cynic. I’ll be the first person to promise you that romance is still alive and well! But we’re in the age of heightened awareness when it comes to matters of the heart. It’s about time that we take notice of the unwanted or uncomfortable advances that are constantly professed ‘in the name of love’. 
Netflix’s You, for example, showed us how the ‘meet cute’ can be misconstrued, turning a simple flirty meeting in a bookstore into a voyeuristic obsession. And what’s really scary about these situations is that, much like Joe, the guy often doesn’t see where things are going wrong. 
Pandemic aside, it’s safe to say there is fear that persists in women when it comes to meeting an unknown man, have it be by accident or design. 
For a guy, a simple glance to a stranger can be given as an invitation for an introduction or as a hint that ‘love is in the air’. But for a woman alone on the subway at night, a glance from a strange man realistically means that she could be in danger. 
It’s hard to think of romance while you’re planning a potential escape.
Chivalry isn’t dead, but the cinematic idea of what it once meant is long gone. And unfortunately, the fear of what could happen overrules the hope for love in a modern day ‘meet cute.’
We don’t live in the idyllic cinematic world of romantic comedies that come equipped with a promise that things will turn out okay. Contrary to what these films have taught us, love at first sight isn’t always reciprocated, and bumping into a stranger may really just be an accident rather than a sign from the universe.
In this pandemic — Hollywood heartthrob or not — the time has come to keep our distance and keep our hands to ourselves.
Now, is a cute romantic meeting still possible? Absolutely. But the veil of the romantic movie meetings has ultimately been lifted. Our lives aren’t written like screenplays, so we can’t expect them to turn out as such. We can’t count on every leading man to be dashing and considerate, and every leading lady to be the perfect girl next door. 
Being aware and alert doesn’t make us any less of a hopeless romantic. 
But let’s face it — some meetings are meant for Nancy Meyers films, not the real world.
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
The snow isn’t dirty, but filled withindents left by feet and twigs.  
Trees
stand out in dark contrast with the blown fields, shocks of deep brownin the gel of shining molten white.  
The tempest   whorls away, shades of s h at  ter ed wh i tein blowing circles, columns of rising warmth.  
The white mist 
      scatters,
silver broken apart by age and rust, golden red and brown, 
better left unmentioned.  
A puffed layer rests, holes in the pillow mounted atop brambles, thorns, brown leaves fallen to the dirt, becoming a sordid helmet.  
Layered paint, primer, no sun distinguishing wall from wild.  
It joins the snowy streets.  
The grey sky stands, backdrop to thepainted glass of city, a message of 
entrapment.  
Drops of rain cascade, freezingtiny
sinkholesforming in the sheets of snow.  
The ground becomes unstable.  
Frozen moisture traps entirely, as verse confined to three such lines, a prison of white.  
Exercise consists of walking throughpaths of crust-covered drifts, oaths that I would survive.  
Bluffs of concealed leaves rustle in a show of trust.  
A patch of ice blackagainst the grainy ground.  
A crash; a scream.  
Gone
The cold sticks in your throat and makes you cough; the air is dry though snow is on the ground,and everything is white.Not everything, of course.The pavement is grey, the trees are brown, the houses are different colours, but they all have a white undertone, made pale by the snow but more so by the cold.  Everything about them screams cold.  The houses, though warm inside, appear as tombs, homes to lost souls.  The trees, alive, hibernating, dead, but still everywhere around us, branches cutting through sky, black lightning bolts in air.  The pavement, covering so much earth, and in places frozen.  This place is cold.  I feel hot.  I’m feeling lightheaded from the cold and heat.  I pull my hood back, my hat from my head.  My hair goes brittle, a moist kind of fragility which always comes with cold.  My legs are aching, the kind of ache you can’t quite feel until you step out into winter.  What makes the cold so fearful?  We must survive it.It isn’t a thing to fear, on pain of death.  It’s a thing that teaches us to live, though not right now.  Now, we must survive, and get back inside.  
Isolated Days: Part 1
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
