Father and I used to walk in summer, footsteps on clean, cracked concrete ground, talking around.  
Now my foot forges space in pebbled path, grinding ground when weight shifts forward with the pack.  Breathing hard, step to trooping step, Hektor threatening the enemy until Troy falls, a man walking in the sky, blue saber in his hand.  Salty-sweet sweat running down my arm.  
We walked in summer.  We used to go three, four miles, and never stopped.  We headed back and sometimes beyond home, through parks, leafed-groves, even snow.  Blocked, we would journey home.  
My father moves beside me, stooping steps, pebbles holding court under-foot.  His focus remains on treading firm, and mine on him, grey hair, a strand of time’s turn, grey as Priam.  
Father never liked to sit, shifting, restless;he never could be idle, a knight with words, Achilles without his sword.  I didn’t know his failureto sit, no crossword on table, pen in hoary hand,no stories to spell, until later life;
I didn’t understand his failure to watch the world goes by, pretending to read.  He asked me once if I liked walking as much as he.  He said one day I’d understand the need to bein the world, that watching doesn’t mean you see.  
We journeyed farther, so time passed us by, and I, now I know, must strive, not uttering the kind cryI would, alone.  He needs strength, and sodo I, to bring him back to home.  Time gone by, father walked with purpose; purpose now forgot; 
vitality has been usurpedunless I fill this spot. 
i can see so many zombiesin the treesand in the oceansand in the purple skiesof sunset, before the broken moon. 
so many zombies under skyand over rocktreading over twigand leaf.  lost in thought; forgottenand alone. 
they march, an angry booming, a silent roar of self-loathing andregret, and pause, the darkest whisperof the heart and soul.  nobody remembers them.  they lie beneath the hard soilin deafening death. 
i see them on the roof acrossthe way, a line of corpses ready to fallto newfound lifeon the front page.  a murderous suicidewhere what is gainedis a spotlight, momentary famewritten in bloody ink. 
and nothing happens when they fall.  no reporters arrive at my door.  if they did, i didn’t see them, andi doubt they would have seen me, or cared if they had. 
the angry mob presses on.  the thoughts of the fallen fade.  if they ever had thoughts, they would be here, inside of me, ahead, to be seen, and to see.
lovers quarrel at night, and lie awake, angry, frightened, and alonetogether.  they do not know i watch.  for if they did, they would vomitcold eartha silent retching of the heart from the lungs, into the air, raw, a passionate cry, a passionless song. 
there is nothing beautiful in this world, nothing that i can see, but maybethere are trees, over the walking zombies, frost covered ground, black trees androtting people, paleand foul. 
the leaves are on the ground, beneath the snow, and i feel nothing.  
Isolated Days: Part 2
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 

Congratulations Michael!  One can feel in your words the steps of your walks and the pebbles in the road.
Incredible work Michael, really evocative!

 York University Community Newspaper 
York’s very own Allan I. Carswell Observatory held a virtual watch party on February 18 for the descent of NASA’s Perseverance rover onto the surface of Mars. Online viewers were treated to an enthusiastic afternoon that delved into the history of Mars missions, the role Perseverance has to play in the future of research, and insights from several guests. 
Despite fraught final minutes known as the “seven minutes of terror”, the rover successfully completed its $2.7 billion, 292.5 million mile, and seven-month-long journey with a flawless landing.
Hello, world. My first look at my forever home. #CountdownToMars pic.twitter.com/dkM9jE9I6X
“Everyone is showing a terrific interest — it’s a landing on Mars! We can all band together and become excited over this, the beginning of a mission that will probably last between two to 10 years,” said Professor Paul Delaney, the director of the York University Astronomical Observatory. 
“This afternoon is just a huge ride — particularly for the science community — but everybody loves astronomy, and everyone loves Mars, too. This is a great afternoon for NASA — and the rest of the planet,” he added.
Perseverance is NASA’s fifth Mars rover and bears technology similar to its beloved predecessor, Curiosity, which touched down in 2012. This time, however, its technology is significantly improved. The rover is the most advanced microbiology laboratory to ever reach another planet, and it also comes with a few distinct firsts. It carries Ingenuity, the first helicopter to fly on another planet, and it will also be able to make the first-ever sound recordings on Mars.
As time ticked towards the landing, Professor Elaina Hyde of the physics and astronomy department went in-depth about the unique role Perseverance has to play.
“There are a bunch of different science and measurement goals that Perseverance has,” Hyde said. “In particular, there’s four main goals, which are looking for habitability, seeking biosignatures, caching samples, and also preparing for humans. So if you’re interested in humans on Mars, you want to test oxygen production from the Martian atmosphere — this mission will help you with that.”
The rover landed in the Jezero Crater, a 28-mile crater that was home to a Martian lake over three billion years ago. 
During the event, Hyde shared a satellite map of the crater, and discussed what Perseverance would be seeking out upon a safe landing.
“We can see that as we get closer and closer on the map, there seems to be some signs of water going into that crater. And if that’s true, maybe there used to be life in that old water. The sediments, the clays, the carbonates, are exactly the kinds of places that we’d expect to find life if we look for it in Earth’s types of dried-up riverbeds,” she said. “So maybe Perseverance will be lucky, and we’ll find some there.”
The program reached the main event as Perseverance began its blistering descent, speeding through the Martian atmosphere at over 19,000 kilometres per hour.
“I’ve got one ear on our broadcast, one ear on NASA, and every finger and toe crossed that you can imagine,” said Delaney within the last few minutes of the landing. “Fingers crossed that all of the literally years worth of preparation for just this moment pay off.”
Luckily for the fingers and toes of viewers, Perseverance prevailed. Viewers at York’s launch party were tuned into the NASA broadcast for the final portion of the event, so they were able to see the joy, exhilaration, and overwhelming relief in the control room at 3:55 p.m. 
“Touchdown confirmed. Perseverance is safely on the surface of Mars, ready to begin seeking the signs of past life,” said Swati Mohan, guidance, navigation and controls operations lead for the Perseverance mission.
Touchdown confirmed. The #CountdownToMars is complete, but the mission is just beginning. pic.twitter.com/UvOyXQhhN9
As the viewing party wrapped up, Delaney made sure to stress the incredible importance of this event. 
“We’ve grown accustomed to these sorts of successes,” he said. “Let us not forget that going to Mars is hard.”
“Getting to Mars, getting it onto the ground, really is a hard thing to do. And the fact that NASA makes it look so easy is just terrific.”
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
