As the screen time utility on our phones loves to remind us, many of us are spending much more time on social media than we’d like to admit. But can you blame us? The likes, the new posts, the ability to market yourself and share your thoughts on anything — it all makes for an inviting experience to say the least. 
Social media is an invaluable tool — especially during times like these. The driving force behind it being connection — something that we as humans crave. But social media has a dark side, as research has shown us, particularly when it comes to our mental well-being. 
Platforms like Instagram and Snapchat may be contributing to feelings of inadequacy about life. Seeing someone’s digitally touched-up highlight reel may skew your perception of reality, leading you to think the people around you are living lives that far exceed yours in luxury, excitement, and productivity — which is more than likely not the case. 
Social media also tends to make us compulsive, as our Fear of Missing Out (FOMO) kicks in. FOMO is that grappling feeling you get when you’re missing out on the fun — when something incredibly exciting is happening without you being there, leading you to pick up your phone every few minutes to check. Over time, this can lead to lower self-esteem, anxiety, and propel your social media use even further. 
“I think I definitely get FOMO from social media. I find myself constantly picking up my phone and checking an app I literally checked ten minutes before, without even realizing it sometimes,” says first-year computer science student Fatima Syed. 
Evidence is also pointing to a strong correlation between social media use and different mental health issues. Several studies have shown that teens and young adults have a substantially higher rate of depression than those who spent the least time on social media. It also seems to exacerbate social anxiety as those already experiencing it may rely on social media heavily to build connections, rather than building relationships in their real lives. 
If you find yourself constantly distracted at school or work, comparing yourself to others unnecessarily, or simply find that your depression and anxiety issues are worsening, it may be a sign that you should curb your social media usage. 
Our focus should be on making social media a tool in our lives rather than a crutch or a vacuum that sucks away hours of our time. Doing this will require some strategy and commitment on all our parts. 
One of the most helpful ways to counteract our usage is to turn off our notifications. Without constant alerts lighting up our phones and prompting us to check the apps, it should be less tempting to pick up your phone throughout the day. 
Another useful tip is to allow yourself time away from your phone before bed. Using your phone in general before bed can negatively impact both the quantity and quality of your sleep, and lack of sleep is directly associated with higher rates of anxiety and depression. 
Another great strategy is to gradually detach yourself from the lure of social media. If you know you have a habit of constantly checking your phone, make a commitment to check it every 15 minutes for a week. After that, bring it down to 30 minutes and so forth. Over time, your social media usage should be able to get right where you want it — there are many media-limiting apps to help you along the way. 
“Personally, I like to check all my social media apps at the start of my day, and then delete them until around the evening. I find this is effective because this way, my productivity isn’t hindered during the day, and I still give myself allotted time to catch up on what’s going on,” says third-year chemistry student Anthony Ricci. 
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Students from York University and Chung-Ang University in Seoul, South Korea were given the opportunity to collaborate on multimedia projects focused on various social policies, including topics such as child and elder care, education, and student financial services. This opportunity was carried out to students by leaders Dr. Thomas Klassen, professor in the School of Public Policy and Administration at York, and Sophia Lee, associate professor of Social Policy in the Department of Social Welfare at Chung-Ang.
Klassen explains that this collaboration came about years after meeting Lee in South Korea while he was conducting research.
“We have similar research and teaching interests that are focused on social policy,” he explains. “We always wanted to collaborate. The COVID-19 pandemic — along with the fact that classes for university students in Canada and Korea moved online — made us even more eager to give students a new way to learn.”
This project reviewed and compared social policies from Canada and South Korea, with each group including a mix of students from both York and Chung-Ang. The prizes were funded by the Korean Office for Research and Education (KORE) at York.
“We were told by our professors that we had to look at one type of social policy and compare the same type of social policy between Canada and South Korea — whether that’s concerning education, disabilities, elderly people, parents etc.,” explains fourth-year international studies student Nekoda Papadatos, whose group focused on the topic of maternity leave policy for the collaboration. 
“In my group, we all talked about what types of social policy we were interested in, then we narrowed down several common interests, and we did a vote.” 
Papadatos says working with students from South Korea was enjoyable “because their approaches to the assignments and their ideas were refreshing.” 
“Students loved working with each other,” Klassen expresses, “even with the frustration of the time difference between Toronto and Seoul. Having this kind of international collaboration was something that students had expected to happen in the course. I was so delighted that both the York and Korean students had jumped right in.”
“Working with the students from Chung-Ang was fantastic,” says Dael Vasquez, a fourth-year political science and communications student. “Group projects always present a novel dynamic, but this experience introduced wonderfully-idiosyncratic elements.”
Gayle Diane Tumampos, third-year political science student, echoes Vasquez’s joyful sentiments about the experience of working with the other students: “Now that technology has been a big part of everyone’s lives, especially during the pandemic, it was quite an experience during these hard times. I would love to do this again because you not only expand your network across the world, but you meet new friends and obtain great ways to excel in your post secondary courses.” 
Looking to the future, Klassen promises this collaboration will continue.
“Professor Lee and I have already made plans to do this again in 2022,” he says. “In fact, it will be even better without the COVID-19 pandemic.” 
Both Papadatos and Vasquez expressed their willingness in participating in future collaborative projects similar to the York and Chung-Ang presentations based on their respective positive experiences. 
“As our professor, Dr. Thomas Klassen, suggested,” Papadatos explains, “this project molded us into experts on our particular type of social policy. This wouldn’t have occurred to the extent it did if we didn’t formulate this project knowing we would use the material to teach our Korean counterparts. I also learned far more about South Korea (especially in the area of maternity leave policies) than if I had conducted the research myself.” 
“By standardizing international collaborations such as the one I had the privilege of participating in,” Vasquez argues, “York can easily apply a cost-effective strategy to enhance internationally oriented education. 
“Moreover, York could allocate special monies to high performing students taking part in these experiential opportunities. Dr. Klassen did just that in this instance, and as a recipient of one of his financial prizes, I can attest to its motivational impact in leading the team to produce a high-quality policy analysis.”
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
