The endangered species list unfortunately gains a new member, as conservationists warn that the milking of the Sonoran Desert Toad is threatening the survival of the species. 
This enchanted toad, also referred to as the Colorado River toad, is typically found in northern Mexico and the southwestern United States. This peaceful, stone-like creature usually lives between 10 to 20 years and can grow up to 19 centimetres, making it the largest toad in the U.S. The psychoactive excretion found in the toad is so strong that dogs who have attacked one have suffered paralysis and even death. 
The property found in the secretions that results in the desired effects is known as 5-MeO-DMT — a potent hallucinogenic compound that produces intense effects such as euphoria and powerful auditory and visual hallucinations. Some studies have even suggested long term use of the compound can help treat anxiety and depression. 
“I think it’s really interesting that a lot of psychedelics are now being brought into the mental health field. Anxiety and depression are very common issues for people of all different backgrounds, and I would love to see more expansion into issues such as PTSD,” says fourth-year health studies student Ameek Singh. 
The psychedelically-inclined have also been orally ingesting toad secretions for quite some time now, with the term toad licking being coined to describe a dangerous phenomenon.
Toad licking dates back to 1983 when a man named Ken Nelson, who supposedly was the first person ever to consume the compound in this format, did so and circulated a pamphlet detailing his experiences and the effects the drug had. This soon sparked interest in others to try it as well, and it slowly gained popularity. 
Some claim the slime found in the toad was used in various Mesoamerican ceremonies and rituals, yet direct and reliable evidence for this has not found its way to scientists, who generally agree that Nelson was the first human to consume it. 
The toad’s habitat has been greatly threatened in recent decades by those seeking a psychedelic experience, resulting in the species disappearing almost completely from California. The seeking of an otherworldly experience by our fellow human beings is resulting in toads being overmilked, jeopardizing their survival.
Glen Kelly, a third-year electrical engineering student who has dabbled in a psychedelic experience, does not see why it would be hard for people to put the toads’ lives first before they think about indulging. 
“There are so many other psychedelics out there for those insisting on the experience — I really don’t see why anyone would get hung up on specifically wanting 5-MeO-DMT from a toad, especially if they’re being endangered.”
Hope is not lost, however, for those still vying for the effects of 5-MeO-DMT. As it turns out, the compound can be manufactured in a laboratory as a synthetic alternative. A fairly recent study in the ACS Omega Journal shows us that the new method for synthesizing the substance is 99.86 per cent pure. 
So, if you happen to one day find yourself stumbling on the Sonoran Desert toad for whatever reason, take a moment to admire it, maybe even get a picture — but for the sake of the species and even yourself, please don’t lick it. 
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                
Licking the toad is not how it’s consumed. That’s not how it’s described by Nelson in his pamphlet and it’s not how it’s used widespread today or ever. In fact that method of injesting the secretion is extremely dangerous, as it contains cardiotoxic steroids. These are burned off when it’s smoked, which is the manner in which it’s used. Guess you should stay in college a little longer. Or maybe learn how to research. Regardless of your intentions of this article, which may be well and good, your blatent disregard of the truth could very well result in someone’s death. Congratulations.
The mistakes in this article can literally kill someone if they take it seriously.. Licking toads is not a real thing and will get someone harmed or killed.
Please understand that you have not done your due dilligence in research on mesoamerican usage of the toad. It is obvious as you are repeating the last guy’s article. There is proof thousands if not millions of years of proof. Please be a journalist not a repeater.
It’s not orally active moron.

 York University Community Newspaper 
In September 2020, the Parliament of India passed three bills that aimed to reform the country’s agricultural sector. These laws were protested by farmers’ unions mainly due to the lack of provisions for a minimum support price — a policy that guarantees farmers a minimum price for their produce, unaffected by market demand. Since then, massive protests consisting of thousands of people have been organized by agricultural workers, demanding that these bills be repealed.
These protests have so far claimed the lives of many people and resulted in frequent internet shutdowns and hundreds of arrests by the government. The Indian government’s response has raised concerns regarding the erosion of democratic institutions in India and the curtailing of press freedoms.
The Indian community, including the Indian diaspora in Canada and elsewhere, have had varied reactions to the protests, indicative of the increasing polarization of Indian politics since the ascension of Narendra Modi as Prime Minister in 2014.
S.H., an Indian international student who requested to remain anonymous, says the protests have further amplified political divides and have even cost them a few friendships.
“Thanks to the brainwashing done by the ‘Godi media’, meaning lapdog media, a lot of my Indian friends believe that protesting is an anti-national activity, and speaking against a party is speaking against India and its people.” 
S.H. adds they are often on the receiving end of hate and slurs when they speak out against these policies.
S.H. further explains they were surprised that Sikhs in particular were being targeted by the government, “Despite seeing last year’s anti-CAA NRC protests, which were protesting Islamophobic laws, being met with violence and brutality. I was surprised that even the Sikh minority would be a target of vilification,” they say. 
As the majority of the protests have occurred in the states of Punjab and Haryana, home to majority of the country’s Sikh population, Sikh farmers participating in the protests have been branded separatists by government officials, threatening to undermine support for the farmers. 
Sikh-Canadians, who make up a sizable minority of the Indian community in Canada, are worried that this rhetoric may lead to anti-Sikh violence. 
“I know a Sikh who regularly goes to protests and helps feed the old farmers. She’s has been speaking out about how people online have been calling for genocide against her people and calling her slurs,” S.H. says.
“I remember how horrifying it was seeing my university peers using ethnic slurs during NRC-CAA protests, it is not pleasant at all,” they continue. “This just shows how the ruling party’s niche likeable group gets smaller and smaller depending on the situation, and any opposition is hated with ferocity.”
“There’s a big fear that this protest or this agitation could end up like 1984,” B.C. resident Sukhdeep Singh told Global News, referencing the massacre of Sikhs in Delhi in 1984 after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
Similar protests have sprung up in Canada in solidarity with the Indian farmers. Sikh-Canadians across the country with ties to Sikh farmers in India have called on the Canadian government to take further action and support the protesters. 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has affirmed the farmers’ right to protest. “Canada will always stand up for the right of peaceful protest anywhere around the world, and we’re pleased to see moves toward de-escalation and dialogue,” Trudeau said according to CBC News, which may complicate an already tense relationship with Prime Minister Modi.
 
Diego is a communications student at York University’s Glendon campus. As a Filipino international student, he is deeply passionate about issues affecting racialized and immigrant communities, as well as LGBTQ+. Through his writing, he hopes to shed light on these issues within a Canadian context. In his free time, Diego likes to play guitar and learn new languages. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
