I really liked the Harry Potter series as a kid, which is regretful to say as a trans man, though I guess it makes sense. Maybe I needed the escapism even more than my cis friends. My transness and ADHD left me feeling like I didn’t fit in anywhere, like something was missing. Maybe I was a wizard, and that’s why everything felt wrong!
So when folks talk about nostalgia, I get it. But I have news for you: we have to burn our nostalgia.
If you don’t know by now, J. K. Rowling is a transphobe and has written the tropes right into the Harry Potter books, with a nice dose of racism and antisemitism sprinkled in for good measure. Just look at the goblins then research antisemitic tropes. The language is divisive, harmful, and shouldn’t be given to children who don’t know how to flag discrimination.
“But, Matteo,” you might say, because maybe you have a wand-and-robe set in your closet like I do, “I can actively arm myself from internalizing that!” 
Although that is helpful, no doubt, we forget one important detail: the publishing industry sucks the teat of capitalism. The real money is made from television and film rights, so even when you buy your favourite author’s book, the publisher takes the majority of your $25 purchase, and the author gets roughly 10 per cent of the profits. 
Ever wonder why we have so many reruns, remakes, and sequels? Every time you stream Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, the publishing industry is reminded that this stuff sells. And right now, the algorithm is severely lacking diversity beyond shallow stereotypes and a few good productions. 
It’s a loveless industry, and the majority of content are not exactly breaking any barriers when it comes to diversity. This means we get an awful, spiralling loop of the same story over and over. We also steal those publishing spots from BIPOC, queer, and/or disabled authors who could bring new language to the scene.
“Our nostalgia won’t allow language to move forward. It clutches the cishet canon in our hands and ignores every other person trying to make a change because new stories can create unrest and unease.”
There are plenty of author hopefuls pitching stories with magical-girl Black characters, dynamic Indigenous fantasies, stories with badass Muslim leads — these are the people with a new story to tell. This is where language sings and forges new paths. This is where we break the mould and start to take the future of language out of the hands of the past. Right now, buying into nostalgia is allowing the market to close ranks on itself. 
What if we said, “Hang on. I want to see this Thai-inspired fantasy Les Misérables adaptation instead of yet another Charlie and the Chocolate Factory remake.” So long as we keep publishing and selling the same old stuff, new voices won’t shift public opinion.
Our nostalgia won’t allow language to move forward. It clutches the cishet canon in our hands and ignores every other person trying to make a change because new stories can create unrest and unease. Rhetoricians have been doing it since Grecian times, Indigenous stories have been passed down through generations. The one thing that persevered since we started communicating was the idea of language itself.
Fortunately, diverse media is on the rise, and we need to keep that moving. Language only exists when it can move to the next person, so why are we allowing the flow of divisive language? I get nostalgia, but we’re older now, wiser. We can grow and make room for new voices and expressions. 
We can give a pathway to a new language. Consuming diverse media to support the author as best we can, upvoting their books on review sites so they can be considered for awards, following authors on Twitter and tweeting at them for recognition, buying merch — there are so many options!. We need to remind publishers that there is a demand for new content, that we demand diverse voices and stories. We make noise, and they have to deliver. Diverse media is on the rise because we’ve asked for it.
We can keep asking.
Publishing has room to be pushed at. Language has room to grow. We just have to open those connections and let these stories out of the boxes we’ve put them in. Nostalgia is a need to get back to the past because we resent the present, and we fear the future. Instead, we can make a future we look forward to, and it starts by moving past the things we coveted as children. 
I want new, diverse stories that don’t strike divides and fund oppression. There’s a world of books out there, so let’s find some new favourites.
Here are some of my fantasy book recommendations:
Middle Grade (Ages 8-12):
Young Adult (Ages 12-18):
New Adult (Ages 18-30):
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
Grammy Award-nominated musician Eric Alexandrakis has recently released his new EP, Love’s a Bitch. A quirky, psychedelic rock album filled with playful synthesizers and jangly guitars reminiscent of the music of the Flaming Lips, the Stone Roses, and the Beach Boys, the EP is his newest release in a series of albums that were released after recovering from Hodgkin’s lymphoma for the second time.
Alexandrakis was classically trained in piano from the age of six and spent his college days at the University of Miami in the company of famous musicians such as Duran Duran’s John Taylor, who helped him produce his debut album, 9 Demos on a 4 Track. 
“When I was about 22 or 23 in grad school, I was producing an album for the school’s record label,” Alexandrakis explains. “During recording sessions, I was producing for five different artists all at once and we could only use the recording studio at school for overnight sessions. Basically, every weekend or so I would have to stay up all night.” 
It was about this time, however, that the first signs of his cancer appeared.
“I’d chug an entire 12-pack of Coke every night, and that would keep me awake. What I didn’t realize was that the amount of sugar in that Coke ended up contributing to my lymphoma since cancer cells love sugar,” says Alexandrakis.
“Along with the exhaustion weakening my immune system, I developed a fist-sized tumour in my chest,” he continues. “In the next three months, I had a biopsy and chemotherapy every two weeks. It was pretty rough; it came to the point where just coming into chemotherapy and catching the smell of alcohol and tourniquets would make me throw up.”
Subsequently, he would spend the next two decades out of the limelight, starting a music production company called Minoan Music. Soon after, however, his cancer would come back. The experience left Alexandrakis shaken, but he was determined to start releasing music again. Culminating in the albums Terra and Love’s a Bitch, the latter of this music mostly consists of tracks from Terra.
“This release includes pieces from an album I released three months ago called Terra, which is about the aftermath of dealing with the remnants of having had cancer twice. When I had cancer the first time, I underwent treatment for ten months. After I was done, I was like, ‘you know, life is what it is. So what if I crashed a car or ripped a new pair of pants?’ But after my cancer came back, I became more paranoid and very impatient.” 
Alexandrakis explains that most people don’t realize it’s not just the “physical scars that affect you,” but also the emotional scars, “which create some sort of PTSD.” He goes on to explain that for about two years after that relapse, he adopted a sense of “urgency to do everything at once.”
Alexandrakis has cited his experiences with Hodgkin’s lymphoma, which he first contracted in 1998, as being a major inspiration and a catalyst for his music career. His Grammy-nominated audiobook, “I.V. Catatonia: 20 Years As A Two-Time Cancer Survivor”, details his experiences during and between both times he suffered from cancer.
However, he states that he is less willing to incorporate them explicitly in his music.
“I never felt like I wanted to write about cancer; if I did, I’d write it in code because I wasn’t comfortable having people know what I’d be writing about,” the musician explains. 
“On the other hand, all of my music is influenced by it because cancer influenced everything I do, but nothing direct or explicit. I didn’t really think it would be in good taste to talk about it.”
Alexandrakis describes his music as being completely different from contemporary pop in that it embraces a more lo-fi aesthetic, opting to record everything in one or two takes and using a four-track recorder rather than professional studio equipment. 
Duran Duran bassist John Taylor, The Heartbreakers drummer Steve Ferrone, and Smashing Pumpkins member Kirk Kelsey, and even Alexandrakis’ teenage son all played a part in recording both Terra and Love’s a Bitch.
In the future, Alexandrakis plans to release an audiobook version of Terra, which discusses how trauma from cancer treatments goes unrecognized in society.
 
Diego is a communications student at York University’s Glendon campus. As a Filipino international student, he is deeply passionate about issues affecting racialized and immigrant communities, as well as LGBTQ+. Through his writing, he hopes to shed light on these issues within a Canadian context. In his free time, Diego likes to play guitar and learn new languages. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
