Recently, professors from the Faculty of Science received grants to help obtain resources to better the Indigenous prospects and understanding in their respective programs. The Indigeneity in Teaching & Learning Fund (ITLF) is provided by the Office of the Vice-Provost Academic to better the indigenization of the science curriculum. 
The structure in which York is using to indigenize both its curriculum and its community can be found in The Indigenous Framework for York University: A Guide to Action. This framework was based on the national Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada: Calls to Action.
Tamara Kelly, professor in the department of biology and a recipient of this grant, says that her one-day conference will be a part of the Faculty of Science’s response to the calls to action of both York’s framework and the national call to action. Kelly says, “The conference will raise awareness of what indigenizing the curriculum might mean in the context of science programs and courses, and to consider concrete examples.
”We have a responsibility as science educators to both decolonize and indigenize our science curriculum, to both live up to our commitment to the Calls to Action by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, but also to present a more authentic view of science,” Kelly explains.
Pamela Sargent, assistant professor and Amenda Chow, associate professor from the department of mathematics and statistics, who are also recipients of ITLF grant, say “Our event will provide all participants with concrete connections between the discipline of mathematics and Indigenous knowledge and culture, and examples of how Indigenous knowledge can be incorporated into the mathematics curriculum.”
They also share a concern about the current indigenization of mathematics. “While we have participated in some activities focused on indigenization and science education, we have not encountered much that specifically focuses on mathematics, especially mathematics at the university level.” They share another goal they have for their event, which is establishing a long-term relationship between the Indigenous community and the math department.
According to YFile, “They will provide all participants with concrete connections between the discipline of mathematics and Indigenous knowledge and culture and offer examples of how Indigenous knowledge can be incorporated into the mathematics curriculum.”
YFile reported that the workshops will be available to all members of York, the University of Waterloo and Indigenous communities.
“To indigenize and decolonize our science courses, we need to educate ourselves. Indigenizing our courses also requires that we rethink our courses and the way we teach science,” finishes Kelly.
As they are still in the planning stages, Chow is welcoming any thoughts from York’s community, and any parties interested in participating, to contact them through their information page.
With files from Sarah Garofalo.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
Statistics Canada’s most recent study, “Persistence and representation of women in STEM programs”, published in 2019, details the gender gap in STEM programs (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) and illuminates a persistent disparity requiring further attention and correction. 
Compiled from years worth of data starting in 2010, the study presents how women are less likely to enrol (44 per cent vs 56 per cent) and remain in undergraduate STEM programs compared to their male counterparts (66 per cent vs 72 per cent), and are more likely to transfer to a BHASE (business, humanities, arts, social science, education, etc.) program (23 per cent vs 12 per cent).
These disparities are still felt today, with York students being no exception. Maria Sitkovets, a fourth-year computer science student, mentions how women “struggle with finding other women in classes” and that it’s not uncommon for them “to be one of or the only woman in some of their computer science classes. There are more women entering tech right now than there were even 10 years ago, but many of the challenges stay the same and many women drop out of it early on because they don’t feel supported. And when they get to the workplace it doesn’t get any easier. It’s also pretty common to be the only woman on the team or even in the room.”
When contacted about York’s STEM community and their commitment to supporting its female students, Ayana Siddiqui, co-President of Women in Science and Engineering (WiSE) and second-year computer science student at York, wrote that there are many elements that go into community-building, including vigilant allies, mentorships, career sponsorships, and inserting frameworks of “equity and ethics into course content” itself. These are all initiatives that WiSE is currently striving to provide, as well counselling and promoting inclusivity by also appointing male ambassadors.
Siddiqui also points out “that race, socioeconomic status, disability, sexual orientaion, and so many other factors play a role in forming someone’s individual experience as a student on campus and as a woman in STEM at large. These factors, despite being out of our control, affect how others perceive and treat us and there isn’t a one-size-fits-all solution to address many of the issues women in STEM face.”
That is where student associations and societies play an integral role, Sitkovets mentions how “the way to support women in STEM is to show them that it’s an option earlier on in life and help cultivate their interest in it. I know that York has partnerships with programs for elementary and high school students like Go Code Girl and Go Eng Girl that were what actually showed me how fun computer science and engineering can really be. And through programs like those I was able to meet women who were studying STEM in university and have role models to look up to. 
“The best support system I’ve found is by joining clubs of women in STEM like Technolgap and WiSE because we can relate to each other’s struggles and also help each other with sharing job opportunities or interviewing advice,” Sitkovets continues.
Siddiqui also mentions this when she states that “making sure that mentorships, organizations, and partnerships are supported and accessible to new students is a great next step to building a strong community. Through seemingly small actions like mentioning someone’s name in a room of opportunity, making introductions, sharing job opportunities, and offering referrals, we create space to bring up the next generation of STEM talent.” 
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
