DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
Deeming online elections too inaccessible for the broader student body, the York Federation of Students (YFS) has made the executive decision to transition to a monarchy. The newly crowned King and Royal Court of Yorkingham Palace were announced quietly last week. 
“Hear ye, hear ye,” stated Chief Returning Officer (CRO) Jeseka Straugh. “We, the Elections Committee, have hereby decreed that your exalted student union will be crowned as royalty and reign supreme over this student body evermore — for the good of the people.”
The new Royal Court has embarked on a week-long coronation tour of York and York’s social media pages, during which they will promote themselves and display photos in their new regalia. 
“Some might be asking what the point of a promotional campaign is when we are all already crowned,” says His Royal Majesty (HRM) King Fayaz Arnan. “The purpose of these social media posts is meant to give the common folk something to look up to, to add some joy into their mundane lives. While we no longer need to win their constitutionally mandated votes, we do of course wish to win over their hearts and minds. The purpose of this tour is to empower YOU.”
HRM King Arnan was asked about how the students of the Royal Court came together or were selected for these new, lifelong positions.
“We are simply lifelong students who received a calling,” says HRM King Arnan. When asked to elaborate, he made some inaudible statements about secret meetings, a quest, and the pursuit of the Holy Grail. 
However, some royal subjects feel this coronation campaign tour has been misleading.
“I thought they were doing an elections campaign like usual,” says Leo Jackson, a sixth-year somnambulance studies major. “What do you mean, I don’t get to vote?”
This year, the news of the transition to monarchy was not communicated to the student body by email or even a website. Instead, it was carried to the student body solely by carrier pigeon.
“The power to determine promotions is a sacred power, placed solely within the hands of the CRO and Monarchy Committee,” says Straugh. “Transmitting the news to the public via carrier pigeon was deemed the appropriate platform for this news, given that pigeons can traverse both land or sea. This way, it is fairest and most equal for the common folk.”
“Given that introducing a new monarchy usually draws heated protests and rebellion, keeping the common folk safely in their beds instead of gathering on campus was the ideal solution,” she adds. 
Royal subjects have raised questions about whether or not this process violates their rights.
“I don’t think this is legal,” says Mary Smith, a third-year fanfiction student. “My friend was raising some questions about the whole monarchy process. Then, he got a message saying the King had invited him to Lake Lassonde. I haven’t seen him since.”
Newly minted Duke of Operations John Scarn has weighed in about the legality of the process.
“I think it’s actually in the bylaws. If you take a look, it actually says we can do away with elections and make ourselves generational royalty at any time,” he says.” If they have an issue with it, let them eat cake.”
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
Premier Doug Ford announced over the weekend that a provincial-wide game of UNO will decide the next recipients of the COVID-19 vaccine. This decision was made this past week, following a conference where Ford stated that the federal government’s vaccine rollout plan thus far had been “a joke.” According to the Premier, this statement sparked the idea to turn the Ontario rollout plan “from a joke into a game.”
“It’s time we say enough is enough on these vaccine delays,” stated Ford when announcing his new plan. “Ontario residents deserve a fair and straightforward shot at receiving their immunization,” he said, following this by claiming that “nothing levels the playing field more than a game primarily composed of chance.”
Ford announced his decision just as the classic card game celebrated its 50 year anniversary on shelves. With board and card game sales previously being down in the past year as a result of the pandemic, stores across the province are now rapidly selling out of UNO cards, with residents scrambling to practice their skills.
“I don’t think people realize you can play UNO online or practice with regular cards,” acknowledges third-year common sense student Alan Noor, who states that he is undecided yet whether or not he will be participating in the games. 
Registration for the game, now known as the UNO for Immunization Act, opened this morning through the Government of Ontario website. While there is little information available yet on how or when the game will commence or logistically work, MPP Matt Robbins, Ontario’s Minister of Childhood Party Games, promises that all Ontario residents will be given a “fair shot” at the prize, granted they have internet access, a deck of UNO cards, and the “will to win.”
The winner will be given the next available appointment in their city for a COVID-19 vaccination. The game will carry on until “there are no vaccines left in the rollout,” according to Ford. The Ontario Government has yet to announce how many winners there will be, but experts argue that with the current rate of vaccines coming into the country, there will be roughly 10 provincial vaccinations available as prizes once the game commences. 
The classic card game’s objective is to be the first player to rid themselves of all their cards. When a player has one card left in their hand, they must yell “UNO,” or they have to pick up five additional cards. MPP Robbins explains that during the provincial-wide game, if a player forgets to yell “UNO” they will be immediately placed at the bottom of the rollout list. 
“Game rules are put in place for a reason,” Robbins says. “Everyone is given an equal shot — no favourites can be given in a simple card game.”
However, the UNO for Immunization Act is receiving backlash after an announcement was made that the registration process will require potential players to include a personal financial statement. The newly released guidelines note that residents making over $100,000 annually will begin the game with four cards instead of the usual seven. 
“I feel like this is a fair addition to the game rules,” argues Baxter Reily, a hedge fund portfolio manager located in Toronto. “Three cards can’t make that much of a difference. Work as hard as me, and you can get rid of them too.”
Robbins assures, however, that the financial status of the players will not get in the way of the game’s authenticity. 
“The UNO for Immunization Act is meant to offer an equal opportunity for all Ontario residents to receive the protection against the virus they deserve. And just as in real life, only winners can be guaranteed that luxury.”
Premier Ford has promised that the game itself will be conducted in a “sportsmanlike and fair manner.” He offered well wishes to the players by ending this past week’s press conference with kind hopes that all participants’ “odds be ever in their favour.”
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
