The 44th federal election was held last week, with Liberal Party leader Justin Trudeau forming another minority government. 
The federal election may have caused déjà vu for Canadians voters, with the $600-million election revealing very similar results as the previous. The liberal party collected 158 seats compared to the 157 seats held by the party after the 2019 election, missing the mark of the 170 seats needed to obtain a majority government. 
Two members of York’s community ran as candidates for their respective ridings and spoke with Excalibur about their experiences in Canada’s shortest campaign period on record. 
“The campaign was a long and challenging path filled with excitement and hard work,” says Eric Frydman, Green Party candidate for Eglington-Lawrence and JD/MBA at Osgoode Hall Law School and Schulich School of Business. 
“However, it was worth the effort to have the opportunity to connect with people in my community, whether I was speaking for affordable housing, mental healthcare, or the investments we need to make towards a Green economy.”
Christina Love, Scarborough North New Democratic Party (NDP) candidate for the 2021 federal election, and third-year double major student in Indigenous Studies and French at York states that the dehumanizing experiences faced as an essential worker during the pandemic provoked their drive to run for office. “When the system doesn’t serve us, we need to force change,” she says. 
Love goes on to say that this past election should serve as a wakeup call to students that the “government does not support us.”
“The shortest election in Canadian history unequivocally demonstrates that the status quo will continually perpetuate itself through ‘established channels’ and that it is crucial for us to organize our communities in order to get changes that we need to see,” Love says. She continues on to say that she believes a “national general strike and blockade of industry would do more for progressive causes compared to the last 154 years of settler colonial” politics.
The voter turnout rate dropped this year with just over 58 per cent of registered voters showing up to the polls. The Vote on Campus initiative was cancelled by Elections Canada following the pandemic and the uncertainty of a minority government, which initially caused concerns over potential student voter turnout. 
While the voter turnout rates based on age for the 2021 election have yet to be disclosed by Elections Canada, Canadians aged 18 to 24 statistically have the lowest voter turnout rate for federal elections. 
The discontinuing of a service that would provide students the ability to reach the poll, along with the shortest possible time allotted for a Canadian election, could have been a culprit of the low turnout rate. 
Frydman now encourages students to insert themselves into the democratic process. “I recommend that anyone passionate about student issues gets involved in the political process, whether that means volunteering for a campaign, holding events to bring greater attention to issues or running in an election themselves.”
Love also encourages young people to become involved with politics, saying that “as a student, I see no future for us should nothing change.”
 
Sarah is in her fourth year of Film Studies at York University. She is passionate about using writing as a tool to educate herself and introduce others to hidden stories and new ideas. In the future, she hopes to continue her studies in film and merge it with her love of writing and journalism. You can always find Sarah sketching, painting or endlessly watching films while waiting to get back into movie theatres. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, TikTok came up with many trends relating to books, movies, and TV shows, and Gilmore Girls was no exception. The show is a substantial relic of the Y2K era and as fashion trends from this time are making a comeback, so is the popularity of this mother-daughter duo. 
Produced by Amy Sherman-Pallidino, starring Lauren Graham as independent, single-mother Lorelai Gilmore, along with Alexis Bledel as her daughter Rory, Gilmore Girls is a seven-season comedy-drama that aired from 2000 to 2007. In 2016 the show made a brief but brilliant return with a four episode mini-series titled “Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life.” 
The shoulder bags, wide-legged pants, square boots, plaid skirts, argyle sweaters, and leather blazers are habitual in the early 2000’s show, though now they are now seen as trending “fashion staples.” It is a clear indication that fashion and entertainment never disappear, but are only ever recycled. 
From rating Rory’s love interests, to praising and criticising the mother-daughter relationship, following Rory’s reading list, or loving Lorelai’s fashion sense, Gilmore Girls has been back, trending, and inviting even more people to watch. 
Gilmore Girls is packed with wit, humour, and never-ending pop culture references that heighten the show’s comical and edgy aspect. However, this popular TV show goes beyond being entertaining; strong relationships, heartbreak, academic success, and failure all add more depth into this drama. Protagonists Lorelai and Rory Gilmore reside in a cozy, eccentric town known as “Stars Hollow” where they sail through multiple networks of dreams and significant levels of personal growth when they are forced to reconnect with Lorelai’s estranged parents. 
The show, being inherently light-hearted, had a script that is naturally executed by the actors with the perfect amount of emotion. It is fast-paced and there is always an element of humour. However, many times the constant pop-culture references and jokes felt like they were trying to force a laugh out of the audience. 
The actual women of Gilmore Girls are what make the show so iconic. 
Lauren Graham’s character is very upbeat, fashionable, and fits all the criteria of the “cool mom.” She is always loud in town meetings because that is what her character is: loud, cheery, and energetic. 
Alexis Bledel’s character Rory is a straight-A student who’s obsessed with books, and is an obedient daughter who rarely breaks the rules despite her easygoing mother. Even in the most intense scenes when yelling and big emotions are involved, Bledel maintains a gentle and calm aura for her character.
When I look at Bledel and Graham, who give us natural, raw, and true-to-life characters to relate to, the lines between character and actor seem to blur.
Shows like Gilmore Girls, or any comedy-drama, never go out of style because of the feeling of nostalgia they provide. While Gilmore Girls is not necessarily the best show out there, it certainly is relatable, easy to follow, and entertaining.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
