DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
From mattresses to cat scratching posts, and even spooky costumes, toilet paper has been demonstrated to have many other uses other than its original purpose. 
In April 2020, the world was thrown into shambles with a new virus rapidly spreading across the globe. Along with the virus came a stay-at-home order. This prompted people to stock up on essential items, one of which seemed to be always out of stock — toilet paper. 
While there may have been studies done that connect those who hoarded toilet paper to a collective conscientious personality, there is more to it. After a few interviews, the truth is revealed of what hoarders REALLY did with all of the toilet paper they bought.
Oliver Trask, a video game professor, admits that he is a toilet paper hoarder. 
“What people don’t understand is that there is actually more than meets the eye — myself, along with other hoarders, actually saw this as a perfect opportunity,” he says. “Toilet paper is the perfect medium for DIY projects, which became more accessible with more free time at home.”
Trask adds: “I was able to craft the perfect mummy costume for my daughter — it took several rolls, but it was worth it in the end.”
Katherine Higgle, a sixth-year cosmetology major, also admits to purchasing an unfathomable amount of toilet paper. “I was mostly interested in how much toilet paper I could purchase and how many different projects I could accomplish.”
Higgle explains that she, like Trask, had been looking forward to an opportunity such as this one to purchase a large amount of toilet paper without public stares. 
“My entire life, I have always wanted to make my own mattress out of toilet paper. That way, I could customize it to my liking and if it got soiled, it could easily be tossed and I could have the enjoyment of making another,” says Higgle.
While mummy costumes and mattresses were seen as common among hoarders, the toilet paper was also used to make scrunchies, a wine filter, and even to decorate as wallpaper to commemorate this momentous time of the pandemic.
While toilet paper hoarding might have caused an inconvenience for some, perhaps the stories of these hoarders may inspire you to begin your own hoarding journey. It is not at all wasteful, economically foolish, or ignorant. It is an exciting new hobby that is recommended by activity specialists in these difficult times.
There are a plethora of projects that can be completed in the occurrence of another stay-at-home order. It is recommended that during this sudden event of spare time to keep yourself busy and keep your mind active.
One student in particular, Hugo Kim, a second year sculpture student, had ultimately chosen a unique project. “I had always thought a scratching post for my cat made out of toilet paper would be a great DIY project. My cat seems to gravitate towards toilet paper anyway,” says Kim. “It worked really well.”
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
York has announced the formation of a new media team for its media team, which is slated to begin work on April 1. The team, called York Media Media, is not to be confused with the existing media team, known simply as York Media. York Media Media will be the new first point of contact in order to make York’s media release process even more streamlined than it already is. 
“We aim to make it easier for anyone who wishes to get in contact with a member of York’s administration, faculty, or any other community member worth a voice,” says Brenda Grace, who serves as the new assistant spokesperson to the assistant spokesperson of the university.
Members of the York community with inquiries can reach out to mediasquared@yorku.ca with their questions.
“Instead of emailing who you want to get in touch with directly, simply email York Media Media,” says Grace. “We will then forward your email to York Media, who will forward the email to the appropriate staff member. Then, York Media will forward their email back to us, who will forward it to you and so on. I can’t imagine a more efficient way to get in touch with York’s representatives!”
Lena Dyer, a third-year papier-mâché studies student and editor of Macrylin College’s magazine, has expressed some qualms about the new media team’s speed.
“I reached out to York Media Media asking for a photo of a new art installation by Scott Library. Unfortunately, by the time I received the image forwarded from the Dean of Landscaping, almost a month had passed and the sculpture had already been consumed by squirrels.”
When asked via email about the amount of time it takes to complete the email referral process, Grace referred Excalibur to a statement by York Media Media:
“We are pleased to announce the beta launch of York Media Media, a media team tailored to the unique needs of York’s media team,” the statement reads. “We can assure you that the introduction of this team will lead to more timely and in-depth answers than ever before.”
Meanwhile, some are raising concerns about the quality of information this new media team might be producing.
“I received a quote that the new media team says was from President Yolanda Pelton, but I’m not so sure,” says a student who wishes to remain anonymous out of fear for his safety. “Each letter of the quote appeared to be copied-and-pasted from a different source, all in different fonts, sizes, and colours. I became worried that I was receiving some sort of ransom note, or a piece of secret code.”
He adds that following this perturbing incident, he decided to take the leap and reach out to a few sources directly, starting with emails to the President, the Registrar, and the Faculty of Logic:
“Within ten seconds I received three responses coming from the personal email addresses of the people I had sent them to. The content was identical, and it was all signed by Brenda. How did she gain access to all of these email addresses? Doesn’t she have to do two-factor authentication?”
He adds that since then, he’s been plagued by night terrors. “I haven’t been able to sleep since — when was the last time anyone’s really spoken to President Pelton?”
When asked about the whereabouts of the sources they speak on behalf of, York Media Media stated that York Media has informed them that President Pelton says there’s no cause for alarm.
 
Sakeina Syed is a former Excalibur news editor, and remains a dedicated Excalibur reader. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
