On June 28 around 11 a.m., Toronto Police Services (TPS) reported an industrial accident at The Pond Road and James Gillies Street — the construction site for York’s School of Continuing Studies. 
The victim was in his 60s who, as a result of the accident, “succumbed to his injuries and has been pronounced deceased on scene,” stated TPS.
INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT:The Pond Rd + James Gillies St11:11am– reports a window being lifted by a crane fell on a man– police are o/s@Toronto_Fire o/s@TorontoMedics o/s@LabourMinistry has been notified– expect traffic delays in the area @TTCnotices #GO1210094^lb pic.twitter.com/cXY66y4Myl
The Ministry of Labour, Training and Skills Development (MLTSD) tells Excalibur, “It was reported that a window contractor was hoisting a pane of aluminum panels when it fell onto a worker.”
York President Rhonda Lenton tweeted on Monday that the university is “saddened by this tragic news” and that they are offering “support to staff, faculty, and students.”
We are terribly saddened by this tragic news and our hearts go out to the family and team who have lost their loved one and colleague. 2/3
“The Ministry cannot confirm the employer’s name at this time. An MLTSD inspector has been assigned and the investigation is ongoing,” states Kalem McSween, spokesperson for the MLTSD.
Duty Inspector Ishmail Musah told CTV News reporters that while they believe it was an accident, MLTSD will be determining in their investigation whether there is any criminal element involved. TPS will be assisting in collecting evidence.
According to the university, construction has shut down until the investigation is complete. There is currently no timeline as to when construction will resume.
The MLTSD is reporting no other injuries at this time.
 
Mahdis is a York University graduate with an Honours BA in Professional Writing, a Certificate in Spanish Language Proficiency, and an expected Master of Journalism '23. She is also fluent in Farsi. She began her journey with Excalibur as a contributor in 2017 then worked as executive editor from 2018-2020. For the 2020-2021 year, Mahdis served as editor-in-chief. She is curious about the world, BIPOC stories, and passionate about writing as a platform for advocacy and representation. She hopes to one day add to the diversity of Canadian media both in the content it produces and as a staff member. When Mahdis is not writing or editing or correcting people on the spelling of her name, she is likely marathon-viewing thrillers and crime shows that oddly bear no impact on her sleep. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
