With three in five Canadians saying they experienced undesired weight changes during the pandemic, it can be easy to shame ourselves for not eating the way we think we should have or exercising as much as is recommended. 
“It was definitely a challenge to keep up with fitness during the pandemic when gyms were closed, motivation and mental health felt like it was lower than ever, and fast food and Netflix were easy sources of comfort,” says second-year computer science student Robert Grant. 
While those are undeniably important parts of maintaining a healthy weight, they are definitely not the only factors that come into play. Our natural metabolism plays a heavy role in how quickly we lose or gain weight. 
Metabolism is defined as being a general term used to describe all the chemical reactions involved in maintaining the living state of the cells and the organism. 
Metabolism is further divided into two categories: catabolism, where molecules are broken down to obtain energy; and anabolism, the process where the body uses the energy produced by catabolism to synthesize complex molecules. 
To put it simply, metabolism is responsible for converting the food you eat into the energy you use throughout the day. 
Even at rest, the body is utilizing energy to carry out functions such as pumping blood, breathing, adjusting hormones, and plenty of other functions that we aren’t even conscious of. The calories burned during these basic functions are known as the basal metabolic rate (BMR), and it can vary depending on age, sex, and body composition. 
Diet and exercise can be looked at as tools to alter the already existent metabolism of an individual. 
Since the BMR accounts for so much of our total energy expenditure (measured in kilojoules), increasing lean muscle mass through exercise should be among the primary goals of an individual trying to lose weight. 
Strength training in conjunction with dietary changes will speed up the metabolism, allowing for someone to lose weight faster. Interestingly, nutritional changes alone will likely not be very effective because intaking too few kilojoules will lead the body to slow the metabolism down to save its energy.
If one’s metabolism is naturally fast and they are looking to gain weight, their focus should be on taking in more calories than they are burning in order to maintain a surplus. This can be accomplished by eating dense foods rich in macronutrients like protein, carbohydrates, and fats. Meat, grains, high-fat dairy, and nuts are all examples of dense, filling foods that provide a lot of energy as well. 
In both cases, it’s important to follow some kind of resistance training program two to four times a week to ensure calories are going towards building muscle rather than just being stored in fat cells. 
Nutritionally, it’s best to stick to healthy, whole foods and avoid ‘junk food’ as it may help you gain weight and will damage your health in other ways at the same time. 
In terms of leveraging the knowledge of your metabolism, nutrition, and exercise to get back into pre-pandemic shape, former York Lions Athletic Therapist Arshpreet Deol offers some insight into gaining momentum again without overdoing it. 
“Over the course of the pandemic, people have likely been fairly sedentary on a day-to-day basis. It is important to remind ourselves that we are not in the same shape as we were pre-quarantine. Therefore, we have to be careful of not rushing into our pre-quarantine activity levels right away, and slow the pace down in regards to resistance training and cardio,” says Deol. 
“You can gauge low intensity cardio exercise by working at 40 to 50 per cent of your max heart rate, which you can get a rough estimate of by subtracting your age from 220, for example 220 minus 25: max heart rate = 195, then work at 40 per cent of this. Then, on a weekly basis you can increase by five to 10 per cent especially as the exercise(s) begin to feel easy.”
When it comes to resistance training, Deol offers similar advice in terms of gradually building. 
“For resistance training, I would recommend you make note of how much resistance you were training with prior, and work at a 50 to 60 per cent level of that resistance when you return. Reduce the percentage even further if needed. You’ll want to lower the weight to something you can lift for multiple sets and at least eight to 12 reps. Then, gradually increase your level of resistance/weight by five to 10 per cent every week or bi-weekly.”Deol also states that we should refer to the Canadian 24-hour Movement Guidelines, which illustrates what an active 24-hour day should look like for Canadians aged 18 to 65. The guideline can be found here.
 
Shivam is a driven undergraduate Political Science student with a penchant for health, wellness, and communicating it to people. He believes living a healthy life equates to a happy life, and rejoices in learning all kinds of new health facts that can practically improve people's wellbeing. As his experience with professional writing continues to grow, he hopes to pursue a career in either journalism or law. When Shivam is not writing, you can likely find him working out, playing tennis, hanging out with friends or wasting endless hours going down YouTube rabbit holes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
With the recent increase in COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations, public health officials are pointing to young adults aged 18 to 29 choosing not to get vaccinated as a major factor spurring infections.
According to Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Theresa Tam, there is a lot of concern surrounding COVID-19 vaccination rates among young adults in Canada. Dr. Tam stated to Global News that she is worried about the fact that not enough young Canadians are receiving their vaccines and how the rate of first-dose shots is lagging.
Dr. Tam said younger Canadians are socializing more and can infect older Canadians who already have been vaccinated, even those who might be more vulnerable to the disease regardless of whether they have received both doses of the vaccine. Dr. Tam reiterates how the COVID-19 vaccine has been shown to reduce infection rates, however, there is evidence that those who still get COVID-19 end up having very mild symptoms, if any at all. 
Dr. Liane Ginsburg, a professor in the School of Health Policy and Management, shares her thoughts on the reasoning behind young adults aged 18 to 29 who are choosing not to get vaccinated, and how much of an impact those decisions can have on the overall COVID-19 response. 
“People choosing not to get vaccinated are likely using an individual rather than a community or societal lens as they make their decision. In particular, some may not see COVID-19 as a significant threat or risk to themselves or people in their family. Others may be resisting requests to get vaccinated, choosing to see such requests or requirements as an infringement on their personal freedoms.”
Dr. Ginsburg emphasizes the importance of young adults receiving their vaccines and explains how this can be in the best interest of society as a whole. 
“The ramifications of viewing vaccination through an individual lens — where those less at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19 choose not to get vaccinated — is that it does not move us, as a society, closer to the shared goal that we all have, which is to find a way out of the pandemic so we can return to something that resembles ‘normal.’ Young people choosing not to get vaccinated may also be exacerbating the spread of COVID-19 as they are at higher risk of transmitting the virus.”
Dr. Ginsburg also shares her thoughts on how the government can further promote vaccinations among young adults, and how this can effectively address the challenges associated with ending the pandemic.
“Governments need to emphasize that Canadians are united in our wish to find a way out of the pandemic, while experts believe higher vaccination rates are the most promising lever for achieving this shared goal. Although we value individual freedom, there are situations where public health trumps individual freedom, and right now there is a strong public health justification for vaccine requirements,” they say.
Dr. Dasantila Golemi-Kotra, a professor in the department of biology, explains how she feels about the work that the government has done thus far in encouraging young people to get vaccinated. 
“The best way to get young people to listen to the health experts’ advice is through education, which can make a long-lasting impact on their trust in the health system and make the vaccines and the advice accessible to them through their platform of interest.
“As the virus evolves and becomes more infectious and transmissible, younger people are suffering from severe COVID-19 symptoms in the third and fourth wave. They are constantly bombarded with misinformation on the benefits and risks of vaccines. There is less presence of health experts in social media.”
Dr. Kotra further states that not getting vaccinated could have a severe impact on the future of COVID-19 as well. 
“The ferocious spread of the Delta variant and its impact on the population (primarily among the unvaccinated) has made us realize that no one is really protected unless more than 85 per cent of the population is vaccinated. And that is where the significance of vaccinating the young people becomes essential to curb the pandemic, especially in the current situation where children younger than 12 years old cannot get vaccinated.”
As young adults are being encouraged to receive their vaccinations as soon as possible, they are also being reminded that this pandemic requires everyone’s effort if Canada hopes to get back to normal, and to be mindful of those around them who are more vulnerable in this crisis.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
