In March 2020, open mics and various in-person poetry events were cancelled due to necessary restrictions meant to curb the spread of COVID-19. With the cancellation of open mics and few opportunities for spoken word poetry performers to make their living, the lives of students and poets have been changed.
“I’ve been affected in a lot of ways,” says Kaitlyn Tolch, a former english & professional writing student, now in her third year at OCAD University studying creative writing. “The main point has been the loss of community. I didn’t realize how many of my friends I only saw during events.” As a performance artist, Tolch relies on open mics and poetry events as a source of income. 
With cancellations, her livelihood has been affected.
“One of the many consequences of living through a pandemic has to be the inability to attend spoken word/poetry nights,” says Anisa Ali, a soon-to-be English alumna. “It’s one thing to read poetry, but it is a whole different experience to be amongst a crowd of poets and poetry lovers. Its contingency lies in its oral history.”
During open mic nights and/or poetry slams, there is a communal sense of validation formed between poet and audience through the recognition of a collective devoted to listening to each other — something that is rarely experienced in day-to-day life. A performer can be heard and a poetry lover can be seen, moved, and entertained.
“Poetry communities are a network of support,” says David Goldstein, a professor in the creative writing program. “The pausing of open mics, readings, book launches, and other types of poetry gatherings have had a negative effect on people being able to nurture their own and each other’s commitment to the local poetry scene, and to their own sense of purpose as writers,” Goldstein says.
 This concept rings especially true for Ali, who felt her own identity as a poet start to fade with little access to a poetry community during the lockdowns.
With all the lost opportunities and missed community that the cancellations have had on poetry communities, and despite the challenges of the pandemic, new poetry communities have managed to grow. 
One example of a poetry community that has grown, in part because of the turn-towards-virtual world the pandemic has forced on us, is The Soap Box Press — a local small press located here in Toronto, who have actually expanded their programing since the pandemic.
“Virtual events have allowed us to connect with creatives outside of the GTA, which likely wouldn’t have been possible otherwise,” says Tali Voron, founder of The Soap Box Press.
“We’ve loved being able to offer virtual panel discussions, workshops, conferences, and open mics throughout the pandemic, and we hope to continue expanding into this more accessible programming going forward.”
While the arts scene and poetry communities of York and Toronto have been affected by the cancelation of open mics, many people have suffered due to loss of income and togetherness. Fortunately, there are still growing communities of poets and poetry lovers devoted to maintaining that sense of community. 
Whether it be through meeting together in Zoom rooms to read poetry together or participating in online open mics, “poetry,” as Goldstein says, “like other forms of art, is necessary always — especially during a time of crisis.”For interested parties, you can find information about The Soap Box Press open mic nights on their website or Instagram.
 
Kaila is a poet and writer in her fourth year at York, studying Creative Writing and the Humanities. She is Editor-in-Chief of the Artichoke, a student-run magazine out of Winter’s College. She is passionate about highlighting the arts community here at York and in Toronto as a whole. She is particularly interested in how art can be a mode of expression and how it can inspire personal, social, and political change. When Kaila's not reading, writing, or editing she is an avid hiker and photographer. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
On May 28, 2021, the Parliament of Canada voted to recognize September 30 as the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation.
The vote came at the onset of the discovery of hundreds of unmarked graves at residential schools across the country. These discoveries spurred calls for more action from the federal government to improve relations with Indigenous peoples. In addition, activists called for the dismantling of colonial symbols and institutions across the country from the renaming of Ryerson University to the Cancel Canada Day protests.
Kyle Fournier, media spokesperson for Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada, says that while recognizing the holiday is a step in the right direction, the Canadian government is committed to doing more to improve relations with Indigenous peoples.
“Advancing meaningful reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples across Canada is paramount in moving forward. Residential schools were a shameful part of racist and colonial policies that removed Indigenous children from their communities, their families, languages and cultures. Everyone in Canada has a role to play to educate ourselves and remember the lasting negative impacts residential schools have left on generations of Indigenous Peoples.”
The federal government has designated the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation as a federal statutory holiday, meaning that September 30 will be a paid day off for workers in the federal government and federally-regulated workplaces.
Numerous jurisdictions have recognized the holiday as well, including London and Peel Region — home to Mississauga and Brampton. However, none of Canada’s 13 provinces and territories currently observe it at the provincial level.
Curtis Lindsay, press secretary to Greg Rickford, Ontario minister of Indigenous affairs, states that while September 30 is not recognized by the provincial government as a statutory holiday, it is allowing for its unofficial observance.
“While the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation is not a provincial public holiday this year, employers and employees may agree to treat this day as such, and some may be required to do so if it has been negotiated into collective agreements or employment contracts.”
Lindsay also highlights that provincial institutions will still be commemorating the holiday.
“Ontario is working in collaboration with Indigenous partners, survivors, and affected families to ensure the respectful commemoration of this day within the province, similar to Remembrance Day. To reinforce the province’s steadfast dedication to this truth and reconciliation, this year, the Ontario Public Service will be observing September 30, 2021 as a day of commemoration to reflect on the tragic history and ongoing legacy of residential schools.”
Indigenous activists and political organizations such as the Ontario New Democratic Party (NDP) have denounced the decision by the Ontario government not to recognize the holiday.
Sol Mamakwa, an NDP Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) of Oji-Cree descent, criticized the Progressive Conservative (PC) government for not doing enough to acknowledge Indigenous injustices.“If Ontario and this government does not want to acknowledge the genocide of residential schools then they are part of the problem. But I don’t believe the majority of Ontarians want to be on the wrong side of history. They want the truth and they want a day to reflect.”
 
Diego is a communications student at York University’s Glendon campus. As a Filipino international student, he is deeply passionate about issues affecting racialized and immigrant communities, as well as LGBTQ+. Through his writing, he hopes to shed light on these issues within a Canadian context. In his free time, Diego likes to play guitar and learn new languages. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
