While it is generally accepted that migrants face particular vulnerabilities due to intersecting social identities (ethnicity, gender, sexuality, age, nationality, etc.), some cases can be identified as particularly vulnerable. However, recent studies from international research group, the VULNER project, shows that there is no single definition for nations or even individual officials to reference in terms of addressing vulnerability or what places a particular person in a vulnerable position. 
The VULNER project has appeared in numerous scientific publications and policy briefs for countries throughout the European Union (EU) and the world, but is currently focusing on migrants seeking protection in Europe (Belgium, Germany, Italy, Norway), Canada, Lebanon, and Africa (Uganda and South Africa). While Canada is acknowledged as one of the nations that is actively attempting to identify these cases and their underlying issues, it also clarifies that there is still much work to do.
The report, “​​Vulnerability in the Canadian Protection Regime,” acknowledges that definitions of ‘vulnerability’ are various across nations and even officials, and that when addressed, “is rarely paired with the promise to address the underlying issues that contribute to the vulnerability.” 
York professor Dagmar Soennecken from the School of Public Policy and Administration is a member of the VULNER team that published Canada’s report that highlights the need for a consolidated global system.
“In some EU countries, government officials and immigrant settlement organizations are increasingly relying on vulnerability screening tools when migrants first arrive in the country to better connect the new arrivals to local services,” says Soennecken.
Soennecken also points out that VULNER researchers in the EU have found a number of issues with screening tools used during the process. They were shocked to find that Canada doesn’t actually utilize the same tools in their own processes, especially for those newly arrived asylum seekers, whose claim for protection is still being assessed. 
“In fact, several lawyers who we interviewed as part of the next phase of the Canadian VULNER project told us that they often do not request the few procedural accommodations that exist for asylum seekers in Canada, who they consider vulnerable because these requests are frequently denied and the accommodations offered are quite minimal,” says Soennecken.
Assistant Professor in the department of equity studies, Yvonne Su, adds that “the issue is more whether nations care about the vulnerable in the first place. Countries that do not care for the vulnerable can have many ways beyond a definition of ‘vulnerable’ that stops them from helping others or gives them excuses to not help.”
When it comes to emergency situations, such as conflicts in the Ukraine and Afghanistan, Soennecken and the VULNER team realized that Canada’s systems are not time-sensitive enough.
“The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, and the repeated calls for faster processing of the paperwork of Afghanis wanting to come to Canada, has certainly shown that our immigration procedures are not very nimble and/or well-suited for emergency situations where migrants are even more at risk and where vulnerabilities can easily be exacerbated.
“Regular immigration procedures — even if they allow migrants who may be at risk or who may be considered vulnerable to immigrate to Canada — are incredibly inflexible during a humanitarian emergency such as the current war in Ukraine. Countries such as Canada, who are not located near the immediate conflict zone, have the luxury of picking and choosing who they consider most at risk, and who they want to allow access to Canada first,” says Soennecken. 
While VULNER’s research has shown that while Canada is actively taking steps to address ‘migrant vulnerability’ through policy-making and social support programs, it has also shown that there is still much to be done to find applicable real-world solutions for those facing immediate threat to their security. 
“Oftentimes, vulnerabilities are inadvertently created by the government through its administration of the immigration process (long waiting times that separates families and language barriers). Government officials should enter into an open conversation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Canadian immigration settlement organizations, and migrants themselves to better understand what the special needs of migrants are, what makes them vulnerable, or what puts them at risk. 
“If the goal of Canada’s commitment to humanitarianism is inclusion, then there should also be conversations about the discrepancies between our processes overseas and at home,” Soennecken concludes. 
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
In a move that shocked many — including both parties’ own candidates — the Liberal Party officially announced an informal deal with the New Democratic Party (NDP) to keep Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government in power until 2025.
Per Global News, Trudeau said that this deal will offer “predictability and stability” to Canadians during what he called “uncertain times.”
During a press conference, NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh called this move “a starting point” and further stated that his party is entering this deal with “eyes-wide-open — if they fall short on what we’ve agreed to, the deal doesn’t continue.”
In exchange, the Liberals have promised to act on dental care, pharmacare, affordable housing, policies to target climate change along with other causes that the NDP have advocated for.
Liberal MPP of Humber River-Black Creek Judy Sgro notes that neither she, nor her colleagues were aware that discussions were being had regarding a potential deal, however, Sgro points out that it may have been a “big relief” for some.
“When you’re in a minority parliament, you have to have at the back of your mind that a vote of ‘no confidence’ could come at any time.” 
Sgro echoes Trudeau’s sentiments regarding “stability for Canadians,” noting that the country has dealt with the pandemic, the Trucker Convoy, and is now enveloped with the war in Ukraine. “Canadians at least don’t have to worry about a sudden election when we need everybody’s full attention on governing Canada and doing everything we can to help Ukrainians.”
Others reacted with disapproval and vexation, notably from the Conservative side with Interim leader Candice Bergen telling CBC News that the deal is a “desperate cling to power” and further stated that the Conservatives are fighting against an NDP-Liberal majority government. “The NDP and the Liberals were meeting in secret and they cooked up a backroom deal that will see Justin Trudeau get the majority power that he tried desperately to get last fall and failed to get.”
With this agreement in tow, does this seem like an opportunistic move by both parties? Denis M. Pilon, an associate professor in the department of political science, believes that since “no single party has a majority of seats, everything sounds pretty democratic. If the Liberals follow through on what they have promised the NDP, then the NDP will be in a position to claim to voters in the next election that they made a significant difference in terms of the political outcomes of this parliament. So both could benefit.
“We won’t know until time passes.” 
Based on history, however, Robert J. Drummond, professor emeritus in the department of politics, feels that the Liberals will “benefit in the immediate future.” Both Drummond and Pilon note a similar agreement between the Liberals and NDP in 1985, which led to the Liberals winning a majority government in 1987. Pilon did note, however, that this support was seen as “a crucial stepping stone” to NDP candidate Bob Rae becoming Premier of Ontario in 1990. 
While both parties’ primary targets are centred on ushering in new programs for Canadians and keeping the Liberals in parliament, careful steps will have to be taken by both parties in order to gain any sort of political advantage.
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
