DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
Move aside the NCAA and their athletes, who have their faces plastered on billboards at Times Square. York is stepping it up and getting its athletes the recognition they deserve, but only the OUA athletes.
“It is time to broaden our horizons and step into the future. And this is the future. Athletes that are full-time volunteers with a student gig on the side,” says Director of Athletic Recreation Jung Patel. 
This movement is backed by York’s Athletic Board of Governors, who were in a celebratory mood after the first round of meetings. 
“To be completely honest with you, I had booked my therapist in advance and chugged Pepto Bismol before going into another round of meetings with peasants — I mean people,” says President Rhimes. 
One would think that it would take some persuasion to get the athletes to agree. But alas, you’d be wrong.
“This is not the first time and will definitely not be the last you would be wrong,” says Rhimes’ therapist, who cyber stalked us until we included this quote.
“Oh dude-bro, next season will be super lit. I mean, like, who doesn’t wanna have a full-time shtick — am I right? And like, the nice lady promised us perks and benefits too,” says Draw Dweeb, a varsity-volleyball player known for warming the seats for his fellow teammates. 
“Benefits and perks that are a part of the package deal include (and are definitely restricted to) magazines, the fishbowl office at Stong, four green couches with bubblegum (as in bubble gum stuck to em), one vintage and aged Cera-ve moisturiser (do not ask about the expiration date or the mouldy green stuff around it), and a bi-annual cleaning of the whole space”, says Chair of the ‘Not Really Union Student Athletes’ Union’ (NRUSAU) Claude Doe, representing the diverse athlete population at York. 
Doe feels proud of his negotiations, and as a former-Quidditch player, believes that this will ease the lives of his fellow athletes. “I will also let you in on a secret. Patel thinks this was his doing and the Board thinks this was their doing. But it was the OUA Athletes all along. Dun-dun dun.” (Doe demanded the dun-dun-dun to be included). 
According to Doe, all of the OUA athletes at York met in secrecy to decide on a collective action that will change the way OUA Sports is completely set aside by literally everyone. 
“I am not at liberty to discuss all the information, but I will just say this; when a bunch of fifth years put their minds to something, you better watch out,” says Chad Chalderton, captain of the Lawn Bowling team and a fellow fifth-year Lion.  
A recent development in the negotiations has also made the players very happy. If the football team can manage to win one game in the next five years, then every single OUA athlete gets a participation trophy and a five per cent discount on their trip to ‘Save the Children’ in developing countries.
 
Maryam is a fourth-year student majoring in Kinesiology and Health Science. She's a huge fan of anything sports related, but loves to explore the sports realm beyond the stats and the numbers. When she’s not fielding calls from ESPN, you can find her studying, re-watching Crash Landing on You, and listen to the Taylor’s Version albums — all at the same time. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
After two years of theories that COVID-19 was concocted in a lab or utilized as a bioweapon, the answer is finally here: in short, COVID-19 was created by baby boomers.
Ivan M. Fickleborne, the president of the Unappreciated Seniors Society (USS, not to be confused with the band) recently released a statement declaring that it was their organization who are seemingly at fault for what became a global pandemic that has persisted for over two years.
“We had one goal in mind. We wanted to teach the youth a lesson. The freeloading millennials and the woke Gen-Z understand and appreciate nothing in life. All we intended was to infect the youth with temporary blindness so that they would get off their Tik-Tak’s and Instantgrams and appreciate life for what it is. 
“We reached out to various bio-labs to create the necessary infection that would help attain our goals, but unfortunately, things got out of hand,” reads the statement. “We do not take responsibility for the final result of what became COVID-19 (a.k.a the common cold, you snowflakes). But sometimes sacrifices have to be made in order to make necessary changes.”
The statement shocked a great majority of people, calling it tone-deaf, reckless, and disturbing. Most notably, Ontario’s Premier Pug Gord condemned the USS, labelling them “bio-terrorists” and saying, “actions will be taken to ensure that a crisis of this nature will never happen again.”
Shortly after the statement was released, USS Vice President Hugh Jess Richard-Head was arrested for alleged hate crimes in affiliation with the Trucker Convoy and possession of illegally acquired Pokémon cards. 
Toronto Police also released a statement saying that the USS’ assets have been frozen, all social media accounts have been suspended, and that the organization is under a “thorough investigation.”
Robin Oiseau, a fifth-year social media arts major and leader of the student club “Gen-Z Represent” recently spoke to Excalibur to weigh in on this recent revelation. 
“It’s crazy how a generation of people raised by veterans and during a time of great cultural change are, in fact, the softest and most easily offended group of people in the world’s demographic.”
Fellow club member, second-year arts major and influencer DJ Panic King concurred with Oiseau, simply stating, “based.” 
In a national address to the country, Canada’s Prime Minister Dustin Flubeau stated that he and other world leaders will be meeting to discuss the next steps that will be taken and has promised that they will continue to investigate the origin of COVID-19 and who worked in collaboration with the USS. 
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
