From Nov. 20 – 26, Theatre @ York presents Love in the Time of Werewolves, a new production showcasing a comedic perspective of the politics and chaos of life backstage, and all the drama that comes with being involved in theatre.
“Love in the Time of Werewolves is a comedic thriller that leaves you on the edge of your seat,” explains Eric Amaral, a fourth-year student majoring in Devised Theatre, who is also filling the role of assistant director. 
Rachel Quintanilla, a fourth-year theatre student, is playing the role of Carmen Castillo, the director of the community centre, where audiences can see the cast working on the production of Song of Chrysanthemums.
As an original play written by Canadian playwright David Yee and directed by Diana Belshaw, Quintanilla explains that audiences can expect themes of love affairs, bullying, and hierarchies, among others.
“It is a play within a play that reveals a backstage access perspective to the world of community theatre. It is a farce that deals with the drama of putting on a production. […] This play is a lot of fun to watch, with chaos, plot twists, and great jokes intended for all ages to understand. Be ready to laugh because I can assure you there won’t be a dull moment,” says Quintanilla.
Born and raised in Toronto, David Yee is the co-founding artistic director of fu-GEN Theatre Company, a leading Asian Canadian theatre company in Canada, and has been nominated for various prestigious DORA awards. His work has been presented both locally and internationally, and now, at York, premiering his newest production and creating an incredible opportunity for theatre students.
Reflecting on the rehearsal process, Amaral says that, “There has been a lot of hard work and dedication put into this production. The cast and crew have worked extremely hard on making this show come to life.”
“So many amazing people are working on this production to make it the best that it can possibly be. I feel extremely privileged to be a part of the storytelling of this original play that will be shown to the public for the very first time. I am so proud of this play and I can’t wait for everyone to see it,” adds Quintanilla, reflecting Amaral’s sentiment. 
Love in the Time of Werewolves will be presented in the Joseph G. Green Studio Theatre with multiple evening performances and some matinee options. To learn more about the play and get tickets, click here.
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Haleema Ahmed is a second-year biomedical sciences student at York University who has created her path to success by advocating for social issues and youth perspectives through writing. Despite the many challenges the COVID-19 pandemic has brought for Ahmed, it has also motivated her work.
First published in the Toronto Star with a piece on being a teen during the pandemic, this would inspire her to continue writing articles and explore new interests. Today, she is reaping the benefits of her hard work in her second year as a part of the Prime Minister’s Youth Council (PMYC).
However, none of this would have been possible without the encouragement from her English teacher. “This all kind of started when one of my English teachers said that I wrote a really good essay, and said I should try publishing it. That was what kind of triggered me to use my voice for the first time,” explains Ahmed.
“That teacher just saying to me, ‘this is really good, they’re gonna publish you,’ was the reason I wrote that article for Toronto Star. Everything kind of snowballed after that. It is insane the power that a really encouraging teacher can do for you.”
During her first year on the council, due to restrictions caused by COVID-19, Ahmed and the PMYC weren’t able to hold any in-person meetings. Nonetheless, this didn’t stop her opinion and practical input from being heard. 
Through monthly virtual meetings with government agencies and groups, she provided valuable perspectives on pressing matters, such as, improvements to vaccine rollout among young people. Ahmed and the PMYC also met with Prime Minister Trudeau online to discuss what they would like to see prioritised in Canada’s budget. 
Speaking on what she’s enjoyed the most while being a part of the PMYC, Ahmed says, “My favourite part is being able to look at a document or look at a program and tell them specifically what I think could be improved to accommodate more diverse groups, and to make it more accessible — I really like that aspect of the council.”
The PMYC’s first in-person meeting since the pandemic was held in Ottawa during August 2022. This time, Ahmed had the chance to meet with various government agencies and the Prime Minister, face-to-face, to discuss “issues of priority.” Ahmed is hoping to have more in-person gatherings, but also expects a lot more online meetings as her voice continues to be heard. 
Despite being a science student, Ahmed is active and interested in all different areas, from journalism to politics and policy, and says that, “What’s been interesting for me is linking the two together,” Ahemed continues. 
“Ultimately, I am interested in a career in healthcare and I really like the idea of linking that to large-scale problems, like national health, which I like to advocate for in the council. Medicine and politics, healthcare and politics — they’re not separate things. Looking to the long term, I really want to link health solutions and improving Canada’s healthcare system to that political aspect.” 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
