DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
With the rise of the geese population at York, these infamous creatures have not just taken the campus peace and sidewalks, but the beloved York Lions as well. Students, faculty, and alumni are shocked and disturbed. Out with Yeo the Lion, comes Gandalf the Goose.
“Yeo the Lion was not adaptable for the change of times,” says Mennifer Jyers, executive director of athletics and recreation at York. “We had to take in consideration the presence of geese on our campus. This is the bird York is known for and we must be proud for staying true to the Canadian identity,” Jyers continues. 
Captain of York’s Foosball team, Justin Callaway says that “this decision is an embarrassment for me, my team, and the entire athletic community here at York. We are shocked by this decision and are not looking forward to the mocking coming our way from other school teams.” 
Gandalf the Goose has gotten much backlash and hate. What does Gandalf the Goose have to say for himself? “Well, I think I am quite misunderstood. I don’t mean no harm and I am trying my best to adapt to this change, which frankly I didn’t want. I was content with scaring and hissing at students and pooping on the sidewalk with all the rest of the geese, but no! They just had to get me involved with sports — what kind of goose gives off an athletic vibe?” Gandalf the Goose relays frustratingly.
Gandalf the Goose has decided to take out his frustrations by blocking students and not letting them walk down certain paths, shouting “you shall not proceed!” and, “fly, you morons!”
As the news of this change ventures far and wide, coach Vance Corter couldn’t resist giving his two cents on this matter, “Geese are not winners, in my team and school we act, play, and are winners. I can only relay my condolences for students who have to unfairly deal with this utter nonsense.”
York alumni and former football star at York, Michael Rodrigo feels ashamed and disappointed. “My years playing for York was the best time of my life. My former team members and I played valiantly for a school we were proud of. A goose? What a disgrace. That’s why we call them ‘the good old days’.”
First-year student Lisa Enderson relays that she was not proud of coming into a school with a goose as a mascot. “Geese are vile, triggering, and disgusting. The amount of times I have gotten goose poop stuck on my shoe is more than I can count, and have you seen them hiss?” Enderson says.
On March 27, the York community assembled and organized a protest to bring back Yeo the Lion, where students part of the athletic department have vowed “to not return to classes until Yeo’s return.”
With the uprising of the protest, Renton gives their official statement: “We have seemed to have run into an unexpected turn of events. The administration and the athletics department truly did not foresee the backlash against Gandalf the Goose. We have set a meeting to discuss a potential agreement and come to a common ground for a mascot that all will love and accept.”
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
As vaccines are rolled out and the COVID-19 pandemic seems to wane, the city of Toronto has seen a rise in what seems to be a completely new virus that has sufferers acting strangely similar to the city’s beloved and unofficial mascot — the raccoon, also known as the “trash panda”. Alongside patients’ progressively odd and vicious behaviour, there has likewise been an increase in raccoon attacks. 
York assistant professor and head researcher at MünsterLab Co., Dr. Von der Helsching, has been investigating possible links between the two phenomena. The recent surge in violent nocturnal raccoon activity caught the researcher’s attention after several lab assistants reported having been chased off campus, or seen fellow students and faculty chased off campus, by particularly large raccoons.
“It wasn’t until one of our assistants had reported feeling ill shortly after his mandatory sixth COVID-19 vaccine and had started exhibiting some odd behavior that we finally looked into the possible connections,” says Dr. Von der Helsching. “When he returned to work the day after a full moon, he seemed rather irritable and kept making hissing or chittering sounds at his partner. 
“Gary was always a little odd to begin with, so at first we thought nothing of it. But when the next full moon — or the one after — came around, and he was found in a dumpster covered in Timbers Lodge lobster bisque, we knew something was off. Gary hates lobster.” 
Gary, who prefers to keep his last name anonymous, is currently being held at MünsterLabs for research purposes, but was available for comment.
“The change itself isn’t all bad — it’s only once a month, and I really just get a bit more irritable, and hungry for junk food. I guess you could say I have my own kind of time of the month. I’m just more disappointed that I haven’t magically grown a six pack and felt the need to cut off all my hair overnight, but I’m still hopeful that I might find true love in a friend’s family member one day,” Gary says with an optimistic smile.
When it comes to terminology, Gary says he isn’t too bothered by “were-raccoon” or other developing nicknames — except for one.
“Trash panda. It’s worse. It’s so much worse than were-raccoon,” Gary adds tearfully. 
Currently, the official name for the afflicted and temporary breed is Torontus Trashus-Pandus, as coined by Dr. Von der Helsching himself, who was aware at the time of the general distaste towards the name.
“I do realize that Gary and many others that are afflicted don’t approve of the name chosen for the particular breed that’s a result of vaccine side effects, but we don’t like Gary,” concludes Dr. Von der Helsching.
Efforts have currently been made to curb the amount of those suffering from vaccine side effects by sending new garbage cans with stronger locks to every home in the city. When asked about finding a potential cure to the problem, the Ford government responded that “the raccoon problem just wasn’t as high on the list as giving tax breaks to major corporations, but that maybe closer to election, if it was a hot button issue, concerns may be addressed more seriously. 
“In the meantime, use your free extra strength trash cans, and it should be okay,” Ford cheerfully added.
Toronto residents are still encouraged to get their mandatory sixth vaccine.
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
