DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
It is simply not feasible in our modern day to drive cars anymore. As Ontario enters 2022, the once proposed era of flying cars and savvy technological advances, horseback riding is making its comeback as a mainstream mode of transportation. 
Olivia Bellboot, a seventh-year kinesiology student and president and only member of York’s polo club, never thought she’d see the day where horses can pull up to campus. 
“After neverending strikes, ongoing construction, different but never better eateries, and countless bus routes later, we have finally arrived at horses. This is a big win for the polo club as well. We are becoming a recognized club in the community, and interest is generating.”
Hunter Paddock, a fourth-year student studying human resources and a fellow equestrian, believes this is a progressive step towards reclaiming our lives.
“It is hard to keep up with the bills and how costly our education is. Transportation is costly, and there has to be a more affordable way to travel in our city. And there is a way: horses. But, times are changing and we have to keep up. This isn’t a step backwards. We are taking a stand against how expensive it is to live and doing what we need to do.”
However, several students and staff on campus are less enthused about the new transportation methods. The critiques are pouring into the administration, but students seem to be split on their plans of action. William Halter, a first-year economics student, feels that introducing horse riding as a transportation method is a cry for help from the university.
“Just because other universities have decided horses are an acceptable method of transportation, does not mean we have to. There are other avenues to turn to for profit and for transportation. Our campus is being destroyed, and no one seems to understand that. First geese, now horses. It’s outrageous.”
York security also has a bone to pick with the new transportation vessel. Judy Martingale, head of the animal safety and security division at York, thinks proper measures aren’t being taken to ensure the safety of the campus and of the horses. 
“We simply do not have enough security to care for our students, faculty, and employees, let alone horses. What happens if a horse gets stolen? How are we supposed to investigate that? Our job description simply does not state how to investigate hoofprints.”
The most opposition to horse riding on campus is from members of the Vegans Against Horse-Riding at York University (VAHR@YU). It seems that the tempers are high, and hooves are being revved.
“We simply do not have any autonomy over these animals to use them for selfish purposes. These animals are subjected to long horse rides, minimal food, improper equipment, and harsh resting conditions. It appalls me York has chosen to be a part of this, and I condemn them. Horses are living things; they are not meant for our vanity,” says Melanie Scallion, a third-year student studying mammal education and VAHR@YU spokesperson. 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
DISCLAIMER: Stories and images published in this week’s issue under satire (with the exception of advertisements) are purely satirical and created purely for entertainment and/or parody purposes. They are not intended to communicate any accurate or factual information. Some names used in Excalibur’s satire stories are fictional, and any resemblance to actual persons or entities may be purely coincidental.
“Get up and work. It seems like nobody wants to work these days” 
Kim Kardashian’s unsolicited but nevertheless true advice is already working wonders. Outrage over her accusation is replaced by inspiration and deep self-reflection, and with that kind of deep self-reflection comes results. Kardashian has managed to improve the rates of self-employed women by nearly 50 per cent internationally.
Small business owner, Mary Montgage, says that Kardashian’s advice was a wake-up call. “I’ve been in the clothing industry for 20 years and not once has anyone provided me with the advice Kim has. Even after working through and surviving a pandemic as a clothing retailer, I realized it wasn’t enough. 
“We have to do better. Whatever level Kim is at, we must strive for that.”
Montgage is now dabbling in skincare for her retail store, and through countless nights of working, no days off, and several mental breakdowns later, her business is seeing a slight return of pre-pandemic profits.
“I’ve also encouraged my friends to listen to Kim’s advice. We could all be doing more. It doesn’t matter that we all work two or three jobs, parent our children, put food on the table, and maintain societal standards. We just have to do more. I mean, look at Kim. She has four kids, manages different business endeavours, is pursuing a law degree, and she does it all alone. It’s truly inspiring,” adds Montgage.
Excalibur also had the chance to speak directly with local celebrity influencer Ana Louis Smith’s personal assistant, Joane Wick. She expressed distaste over Kardashian’s comments and thinks Kardashian doesn’t know what it means to work properly and honestly if you grew up with a “silver spoon in your mouth.”
“I work as a personal assistant and as the owner of a small business on the side. And yes, my business has seen improvements after I took Kim’s advice, but it doesn’t make her comments any less harsh,” says Wick.
Lifestyle guru and coach, Brandy Misville, thinks Kardashian is 100 per cent in the right, and is surprised these comments weren’t made sooner. “As women, we constantly have to raise the bar higher. We shouldn’t make society keep up with us. We have to meet the unrealistic goals society sets for us. It’s the only way we can even attempt to reach the Kardashians’ and Jenners’ level.”
There has been a mixture of agreement and outrage regarding Kardashian’s comments. However, improved rates for self-employed women have gone up a considerable amount, so, perhaps Kardashian’s unsolicited advice was long overdue after all.
Perhaps the most infuriating part of Kardashian accusing the population of not wanting to work is that she is right. Working class women in the workplace desperately needed a reality check and who better than Kardashian, who can truly relate to their work ethic, to give them one? 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
