While boasting a masters degree in molecular biology, York alumnus John Babu has become a filmmaker after pursuing his hobby during his studies. 
Babu says that his love of watching films led him to co-found the ‘Movies At York’ student club from 2010 to 2017 on campus. 
“While promoting one of our movie nights on the live campus radio, the interviewer randomly asked me if I was interested in making films. I hadn’t even considered the possibility and shrugged it off saying that I was in biology, so it wouldn’t make sense,” says Babu. 
“That conversation had planted a seed in me, to the point that when I dreamed of a story idea a few weeks later, I jotted it down after waking up with the intention of developing it further. Although I knew nothing about filmmaking then, I spent the next few weeks searching up how to write scripts, while expanding on my initial idea. I had taken my first steps to being a filmmaker.”
Babu says that his science background seeps into his filmmaking process in various ways. 
“From having checklists to make sure my scripts have hit the required points, to meticulously storyboarding and scheduling shoot days, delegating specific tasks to each department, and being particular about sticking to the written lines as much as possible, I tend to be fairly rigorous in my preparation.” 
Babu adds that his films also try to be “succinct and non-judgmental, often trying to explore complex concepts.
Babu’s The InTEXTigator film series is about Sherlock, an artificial intelligence developed by the Toronto Police Service, solving various cases through its unique approach. 
“Although the premise may seem very tech-savvy on the outside, my focus is on exploring how machines are different from humans through the pros and cons of technology. This particular film sees both Sherlock and a human cop simultaneously investigate a missing painting. 
“Perceiving and finding meaning in art is thought to be one of the traits that distinguishes us from machines, and thus, we juxtapose these approaches in the setting of an art gallery. The film was inspired by many events including art thefts and the growth in automation in various fields,” explains Babu. 
Without formal filmmaking training, the filmmaker did not have a network of like-minded individuals that he could collaborate with, nor did he have a breadth of film projects under his belt.
“I had to do everything from scratch, relying on the limited resources I had. I tried everything I could, including borrowing film textbooks from others to learn, messaging random strangers around the world on social media to collaborate, spam mailing various people to get locations, telling stories purely through texts, and so on,” says Babu.
“My naivety in the field has probably also been an advantage though, as I sometimes do not realize how difficult certain things truly are until after I finish them.”
In contrast to his science courses, Babu explains that pursuing artistic endeavours allowed him to relax and to let his mind be somewhat free.
While the sciences and the arts are contrasting, Babu explains there are many skills learned in both, such as communication, people skills, leadership, organization, and time-management, that are easily applicable to any field.
“James Cameron, for instance, was someone who took his love for science and tech, and gave us many sci-fi blockbusters. On the other end, Santiago Ramón y Cajal was a gifted painter who went on to create pioneering drawings of brain cells, before being hailed as the father of neuroscience. There are usually very creative ways that seemingly unrelated fields can be bridged, and a deep interest in them is the first step to it.” 
Babu’s latest film of his series, The InTEXTigator 3: The Line of the Four can be viewed online, and Babu can be connected with through his Instagram.
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
With recent concerns and frustrations regarding the workplace environment, the York University Faculty Association (YUFA) called on an online strike mandate vote starting February 22, 2022 which will be ending today, February 28, 2022, at 4 p.m.
Since August 2021, York and YUFA have undergone several meetings discussing issues concerning the workplace, and have undergone proposals and bargaining to amend the current situation. Through an email sent out to members, YUFA indicates and proposes changes towards issues relating to equity, workload, privacy, research support, and retirement. 
YUFA member, professor Jody Berland from the department of humanities, provides their insight on the gravity of this strike vote.
“It is important for students to know that while York is unfortunately known for frequent strikes — the food workers from the cafeterias and the contract teachers and teaching assistants in CUPE 3903 being two recent examples — YUFA has not called a strike for 25 years. The last time YUFA went on strike, many of York’s students weren’t born yet.
“At a membership meeting last week, YUFA members voted 92 per cent in favour of a strike mandate vote, which does not constitute a strike vote. Then YUFA Executive voted overwhelmingly to authorize the strike vote,” Berland continues. 
But what implications could this strike have on students? Berland says, “Faculty strikes never involve the loss of a term for students. It has never happened at York or at any other Canadian faculty strikers. Our professor will ensure that any back to work plans involve full remediation of courses for students.”
Why is the vote happening now? 
“Our bargaining team is comprised of academics who do not really want to go on strike,” states Berland. “Professors have been without a contract since May, 2021. Our team has met with the administration’s bargaining team 17 times already, and their bargaining team took a unilaterally hard line on every single item up for negotiation.”
When reached for comment, York’s Deputy Spokesperson, Yanni Dagonas, referred Excalibur to the community updates regarding the YUFA Bargaining. The latest update on February 22, 2022 states that “at the most recent meeting on February 15, there were further discussion regarding compensation in relation to Bill 124 and both parties appear to have a clearer understanding of each other’s views as captured in the university’s subsequent correspondence to YUFA.”
“The university looks forward to continuing these discussions with the assistance of the mediator to reach an agreement that is compliant with the increases in compensation for faculty and librarian members permissible under Bill 124” the update continued. 
This is a developing story as the vote will be ending today at 4 p.m.
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
