Access to clean drinking water is recognized as a human right by the United Nations (UN) and the quality of water is a determinant of human and ecosystem health. Canada holds over 20 per cent of the global freshwater supply, yet marginalized communities continue to be affected by drinking water advisories because drinking water supplies are not up to safe standards. 
These water advisories indicate a public safety threat posed by the current drinking water supply resulting from microbiological, chemical, and infrastructural factors, which are issued as a “boil water”, “do not consume”, or “do not use” advisories. 
Trudeau’s 2015 election campaign stated that long-term water advisories would be eliminated by March 2021. Since then, over 131 drinking water advisories have been resolved. However, seven years later, 34 long-term drinking water advisories are in effect in marginalized communities in Canada. 
Water advisories were never meant to be enforced long-term, and as it can take years to resolve the problems from which the advisories arose, the current system is an inadequate water safety tool. 
For example, the Shoal Lake Reserve No. 40, has had a water advisory in place for over 24 years. When the City of Winnipeg built an aqueduct to supply the capital with clean water in 1919, the Anishinaabe community of Shoal Lake 40 was displaced and isolated geographically from drinking water supplies, creating obstacles in accessing clean water, food, emergency services, as well as other necessities for over a century. 
After continuous rejection of water treatment facility proposals by the federal government due to the high costs, the construction of a road to connect the community to the Trans-Canada highway, dubbed “Freedom Road,” finally made this task feasible. The road allowed for the construction of a water treatment facility and the end of a 24-year long boil water advisory in September 2021, as it facilitated safe and year-round travel to the reserve and enabled affordable infrastructure development. 
This story is one of many, and despite 126 long-term drinking water advisories being lifted since November 2015, there are still 34 long-term drinking water advisories in effect — 24 being on-reserve.
A class-action litigation was recently filed against the federal government by Indigenous communities that had been without clean water for more than two years, arguing that Canada had failed to fulfill its duties according to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
After a lengthy legal struggle, spanning several years and garnering abundant media attention, the Government of Canada paid a settlement of $8 billion to those who suffered due to water advisories that had been in place for an extended time. 
Just as with Shoal Lake 40, satisfactory solutions are very involved undertakings and require much more than financial compensation. Therefore, we call to hold the government accountable to ensure that all communities in Canada have immediate equitable access to essentials like clean drinking water.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
After a successful first year in the OUAs, York’s men’s hockey defender Connor Senken has earned a place on the OUAs 2021-2022 all-rookie team.
Having previously played in the junior hockey league, Senken acknowledged that the transition could be challenging, which is why he wanted to make sure his body was in good shape going into camp.
Senken reflects on the season and credits the team’s management for supporting him throughout. “We’re very fortunate to have Jesse Cook as our strength and conditioning coach, he was supplying us with player-specific workout programs throughout the pandemic and the offseason. In addition, I was on the ice practicing my skills throughout the entirety of the pandemic (when rinks were open). 
“As far as my on-ice success this year, I owe much of that to the great group of veteran players we had this year and to our fantastic coaching staff,” Senken adds.
Senken believes that the key to success is having a balanced team of veterans and rookies. 
“As a defenseman I was lucky to be able to be back there and learn from veteran guys like Justin Bean, David D’Agostino, and Xavier Pouliot. I also have to thank our coaches, Russ Herrington and Dan Poliziani for the effort they dedicate to the team and having trust in me as a younger player. I am already looking forward to next season and I know that special things are ahead for our hockey program.”
Meanwhile, the badminton team at York recorded a historic event at the OUA championship. They maintained a perfect record throughout the season and came home with silver medals. 
Women’s all-star Giselle Chan expresses her feelings on what she describes as a “surreal experience.”
“The team gained several valuable players this year, including several national athletes, Pan Am medalists, and an olympian. Having been underdogs at OUA the past couple of years, our draws were difficult. With our low rank entering the competition, we fought to defeat higher ranked teams and pull through into the finals. Our result was a surprise to the OUA badminton circuit, and the best the York team has performed in the last decade. 
“In addition to our silver medal, our team also went on to compete at nationals. Although we lost to Université de Montreal in the finals, our players pulled through to win another silver medal. This season has been a great success, I can’t wait to compete alongside our amazing players to aim for gold next season!”
Previously, track and field stars Leah Jones and Kaitlin Brooks were preparing for USports after securing gold in their events.
They continued their streak in the USports championship held in New Brunswick and added a gold and a silver medal respectively to the Lions track and field trophy room. 
Leah Jones feels proud over her performance this past season and in achieving the goals she set out for herself.
“I am very happy because my goal this year was to break the school record since I felt I was very close to it. I am grateful for the support from my family, teammates and coaches for being there to help me through this! This was the best way to end my varsity career and looking back I don’t regret a thing.”
 
Maryam is a fourth-year student majoring in Kinesiology and Health Science. She's a huge fan of anything sports related, but loves to explore the sports realm beyond the stats and the numbers. When she’s not fielding calls from ESPN, you can find her studying, re-watching Crash Landing on You, and listen to the Taylor’s Version albums — all at the same time. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
This article is neither an attempt at sensationalizing Pakistani culture, nor does it aim to be the missing piece of the puzzling mystery that is Pakistani culture — for my privilege has sheltered me from many harsh realities that are now just a part of the daily ritual for many. Rather, it is merely an attempt at adding two cents to the conversation surrounding this unforgiving land — one that has withstood calamities brought forth by both man and nature. 
People often forget that the rules of ethics apply in the East too, especially those concerning informed consent. 
For these reasons, this article does not have any pictures of locals and their faces because whatever story they might tell from their eyes, you can see it reflected in Karachi’s gloriously heartbreaking monsoon, intricately designed mehndi, jalebi fresh from a cauldron of auspicious drippings and oil and dipped generously in sheera (sugar syrup) , preparations for shaam ki chai (a mini meal consisting of evening tea, biscuits and fried assortments) and so many other tiny inconsequential moments that are the fabric of this society. 
This photo essay aims at introducing a new form of appreciation and understanding, one where the land speaks for itself. 
Manahil Raza, a Karachi ex-pat to Lahore details how she experiences the Pakistani culture in her life — a gradual reluctantly welcoming overture. 
“I lived in Karachi until I was 18 when I moved to Lahore, where I have since lived. These are bustling metropolitan hubs of two of Pakistan’s provinces, namely Sindh and Punjab. To say I faced a culture shock would be an understatement.” 
“While Western media might paint all of Pakistan with a sepia toned filter and a confusing overlap with Arab speaking nations, the truth reveals a great variation within the cultures and languages of the country. I acknowledge my privilege of class when it comes to my observations about culture because my financial status affords me the company of similarly endowed groups.” 
Asim Munir, a graphic designer, and a photojournalist based in Lahore believes it is important for a shift in the way the Western lens captures Pakistan – i.e., aestheticizing Pakistani suffering. 
“However, as Western bloggers and content creators travel to Pakistan, there has been a change in the way Pakistan is understood and perceived. While local content creators and influencers have been advocating tirelessly towards this goal, it was not until Western travelers documented their journey that a difference was observed on the international platform — perhaps because it is not true until the West deems it so.” 
“Pakistan is not just war and turmoil. We are our culture and our sights and our food and our people,” says Munir.
Through her own experiences, Raza believes that the activity that most jarringly illustrates the difference in culture of Karachi and Lahore (informed obviously by class — as she forewarns) is the wedding industry. 
“While in Karachi, the wedding as an affair is surely an expensive one — Lahore treats the event as a production. Wedding festivities in Lahore average to about six events including Qawwalis, sangeet nights, Rung, and mehndi lagayi. 
“Dance troupes are hired and at a particular wedding, I saw a bride make her entrance by descending from the ceiling on a model crescent while there were fireworks in the background,” Raza says. 
“In addition to this, clothes become a significant part of showcasing wealth as both men and women don clothes that are almost as heavily embroidered as the bride and grooms. The colours are also bright in comparison to Karachi’s more muted tones.”
In contrast, Raza believes that the growing trend in Karachi, to demonstrate a similar wealth bracket is having smaller events, often at the beach. 
“An interesting recent phenomenon is the rise in invitation of foreigners to Karachi weddings. This is illustrated by Lupita Nyongo’s Instagram posts attending a friend’s wedding in Karachi. Having this foreign spectatorship of Pakistani weddings might just signal a change in the trend of aestheticization of poverty in the developing world and rather a return to the oriental exoticism that characterized the pre-war on terror world.”
Nevertheless, it is interesting how regardless of where the pendulum swings in capturing the East, traces of exoticism linger in the background — be it beach weddings in Karachi ft. Lupita Nyongo or selling ‘the Afghan Girl’ for a Nat-Geo cover. 
As you think about this distorted reality, enjoy some jalebi. 
 
Maryam is a fourth-year student majoring in Kinesiology and Health Science. She's a huge fan of anything sports related, but loves to explore the sports realm beyond the stats and the numbers. When she’s not fielding calls from ESPN, you can find her studying, re-watching Crash Landing on You, and listen to the Taylor’s Version albums — all at the same time. 
                
I love this!!!! Especially ur take on the west judging other countries merely on the negatives while negating the fabulous aspects of your culture as you so well put it!!!
Incredible perspective, it would be great to see more articles like this!

 York University Community Newspaper 
Will Smith slapped Chris Rock onstage at the Oscars. That actually happened. And as much as anybody is scandalized by the event, we are simultaneously laughing at it.  
And we should be.
Mark Hamill, on his instagram account, wrote that it was the #UgliestOscarMomentEver. Amy Schumer has since opened up about the moment, saying it has left her with a “sickening feeling” and that she’s been “traumatized” by it.  
Okay.
While I agree the joke was absolutely in poor taste, so was the response. To be completely honest, I had no clue Jada Pinkett Smith had alopecia, and maybe neither did the majority of us, including Chris Rock himself. This really just goes to show that if you’re going to make a joke about someone on an international platform, you should probably do some basic research first.  
For all the posturing that Hollywood and its participants do, the stark reality is, there are more important things we should be paying attention to. We like to place importance on this realm of complete un-reality as a representation of our collective human experience and a sort of global culture we all spectate about, and therefore, should somehow aspire to.
This tiny moment of ill self-control has been dissected for its misogynistic, ableist, and toxic masculinity implications, and while those theories may or may not be wrong or right, I think it’s time to look at the big picture.
What does matter more so, is the creative output. How our leading creators envision our culture and the future of it and us, and then presents to us seems, to me, to be much more relevant.  But at the same time, we’re in the beginning stages of what looks like World War Three and the world is a literal dumpster fire. So, even that feels like it should take a back seat. 
But to be perfectly honest, after this incredibly long pandemic, Trump in the United States office and Biden really not doing much better than he, Russia invading the Ukraine, Taliban attempting to take control over Afghanistan, among the many invasions of the United States into other countries, the Billionaire Space Race — there honestly isn’t enough space on the page to adequately list, much less devote the required attention and care to topics such as these. 
So, really, how does this slap affect the world in any real and measurable way? 
While the display is unfortunate, we should also be acknowledging that events such as the Oscars themselves are productions, and so are the façades of the people that participate in the production and exhibition of Hollywood.
Maybe what should be taken from this year’s Oscars are the moments that were overshadowed. 
Moments such as seeing Liza Minelli present alongside Lady Gaga on the 50th anniversary of Cabaret, for which she received an Oscar herself. Or, Jane Campion’s victory as Best Director for The Power of the Dog, making her the third woman to take home the prize, and the only one to have been nominated twice. Sian Heder’s CODA also took home the award for Best Picture, making it the first film made for a streaming service to receive a top category win and sheds light on growing up in deaf household. Another thing that should not be overshadowed by the moment is Ariana DeBose’s Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, making her the first openly queer woman of colour to receive an Academy Award.
editor@excal.on.ca                
Jeanette is in her third year double majoring in Film and English at York University with a keen interest in science and technology. She loves to write and aspires to be a showrunner or major writer for a TV series or documentary filmmaker. When Jeanette isn’t writing or studying, she is watching documentaries on anything related to politics, the health industry, or true crime. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
