Ontario recently announced that its tuition freeze will be extended for another year to the 2022-2023 academic year. The freeze was initially introduced in 2019 when the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario ended the “Free Tuition Program” that was introduced in 2018 by Kathleen Wynne’s Liberal government.
Premier Ford compensated for the ending of this program by introducing a 10 per cent reduction in tuition fees for domestic students in 2019-2020, followed by a tuition freeze in 2020-2021, according to CBC. 
While this might be a sigh of relief for many, this has seemingly created strain on international and out-of-province students as the freeze only pertains to domestic students. 
“One could argue that our international students are providing the funding that should be coming from our provincial budget,” says Jody Berland, communications officer for the York University Faculty Association (YUFA), who also notes that Ontario has the “lowest per student funding of any province in Canada.”
Per a report by Global News, the Auditor General found Ontario’s public college fee revenue was “increasingly reliant” on international students based on a report from 2021 and that domestic tuition revenue dropped three per cent while international tuition revenue increased 152 per cent in Ontario during the 2016-2017 and 2019-2020 school years.
According to Berland, the reliance on international student tuition funds is something that has become of great concern to YUFA.
Berland and YUFA feel that it is “wrong to force students and their families to pay more for their studies to compensate for shifts in budget planning priorities by the university, which is currently devoting its healthy budget surplus to expansion plans that have more to do with real estate investment then support for faculty, students, and academic programs.”
What Berland is referring to is the amount of “capital projects” that York is investing in, particularly the creation and building of York’s new Markham campus and the Neuroscience Laboratory and Research Building, which recently gained permits to start construction in February 2022.
In a statement from March 17, YUFA noted that York posted a significant budget surplus now totalling $386 million, while programs like AMPD face a $12-million deficit; Faculty of Education, a $10-million dollar deficit; Faculty of Environment and Urban Change, a $12-million dollar deficit; LA&PS and Glendon College have both been informed of significant deficits to their faculties as well.
The newly announced proposal for a new medical school also caught YUFA off guard as they say they, along with the Senate, were not consulted on the matter.
Excalibur reached out to the Ministry of Colleges and Universities for a comment on the freeze, how it affects international students, and could potentially affect future post-secondary students. 
James Tinajero of the Ministry’s Medial Relations team wrote on their behalf, saying, “Increasing the affordability of post-secondary education is part of Ontario’s plan to help people get the training they need to get good-paying jobs.” Tinajero further states this as the reason for the “historic” 10 per cent tuition reduction in 2019.  
“This means that Ontario students no longer pay the highest tuition fees in the country. Although post-secondary institutions have sole autonomy over matters involving international students, we expect that tuition rates for international students to be kept at reasonable levels.”
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
This is a personal essay that deals with topics of suicide and mental illness. Please read on your own accord.
I remember the day I walked onto the grounds of the Keele campus, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. While the fall of 2012 was full of hopes and dreams, it was also full of anxieties and uncertainties. 
My initial acceptance to the Glendon campus, due to a technical error, did not deter me in the slightest. So what if I couldn’t speak French to save my life? I would just go through the necessary paperwork and get a transfer to the Keele campus, where I intended on being all along. And so, I began my journey. 
Due to rapidly deteriorating life circumstances during my fourth and almost final year, and my personal mental health, I decided to quit everything altogether and hoped for things to get better. 
During this difficult time, my mother, coming from a culture that essentially depends on astrological ‘prophecies’, sought one out. She was told that if I quit school, I would never go back. I tried to keep that thought away from my mind and my eyes on the prize as much as possible. 
Then came December 2, 2015. I was broken to a point where I decided I did not want to live. And so, I decided to end my life. I was found with no vitals, having rolled off the bed in my stupor. I ended up on life support for nine days. I apparently almost died a couple more times, but I eventually came back. Thereafter, I was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder.
The journey to completing my degree since then hasn’t been easy either. It took years of therapy and medication for me to even consider going back to the life and memories of a person that was no longer. I tried coming back in 2018, but it wasn’t meant to be. 
Then, the pandemic hit and somehow, I managed to bridge the gap between who I was then and who I am today and to finish my degree.
This spring, I will walk the stage and accept my undergraduate degree.
I strongly believe in the notion of ‘when the time is right’. If I had not rolled off the bed when I did, no one would have been around to find me until I was dead. I came back to York at exactly the moment when I was meant to and the timing of this couldn’t have been better.
This has been about an incredibly difficult journey that seemed like I was never meant to survive. This is about the beauty in having nothing but a small spark of resilience and a determination to not let someone else write my story for me.
Good things come to those who persevere, and persevere you must.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
