September 20th marked the grand opening of York University’s newest student attraction: the Break Room! Located in the First Student Centre in York Lanes, the Break Room has been bustling with student life from the minute it opened its doors. 
It was clear from the success of the soft launch on September 9th that the Break Room would be a hit amongst students. 
Walking down the stairs, beneath the neon sign, I passed a beautiful lounge, covered in eclectic carpets and students playing games at booths. As I continued, I came upon the food lounge, flooded by the energetic swarm of students ordering their food and drinks, playing board games. The bar houses an impressive collection of board games, from classics, like Monopoly and Uno, to the more cheeky Cards Against Humanity.There will never be a boring moment at this counter.
The Break Room serves an array of food, from birria tacos and popcorn chicken to even a fried banana split – the birria tacos being my personal favourite. Drinks also are aplenty from your day-to-day coffees to your occasional cocktails. All food and beverages are adequately priced, ranging at least $2.50 to $15. 
Fourth year kinesiology and health sciences student, Jasreen Randhawa, says “the Break Room room is a great place to hang out with your friends and just take a break from school, while being on campus!”
“It’s a great place to meet new people and play games, though I was surprised to learn that we had to pay to play the games. Other than that, I definitely recommend for everyone to check it out,” Randhawa continues. 
Stretching beyond the food lounge awaits the venue’s crowned jewel: the arcade. Be prepared to lose your voice in the cacophony of laughter and excitement. 
Further on, students can get their competitive side on with the billiard tables, pingpong, foosball, Mario Kart, and Super Smash Bros on the Nintendo Switch. Love your classic games? Well you won’t be bored with the mega Jenga or chess set, located in the middle of the arcade. 
“One of the biggest things that students have to look forward to is our expanded game offering. We worked to include game offerings across multiple platforms and game types to make sure that all students feel like they can come into the Break Room and find something comfortable that works for them,” says Jordan Madeira, York University’s Student Centre marketing manager.
The Break Room’s reception among students “has been overwhelmingly positive,” continues Madeira. “We are significantly grateful to the YorkU community for all of the love and engagement we have been getting both in-person and on social media. People are being blown away by the renovation and decor in the space and are loving our new menu. Our plan is to continue to provide games and services that can match the needs of students on campus so that everybody can get their own win,” Madeira concludes. 
The Break Room is open Monday through Friday from 10:30 a.m to 11pm, closed on Saturdays and Sundays. You can stay updated through their Instagram, at mybreakroom or their website. 
Go and check out our new hub, and it’s sure to become your new spot!
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
