This month, Sienna Tristen, York alumna, and their partner, Avi Silver, released the second book, The Heretics Guide to Homecoming, in The Shale Project, their multimedia storytelling initiative “roughly in the shape of a planet”. 
The Shale Project is the platform through which Tristen and Silver write and publish stories on a shared fantasy world. While these stories are all different in various ways, they share similar themes of care, curiosity, and innovation.
Tristen explains that, “The Heretic’s Guide to Homecoming has two volumes. The first one came out in 2018, and has been quietly gaining a very dedicated readership since then. We like to joke at Shale that Heretic’s Guide is ‘a mental health journey disguised as a fantasy adventure’, because the story is set in this gorgeous world with two moons and magical creatures, but the core of the book is about following the protagonist, Ronoah, as he learns to manage his debilitating self-loathing and social anxiety.”
“The subtitles of each volume sort of reveal the heart of their respective plotlines. While Book One: Theory is all about Ronoah learning the tools that he needs in order to be gentle and compassionate towards himself, Book Two: Practice is where he gets thrown into a world that is not soft and gentle, and where he needs to put those tools to practical use in order to survive,” says Tristen. “This upcoming novel engages a lot with the inner workings of that emotional maturation.”
The multimedia aspect is ever-evolving. Silver adds that, “we currently have some tabletop roleplaying games in the works, we’ve commissioned a theme song for Heretic’s Guide composed by Sophia Carreras, and have a ‘what’s your (fantasy) astrology sign’ personality quiz up on our website.”
While The Shale Project discusses important themes, Silver says that as queer, neurodivergent, disabled artists, these topics show up organically in their work and that, “something we actually avoid in our work is making the story about these lived experiences — for example, The Sãoni Cycle, my YA trilogy, focuses a lot on queer themes but the queerness of the characters is not the core of the story’s conflict!”
Tristen continues that, “there are plenty of characters in the Heretic’s Guide to Homecoming who live with mental health issues or disabilities (Ronoah’s own chronic anxiety being front and center) and are still leading awesome lives. I guess the way Shale, as a project, addresses these lived experiences is by making space for fully-realized characters whose disability, queerness, etc is one integrated part of their whole selves.”
The Shale Project can be described as an “art project that boggles the mind”, with stories happening in different places on the same planet and hidden Easter eggs referencing one another.
“There are story seeds we’ve already planted in published Shale books that probably won’t come to fruition until 10 real Earth years from now, and sometimes I think about that and worry if we’re biting off more than we can chew.” Tristen confesses. “But then I think about how cool it is to create this massive interconnected web of storytelling, where everything points to and builds on everything else — then I stop worrying because I’m too busy being excited about making the next thing.”
To visit Shale or to learn more about Tristen and Silver’s upcoming book, click here.
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Estimated to have caused over $700,000,000 in damages, Hurricane Fiona was the costliest in Canada’s history. It first made landfall in Nova Scotia on Sept. 23 as a category two hurricane with maximum wind speeds of 165km/h. Canada has dealt with post-tropical storms in the past, however, the intensity Fiona maintained as it wiped through the Atlantic coast is what made it unique. 
York Atmospheric Science Club (YASC) president and fourth-year atmospheric science student, Dylan Kikuta, provides insights on hurricane formation. “Typically, hurricanes thrive on warm waters, limited shear (amount of wind speed and direction change with height), and an abundance of atmospheric moisture. […] However, Hurricane Fiona was different because she was injected with an energy boost from another weather system. As she tracked northeast, a weather system swept in from northwest and caught Fiona just as she was beginning to enter cooler waters. This process, called phasing, amplified meteorological processes and enabled her to maintain intensity despite the increasingly hostile environment for hurricanes.”
Fiona was Canada’s second category two hurricane in the last 20 years, the other being Hurricane Juan when it hit Nova Scotia in 2003. As well as leaving up to 500,000 residents without power, the storm is said to have caused significant damage, from flooded homes to claiming two lives. With such devastating results from Hurricane Fiona, questions have risen toward the effects of climate change on the intensity and frequency of weather events like these.
Dr Gary Klaassen, professor at Lassonde School of Engineering at York University, explains that, “Hurricane formation is a complex process involving wind shear and condensational heating. They’ve been forming since historical records were started, so it’s not possible to attribute any particular storm to climate change. 
“From data going back to 1975, Holland and Bruyere (“Climate Dynamics 2013”) found no trends in the overall frequency of hurricanes, but they did find a 25 to 30 per cent increase in the number of stronger Cat 4 and 5 storms — later studies have been consistent with that result. So while the overall number of hurricanes per year is not increasing, there is evidence that the number of the strongest hurricanes is increasing under climate change.”
Dr Klaassen has a Ph.D. and M.Sc. in atmospheric physics from the University of Toronto and a B.Sc. in physics from the University of Waterloo. His research involves investigating small-scale flows and their interactions with weather and climate systems, as well as the larger scales associated.
Assistant Professor at the Department of Earth and Space Science and Engineering, Neil Tandon, adds, “Storms with the intensity of Fiona are not unprecedented in Atlantic Canada, and we have not seen evidence that the frequency of hurricanes overall has gone up. There is evidence, however, that when hurricanes do occur, their intensity is getting stronger as temperatures rise. So as temperatures increase, we can expect that a greater proportion of hurricanes and post-tropical cyclones (storms originating from hurricanes) will have the intensity of Fiona.”
While equating climate change as the sole cause of Hurricane Fiona would be a hasty assumption, Professor Tandon does explain that, “As temperatures rise, basic thermodynamic principles dictate that there is an increase in water vapour in the atmosphere. Over most of the globe, this increase in water vapour is resulting in more precipitation and more flooding during extreme storms.”
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
