From the time they first pick up a hockey stick or step onto a football field, there is one thing every young athlete yearns to hear: “You’re in the big leagues now, kid” — a simple, if slightly ambiguous expression that signals athletic achievement and advancement. 
Athletes of every sport wish only to pursue their passion to their uppermost limit, rising as high as their abilities will allow them. While U Sports may not be the pinnacle of organised sport, the effort and sacrifice required to rise even this high are substantial, as demonstrated by incoming freshman Lola Massey.
Massey, a British Columbia native, has recently committed to playing women’s ice hockey at York for the upcoming fall term. Currently, she is enrolled in twelfth grade at the Okanagan Hockey Academy in Penticton, British Columbia, where, in preparation for advancing to the university level, she lives and breathes hockey on a daily basis.
“We are practising five times a week and we have two games this weekend. So, we are on the ice seven times a week.” 
Massey describes the ramp-up of their training as next season approaches. “Moving closer to the start of summer and next year, we have a very good off-season program. We do a lot of outdoor training and endurance.” Massey goes on to say that, “going into York, I’m going to be trying to get on the ice as much as I can.” 
Massey’s hockey career has followed a rather unorthodox trajectory. Unlike most high-level players who begin at a very young age, Massey was already twelve years old when she began playing full-time, having spent the proceeding years playing ringette instead. Nevertheless, Massey is confident that her experience in the academy system has prepared her for both the increased skill-level and physical strain of the university game. 
When asked for their thoughts on beginning the next chapter in their educational and athletic career, the incoming Lion’s face lit up. “It’s kind of setting in now that I will be moving away and I’m super excited. I think Toronto is a great place. I’m just really excited.” 
It’s not just incoming athletes who are constantly adjusting to the university game, as York football rookie and third-year psychology student Jason Janvier-Messier explains.
“It’s all about upgrading all aspects of my game, so I really want to amplify getting stronger and getting faster.”
The Quebec native spent his first season of university sports challenging opposing offences, a feat that earned him OUA all-rookie honours. It would be hard then to imagine the third-year defensive end getting any stronger or faster, but he nonetheless remains committed to improving all facets of his game. 
“I also want to be watching a lot of tape and making sure I don’t make the same mistakes — not necessarily me making the wrong decision, I just don’t want to be juked by a running back or something like that. I missed a couple of them last season so I’m definitely going to work on not missing those big plays. I’ll focus on being present in the moment and being able to react to whatever comes my way.” 
When asked about the major differences between the high school and university levels, Janvier-Messier notes that one of the biggest differences is technique.  “I see a lot of rookies or younger guys coming in who just don’t have the same level of technique that a veteran will have. This is completely normal, but I feel like the coaching skill we get in university is completely different from what we get in high school.” 
Janvier-Messier goes on to stress the importance of emulating older athletes’ maturity and discipline. “Older athletes or veterans take small details more seriously. They get a full night’s sleep, they’ll watch tape, and you can see that on the field. You can feel it when someone has watched tape on you.” 
Janvier-Messier notes that his development may have actually been aided by last season’s cancellation, given that he was able to spend more time training and living in the university environment surrounded by older players. He identifies this as a major contributing factor to his successful rookie campaign. 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
According to Youth Mental Health Canada (YMHC), it is estimated that 1.2 million children and youth across the nation suffer from mental illness, but less than 20 per cent of those affected will receive the proper treatment. The lack of proper help and recognition that currently surrounds mental health among Canadian youth shows a need for change, as YMHC also reports that Canada’s youth suicide rate is the third highest in the industrialized world.
The current circumstances that youths are living in, with the restrictions implemented because of COVID-19, do not help youth mental health rates. In 2019, Statistics Canada found that over half of participants aged 15 to 17 believed their mental health was worse than it was before COVID-19. It also found that when asked to rate their mental health from excellent, very good, good, fair, or poor, almost one in five children from the same age group reported their mental health to be fair or poor. Seven per cent of participants from the ages of 12 to 14 also reported their mental health to be either fair or poor. 
A York student is now beginning to spread awareness on the importance of mental health in Canadian youths.
Pasquale Scola, a third-year law & society and philosophy student, created the non-profit organization Children Unheard to spread awareness about youth trauma and mental health. 
“I founded Children Unheard to create a positive learning environment for those personally affected by childhood trauma, or those interested in becoming more well-informed on this information,” says Scola.
The organization takes an online approach as its Instagram account is its main source of spreading awareness. On this, Scola says, “Between virtual school and leisure time activities, children spend most of their time online. It is a necessity that more positive resources are available for children to interact with.” In the future, Scola hopes that the organization will be able to expand its initiatives to interactive activities with children in the community and starting fundraisers. 
“Working as a swimming instructor allowed me to understand that when a child is put in a positive environment, given all the resources and instruction required, they can achieve anything,” continues Scola. From interacting with children of different backgrounds, Scola was able to gain an understanding of the ways in which children can be affected if they are victims of trauma.
Scola believes that spreading awareness on this issue is important because “children are the future of our society, and if they have a positive outlook on life from a young age then they will be able to provide the same for the generation that comes after them.”
Currently, Scola has put together a team of other students to help within the organization that also understand the importance of spreading awareness of mental health in youth. Many of these volunteers have also worked or volunteered with children or are studying a subject in school that includes topics about childhood trauma and mental health. 
Vanessa Volpi, the design director of Children Unheard, is a concurrent education and psychology student. She has worked with children for many years as a camp counsellor and volunteering for teachers in their classroom. She joined the organization to “provide a comfortable and supportive environment for children to thrive in.”
The organization is targeted towards not only children, but all other groups within the community, as its goal is to educate all members of society and create an understanding environment. As Scola says, “The more people that become aware about childhood trauma, a snowball effect can form, and more people will be able to create a positive environment for those around them.” 
By spreading awareness, Scola and his team hope that Children Unheard will allow those who are not already educated, to educate themselves on this issue and turn that knowledge into action. 
Those who wish to learn more about or get involved with Children Unheard can visit their website, or their Instagram page.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
If anyone has ever set foot in a dance studio, they would hear a dance instructor say, “Ballet is the foundation of theatrical dance.” 
When ballet dancers often start training from a very young age, and in high caliber companies, classes are usually separated by gender. “Pas de deux,” a prominent piece in ballets or duets, is almost exclusively between a man and a woman in most classical ballets. These ballets are the foundation of the ballet industry, and a lot of the dance industry as a whole.
Clara Chemtov, a first-year dance student at York, disclosed some of their experiences of these gender binaries in the dance industry. “I have yet to see students putting on a show that revolves around a non heteronormative storyline. Every single story we had was just a boy and a girl falling in love. It sort of makes you feel like there isn’t a place for anything else.”
“Whenever we’d do musical theatre pieces, I’d always offer to be the opposite gender because no one wanted to give it up,” says Julia (Jules) Vance, a gender fluid dance student in their first year at York. “I wasn’t even taking one for the team, I actually enjoyed it. And it didn’t make me question whether I was a man or a woman, it just made me question if I present as one or the other. It allowed me to express my gender identity without really realizing what it was.”
Chemtov also disclosed some of the experiences they’ve had at York. They were doing a duet with a male-presenting dancer, and their original premise for their piece was lost in translation. “We performed it in front of the choreographers’ peers to get some feedback, and they immediately went, ‘Wow, that was such a pretty love story. You have such good chemistry!’ And we just looked at each other, because that was not at all what we were going for.”
Dance companies and ensembles are working towards making dance calls and auditions more inclusive. Moulin Rouge recently put in a “heels and flats ensemble” casting call where they removed gender from their demands entirely. Dancers can audition in whatever shoe they’re most comfortable in outside of gendered roles. 
American Ballet Theatre also published a commissioned piece called “Touché” that premiered November 23, 2020. Choreographed by Christopher Rudd and performed by Calvin Royal III and João Menegussi, it explores the themes of male love, and is described as a “pas de deux of Pride” by Playbill.
“I would say to make casting calls be more strength based rather than gender based,” Chemtov says when asked how the industry could make auditioning and dance more inclusive. 
“Oftentimes they’ll say they’re casting a male dancer, but what they’re really looking for is someone who is physically strong and able to jump high— because that’s typically what a male dancer can do that a female can’t. In that case, they should think about the qualities they’re looking for rather than just the gender.”
Vance also finds that dance attire should be updated because people of all gender identities find themselves “very confined within what you have to wear, and it really diminishes the inclusivity of dance,” Vance says. 
Vance offers a strong closing statement in their interview. 
“To make auditioning and the dance community more accepting is just to accept and to realize that there are people who are different, but they can still dance beautifully, you know? Regardless of their height, or talent, or ability, I don’t think you should judge anybody based on their sexuality or gender expression. We are people who are meant to be together.”

 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
