Many 2SLGBTQ+ students have to manage the mental health turmoil from being marginalized for their identity, as well as being affected by the student stress their fellow cishet peers manage. According to CAMH, mental health services are underfunded by approximately $1.5 billion in Ontario. This results in either highly expensive, uneducated mental health counsellors, and/or require extended times on waitlists.
“It can take a toll on a person’s mental health if they are not able to express who they are and are forced to keep it bottled up. If they are new to a certain place like York for example and are unaware of the services or how welcoming York is to queer people, they may feel like an outsider,” says Meagan Boucher, a third-year film production student.
Found in a 2018 Survey, 2SLGBTQ+ Canadians were found more likely to consider their mental health poor when compared to heterosexual Canadians, in addition to having higher thoughts of suicide or having a mood or anxiety disorder. 
Members of the 2SLGBTQ+ community have to manage mental health distress unique to the queer experience, from dysphoria or anxiety to having to come out to unaccepting family and friends. A lot of strides have been made in queer history, but our next steps should be towards funding mental health services.
The intersectionality of being 2SLGBTQ+, living on a student wage, and struggling with mental health issues, leads 2SLGBTQ+ students to an even larger lack of support. Rachel Wallingford, a first-year psychology student states that in their opinion, “York offers a variety of support; however, it is not made too obvious, which makes it difficult to reach out.” 
The students who do find these resources are helped in a number of ways, with everything from community referrals, access to a resource library, as well as 2SLGBTQ+ events on and off campus being provided. York has a variety of 2SLGBTQ+ student-run groups such as Trans Bisexual Lesbian Gay Asexual at York (TBLGAY) and the Centre for Women and Trans People (CWTP).
A student involved in TBLGAY who wishes to remain anonymous states, “The support group helps queer students by giving us a safe place to vent about what’s going on in our lives without judgment.” 
The student goes on to say that “because the support groups are intimately familiar with being queer, they provide helpful advice in that specific front, as well as general advice. Thus, I would say that it’s a good experience to try.”
Indeed, York offers many resources that range in support. Both the Sexual Assault Survivors Support Line and Leadership (SASSL) and Centre for Women and Trans People offer peer support. SASSL also offers referrals to survivors of sexual violence.
2SLGBTQ+ students struggling with mental health issues should not have to work harder to find these resources and support. It is also understandable if students have a distrust in these mental health services given the lack of proper funding, education, and accessibility in regard to the 2SLGBTQ+ experience.
York has done a commendable job in establishing 14 different 2SLGBTQ+ supports, but the next step could be making these supports more well known to the public, potentially in the form of targeted advertisements.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
A post by Canadian Art shares that less than four per cent of art found in galleries are created by Indigenous artists, and this underrepresentation is carried into the world of literature. Reading literature by Indigenous authors is a significant way for anyone to learn about Indigenous culture and history, and being students or faculty at a Canadian university, it’s important to do so.
Geoffrey MacDonald, a course director in the English department who teaches Caribbean literature and postcolonial writing, explains that Indigenous literatures provide an essential component of how literary texts expand and enrich our views of the world. 
“Indigenous writers, who draw upon the long tradition of oral storytelling, have intervened in so many public debates, provided stunning and affective depictions of human existence, and yet remain marginalized in the popular understanding of literary voice and authority. 
“Indigenous literature is underrepresented in the field of literature because literary structures — both scholarly and popular — are embedded in colonial knowledge systems,” says MacDonald. “Honouring Indigenous literature is an important part of decolonization and reconciliation — in their substantive, transformational forms.
“Uncovering the joys of Indigenous literature is to learn that there is a vast and diverse literary tradition on this continent. Why Indigenous Literatures Matter by Daniel Heath Justice is a brilliant introduction that cannot be shared widely enough, and The Black Shoals by Tiffany Lethabo King connects Black and Indigenous studies in revolutionary ways,” says MacDonald as they share their favourite pieces of Indigenous literature. They also note that This Wound is a World by Billy-Ray Belcourt, Jonny Appleseed by Joshua Whitehead, and Island of Decolonial Love by Leanne Betasamosake Simpson among many others stand out to them.
Dr. Craig Santos Perez is an Indigenous Chamoru (Chamorro) from the Pacific Island of Guåhan (Guam). He is currently a poet and professor in the English department at the University of Hawai’i, Mānoa. His poetry focuses on ecological, political, historical, and cultural issues related to his homeland of Guam and the larger Pacific. 
“To me, being an Indigenous poet means honouring my homeland, ancestors, and stories, as well as critiquing colonialism and advocating for a thriving and sustainable future,” says Perez. “Literature should be a space where we can read and learn about the diversity of human experiences, so it is important to have Indigenous representation to more fully understand and appreciate the culture, history, and humanity of native peoples.”
Perez explains that some Indigenous writings come with specific ethics and politics. Readers, Indigenous or non-Indigenous, carry a certain responsibility when reading these works.
“Many Indigenous writers draw our attention to ongoing political issues, such as militarism, resource extraction, dispossession, etc. As readers, we enter into an ethical space where we can either ignore these issues in the real world or we can stand in support of Indigenous struggles,” says Perez. 
“Indigenous literature needs to be read with care by non-Indigenous people,” continues MacDonald. “Let the stories be told. These writers show us a world that could have been— one defined by justice, fairness, and connection, and will help us get to the better one that can be.”
 
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
After weeks of demonstration by various environmentalist groups, the Serbian government has officially halted the Rio Tinto lithium mine in Serbia. The project had been organized between the company and local authorities in Western Serbia, allowing the Rio Tinto Mining Co. to run a lithium mine near the Jadar river valley — Serbia’s main agricultural hub that handles one fifth of total agricultural production. 
The valley is home to a unique mineral officially referred to as Jadarite for its startlingly similar make-up to the fictional “Kryptonite” from the Superman comics, and the region in which the mine it was discovered is located. Made up of sodium lithium boron silicate hydroxide — meaning it contains boron and lithium and can be used to produce low-carbon technologies and for storing renewable energy. Projected uses for the mineral included electric car batteries, wind turbines, and solar panels. 
As lithium contributes to the creation of clean technologies, the project was aimed to not only pave the way for a low-carbon future, but also boost Serbia’s economic growth — their goal being to become one of the top 10 lithium producers in the world, with an expectation over its 40-year lifespan. 
Environmental issues have been an ongoing problem for Serbia, including air pollution and industrial waste — lithium mining would only have worsened pre-existing issues, especially when considering Rio Tinto’s history of contamination and pollution. Rio Tinto claimed they adhere to the highest environmental standards and build sustainable futures for the communities it has projects in, and that the Jadar project would be no exception. 
However, reports showed that even during their excavation period, damage was done to the area, pushing environmentalists and locals to protest throughout the country beginning late November. Arguing that the mine would cause irreversible ecological damage to Serbia’s land, protests were held every Saturday, effectively causing major traffic that blocked highways in Belgrade, refusing to stop until the project was halted. 
“Serbia being an agriculturally dominant country, with air pollution, soil, and water being the most affected by lithium mining, it can not only affect how the business is run, but it can also put farmers and consumers at risk as well,” says first-year social work student Amita Puran. 
Among many other students, Puran shares concerns on environmental and health implications that lithium mining would have had on the Jadar valley and does have on other regions.  “People deserve to live in a country without fear of what they’re breathing. Lithium mining is far from the solution to becoming green,” says Puran.
“As a global issue, people need to understand that mining happens a lot more than they think and could happen near them,” says first-year psychology student Jennifer Bromberg. “Pollution and loss of agriculture can cause the loss of jobs — then a domino effect could happen with these bad things.”
Serbian citizens’ initiatives to improve their environment represents a unique opportunity for the York community to strengthen internal relationships and outside community relationships by striving to improve the environment. It’s also an opportunity for the York community to actively voice their concerns when presented.
Raima Shah, a first-year psychology student, says, “Protesting has a good impact on political parties and the people as well. People who protest make other people aware about an ongoing conflict as well as making authorities question their decisions.” 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
