Since May 2022, climate change activists around the world have been gluing themselves to famous paintings to draw attention to the reality of climate change. This past October, activists also began throwing various substances on paintings. 
On Oct. 14, in London’s National Gallery, two climate change activists from Just Stop Oil threw tomato soup at Vincent van Gogh’s Fifteen Sunflowers. Then, on Oct. 23, in Potsdam’s Museum Barberini, two activists from the Letzte Generation (Last Generation) threw mashed potatoes at Claude Monet’s Haystacks. 
Throwing liquids spread to North America as two activists from the environmentalist group, Stop Fracking Around, threw maple syrup on Emily Carr’s Stumps and Sky at Vancouver Art Gallery on Nov. 12. While the paintings themselves are not actually damaged because they are covered in protective glass, damage to the surrounding area has certainly made a splash. 
Cyrus Moeini-Azad, a fourth-year English student, says that “what activists have been doing as of late seems pathetic. I can commend the willingness, but the execution does nothing but infuriate me and, no doubt, many others.”
Moeini-Azad adds that the strategy of activists gluing themselves to artwork is reminiscent of an earlier strategy of environmental activism in which activists would bind themselves to trees to protest deforestation or construction. 
“The act of throwing food onto paintings sullies their intended message,” says Moeini-Azad. “I’ve seen them speak of hunger, yet they have no worries about wasting food for their stunts. The attempt to damage valuable and historic artwork is enough to divert the attention of the people who see them — myself included — away from the message they are trying to convey.”
Samran Muhammad, a first-year MA student in English and an artist, who has dedicated many hours to a single work of art, agrees.
“Raising awareness on a topic that is affecting all of us, and will continue to affect future generations, is definitely needed,” says Muhammad. “It is turning into a shocking performance that is forcing people to look, but as an artist myself, I disagree with the act of vandalism. To finish a piece and observe it in its entirety gives more pleasure to the artist than it does to another person because the artist understands the hours, weeks, and months spent on it,” says Muhammad.
Fourth-year chemistry student, Soroush Fazel-Pour reiterates Moeini-Azad’s and Muhammad’s comments, and thinks that this kind of activism does more harm than good.
“On the one hand, I do feel that the severity of the actions matches the gravity of the climate crisis,” says Fazel-Pour. “On the other hand, the actions are polarizing and distract from the very message the activists are trying to spread.”  Fazel-Pour also wonders whether such activism has been “bankrolled by oil companies and other interest groups that benefit from climate inaction”. 
Sarah Waithe, a recent graduate in 2020 with an MA in Development Studies, adds that, “targeting famous paintings is an interesting strategy since it raises the question about what lengths activist groups will go to in order to have their voices heard to get the attention of society and leaders.”Click here to learn more about which historical art pieces have been impacted and to learn more about art vandalism as an act of raising global warming awareness.
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Technology  is evolving at a rapid pace, and while it has been widely accepted by most audiences, its use is just as often criticized as it is praised. In this generation, updates on the news, entertainment, friends, and work are just a few basic elements of everyday life that can all be attained at one’s fingertips. On one hand it is convenient, on the other hand, some might deem the reliance on technology dangerous.
The pandemic forced almost everybody to adapt to a tech landscape — one where it’s impossible to avoid ads or various and differing opinions. As time progresses, reliance on technology becomes increasingly imminent. Over the course of this year, the Senate has been debating Government Bill C-11, the Online Streaming Act. 
Introduced in February by the Minister of Canadian Heritage, Pablo Rodriguez, “Bill C‑11 modernizes the Broadcasting Act to bring online undertakings within its scope. It amends broadcasting and regulatory policies to ensure that the programming provided is accessible and that the entire Canadian population is represented, including Canadians from racialized communities or of diverse ethnocultural backgrounds, socio‑economic statuses, abilities and disabilities, sexual orientations, gender identities and expressions, and ages,” per the Library of Parliament.
With this bill, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications (CRTC) will have greater authority over certain matters, including the “ability to impose financial penalties against people and businesses that violate certain provisions of the Broadcasting Act or its regulations.”
While it seeks to amend the Broadcasting Act to account for the increased prominence of internet video and digital media, the bill has received mixed reactions from Canadians. Supporters of the bill are optimistic that foreign streaming services like Netflix and Youtube will fund and encourage the production of Canadian content for their platforms, in turn, pushing said content to a wider audience.
Many concerns are centered around the amount of control that would be given to the CRTC as they are deemed “unelected regulators and receive very little guidance from Parliament or the government.” On the Senate’s website, it is implied that much of the bill lacks transparency in its legislative process as there are no certainties as to what the CRTC will be capable of, but what they “may” be capable of. Therefore, aspects of this bill could have a great effect on the broadcasting industry and Canada as a whole— or a more modest effect, depending on future CRTC decisions and if the bill gets passed at all.
A similar version of the bill was introduced in 2020, known as Bill C-10. It died however, on the Order Paper when Parliament was dissolved on August 15, 2021. Bill C-11 has had three readings in the House of Commons, its most recent being the 21st of June and is once again pending the Senate’s approval. Several debates have been held in regards to the bill, the most recent being on Nov. 22.
More about Bill C-11 can be read here. 
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                
No to passing of Bill C 11

 York University Community Newspaper 
