As of January 22, York has launched a report on progress towards reaching the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
According to the UN, the SDGs are the “blueprint for achieving a better and more sustainable future for all.” Climate action, poverty, justice, quality education, and life on land and below water are just a few of the 17 global issues addressed by these goals.
However, the UN’s targets have been countered due to COVID-19’s impacts on rising poverty and unemployment, further interrupting SDG initiatives and affecting the world’s most vulnerable.
“As we continue to face a convergence of unprecedented trials — climate change, racism, political polarization, poverty, and inequality — which are all being affected and exacerbated by the pandemic, it is clear that the need to leverage our collective capacity, resources, expertise, and knowledge to solve these issues has never been more urgent,” states Rhonda Lenton, president and vice-chancellor of York in a Universities Canada article, underlining the importance of pooling our collective ability to address these pressing concerns. 
By sharing stories of sustainability actions and innovations through the recent UN Sustainable Development Goals Report and accompanying website, York stays committed to being a positive force of change through global leadership. 
“Canada’s universities are stepping up to the challenge, acting as hubs where ideas and actions converge to make meaningful progress on the SDGs,” Lenton continued.
Based on the report, progress has been made in all 17 SDGs such as recent innovations towards preventing poverty and homelessness, expanding access to quality and equitable education, as well as ensuring equitable access to sustainable and renewable energy. 
If York continues to follow their global leadership strategies for positive change, the result will be a prosperous and sustainable future for everyone. Many agree that York’s commitment to positive local and global change will set the stage for innovative generations to come.
“As a student, you want your university to be representative of your values, and I think that having a school that cares about sustainability and reaching these goals is really important,” says Brandon Morrison, first-year political science student. 
Morrison highlights the importance of York’s progress in shaping future generations who will reflect our current actions. “We really should be paying attention to the world around us, not just in our own communities, but in a global context — the next generation is going to be tasked with doing a lot of heavy lifting when it comes to climate change, income equality, and a host of other issues.” 
Nevertheless, with York’s framework of actions and innovations directed towards contributing towards the UN’s SDGs, students can help the development of local and global change within their communities. 
Morrison shares various ways students can support York’s initiatives, such as joining associations oriented toward global change or volunteering, stating that while “not everyone has that kind of time, the simplest thing you can do is be informed, because information is key to making sure we’re all working towards the same goal.” 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
 
Despite numerous provincial vaccination initiatives and the impending end of the Step Two restrictions implemented by the Ford government, York continues to face backlash from its community for the decision to begin returning to campus on January 31. 
This past Tuesday, York Federation of Students (YFS) released a list of demands in a statement with the hashtag #UnsafeAtYork. 
On the #UnsafeAtYork webpage, YFS demands that students are given the option to continue their education remotely, that York “abide by Step Three regulations within lecture halls and communal spaces, commit to transparent updates on campus ventilation, supply proper PPE, allowing community members to work from home when needed, provide adequate notice for a return to campus, bring back testing stations, and provide take-home tests.” 
Vice President of Campaigns and Advocacy for YFS Adaeze Mbalaja says their goal is to “have the university address these issues and create options for students to have autonomy over how they access their education based on their specific circumstances in the midst of the pandemic.” 
“Many students, staff, and faculty are afraid to speak out and express their concerns out of fear of retaliation or concerns of being dismissed by the university.” Mbalaja further acknowledges that many students voiced their frustrations with the university’s reopening plans during an Annual General Meeting on January 24.
While YFS and some members of the community attest that the return to campus is premature, York Deputy Spokesperson Yanni Dagonas asserts that plans for the winter term were “communicated widely” as early as May 12, 2021. 
“The pandemic has made clear the tremendous value of in-person learning. Some students who were admitted in 2020 or 2021 have yet to experience a class on campus, and many others are anxious to complete experiential components and courses required for graduation.
I recognize that the return to campus comes with both excitement and anxiety and want to acknowledge the work of our faculty and instructors to support our students’ education.”
Dagonas says that York understands students’ need for predictability, but has attributed the positive vaccination rate amongst students, staff, and faculty and their “commitment to making campuses as safe as possible” as a key reason for returning to in-person learning.
“The university encourages course instructors to make course materials and lecture recordings available online whenever feasible. Many instructors are employing these tools, and some are offering “HyFlex” options that allow students to choose to attend online or in person. However, this does not work well for every course, and moving to an entirely hybrid option across the university is not being considered.” 
Dagonas continues to state that York encourages those who are unable or choose not to return to campus to enroll in fully online courses, and further enforces that they are working with the government to ensure a safe return for all students.
Students are not the only group of York community members who are voicing their concerns. CUPE 3903 along with the York University Faculty Association (YUFA) are expressing similar concerns and feel that their worries are not being considered. 
“Student and union groups on campus have repeatedly asked for the same basic safety measures (tests, proper PPE, accommodations). York’s current plan to return to in-person classes without implementing these basic safety measures is disruptive and harmful,” says Chairperson, Vanessa Lehan.
YUFA has also been holding ongoing bargaining sessions with York regarding long-term financial stability and the parameters set by Bill 124.
Per a statement from Communications Officer Jody Berland, “YUFA has continued to face a surprisingly unsupportive and unyielding approach from the York administration. Their failure to show support for our members’ work is of particular concern during the ongoing pandemic and at a time of government-imposed compensation restraints.”
Mbalaja states that in less than 48 hours of the #UnsafeAtYork campaign, over 1,500 students have sent emails to the administration and over 2,000 students have expressed their concerns via their survey. ”Our hopes are that York takes new and flexible policies to the Senate to ensure a safe return to campus and creates remote options for students, staff, and faculty.”
 
Nick is in his third year of Film Production at York University. Raised in an artistic family, he’s never had much problem expressing himself whether it be through music, writing, or comedic rants. He’s a big sucker for watching and critiquing films, going to concerts, professional wrestling, and consuming coffee or chocolate. Nick intends to have many artistic pursuits in either writing, filmmaking, or anything that involves music — whatever suits his fancy on the given day. He’ll often tell you “life is short, seize the moment ‘cause tomorrow you might be dead!” 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
