It is almost too coincidental that Queen Elizabeth II passed away a few days before Canada celebrated its National Day for Truth & Reconciliation. Now as they redesign the toonie in commemoration of her, this article is written in hopes to expose the dichotomy of a   government which acknowledges that the land that their institutions were built on were initially inhabited by Indigenous communities, but continues to hold the very colonial relics in place that took these lands.
Simply put, you can’t apologize to Indigenous communities for the crimes committed against them and then continue to run your government in the name of the British monarch under whose seal these atrocities were carried out. Because, are you really apologizing then?  
Firstly, why do we choose to hold onto the monarchy? There aren’t any economic benefits to being a part of the Commonwealth Realm — a term for countries which acknowledge the British monarch as their figurehead. The Commonwealth is the broader term which refers to an international organization largely composed of the United Kingdom’s former colonies, even if they choose not to acknowledge the monarch as their head. The Canadian government’s website concerning Canada and the Commonwealth  states that the Commonwealth is “a forum for deliberation, problem solving, consensus decision making and action on matters of importance to its membership.”
This goal can be achieved without making the monarch our official figurehead. After all, we are the second largest contributor to the Commonwealth, having spent around $11 million on the organization last year, as reported by the Government of Canada. 
I believe the solution is to run a government in the name of our Indigenous communities.For a start, the constitutional figureheads of our country could be representatives from the indigenous population. So, instead of the British monarch as the nominal head of Canada you could have the ‘Chief’ or any other title that the indigenous communities of Canada settle upon as appropriate. The same should apply to other largely ceremonial positions like ‘the Lt. Governor’ and ‘Governor General’. The term ‘His/Her Majesty’ could be phased out by a new phrase that represents the claim of the indigenous population over Canada. If we had to have a monarch, shouldn’t it be an indigenous person? Or perhaps words like ‘His/Her Majesty’ could be changed to a phrase which acknowledges Canada as the land of all people, but in the language of the indigenous population, to change the starting point of Canada’s history from one based on British expeditions to one that begins with this land’s settlement by the First Nations.
We can simply have Indigenous communities vote for a leader they believe should be the constitutional head of our country and for each of the provinces and territories. Organizations like the Assembly of First Nations (AFN) and Congress of Aboriginal People (CAP) represent the interests of a substantial portion of Indigenous people, and the chief of the Assembly of First Nations is elected by the representatives of its Member Nations. The procedures for elections to the post of a First Nations Chief and Councillors have also been laid down under the Indian Act and First Nations Elections Act. Hence, these elected individuals would be a representation of the will of the indigenous population of Canada and if there is any party who deserves at least a nominal claim over this wonderful country, it is Indigenous communities. 
This also sits very well with our ideas of truth and reconciliation. The relative benefit is representation. How many Canadians know the National Chief of AFN, RoseAnn Archibald, as compared to Queen Elizabeth II? At the very least, this change would bring 14 more members of the Indigenous community to the fore of national politics and the public eye, replacing the Monarch, Governor General and Lt. Governors of the provinces with representatives from the indigenous community. These would be 14 people who have been selected because of their relationships to Indigenous communities and identity, making  it their job to represent the interests of their community with these ceremonial powers given to them, instead of a vestige of a foreign power. It might also make the Indigenous community feel better represented, as they find their place in this diverse nation. The only additional cost is changing the names on the paperwork.  
The island nation of Barbados recently stopped acknowledging the British monarch as their  constitutional head. While King Charles III continues to remain the official head of 16 nations, the process of removing the King as the constitutional monarch of Canada requires unanimous approval by the Senate, the House of Commons, and the legislative assembly of each of the provinces. This is the highest standard of amending the constitution as laid down under Section 41 of the Constitution Act, 1982. 
While this is an arduous task, this solution is a far more reasonable take on present day reality.The treaties signed between the Crown with the Indigenous communities many years ago would now be governed by a government structure which places their own heads at the helm, perhaps creating a little more trust in the system. 
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau referred to Canada as the world’s first postnational state in a 2015 interview with the New York Times, even while Canada technically continues to exist under the seal of the “UK”, and public lands are called “Crown Lands”, and the monarch’s face is printed on our money. 
Is this not reminiscent of a more colonial Canada? It doesn’t take into consideration the impact that bearing allegiance to the Queen has on immigrants coming from countries which were also colonies of the British Empire. Doesn’t this solution truly bring Canada into its identity as the first postnational state while also reconciling with its indigenous people? 
2023  is the perfect time for effectuating such a change. Holding on still would be holding onto the vestige of a past that Canadians are not nostalgic about. 
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 

Amazing! This seems like a good way to honor the indigenous community.
God save the King.
Interesting idea. However, how do we reconcile the treaty-crown relationships that are foundations of modern government. By removing the crown you also remove the nation to nation relationship shared between indigenous communities and the settler population. Without a solution for this constitutional corner stone, the crown must stay in some form to continue honouring these relationships.

 York University Community Newspaper 
Outside, oil spills gelatinous, glimmering black rainbows.But online, on the news, oil spills marmalade flames.Before it was motorboats scrawling spiderwebs,Over water, now it boils, roiling thermohaline.
For oil rigs collapse, pipelines burst, carbon spewsIn the air, acid in the rain, plastic piles into islands —We need more than Dawn’s ™ duck soap for what it does
Where it goes; it’s in the system — outside in, ultimately, onMy screen, from me, oil human grease as we scroll, scroll, scroll.The tides increase not from a leak nor flames, but neglectAs our pointing fingers claw for more, more, more. We claim
The Corporations: “ConAgres Foods, NRG, Exxon Mobile,Pollute” says Business Insider. But for what it does, andWhere it goes, in the system, how can we say, “not us”?
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
“Strong demand” but “few programs” is how Amin Mawani, Schulich School of Business professor, describes the education landscape for health administration.
But that is expected to change with the Master of Health Industry Administration (MHIA), a new degree program offered by Schulich.
“The MHIA has been designed as a holistic initiative to promote the field of health leadership and management through education, applied research and industry collaboration,” says Schulich Professor Amin Mawani, the program’s inaugural director.
According to the program’s website, the MHIA aims to provide students with skills and training necessary for success in various types of healthcare settings. The 12-month, full-time program covers three four-month terms, with 16 courses on topics like financial management, marketing, organization, digital health, leadership, public policy and more. It will receive its first students in September 2023 and will be open to York undergraduate students graduating by June, as well as healthcare practitioners wanting to work in administrative roles.
The program was approved by York University’s senate in December 2022 and has now been sent to the Ontario government for approval, expected in March 2023.
Traditionally, health administration curricula included topics like finance, marketing and organization. The MHIA program was designed by faculty members in Schulich’s Krembil Centre for Health Management and Leadership, who supplemented traditionally covered topics with emerging fields like data analytics, informatics, epidemiology, and supply chain management.
“We surveyed all Canadian programs as well as successful programs at Harvard, Duke and John Hopkins University,” says Mawani. “The task force also sought input from management practitioners in industry and government, consultants, and industry associations to fully understand the emerging trends and the knowledge requirements for health administration careers.”
In a press release, Schulich School of Business Dean Detlev Zwick promoted his school’s track record in health education: “Over the past two decades, Schulich has been developing health industry leaders through a number of programs, including the health industry specialization in our MBA program, through innovative executive development programs such as our Mini-MBA for Physicians and, beginning in Fall 2023, through our new Master of Health Industry Administration.”
Meanwhile, Mawani believes the MHIA fills a gap in health administration education. “[MHIA] is designed to address an unfilled need in post-graduate management education,” he explained. “There are currently few programs in the field of health administration offered by business schools — both in Ontario and globally.”
The program is being announced in the wake of crippling staff shortages in healthcare facilities across Canada. Many hospitals are calling the situation a crisis and urging government officials to take action. 
At the same time, many publications say jobs in healthcare — and specifically administration — have a strong employment outlook. Job search website, Workopolis, forecasted in Dec. 2015 that the sector would continue to grow rapidly past 2020, and the U.S. Bureau of Labour Statistics reported strong starting salaries. The Healthcare Management Degree Guide also reports increasing prospects for health administration degrees.
More information on the MHIA can be found here.
health@excal.on.ca                



 York University Community Newspaper 
Mental health is a concern for many people, and students often report particular difficulties with their well-being.
That’s the motivation behind a series of seminars, activities and events being held this week in what York University is calling Well-being Week. York University’s website states that the school “prioritizes all interdependent components of wellness – such as physical, emotional and mental health.”
The series runs from Jan. 16 to Feb. 1, both over Zoom and in-person at the Keele campus. There are still many events to choose from, with seminars about improving sleep and promoting mental health, resources on meal planning and health effects of vaping, classes in yoga and cooking, and more.
“I am most excited to attend the webinar being hosted by FGS [Faculty of Graduate Studies] about coping with stress,” says Tina Ranta, assistant director of well-being at York’s Student Counselling, Health & Well-being. “That is open to all community members so that we can learn from one another and build connection.”
Ranta is also “excited to see so many skills building-related events,” which are offered by peer health educators, as well as cooking classes hosted by Food Services. 
Well-being Week is hosted by various organizations at York, and follows a long history of well-being and mental health resources at the university. “Well-being Week is one of the many ways York University demonstrates our commitment to fostering a culture of well-being across our campuses,” said Mary Catherine Masciangelo, York’s assistant vice president of human resources, in a press release.
Ranta similarly explained that “this campaign and events feed directly into the work being led at York in creating a Well-being Strategy that aims to support all community members to be well in this shared environment, as wellness is a necessary precondition to learning and working.”
Masciangelo has also outlined some ideas for destigmatizing mental health, such as education through organizations like the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health; engaging empathetically when talking about people’s mental health; awareness of attitudes and behaviours that may affect others’ well-being; and simple respect and care for people in your immediate circle and wider community.
For more information on Well-being Week, including the full schedule of events, click here. 
If you need support as a York student, keep.meSAFE is a free service that offers online resources and phone lines to connect to mental health professionals, 24/7. Visit https://www.keepmesafe.org/.
health@excal.on.ca                



 York University Community Newspaper 
