The human gut microbiome is a complex ecosystem of microorganisms that lives in symbiosis with the human gut and helps regulate digestion and human health (Clemente et al., 2012; Nurkolis et al., 2022; Rosen & Palm, 2017; Tropini, 2021). Disturbances in gut microbiome composition can result in dysbiosis and lead to health issues including obesity, diabetes, and cancer (Musso et al., 2010; Gori et al., 2019; Clemente et al., 2012; Nurkolis et al., 2022; Rosen & Palm, 2017; Tropini, 2021). 
The composition of the gut microbiome is influenced by the environment among other factors like diet, exercise, and medications (Clemente et al., 2012; Tropini, 2021). Understanding the effect of the environment on the human gut microbiome is important, especially in the face of climate change where the environment is rapidly changing (Tropini, 2021).
Various studies have concluded that your living environment plays an important role in gut microbiome symbiosis, alongside diet, antibiotic therapies, and immune response (Tropini, 2021; Clemente et al., 2012; Nurkolis et al., 2022; Gori et al., 2019; Musso et al., 2010; Rosen & Palm, 2017). Since climate change affects your living environment, it also means climate change affects human health through its effect on gut microbiome composition (Tropini, 2021; Nurkolis et al., 2022). 
With the acceleration of climate change, the effects of climate change can be felt by everyone on the planet, with some populations being more vulnerable to these effects than others (Harvey et al., 2018; Tropini, 2021). The effects of climate change on health are not completely known, but it is well understood that climate change results in a multitude of negative health outcomes, especially for vulnerable populations (Anhquist et al., 2012; Tropini, 2021; Nurkolis et al., 2022).
According to Musso et al. (2010), there is evidence that the disturbances in gut microbiome composition can result in dysbiosis, leading to inflammation in the gut. This inflammation can affect the way nutrients are absorbed in the gut and lead to diseases like diabetes and obesity. These are not the only ways that human health is affected by the gut microbiome. According to Gori et al. (2019), the gut microbiome plays a role in carcinogenesis and the efficacy of cancer treatments like chemotherapy and immunotherapy.
It is important to understand the effects of climate change on the human gut microbiome since it is so vital to human health (Musso et al., 2010; Gori et al., 2019; Clemente et al., 2012; Nurkolis et al., 2022; Rosen & Palm, 2017; Tropini, 2021). With further research and understanding, there is a scope for new therapies for illnesses that involve preserving gut microbiome symbiosis. New treatments are beneficial because they can increase accessibility to health care for vulnerable populations and lead to alternative treatments that may be better than current standard treatments (Anhquist et al., 2012; Rosen & Palm, 2017; Gori et al., 2019; Musso et al., 2010). 
Since climate change is progressing so rapidly, it is important for us, as a global population, to adapt by understanding the different ways that climate change affects human health.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
Osgoode Hall Law School recently announced a new bursary organized by alumni working at the law firm, Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP. The bursary, eponymously named the Davies Fellows Award, “aims to break down barriers to legal education” and is a $1.2 million bursary established for a first year low-income, high-potential student enrolled in the school’s juris doctor (JD) program. 
Osgoode’s Student Financial Services Coordinator, Nadia M. Narcisi, explains eligibility and the means to apply to the bursary, “In order to be eligible for any financial need-based entrance scholarships, prospective applicants to Osgoode need to complete an Osgoode Financial Statement at the time of their admissions application.” 
Additionally, given that the Davies Fellows Award aims at creating equitable access, Narcisi also highlights that, “When assessing and deciding on financial need based entrance scholarship recipients, the Financial Statement is taken into account, as well as the full admissions file. The admissions file is where one’s identity would be disclosed and taken into consideration.”
As the person that selects the recipients, Narcisi is happy to add another scholarship to the roster, stating, “I know it will make a huge impact on the lives of the lucky students who receive it from year to year.”
The purpose of the award is to create better access to legal education by overcoming financial obstacles often related to means, gender, race and cultural inequalities, and other physical, mental and/ or learning challenges. 
In a news release, Patricia Olasker, the President of the Osgoode Hall Law School Alumni Board of Directors stated, “the initiative by Osgoode alumni at Davies reflects the law firm’s commitment to creating a more inclusive legal profession by removing barriers that stand in the way of students of exceptional promise. Our commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion is a core value of our firm, and the creation of the Davies Fellows Award is an impactful way for us to turn our values into action.”
While the Davies Fellows Award is an entrance scholarship, it may be carried into the student’s second and third year if they continue to demonstrate high academic standing, promise and financial need.
This is not the first time that Osgoode has taken efforts to create equitable access to education. For example, Raise the Black Bar aims to help Black students achieve higher education in legal studies. Osgoode Hall also provides a free LSAT prep course for low-income students who demonstrate high potential. Osgoode was also the first Canadian law school to adopt holistic admissions policies. 
To quote Osgoode Hall’s Dean, Mary Condon, “Osgoode has been a leader in making legal education more open, inclusive and diverse.”
news@excal.on.ca                
Harshita is in her second year of Political Science at York. Apart from keeping up with politics, she loves reading! Her favourite are classics, but her favourite author is Haruki Murakami. She also likes taking care of plants and would like to collect at least a hundred by the time she's 40 years old. When she isn't studying, you can find her playing Minecraft. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
