In the beginning of my virtual schooling, I had a moment of panic every time I saw the alert that a test or assignment had been marked. For a while, I had moved as slowly as possible when I saw the alert, trying to convince myself not to care. But I always cared. 
Because achieving good grades has become a symbol of my work ethic and intelligence, my idea of myself was — and often remains — too restricted to allow myself to “fail” without my self-esteem going down a notch.
Self-esteem can feel like a value — maybe even a percentage — in which success is a point, and failure a deduction. Often, success and failure are defined relative to other people. The people we’re around become our standard, and we either exceed, meet, or fall short of that standard. 
Do you ever feel talented in something, like an art, and then feel disappointed in yourself when you find other people who are also good at it? 
Particularly in person, when someone outdoes me, there’s this kind of stiff feeling. I smile, and offer some nice canned responses, but can’t quite pretend that it doesn’t bother me.
I also find myself applying these standards to other people. 
When I get particularly stressed about trying to excel in everything, I find myself more judgemental of others. 
On the other hand, if I feel like I am keeping perspective, it can breed a special kind of arrogance where I look down upon the world’s foolishness. 
In both situations, I put myself on a pedestal, considering myself above others because I meet a certain criteria. And when I raise myself above others, that means there is a height to fall from; if I don’t meet that criteria anymore, then I have “fallen” to the same level as others. Realising that I’ve been judging others for something I do all the time isn’t a great feeling, and it’s one that I’m becoming all too familiar with.
Perhaps we need to leave space for a more complex and compassionate understanding of ourselves and others, as co-learners. Everyone has something to offer, and the world is too complicated to be forced into simple definitions of ‘worthy’ and ‘unworthy’. We need to separate the idea of our basic worth from the other parts of who we are and what we do. 
To start, we need to inch out of the cycle of judgement. Sometimes we have to start by loosening our unhealthy grip on the idea of what we should be, and not getting angry with ourselves when we make a mistake. Other times, it can feel self-serving to forgive ourselves first when we continue to judge others, and we need to offer that compassion to our peers first.
As for failures, maybe we should put them into perspective. It can be easy to feel like a “failure” or think that a day was a “failure”, but people and things fail relative to a criteria, not inherently or in their entirety. And failures are just part of a series of natural causesand effects — in other words, they’re bigger than us. 
At the end of the day, I have some degree of faith that no matter how terrible a moment feels, it’s going to be okay. Because the universe will keep going, and I will be able to move on with it. Just like how each step when walking requires a small “fall”, I fail as a part of living.
Be willing to fail, persevere, and be patient with yourself. That’s all you can do.
 
Interested in becoming a contributor? Check out our   Get Involved Page 


 York University Community Newspaper 
The world was saddened on March 10, 2023  by the news of Kiska, the killer whale’s death, also known as “The World’s Loneliest Orca”. Kiska had been living in captivity at Marineland in Niagara Falls, Ontario for over 40 years, enduring the loss of her mate and offspring. Kiska’s passing has brought to the forefront the ethical concerns surrounding the keeping of wild animals in captivity for entertainment purposes.
Michèle Hamers, Wildlife Campaign Manager for World Animal Protection, expressed the organization’s heartbreak over her death. 
“We were heartbroken when we heard the news,” states Hamers. “I think us and many people were hoping that Kiska would be able to live out her life in a sanctuary. The outcry of messages on the internet after the news broke was really moving and just showed how Kiska has been able to change Canadian attitudes towards the keeping of dolphins and whales in captivity. 
“Despite our sadness, it is a relief to know that no other orca will ever be kept in a Canadian aquarium — this is, in part, thanks to Kiska,” Hamers adds.
In 2019, the Canadian government passed Bill S-203, which prohibits the keeping of cetaceans (marine mammals), including dolphins, whales, and porpoises, in captivity in Canada. However, Marineland was “grandfathered” in, allowing them to keep their current animals, but preventing them from purchasing or breeding new ones. 
Hamers notes that this legislation made Kiska, as well as all the dolphins and belugas at Marineland, the last generation to live in captivity. However, Hamers believes there is more work that needs to be done in order to prevent other wild animals from suffering in captivity. 
“There are many other wild animals suffering in captivity,” she says. “Elephants, great apes, and big cats are excellent examples of this. We would like the government of Canada to continue to lead the way on this. There is currently a bill in front of the Senate (Bill S-241), that, if passed, would have a significant impact on the lives of more than 800 wild animal species currently kept in Canada either in zoos or as pets.”
The ethical concerns surrounding the captivity of wild animals for entertainment purposes are numerous, and Hamers argues that it is unacceptable, no matter the species, highlighting that captivity restricts the possibility for wild animals to engage in their full range of natural behavior, leading to a state of “controlled deprivation”. 
However, Hamers also notes that exemptions could be considered for research purposes, provided that necessary legislative mechanisms are in place to protect the welfare of those animals and ensure that the research program provides a benefit to the conservation or restoration of wild populations.
Kiska’s death has brought to the forefront the importance of addressing ethical concerns surrounding the captivity of wild animals for entertainment purposes. While legislation such as Bill S-203 is a step in the right direction, more work needs to be done to prevent the suffering of wild animals in captivity. As Hamers notes, the government of Canada has the opportunity to lead the way in protecting the welfare of wild animals in captivity, and Bill S-241 is a crucial step towards achieving this goal.
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
