Advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) have been impressive in recent years. Language processing, speech recognition, and machine learning all have the potential to change the way we work and live, as Excalibur recently reported.
Those changes have reached the world of mental healthcare, and Toronto-based company Get A-Head is utilizing them to improve client outcomes and clinical training alike.
Get A-Head is a virtual counselling platform that provides therapy to people in a number of educational institutions — including over 1,300 York University community members. The platform makes use of AI technology called Natural Language Processing (NLP), which enables computers to understand text and spoken words in a similar way to humans.
Ahad Bandealy, the company’s founder and CEO, and is also trained in psychology, explains, “there are nuances [in language] that occur that are indicative of emotional or psychological distress… You’re able to track these words and find patterns over various contextual experiences.” 
“When you’re stressed, you’re activating your amygdala — your sympathetic response — and you’re also diverting blood flow and oxygen away from your prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for language,” says Bandealy. This process triggers what he calls “linguistic indicators of distress.”
Get A-Head’s technology observes these indicators to recognize improvements or declines in well-being, enabling practitioners to adjust their care accordingly. 
Coupled with the counselling platform, is the clinical training side of the technology, which the company says AI can help with as well.  Bandealy took part in training at the start of his career, saying he “realized how many holes were in the system.” 
Students training to become therapists need to take part in a set number of hours of practice with clients, supervised by an experienced practitioner.
Bandealy explains that for therapists-in-training, difficulties include trying to find clients and the space to conduct sessions, having to provide service at little or no cost, and finding time to meet with their supervisor. He also mentions case management troubles like recording notes and transcribing a session, which is usually taken back to the supervisor for feedback.
To simplify this process, Get A-Head’s software contains a suite of features for therapists, like text, video or audio options, instant transcription, in-program note taking, file management, and a digital one-way mirror so supervisors can observe the sessions in a discrete way.
Get A-Head’s AI technology can even help supervisors provide feedback to their students. It analyzes speech patterns and word usage to provide a number of qualitative metrics, including client-therapist rapport and improvements in well-being. Supervisors can use this information in tandem with session transcripts and notes to identify areas for improvement, ultimately breeding more effective mental health professionals. 
“We want to focus on the outcomes the therapist can drive,” says Bandealy. “Our platform was built from the therapist’s perspective.”
Already a leader in AI-powered mental healthcare, Bandealy is optimistic when asked where the industry is headed. “I see [AI] to be the path forward,” says Bandealy. “Less so in this format of chatbots and things of that nature — humans will always want to connect with another human, at least in my humble opinion. Where you’ll see it is the ability to aggregate data and understand key data points, supporting practitioners in their prognosis.”
The program is free to post-secondary students in Ontario thanks to a partnership with the Ontario Ministry of Colleges and Universities, which Bandealy says “has alleviated a lot of stress” and has been “enormously helpful.” 
Those interested can register and find more information here!
health@excal.on.ca                



 York University Community Newspaper 
York University’s Professor Jennifer Steele, of the department of psychology, has conducted a study in an attempt to understand children’s racial biases toward non-Black and Black peers. The study provides insight into unconsciously held racial biases, how one can become aware of them, and subsequently counter them. 
The study utilises the Implicit Association Test (IAT), which according to Project Implicit, measures how strongly one associates between different concepts, evaluations and stereotypes. Project Implicit allows individuals to take the IAT to measure their implicit biases and is a non-profit organisation, in which Professor Steele serves as a member of the scientific advisory board.
“We know from previous research that non-Black children tend to show more positive associations with White children over Black children on the Implicit Association Test or IAT, a reaction time measure of bias,” Steele explains. It is not clear exactly why children show such biases but Steele believes that these biases help reflect unconscious associations and messages children receive from the world around them.
Steele explains the methodology of her research: “What was different about our research is that we were interested in whether these racial biases would persist when children were shown same-gender Black and other-gender White children. So, girls were shown Black girls and White boys, and boys were shown Black boys and White girls. 
“What we found was that racial bias still came through – but only when the task encouraged children to think about and categorise these faces by race – so as Black and White children,” explains Steele. 
“When children were asked to think about these faces as boys and girls, the racial bias went away and was replaced by a preference for their own gender. What this tells us, theoretically, is that race and racial biases can come in and out of focus for children based on cues in their environment” says Steele.
A third part of this study, called the Ambiguous Categorization condition, prompted the children to view Black children from a non-specified lens. “Girls spontaneously showed more positive associations with Black girls (over White boys), suggesting that on this task girls were attending more to gender. By contrast, boys spontaneously showed more positive associations with White girls (over Black boys), suggesting that racial bias spontaneously came through.
There are many possible explanations for this finding, but one possibility is that Black boys are more likely to be seen through the lens of race than Black girls, at least on this type of task.” 
A significant question to be asked after analysing this study is : are unconscious biases a consequence of observing parents’ behaviour or must they be taught? Steele explains that a child’s environment can largely impact their biases. Ideas disseminated from the media, implicitly by parents and educators, all add to unconsciously held biases. 
If a child holds such biases, Steele explains that not only is it important to acknowledge that children see race, but to talk to children about race in an age-appropriate way. 
“Parents can reflect on their own racial bias. We all hold some level of bias about various social groups, but we can work to help ensure that negative stereotypes or beliefs are not expressed or transmitted to children,” says Steele.
Additionally, Steele highlights that children must be taught the benefits of living in a multicultural society, such as Toronto, wherein the study was conducted. Helping children understand the various contributions of non-White people through conversations and media helps eliminate bias and develop positive associations towards Black people.
Steele’s research not only reflects that children are capable of holding racial biases, and can distinguish race from as young as three months old, but also that children are able to adopt a lens of intersectionality, their views of racialized people changes when they are supplied with diverse perspectives. The study demonstrates that children are capable of reversing such biases, if only prompted and educated by the adults in their life. Appropriate education about race can equip children to see racism and even call it out. 
news@excal.on.ca                
Harshita is in her second year of Political Science at York. Apart from keeping up with politics, she loves reading! Her favourite are classics, but her favourite author is Haruki Murakami. She also likes taking care of plants and would like to collect at least a hundred by the time she's 40 years old. When she isn't studying, you can find her playing Minecraft. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
