In a shocking turn of events, the notorious “Five-Foot-Ten Hoodie Man” responsible for a string of robberies at York University has been caught. The suspect was finally apprehended by the police after a lengthy investigation, and the identity of the culprit has left the entire nation in disbelief.
As it turns out, Hoodie Man was none other than Drake, the Canadian rapper and singer, who has gained international fame over the years. This revelation has sent shockwaves through the music industry and the Canadian public.
The police discovered Drake’s involvement after he was caught on camera during one of the robberies. The footage clearly showed the rapper wearing a hoodie, concealing his identity as he committed the crime. The police were initially skeptical that a celebrity like Drake could be involved in such criminal activities, but the evidence was irrefutable.
Drake’s motive for committing the robberies is still unclear, but some sources speculate that it could be related to his recent album release. The rapper’s latest album, Certified Lover Boy, was met with mixed reviews, and some believe that the robberies were a publicity stunt to drum up attention for the album.
The arrest of Drake has left many of his fans in shock and disbelief. Social media has been flooded with messages of support for the rapper, with some fans insisting that he is innocent and has been set up by the police.
In a statement to the press, Drake’s representative denied any involvement in the robberies, stating that the rapper was “shocked and saddened” by the accusations. The representative went on to say that Drake would be cooperating fully with the police investigation and was confident that he would be cleared of any wrongdoing.
The news of Drake’s arrest has also caused a stir in the music industry. Many of his colleagues and competitors have expressed their shock and dismay at the news, with some even taking to social media to voice their opinions.
British rapper, Stormzy, stated, “I can’t believe this. Drake was always such a nice guy whenever I met him. I never would have thought he was capable of something like this.”
Despite the public outcry, the police have assured the public that they have conclusive evidence linking Drake to the robberies. The rapper is currently being held in police custody and is expected to appear in court in the coming days.
As the story continues to develop, the public is left wondering what will become of Drake and his career. Will he be found guilty and face the consequences of his actions, or will he be able to clear his name and salvage his reputation?
Only time will tell, but one thing is for sure – the “Five-Foot-Ten Hoodie Man” is no longer a mystery, and the nation is in shock at the unexpected twist in this bizarre tale.
asstnews@excal.on.ca                
Jannat is a first year Criminology student at York. Along with being part of Excalibur, she is also part of the Criminology Society, SCOLAPS, and the YFS. She has a passion for reading, writing (particularly spoken word and slam), photography, and watching classic and vintage movies. Apart from juggling her busy (and at times hectic) schedule, one can occasionally find Jannat journaling, graphic designing, or watching Golden Girls with her mom or Friends with a cup of black tea. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
Beginning April 15, Netflix will limit streaming services to only one person per screen. 
Recently, Netflix limited streaming to one household, but now, the company’s CEO, Felix Flixwhite, explains that they strongly feel that profits can be increased further by adding more restrictions. 
“The idea of limiting streaming to one household was to explore the ways in which profits could be increased, 90 per cent for myself and 10 per cent for the rest of the workers,” explains Flixwhite. “What people don’t realize is that while inflation impacts everyone, millionaires and billionaires are impacted the hardest because we are suffering from a larger loss.”
According to the Fancy Financial Forum, inflation is predicted to increase by 50 per cent between now and the end of 2023. This could mean that those who find themselves in the top 10 per cent of income earners in Canada will see a significant loss in their finances. 
“As a multi-billion dollar company, we’re lucky with recent developments in artificial intelligence (AI). We’re able to avoid hiring more employees to make this change possible, and ultimately, to further help myself and others with the increasing costs of inflation,” says Flixwhite.
Monitoring of each screen will require a camera for each device, which will now be necessary for a Netflix subscription. Should the camera notice two silhouettes viewing the screen, streaming will be immediately shut off and the viewer will receive a $500 fine. 
Larry Laitzy, a seventh-year computer science student, says that they’ve been an avid Netflix subscriber for years and is excited about this new implementation. 
“My roommates hate comedy. Anything comedic drives them crazy, and as a comedy fan, it makes it difficult to view various comedies found on Netflix in our common room. With this new rule, there won’t be conflicts between me and the rest of my roommates, and I can finally laugh again in peace,” explains Laitzy.
Regarding the $500 fine, Laitzy expresses that, “my roommates and I made it into a game. Should they interrupt my viewing time, the fine will be on them to pay. But, if it happens the other way around, I will pay the fine. Though, I’m not worried because they only watch true crime shows… Who watches true crime for fun?”
The York community expresses that they are thankful for this restriction forcing subscribers to view Netflix alone. Through a survey, it seems that 85 per cent of the York population is missing the pandemic’s restrictions and the solidarity they brought. With the help of this new implementation, Flixwhite is hopeful that people can experience a similar nostalgia of loneliness while enjoying the pleasure of Netflix.
arts@excal.on.ca                
Sydney is in her third year at York University studying Dance. She loves to travel and explore new places. When Sydney is not editing, working, or studying for her classes, she is likely going for walks or learning new recipes. 
                

 York University Community Newspaper 
