News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Just when the world was ready to label Harvard’s clout diminished, its expansion in Allston stalled, a stunning move has occurred: The university has absorbed Johns Hopkins—for this week, at least.
Having been rejected by Harvard, filmmakers of “The Social Network”—an upcoming film based on the founding of Facebook—went to another campus to shoot where they thought they might find rejected students who could empathize: Johns Hopkins University. Instead, however, JHU students are upset that their dormitories are being relabeled “Kirkland House,” a move that has reopened the wounds of their college admission days, they say.
Students in Baltimore may complain, but they fail to recognize the exciting opportunities that recreating Harvard on their campus will bring. Hopkins students now have a perfect excuse to don their preppiest Ivy League clothing, complete with a different cardigan, pipe, and protractor for each day. Maybe a few job recruiters will get confused and show up in Maryland also.
We hope that students take advantage of this week and resubmit their midterm papers and grades to benefit from what surely will be a weeklong bonanza in grade inflation. Parties may take a serious hit, of course, as well as Greek life—but for the long term, students will benefit from this momentary lapse in fun. A week of self-loathing and sexual frustration as Harvard students can do much for Hopkins’s school spirit for the rest of the year. Of course, we sympathize with their athletic teams who may see a sudden drop in fan attendance this week.
We at old Harvard can do our own part to make this the best possible experience for our new classmates in Baltimore. Aside from sending them punch cards and invitations to Mather Lather, more serious infrastructural moves can be made. The shuttles being mustered for Harvard-Yale should immediately begin transferring all tourists in Harvard Yard to Baltimore. Crimson Key should also do its part and send members immediately to our Maryland campus to help orient students who are upset and confused, having been placed in the new Quad. Finally, in a showing of good faith, we should invite “The Wire,” a popular TV show based in Baltimore, to film an episode up in Cambridge—where we pretend to be Johns Hopkins.
Grab your crimson, Hopkins brothers and sisters! For one week, the keys to the ivory tower are yours. Make the most of it, and we will forgive you if it takes you a while to name the flaws of the John Harvard statue. Go ahead and pee on any statues you like, though. The real losers in this are, of course, the students of Yale University, who will find it troubling, if not overwhelming, to now know that another Harvard has popped up to make them feel inadequate.

Just when the world was ready to label Harvard’s clout diminished, its expansion in Allston stalled, a stunning move has occurred: The university has absorbed Johns Hopkins—for this week, at least.
Having been rejected by Harvard, filmmakers of “The Social Network”—an upcoming film based on the founding of Facebook—went to another campus to shoot where they thought they might find rejected students who could empathize: Johns Hopkins University. Instead, however, JHU students are upset that their dormitories are being relabeled “Kirkland House,” a move that has reopened the wounds of their college admission days, they say.
Students in Baltimore may complain, but they fail to recognize the exciting opportunities that recreating Harvard on their campus will bring. Hopkins students now have a perfect excuse to don their preppiest Ivy League clothing, complete with a different cardigan, pipe, and protractor for each day. Maybe a few job recruiters will get confused and show up in Maryland also.
We hope that students take advantage of this week and resubmit their midterm papers and grades to benefit from what surely will be a weeklong bonanza in grade inflation. Parties may take a serious hit, of course, as well as Greek life—but for the long term, students will benefit from this momentary lapse in fun. A week of self-loathing and sexual frustration as Harvard students can do much for Hopkins’s school spirit for the rest of the year. Of course, we sympathize with their athletic teams who may see a sudden drop in fan attendance this week.
We at old Harvard can do our own part to make this the best possible experience for our new classmates in Baltimore. Aside from sending them punch cards and invitations to Mather Lather, more serious infrastructural moves can be made. The shuttles being mustered for Harvard-Yale should immediately begin transferring all tourists in Harvard Yard to Baltimore. Crimson Key should also do its part and send members immediately to our Maryland campus to help orient students who are upset and confused, having been placed in the new Quad. Finally, in a showing of good faith, we should invite “The Wire,” a popular TV show based in Baltimore, to film an episode up in Cambridge—where we pretend to be Johns Hopkins.
Grab your crimson, Hopkins brothers and sisters! For one week, the keys to the ivory tower are yours. Make the most of it, and we will forgive you if it takes you a while to name the flaws of the John Harvard statue. Go ahead and pee on any statues you like, though. The real losers in this are, of course, the students of Yale University, who will find it troubling, if not overwhelming, to now know that another Harvard has popped up to make them feel inadequate.
Just when the world was ready to label Harvard’s clout diminished, its expansion in Allston stalled, a stunning move has occurred: The university has absorbed Johns Hopkins—for this week, at least.
Having been rejected by Harvard, filmmakers of “The Social Network”—an upcoming film based on the founding of Facebook—went to another campus to shoot where they thought they might find rejected students who could empathize: Johns Hopkins University. Instead, however, JHU students are upset that their dormitories are being relabeled “Kirkland House,” a move that has reopened the wounds of their college admission days, they say.
Students in Baltimore may complain, but they fail to recognize the exciting opportunities that recreating Harvard on their campus will bring. Hopkins students now have a perfect excuse to don their preppiest Ivy League clothing, complete with a different cardigan, pipe, and protractor for each day. Maybe a few job recruiters will get confused and show up in Maryland also.
We hope that students take advantage of this week and resubmit their midterm papers and grades to benefit from what surely will be a weeklong bonanza in grade inflation. Parties may take a serious hit, of course, as well as Greek life—but for the long term, students will benefit from this momentary lapse in fun. A week of self-loathing and sexual frustration as Harvard students can do much for Hopkins’s school spirit for the rest of the year. Of course, we sympathize with their athletic teams who may see a sudden drop in fan attendance this week.
We at old Harvard can do our own part to make this the best possible experience for our new classmates in Baltimore. Aside from sending them punch cards and invitations to Mather Lather, more serious infrastructural moves can be made. The shuttles being mustered for Harvard-Yale should immediately begin transferring all tourists in Harvard Yard to Baltimore. Crimson Key should also do its part and send members immediately to our Maryland campus to help orient students who are upset and confused, having been placed in the new Quad. Finally, in a showing of good faith, we should invite “The Wire,” a popular TV show based in Baltimore, to film an episode up in Cambridge—where we pretend to be Johns Hopkins.
Grab your crimson, Hopkins brothers and sisters! For one week, the keys to the ivory tower are yours. Make the most of it, and we will forgive you if it takes you a while to name the flaws of the John Harvard statue. Go ahead and pee on any statues you like, though. The real losers in this are, of course, the students of Yale University, who will find it troubling, if not overwhelming, to now know that another Harvard has popped up to make them feel inadequate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If you’re an American politician, there are many ways to commit political suicide in spectacular fashion. You can disappear for days to pursue a steamy Argentinian affair. You can vow to help O. J. Simpson search for the “real killer.” But if you really want to go out with a bang, you can propose a bill to raise the federal tax on gasoline.
The United States has, by far, the lowest gas tax in the developed world. The federal tax has stood at 18.4 cents per gallon since 1993, despite inflation and changes in gasoline prices. Gas taxes help fund transportation projects and encourage consumers to use oil efficiently. Economists favor this form of taxation, as it factors the negative effects of gasoline usage (traffic, road damage, pollution) into its price.
But lawmakers, pandering to drivers, steadfastly refuse to consider increasing the gas tax. This shortsightedness has serious economic and environmental consequences. Although a major investment in our transportation infrastructure is long overdue, the Federal Highway Trust Fund, which uses gas-tax revenue for road construction and repair, is near broke. This necessitates yearly billion-dollar infusions from the federal budget and discourages new transportation projects. Even the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, not exactly a tax-happy bunch, favors a higher gas tax, since better transportation infrastructure will benefit businesses.
America’s vehicle fleet is a major source of greenhouse-gas emissions, largely due to the popularity of SUVs and pickup trucks. As gas approached $4 per gallon last year, Americans eschewed gas-guzzlers in favor of fuel-efficient vehicles. But now that oil prices have fallen, consumers can return to their old habits. A higher gas tax would encourage these consumers to purchase fuel-efficient cars and would give Detroit an incentive to manufacture hybrids and electric vehicles.
Although most experts favor a higher gas tax, they disagree on what form it should take. Several states and the House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit have studied the feasibility of supplementing the existing gas tax with a per-mile road usage fee. Vehicles would be retrofitted to track and tax the number of miles traveled. Essentially, in the words of the Beatles’ “Taxman,” “If you drive a car, I’ll tax the street.” But the per-mile fee does not address differences in vehicle emissions; a Prius and a Suburban that cover an equal number of miles would pay the same fees. This proposed solution is also much more expensive to administer than a simple gas tax. Worst, the intrusive nature of installing mileage trackers onto vehicles would make the road fee unpopular—just try telling Idaho survivalists that Barack Obama wants to monitor their driving.
But even an ordinary increase in gas taxes poses a new question: Should it raise revenue for new spending? Energy economist Phil Verleger estimates that a $1 increase in the federal gas tax would raise $140 billion. Worthy proposals abound as to how this tidy sum could be spent. A 10-cent gas-tax hike could partially fund Rep. Jim Oberstar’s proposed transportation bill. New York Times columnist Tom Friedman recommends using gas-tax revenue for health-care spending and deficit reduction. Others would invest in renewable energy subsidies. Unfortunately, it would be politically radioactive to enact a steep new gas tax during an economic downturn. Republicans would accuse President Obama of violating his pledge not to raise taxes on the middle class; the attack ads would write themselves.
To overcome this challenge, the $1 increase in the gas tax should be made mostly revenue-neutral and should be phased in over three years. Spending on transportation projects should still account for 10 percent of the revenue due to the dire state of the Highway Trust Fund. But taxpayers should receive the remainder as a refund in the form of lower payroll taxes. This would boost incomes while giving businesses an incentive to hire new workers. At the same time, the rebates would not compromise the gas tax’s effectiveness at reducing consumption. Higher prices at the pump will still encourage Americans to drive less and purchase fuel-efficient cars.
While opposition to higher gas taxes may make politicians winners on Election Day, Americans lose in the long term. A revenue-neutral tax would improve America’s transportation network and reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions while giving lawmakers political cover to support it. Maybe voting for higher gas taxes isn’t political suicide after all.
Anthony P. Dedousis ’11 is an economics concentrator in Leverett House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two tons of hummus and three tons of tabbouleh are the newest additions to Lebanon’s arsenal in its struggle with Israel. Almost two weeks ago, the Lebanese set out to break the world record for largest hummus and tabbouleh dishes, previously held by Israel. The events took place on consecutive days and brought together 300 chefs and hundreds of citizens. Remarkably, the event was publicized and encouraged by different Lebanese political parties.
Unfortunately, a similar degree of unison and cooperation is lacking from ongoing attempts to form a unity government. Lebanese politicians need to learn from their culinary counterparts and end the ongoing deadlock that has had the nation without an administration for nearly five months.
Internal dialogue seems to have led nowhere. After the June 7 elections, voters gave the March 14 coalition 71 seats and the opposition 57. Recently, however, MP Walid Jounblatt, the leader of the Druze majority, broke off from the March 14 coalition and formed a center bloc. Currently, no coalition has a simple majority, and the parliament is broken up into three groups. In light of the fragile situation, MP Saad Hariri was nominated to form a unity government: his attempts have yet to come to fruition.
The deadlock was initially thought to be caused by external pressures, especially from Syria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and the West. Western countries have been engaging Iran in nuclear dialogues, and the Obama administration, supporters of the March 14 coalition, preferred a government “that reflects the parliamentary election’s results.” However, since the Lebanese president refuses to form such a government and since Iran cooperated with the West, the American position has only stalled the formation of any kind of government at all.
Another contributing factor to the stalemate was the Saudi Arabian king’s visit to Damascus. Relations between Syria and Saudi Arabia have been tense ever since the assassination of Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in 2005, but relations between the two countries have been improving steadily ever since Syria and Lebanon established proper diplomatic ties, and the reconciliation was sealed by King Abdallah’s visit to Damascus over the summer. Politicians in Beirut followed the events carefully, hoping that any new development might steer the government in a new direction. Both countries have interests in different Lebanese parties and can influence their decisions.
Six weeks after the visit, the government has still not yet been finalized, even though all external pressures have been eased and international opponents have been calling explicitly for the formation of a strong government. Although big strides have been achieved and a rapprochement between parties has been made, a breakthrough is still awaited. Politicians have agreed on a 15-10-5 partition of ministerial positions: 15 for the coalition, three of them for Junblatt, 10 for the opposition, and five for the president. The only remaining question is, “Who gets what?” Politicians are fighting each other over the different ministries like school kids fighting over the last red crayon.
In the meantime, the Lebanese population has been left alone to fend off national threats such as the H1N1 epidemic, inflation, and national debt. Fraud, corruption, and poverty are also plaguing the country, and the situation is bound to get worse if political activity is not restored. Politicians need to sacrifice their personal gains for the good of the country. So far, the recipe for a government has proved to be far more difficult than that of hummus.
Elias A. Shaaya ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In the midst of one of our greatest recessions, economists are hotter than your last late afternoon romp in Widener stacks. This week, FM decided to journey over to one of the hottest (and economically sound) real estate investments around—the home of Professor N. Greogry Mankiw, one of Harvard’s favorite economists. What better home to investigate than his?
Brick Center Hall Colonial, built in 1932. Three stories. 6 bedrooms, 5.5 bathrooms.Location: Wellesley, MA.
Size: Approximately 6,500 square feet.
Price: Undisclosed.
THE CAR
A blue 2002 BMW 330xi with an “EC 10” license plate is part of what makes Mankiw such a legend. On the back are two bumper stickers: one says LBI for Long Beach Island, where his parents have a summer home, and the other is a sticker in the shape of Nantucket Island, where Mankiw and his family vacation in the summer. Once inside his little Bimmer, the first thing the professor does is pull out two CD’s and ask “Vampire Weekend or Jason Mraz?” Even more legendary. We put on “Oxford Comma” and proceed to make the quaint 30 minute drive to the Mankiw abode in suburban Wellesley, MA.
THE GARDENS
The first thing you’ll notice rolling up the driveway of the Mankiw’s brick colonial house are the lush and rolling gardens that surround it. Tobin, the family’s border terrier, galumphs over, adding to the Hansel-and-Gretel-like atmosphere. Giant trees circle the property, with gigantic bees buzzing around and acorns falling from what seems to be either the very tall flora or the sky. “One of the things we wanted to do was have a nice garden in our backyard. We hired a very good gardener to come and plan and maintain it, and we grow tomatoes and peppers and other vegetables,” explains Mankiw. “My wife and I harvest the vegetables and there are some edible spices here. I have a few dishes that I even cook myself. I have a coq au vin recipe I really like.”
The view from the home is that of a peaceful suburban neighborhood, with similar-looking colonial homes all around.
Mankiw leads us to a little hammock by his children’s playground and describes his neighbors. “A psychiatrist and his family live over here to the left, while a cardiologist is here next door. It’s a stable community of professionals and their families. No real eccentricities,” he says.
THE HOUSE
“The house was built in 1932, which is kind of unusual because that was in the darkest times of the Great Depression, so not a lot of homes were being built. We bought it from the original owner, and she had bought it as a newlywed with her husband and had it for over 50 years,” Mankiw explains.
“It’s pretty much the same except for a few changes. We turned the screen and porch into a library. We put in a family room in the back where we hang out and watch TV and play games.”
THE LIVING ROOM
Walking into the home, a center hall greets you with rows of stairs climbing up three stories and a living room and dining room square off the sides of the space. We venture into the living room, the more formal of the family spaces. A piano sits to the right and several guitars are set up on the other side of the room, which his sons love to play.
“Our style is very traditional without being too formal,” Mankiw says. “We have some mementos, like old family heirlooms and photographs, mixed with more modern pieces like guitars. I fool around with the guitar myself.”
THE LIBRARY
Clearly one of the professor’s favorite spaces, his excitement seems to grow once stepping into the sunlit library lined with walls and wall of books. Mankiw goes over to one shelf in particular. “Over here are all my textbooks in all different languages. This one is Polish. This one here is in Georgian. A bunch of crazy languages,” says Mankiw.
“Over here is my official portrait with the American flag in the background, and here we have a photograph of President Bush and I in the Air Force One.” Impressive.When asked if he has any favorite books, Mankiw replies “Besides my own? (laughs) I have some collections of some old Economic texts. I’m not particularly a collector of objects, but here we have some Alfred Marshall and some other famous 19th and 20th century economists.”
THE FAMILY ROOM
Appropriately, the Mankiw family room is one of the more casual of the living spaces in the home. “We added this on to the house when we had our third child,” Mankiw says. “This on the table is a game called ‘Cathedral.’ It’s one of those logic puzzle games. I was a chess player growing up, but no I’ve never played the chess master at ABP.” A giant plasma television rests against one wall showing that the Mankiws don’t only enjoy books and logic games, but also kicking back and watching some TV every once in a while.
THE KITCHEN
“This part of the home is where we spend the most of our waking hours. These are granite countertops with matching cherry wood cabinetry. I personally love the skylights because they allow a warm soft light to fill this space,” explains Mankiw.What’s in the fridge? “Nothing special, standard junk. We love Whole Foods, so most of our food is from there. Here we have some yogurt, some chicken breast...a lot of stuff is organic,” Mankiw says. “We even have a butler pantry over here although we don’t have a butler (laughs). But there’s a cooler with tons of wine.
Favorite wine? “Currently I’m particularly a fan of New Zealand wine. Sauvignon Blancs.”Making our way over to the formal dining room, Mankiw starts to get a little nervous as the table is in a state of disarray, covered with the children’s schoolbooks and homework. “I might get in trouble for this,” he says. “I don’t think my wife wanted us to come in here.”
Apologies, Mrs. Mankiw.
Leaving the home, there’s a rosary resting atop one of the tables. Mankiw explains, “We’re not Catholic, it’s just that my son visited Spain over the summer and he brought it. I grew up Ukranian Orthodox actually.” At this point, Tobin comes galloping in and Mankiw’s brother-in-law passes by, carrying a leash. How perfectly suburban and adorable.
Sections
by ALEXANDER J. RATNER
There are many buzzwords used to describe the fashion high life, but only one to describe the freshman costume contest this past Friday in Annenberg: Fab-BOO-lous.
Indeed, Annenberg was the place to be on the night before Halloween. The scene was an eclectic mix of vanilla cupcakes, chocolate cupcakes, candy apples, and candy corn. In addition, freshmen had come dressed as everything from attention-hungry male prostitutes to desperately attention-hungry female strippers—and in between, some good, wholesome costumes as well, all ready to compete for Halloween glory.
As testament to the prestige of the event, the Washington University in St. Louis Men’s Soccer team had come all the way to Harvard to compete. Dressed as the Wash U. men’s soccer team, they bedazzled the catwalk with a dance to Miley Cyrus’s “Party in the USA”. “This was a great event—we just followed a girl in an angel costume here. She was short, blonde, hot,” said team member Peter G. Jebson. “My number is 734-904-0114.”
There were many others contending for the “Biggest Joke Costume” category. Jessica M. Ferri ’13 walked the catwalk as a human-sized TI-89 calculator. Brian W. Yang ’13, who had found most of his costume in his roommate’s wardrobe, was dressed as a nerd, going for the effective “laugh at me as a means of distancing yourself” strategy. Matthew J. Devino ’13, resplendent in a matte-green skin color and sporting a ravishing, form-fitting wardrobe to accompany, was dressed up as ‘The Lamonster’.
And, as was inevitable, there were some dangerous collisions—two Lady Gagas awkwardly circled the room in an attempt to mark out unique territories. “Oh, I thought she was Christina Aguiliera,” said Alexandru Chivescu ’13 of his competitor. “Everyone knows Lady Gaga doesn’t wear pants.
Sections
You may have heard of Mike A. Einziger; he’s best known as the guitarist of the band Incubus, but he’s also a student at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and his most recent project combines these two worlds. On November 21 at the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, musicians Rachel E. Lee ’10, Lucy M. Caplan ’12, and Xin “Cindy” Wang ’10 from Harvard will be among the performers for a piece written by Einziger for 12 strings and 12 guitars. The concert is the opening of a series celebrating West Coast music, to which Einziger has been asked to contribute.
He says he got the idea for the piece in Science A-41: “The Einstein Revolution,” which covered topics relating to quantum mechanics. “It kept me awake at night, thinking really hard and hoping that I might be able to figure these things out,” he said of the theories discussed in the class. The piece, which he is still in the process of writing, is the musical articulation of wave-like shapes that Einziger drew inspired by diagrams of the relationships between space and time.
Lee, a professional violin soloist and a member of the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra, has been assisting Mike with the technical aspects of the violin part. “It’s been a unique perspective seeing the piece come together because usually I will play pieces that have been written already,” she said.
Caplan says she is looking forward to the unorthodox combination of instruments, especially in a venue of this size. “It’s going to be a really cool effect because you have 24 musicians on stage and everyone is doing something...very different,” she said.
Now it’s up to Einziger to find time to finish the composition and still take all of his midterms before November 21.
Sections
Last Thursday night, FM hiked over to Science Center D to listen to a stick-up boy, a lesbian cop, and a stool pigeon junkie lead a discussion on the inner city before a crowd of Harvard students.
At least, these three characters portrayed by Michael K. Williams, Sonja Sohn, and Andre Royo in HBO’s “The Wire” were so compelling that the African and African American Studies Department invited the actors to discuss the show’s alarming depiction of inner-city Baltimore.
FM was lucky enough to nab a ticket and breeze by the large crowd of poor souls waiting outside, hoping for the slight possibility of available seats. Inside, the lecture hall was abuzz with devoted fans. FM even got to hear a marriage proposal, shouted from the depths of the audience to Sonja Sohn.
But the panel soon turned to issues weightier than professions of celebrity crushes as cast members described the people whom they met while researching their roles. “I met a lot of people who felt like they weren’t relevant anymore because they don’t make a certain amount,” said Andre Royo.  “They had a little addiction, but they wanted to be good people. That is what I focused on with [character] Bubbles.”
And just as FM was wondering how community service would fit into our jam-packed schedules, Sonja Sohn shot down all our excuses and offered a way to combat the problem at its roots. “Yeah, you got a research paper, yeah you got a boyfriend or a girlfriend, but you could spend a couple of hours a week mentoring a kid,” said Sohn.
Although FM originally attended to gloat about yet another celeb on our star-ridden campus, the discussion proved to be inspirational—and not just because emminent Professor Evelyn B. Higginbotham condoned all of our HBO watching as an “educational tool.”
Sections
Don’t worry about it. You know what? Not even mad. It’s water under the bridge—less than that—poop shards under the water. I haven’t even begun to forget to remember it. That’s how chill it is that Monday was my birthday and you completely missed it.
Didn’t want to see you there anyway—what with that shirt you’re wearing. Would’ve stunk up the whole color aesthetic of my party.
And I know I didn’t have a party. But that doesn’t mean I still didn’t not want a lame-shirted, birthday-missing jerk like you at a place that I wasn’t.
I mean. I guess you maybe could’ve come for a bit. If you changed that effing shirt. And like, planned me a party? Or got me a gift? Or bumped into me in passing in a way ambiguous enough for me to read into it all sorts of strange but heartfelt birthday wishes. Or like, ignored me the same way? Oh, wait—that’s what you did do.
So, I spent my 22nd birthday alone in my room with some 7-11 swill and enough youtube to choke a horse. Not that disappointing birthdays are anything new. Last year, my 21st birthday was shut down by a cat’s inflamed urethra. (This is a true story. The cat’s name is Pericles.) I just—I don’t know. I wanted it to be good. But it’s not like I go through the effort for anyone else.
The problem with birthdays is that everyone has them and they just keep recurring (like that dream we all have about thigh pimples. We do all have that one, right?). This can make it hard to put in the effort to celebrate when you realize you’ll just have to expend the same energy this time next year.
The other problem is that birthdays mean something different to everyone. My roommate hates the egalitarian nature of them, my friend likes getting free things, my uncle throws huge parties where he tosses watermelons off his roof, my grandma doesn’t care two cents ‘cause she’s dead.
Dead sick of birthdays, that is!
Zing!
As a child who viewed his birthday as an event only ever upstaged by the release of the newest Power Rangers Zord action figure set, I couldn’t fathom why adults didn’t engage in the delightful cyclical revelry of birthdays...People have to give me presents just because I was born. How can you beat a deal like that?
Add cake.
Boom. Done.
When I asked adults—when I still ask adults—why they so often sit out on elaborate birthday celebrations, they often respond, “When you’re old, a birthday just reminds you that you’re one step closer to death.” But that’s like being ugly, and refusing to look into mirrors ‘cause they show you that you’re ugly. Okay—I guess mirrors do actually do that, but I still reject the former excuse’s logic.
Along our unbearably light life-journeys, as we roll our meaningless life-stones up our Sisyphean life-hills of life, there is no shortage of signposts reminding us of our inevitable and impending demises into meat pastes of no more consequence than air. (Most of these involve varicose veins.)
But birthdays don’t belong in this category. Look—we’re all going to die and when we do, we can’t come back. Well—most of us can’t—I’m looking at you, Jesus. Adding a number to your existence subtotal constitutes a measurable, significant, awardable achievement for having avoided death.
Do you realize how hard it is to avoid death? It’s like, reasonably hard. Life—is reasonably hard, and with each birthday, whether you’re painting the town red, or painting the town a pale and sickly puke green, you’ve survived. You’ve kept on keeping on. Life might not always be its own reward—but living is still worth rewarding.
Case in point: 100 year old birthdays. They’re celebrations, even to the grumpiest of birthday naysayers, but why? By the logic of birthday pessimists, these centenarians should be grieving. They’ve already got one foot out the door. Heck—forget feet, (if they even still have them) they’ve got at least the upper and lower torsos out. Maybe even some neckage. But they celebrate because—well—it’s an accomplishment. Life tried to kill them, and it’s failed, for the past 100 years. And you know what? That warrants a party.
Now, I’m not saying you can’t be afraid of death—I’m terrified of death. I’m just saying, leave the birthday out of it.
Sections
You know what, Liz Lemon? “30 Rock” may have three-peated its “Best Comedy” routine, but you can suck it. We get it­­—you’re a nerd, but people still love you. You’re “unattractive” but you’re actually still pretty. You have no social grace but you still manage to have friends. Pretty much your life is perfect. I don’t know about the rest of you, but Tina Fey playing America’s unsociable, flatulent, yet lovable, nerd is beginning to piss me off.
In high school, I was the unsociable, flatulent nerd. Lovable, not so much. No nerds were; that is at the very core of being a nerd. Pretending to passersby that I was waiting for my brother after school, while secretly wishing the Mathletes bus would hurry up and get there—that’s a nerd. Winning the public library’s book raffle three years running, because no one else entered—that’s a nerd. Ordering the Kong so frequently that the owner laughs every time I call and asks, “Eating alone to stay up and study late againnnn?”—well, that’s just sad. And also, not high school.
As a high school senior, I thought Harvard would be a haven for others like me. The unfortunate truth, though, is that a nerd is a nerd, no matter where you put him, and, as it turns out, a Chemistry major is a Chemistry major, no matter how prestigious the university. I recall a particularly painful interaction, when, as an overeager Freshman, I was hit on by a Quadling in the Ten-Man. Looking up at this upperclassman with my best come-hither stare, from behind my intensely thick glasses, I tried as hard as I could to imitate the flirting I witnessed all around me.
“What’s your name?” he asked me.
“Frances,” I responded, kicking myself for not having a sexier name.
“What’s your major?” he persisted.
“…Chemistry,” I dejectedly replied, knowing that, with one fell swoop, I had brought that flirting ritual to a halt.
My sober, late-night Kong infatuation aside (how did he always know I was going home to eat alone and study until I fell asleep on my Orgo textbook?), I like to consider myself a “normal” now, no longer a nerd, who has to compensate for her dorky major. Proof? I’m now an Economics major. I wear contacts. I generally shower once a day. It’s hard to say whether the concentration switch triggered my nerd-to-normal switch (indulge me for a second and let me believe this switch has actually already occurred), or whether the social metamorphosis was the catalyst (get it?) for the academic one, but either way, by the time Sophomore spring rolled around, I re-emerged as an Ec10 butterfly, and shed my outdated, dried-up, Chemistry cocoon. Goodbye, goggle marks, goodbye problem sets. Hello, going out on Thursday nights, hello, learning-how-to-flirt.
As a recovering nerd, I am still confronted by my dark, glasses-braces-andunflattering-jeans-wearing past every once in awhile. Those who have gone through the same adjustment during their time here know what I mean. You see that friend you made freshman year, that you never really kept in touch with, and you debate whether to keep your head down and scurry past to avoid the “Wow, you look great!” remarks, or whether to stroll past them just to flaunt your new, hipper self, specifically to get those remarks, while then nonchalantly pretending like you have no idea what they’re talking about.
There are no right answers with nerdity. There’s no 12-step program for recovery. No Public Service Announcements to warn you of the deleterious effects of mixing five-hour labs with poor personal hygiene. The only support network you have are other former nerds. You look at a relatively well-dressed, socially competent individual, and you share that split-second glimmer, wherein you both silently acknowledge each other’s nerded past, and then you quickly move on.
I know, as a convert, I have little right to be upset with the portrayal of the nerd in popular media, but truthfully there are times when I miss it—the rush from finishing a problem set I’ve been sitting with for 15 hours. The happy resignation that I’d rather be stewing in sweats, eating Kong, than out flirting with the sanitarily showered. The unabashed satisfaction from taking masochistic MWF 9 a.m. science classes, 3 semesters in a row. It’s a people and a culture I love, though I may have left it for the time being.
My point is, Tina Fey, with your Emmys, your celebrity, your stylists, and your kickass job, you are simply not equipped to play the role of the nerd I know so well. It’s offensive to nerds everywhere. Sure, some of us manage to overcome our unsociable, flatulent pasts (ignore the Kong scenario above), but it takes years and years of training, grooming, exfoliating, and polite torment from your friends (“Frances, you seriously need to learn to hold it in. Also, take down those Science League plaques.”). It is not the walk in the park that “30 Rock” and Liz Lemon make it out to be. She’s making light of the plight of the nerd, and, sticking up for my former fellow brethren who don’t have time to watch TV, I don’t like it.
—Frances S. Jin ’10 is an economics  concentrator in Adams house. For some reason she’s convinced that she’s no longer a nerd.
Sections
The phrase “Well-behaved women seldom make history.” is often used to justify weekend Facebook photos, but many do not know that these words originated in an article about Puritan funeral services by a University of New Hampshire grad student who is now an accomplished Harvard professor. Indeed, Pulitzer Prize-winning Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, the History Department’s 300th Anniversary University Professor and the current president of the American Historical Association, recently received the John F. Kennedy Medal of the Massachusetts Historical Society, becoming the first woman to do so. FM got the chance to speak with her about her latest award, her career as an historian, and her love of the seemingly mundane.
1.
Fifteen Minutes: Where were you when you heard you won the award?
Laurel T. Ulrich: This just came in a letter. I’m a member of the Massachusetts Historical Society. I don’t think I even was aware of this award, but I got a very nice letter from the director asking me if I would accept.
2.
FM: You have written that you knew you wanted to be a writer since the fifth grade. What made you choose historical writing?
LTU: It was really an accident. The main reason is that I came to New England in 1960. It was saturated with a sense of history, and in order to understand where I was, I needed to learn more about the place. At the time, I wasn’t thinking about becoming an historian. I had done a master’s degree in English. When I moved to New Hampshire, I took a history course for my own edification. [The professor] really thought of history as a form of literature. I was interested in history and suddenly I realized that my ambition to write could come together with that.
3.
FM: You generally focus on early American history. What made you interested in this period?
LTU: It was really serendipity. I was at the University of New Hampshire, and the strength in the history department there was in the early period. I loved it because it was remote. It forced me to think about worlds that were very different from the world that I knew.
4.
FM: You hail from a small town in the Rocky Mountain West. How has that shaped your view as an historian?
LTU: Part of my life experience has been about being sort of an outsider, a little awkward in some very sophisticated venues. I was conscious that my experience was kind of invisible in that world. And as a woman, I learned to define myself as separate from [the] world of academia and scholarship, even as I was doing well. Coming into my scholarship through the women’s movement and also through my life experience has made me hypersensitive to issues of marginality.
5.
FM: Do you still feel marginalized?
LTU: Oh no. I’m president of the American Historical Association. I remember I had a funny experience after the Pulitzer was announced in 1991. I got a phone call from a reporter from The New York Times asking about the impact of my work on the historical profession. I said, “I’ve always thought of my work [as] being marginal.” And I remember he told me, “I think you’re going to have to get over that.”
6.
FM: Your work tends to focus on “ordinary” people and “ordinary” objects. You wrote an entire book about an obscure 18th century midwife and another on baskets, spinning wheels, rugs, and other common household objects. What interests you about the ordinary?
LTU: I am interested in ordinary objects partly because they’re not supposed to be interesting. I think I’m contrary that way.
[Editor’s note: the FM reporter was wearing a green scarf at the time of the interview]
I mean, why should we care about your scarf. It probably came from India. If it did, there’s a whole history about global trade and the transfers. There’s a history about dyes. Now you’ve got me curious. There’s nothing out there that doesn’t have a story attached to it, and it makes the world a more dynamic and interesting place.
7.
FM: Yet, your latest book, entitled “Well Behaved Women Seldom Make History” focuses on three female heroes. Why the switch from the ordinary to the heroic?
LTU: That book grew out of my teaching at Harvard. Some of the books that I used [in a course I taught on the history of feminism] helped to shape this most recent book. But as you read further, you realize it’s not just about these women. Their stories take me into something broader. We learn about runaway slaves, about common people making textiles or baskets, about women’s work in medieval Europe.
8.
FM: In many of your works, you use everyday objects to provide glimpses into earlier times. If someone were to tell the story of your life, what object would they use as a lens?
LTU: I guess they could start with a bronze baby shoe that my mother had made. It was kind of common in the early 20th century—preserving the babyhood by bronzing the baby shoe. The story of my life starts with my coming into a family that cared about me and supported me.
9.
FM: If a historian 100 years down the road examined the objects in your purse, what would they say about you and the society you live in?
LTU: They would find a lot of Kleenex. So, we were a throw away society. It would be kind of disturbing as one thinks about how much trash we accumulated and how profligate we were about material things.
10.
FM: In a scholarly article about Puritan funeral services, you used the phrase “Well-behaved women seldom make history.” The slogan took off—you can now see it on bumper stickers, T-shirts, mugs, posters aimed at the preteen set. Have you ever run into anyone sporting your logo?
LTU: Many, many times. I have a little collection. My friends tell me of sightings of the slogan in the South of France or wherever they find it.
11.
FM: Would you, a woman who has made history, say you are “well-behaved”?
LTU: It depends on whom you ask. Some people think I’m boringly well-behaved and some probably think I’m a bit of a rabble-rouser. I helped organize the faculty union, and some thought I was not well=behaved in doing that. But I’ve been married to the same man for 51 years, and that’s pretty well-behaved, I think.
12.
FM: You have written a lot about being a Mormon feminist. How has being a Mormon shaped the way you view history and your feminism?
LTU: I think it’s had a tremendous impact. Coming from a minority religious culture that emphasizes the value of the ordinary person and the everyday life and doesn’t celebrate being rich and famous has a lot to do with my orientation historically. Mormon women have had a very colorful and controversial history and that is a lot of what has interested me.
13.
FM: You have been involved in the feminist movement for decades. What would you say about the future of feminism?
LTU: I can see a lot of transformation in American life. But, if you look worldwide and you see the impact of poverty and global change, you see women getting a disproportionate share of some of these global problems. In no sense can we say these issues are passé or no longer significant.
14.
FM: You teach a freshman seminar about quilt making. Are you an avid quilt maker?
LTU: I have made quilts—I confess to that—not very complex ones, but I’ve made a lot of them. I’ve done enough sewing to appreciate fabulous work. I don’t do fabulous work, but I can enjoy it.
15.
FM: In a 2002 issue of The Journal of American History, you wrote, “My writing moved in two directions, one activist and personal, the other academic.” How do you balance the personal and the scholarly?
I compartmentalized for a long time. A lot of my activism was within my own faith community and people in that community didn’t know much about my scholarly pursuits. As I’ve gotten older, I see the work I do as a scholar as being my best contribution to the larger enterprise of advancing the place of women. History is one of the primary ways people create a sense of themselves, their identities, and their place in the world. I’ve also come to be more of a scholar partly because I think that’s my calling, if you want to use the Puritan concept.
Sections
Dungeons & Dragons. The name invokes basements and chains, medieval turrets, and mythical creatures. It sounds like the type of thing social misfits with headgear and B.O. would play in their mothers’ basements. It is the name of “the game.”
Developed in the 1970s before the days of computers and Play Station, Dungeons & Dragons is a role-playing game. Real people develop characters and, under the direction of the Game Master(s), enact an adventure. They fight to save a princess from a tower; they defend their kingdom from the ogres; or, in a more modern plotline, they seek out the robots who have blocked the oil pipeline to their village.
There are no computer screens or props, no costumes or weaponry. The game is one of imagination. Once the game begins, a player is no longer himself; he is his character. What he says and does reflects not on the student who walks around Harvard’s campus, sleeps and eats in Pforzheimer, and concentrates in Computer Science. What takes place once the game is in session is part of another world—a world that exists only in the minds of the players.
THE SCENE
It is a Friday night, and Elizabeth “Betsy” C. Isaacson ’12 of Mather House leads a game in Old Quincy. She and her real-life boyfriend Alessandro La Porta ’09 run this game together as Game Masters, co-writing the plotlines for the weekly gatherings of eight Harvard students and one alum.
Betsy generally speaks fast, too fast, almost. She fiddles with pens or anything nearby, really. But when Betsy is in character, she speaks slowly, pensively, with intent. She leans forward and scrunches her eyebrows together. What she says carries weight in the imaginary universe of Dungeons & Dragons, and the players in the game listen closely.
“You are walking out of the stadium, and the crowd is gathered at the exit, murmuring. Suddenly, a girl in tattered robes appears and says, ‘Do you really think, Sir Henry, that this is the proper way to win the tournament?’” Betsy kneels.
One player replies viciously, on behalf of the group: “What are you implying? Please leave.” Betsy is enacting Laura, the sister of Alina, who had just been assassinated. Sir Henry’s team is not responsible for Alina’s murder. Laura, as played by Betsy, however, thinks that it may be.
“Fine,” Betsy-as-Laura says, after another player convinces her that Sir Henry’s team was not responsible for her sister’s murder. “Will you come back to my tent with me?” Presumably, she seeks additional information from the team.
The moment is intense. Betsy is a convincing actress, as she quickly jumps into character when the game begins. But when she asks the team to come back to her tent, Nathaniel A.B. Jack ’09, a graduate who returns to campus for the Dungeons & Dragons game, bursts in with the utmost maturity: “Bom-chica-wow-wow!”
The spell is broken. The group laughs, cracks a few more jokes, and then returns to the game.
BUILDING CHARACTER
When playing the game, you are someone you are not. Tatyana “Tanya” V. Avilova ’13—a freshman player in the band—vanishes as soon as the session begins. Her blond hair grays; her flushed checks sprout a long beard, braided in an elaborate chain. Her height shrinks to a mere 4’ 3”. Her otherwise sweet voice becomes heavy and gruff.
Tanya selected her character, a Paladin Dwarf. She sketched his every detail into her notebook. She assigned his strength in diplomacy, endurance, and insight.
In the game, who your character is determines all. It determines who your friends are—in the virtual world, of course—what your strengths are, whether you worship a goddess or believe in the power of rationality, whether you fear water or heights, or embrace nature and its extremities.
There are three primary aspects to character—race, character class, and alignment. Race is the choice among the dragonborn, dwarves, and Eladrin, among others. Character class determines whether a character is a cleric, fighter, ranger, or warlord. Alignment determines a character's moral compass, whether he is good or evil or someplace in between.
The game system of Dungeons & Dragons already has prefabricated character constructs. But each person adds his or her own touch, makes the character more what he or she wants the character to be.
Take Tanya’s character, for example. In the Dungeons & Dragons official player handbook, Paladins are described as “indomitable warriors who’ve pledged their powers to something greater than themselves.” They are in touch with religion and weaponry. So Tanya decided that her character, named Bjarngeir (Be-on-gear), would worship the goddess of plants.
Ian J. Storey ’12, a Quincy resident, is a Half-Orc Rogue name, a “sneaky stab you in the back pick locks type of guy,” according to Alessandro. Ian’s character is named Erran, pronounced like “Erin.”
Adam L. Swiatlowski ’12, or “Owen Renfield” as he is named in the game, is a human swordmage—a person who defends himself using magic that he channels through his sword. Adam’s house is, nearly eponymously, Adams.
John G. Marshall ’11, a Currier House resident and the oldest player in the game, chose to be a Deva Avenger, an immortal spirit created to serve the gods of good. To make his role more interesting—fighting for good is just too simple—John reflavored the Deva such that he is a human who has had an evil spirit ritually implanted in him. So though he is innately good, he is fighting an evil spirit that is now also part of himself. And because an Avenger is a holy fighter who smites evil in preemptive strikes, the Dungeons and Dragons version of the Bush Doctrine, John’s character is deeply conflicted internally. John showed up a game in a plaid shirt, eating a burrito. He’s tall and generally soft-spoken. In the game, he goes by Inigo.
Carl J. Engle-Laird ’12, a Quincy House resident planning to concentrate in English, is an Elf-wizard named Prometheus. Elf-wizards are wise creatures that “revere that natural world,” according to the D&D Player Handbook.
“You can’t really help but have your own character be part of the character you are in, I think,” Alessandro said. He and Betsy develop everyone’s characters, establish the intricate details about their past lives, but do not have their own roles. Instead they adopt mini-parts, necessary for the furthering of the plot.
Bella Wang ’12 of Mather House, plays a Human Cleric named Claire. She is pretty, in person and in character, true to her real-world name, and spends time fending off suitors, and saving her chastity.
Last is Nathaniel, who graduated last year as a statistics concentrator. He still lives in Cambridge and is looking for a job as a chef. He comes to the weekly meetings as an “NPC”—non-player character.
Basically, he makes cameo appearances in the plot when Betsey and Alessandro need another actor for a mini-plotline. In his first cameo, he played someone named Jonathan Finch who goes by Jonny Magic. As Alessandro describes Nathaniel’s character, he is “an arrogant bastard who is a wizard who works for the wizard guild.”
THE WAITING GAME
The game is scheduled to start at 6 p.m. in the evening, but really it won’t start until 6:30 p.m. or so. Alessandro arrives a few minutes before. Ian and Carl, fairly die-hard D&D enthusiasts, come soon after Alessandro. Tanya shows up last.
Alessandro—a super senior in Pforzheimer—and Betsy casually hold hands as they wait. The waiting, far from being dull or awkward, is jocular and full of anticipation.    As people banter, Alessandro unfolds a square table and places it in the center of the room. East of the table is a small red couch—the type with no arms. North of the table is a futon covered with a sheet. Opposite the futon is the chair Betsy and Alessandro share—a fuzzy auborigine loveseat with arms of imposing breadth.
Atop the center table, now stable and in place, Alessandro unfurls an off-white grid placemat-ish thing, slightly larger than a chessboard. The placemat-ish thing is a map; it is a battlefield; it is a tent; it is whatever the Game Masters choose to make it with their dry erase markers. Indeed, if the real people are actors, playing their elves and orcs with convincing intensity, the placemat-ish thing is the stage. Over the course of the game it will serve as proxy for the characters. In fight scenes, rather than swinging real clubs at each other, the miniature cake that represents a character will be pushed forward two squares and knock the symbol for the attacked character to the right a few squares. The placemat-ish thing serves as the surrogate. It diffuses the tension. It allows for violence and war to ravage the group, while the real people stand around and laugh about the Oathblades they swing at each other.
ALTER EGO
Stereotypes hold that Dungeons & Dragons is played by dweeby computer kids with poor social skills. Supposedly, most players are male. As with most stereotypes, some of this is grounded in truth.
Ian and Carl need haircuts. Nathaniel wore a striped sweater the first week I watched the game; he wore the same sweater the second week. The humor of the group is hilarious to them but likely wouldn’t be so funny to others. (I didn’t laugh as hard as they did.)
“It’s more science kids than English kids,” says John T. Bestoso ’10, who is taking Applied Math 206, Engineering Science 154, Computer Science 141, and History of Science 100 this semester. John, a member of the Harvard-Radcliffe Science Fiction Association (HRSFA) isn’t playing in Betsy and Alessandro’s game, but has played the game before, including on campus. “A couple years back, everyone [who played] was a math major. I don’t know why.”
But there are those who defy the stereotype. John Marshall is concentrating in Philosophy and contemplating a switch to English. And of the nine players in the room, a full third are female.
Alessandro acted in his high school plays, ran the 100 meter in high school track, ballroom danced at Harvard for three years, and is an all-around jolly guy whose chest hair protrudes from his open collar. Every time I have seen him, he has had a goofy, genuine smile. He says that there is no Dungeons & Dragons “type.” John agrees that there is no type, as do others. That said, I doubt there is much crossover between final clubs and the HRSFA e-mail list, which has upwards of 300 students on it.
HRSFA hosts all sorts of games and events. They have weekly meetings for kids who are into Magic cards, anime, Heroes, or even squirrel fishing. Dungeons & Dragons is just one facet of the fantasy gaming world.
But Dungeons & Dragons has a feel different from Magic Cards or Pokemon, according to those who play. In Magic Cards and many other fantasy games, there is no role-playing aspect. Yes, the player has strategy and fantasy, and what you are doing takes place in a realm other than the tabletop at which the player actually sits. But there are cards to guide you, and far less imagination is involved.
The major identifying feature of those who play Dungeons & Dragons, Alessandro says, is their “willingness to suspend disbelief.” To play best, one must be good as visualization, at making things that exist only in the mind become real. Because the game is so involved, so versatile, imagination is key. “You like to dig your fingers into a world and understand it,” Alessandro says of people who tend to play the game. But in terms of introverts and extroverts, players say there is no solid rule.
RULES OF THE GAME
To counter these creative forces, to give direction to the wild imagination necessary for the game, Dungeons & Dragons has intensely detailed rules. Though parts of the game are conceptually simple—a person ascribes himself a character and acts as that character while going on a virtual adventure—the rules for how that adventure unfolds, what each character is allowed to do or say, and what each character knows about the plot is deeply complex. Indeed, the rules are so detailed that there are volumes of books explaining how to play.
The game is divided into two types of interactions—combat encounters and noncombat encounters. In noncombat encounters, characters talk, they politic, they determine where they should head for their next adventure.
Betsy leads the noncombat encounters. She thinks they are more fun. Alessandro leads the combat encounters, a whole other breed of play.
When in the midst of noncombat encounters, the players sit in their places. Tanya delicately eats her HUDS bagged lunch and folds the Saran wrap before putting it beside her on the couch. Carefully, she unscrews the top of her stainless steal thermos and pours hot water into the lid of the thermos, which serves the double function of a cup. Noncombat is generally relaxed, where dialogue is heavy, strategic, and goofy.
Betsy bounces around and enacts the drama that unfolds, miming stepping into a carriage, happily playing the sister of the assassinated competitor.
In combat encounters, however, the players stand. No one tells them to, and they do not do so in unison. But after a few moments of being in combat, all players are on their feet, peering down on the placemat-ish thing, excitedly rolling their dice and seeing how strong their attacks are.
Generally, a session of the game lasts for two or three hours. Unlike a game of Monopoly or Scrabble which last for a few hours in its entirety, a game of Dungeons & Dragons can last for years. Years. The game that Betsy and Alessandro lead began in September; they anticipate that it will continue for another year or two. “We have a long story to tell,” says Alessandro. So in selecting players for the game—more wanted to play than Betsy and Alessandro wanted to be in the group—Alessandro and Betsy looked to choose freshmen and sophomores so that they will be on campus for the entire duration of the game.
Alessandro, although a super-senior, says he is pretty set for a job in Cambridge once he graduates with a concentration in computer science at the close of this semester. Some people leave a session early, but they only do so if they have a legitimate conflict. Most stay the whole time; this is their Friday night fun. They players are not in costume. They wear what they were wearing during the day. There are many pairs of sneakers in the room, but not the athletic type. More the skater-boy type.
The pace of the game is slow. That is not to say dull—it certainly isn’t—but time moves differently while in session. If reality is the pace of a city, Dungeons & Dragons is the pace of somewhere rural and southern.
One reason the game moves at the somewhat halting pace that it does is that every move, every action, every piece of knowledge gained, is determined by rolling a die. Aside from the spontaneity that results when nine people sit together in a room, the game has the added dimension of chance. There are four-sided dice, six-sided dice, eight-sided dice, 10-sided dice, 12-sided dice, and 20-sided dice. All are rolled in different circumstances, and all are determinative.
Not much is necessary for playing D&D other than people and creativity. The dice, however, are absolutely essential to the game. Similar to real life, much is contingent on chance.
KINGDOM OF JYNARIA
Though the Game Masters determine plot, the game is not a pre-determined script. “Let’s be serious,” Alessandro says. “We’re students. We don’t have time at all to come up with a plan.” He said it offhandedly as he was about to start running a session.
But the truth is, he and Betsy plan quite a bit. The banter and exact style of delivery may be unscripted, but the events, the encounters, the twists in plot—all of that is preplanned. The world of the Friday night game is the mythical Kingdom of Jynaria. Jynaria is peaceful, gourd shaped, and populated by dwarves to the north and humans to the south.
A salt-water sea, named Sea of Twin, rests at the intersection of the top and bottom portions of the gourd. The dwarves live in wooded, verdant forests to the north but do not need the lumber of their forests because they are born with magic forces that permit them to grow food and make torches, etc. without disrupting nature.
Thus, the humans to the south, who do need the lumber to do what the dwarves do with their powers, have established a peaceful trade relationship with them. Guarded by twin deities who together are a force for physical and mental purity, Jynaria is quite stable.
Jynaria was born in Betsy and Alessandro’s minds. They didn’t find Jynaria on a map, come across it in an old book, hear about it from a friend. It is purely theirs and purely mythical. The game begins at a tournament. The characters, sitting on the couches of Old Quincy, are assembled by a knight named Sir Henry to fight. The Queen of Jynaria is holding the tournament in order to find the kingdom’s strongest team. The team will be bestowed with the honor of exploring the Lands of Faerie. According to lore, there is great treasure in the Lands of Faerie, and the queen wants to find it for Jynaria.
However, the last time a group of explorers sought treasure for Jynaria—an exploration that takes place in Jynaria’s history, before the start of Betsy and Alessandro’s game—the explorers, including members of the royal family, died on the journey. So this time, the queen wants to find the strongest people in the land. The Game Masters direct the game, determine what obstacles the group will run into, decide which story arcs to put in play in a specific session and which to deemphasize.
According to Alessandro, two levels of planning go into the game—the macro and the micro; what will be done in a specific session, and how the events of that specific session fit into the overall movement of the game.
“On one level it’s save this village from bandits, and on another it is save the world—aliens are attacking!” Alessandro said.
In the first session of Betsy and Alessandro’s game—the two to emphasize that it is a game they share and direct together, in combination, with joint consultation and effort—the players met each other in character, entered the queen’s contest, and won the first round of the tournament.
Their opponents were “really likable and cool” and at the close of the game, they had all come to like the captain of the opposing team—a girl named Alina. But as they accepted their victory over the other team, Alina was assassinated. Sir Henry’s players did not know by whom she had been killed.
The second session began at the stadium prior to the team’s second round match. Alina’s sister Laura angrily accused Sir Henry’s team of assassinating her sister, and a member of the other team provided them with information.
The team processed the information and, as they left for their next match, were attacked by a demon. As a result of the attack Sir Henry’s team missed their second match and were nearly disqualified from the tournament.
But a very prominent wizard —Jonny Rocket, a patron of another competing team—got them back into the tournament and expected favors for his good deed. Among these favors were a date with Claire, the cleric, and transferring Adam’s character, Owen Renfield, a human swordmage, to fight on his team.
At end of the last session they left in a carriage to get information from an unknown party about the assassination. When they got out of the carriage Promethius was captured. Now they are fighting through the wizard’s guild to try to save him from his mysterious captor. The players are aware of only some of the happenings.
Behind all of the events are motivations that the players are not yet aware of and may not understand. Alessandro says all of the things that have happened so far are things that he and Betsy had planned. This is not to say that the individual characters don’t have agency; they absolutely do. “The things that get improvised are the details that make the world come alive.”
THE PLOT THICKENS
Developing the plot is not at all a methodical affair. Though each Game Master has his or her own way of coming up with the next events, Alessandro and Betsy say they tried to do their best to incorporate ideas from the players into the plot and the fantastical world.
Tanya the dwarf and Ian the orc, for example, both come from a western continent where there is a giant desert. The orcs are angry and firey and reside in the desert; the dwarfs, on the other hand, live in the dry, shady mountains and think that exposure to the sun will kill them. Because of their phobia of the sun, dwarves revere plants and the plant goddess because these living systems have the ability to live in the sun.
Though that logic may sound nuts to us, it makes sense—if you’re a dwarf. Tanya presented the above idea to Alessandro and Betsy while talking with them about her character over the summer—planning for the game has been in the works for months—and Alessandro and Betsy loved the idea. So they developed a socioeconomic logic based upon it. In their expansion of the idea, dwarves and orcs have a tenuous trade relationship in which the orcs produce “agriculture and kickass,” while the dwarves produce metal goods, according to Alessandro.
But the orcs and humans are fighting, and the dwarves are selling weapons to both sides of the battle. “This arms race is creating tensions between the orcs and the dwarves, who once were peaceful, and among the humans, who are sending propaganda back across the ocean against orcs,” Alessandro explained. If real nationalities replaced orcs and dwarves—as in the Cuban missile crisis, for example—the plot seems far less outlandish.
A SOCIAL NETWORK
If video games can be isolationist, played alone with the company of just a computer screen and animated characters, Dungeons & Dragons is far from it. To those who congregate in Old Quincy every Friday night, it is quite social.
Around the Harvard campus, around the world, people get together to spend time with friends. Some drink while doing it, some watch football, some paint their nails together, some go for runs in groups, others just sit and chat. What they do in the group context is almost irrelevant, the important thing is that they are with their friends.
The group in Old Quincy, and any Dungeons & Dragons gaming group, is the same. Playing the game, though fun in itself, is also a form of socializing. The group clearly has fun together; their sense of humor is the same. They like to pun off the game rules, mock each other’s absurd character names—Tanya’s Bjarngeir is a group favorite—and speak really loudly to emphasize their points.
They are a tad awkward. But when they are all together in a room, me sitting to the side with my notebook, it is I who feel outside the loop. World of Warcraft is an online fantasy game. “For individuals who play World of Warcraft, there is a real sense of community, they get a real sense of connections,” says Sadie H. Cole, a Harvard psychology graduate student who researches social anxiety and internet gaming. “For people who might be shy, that community is really important to them, especially if they are not seeking that out in real life.”
Not all players of Dungeons & Dragons are shy. Alessandro isn’t, nor is Betsy. But some of the others, outside of the Dungeons & Dragons game session, very well may be. Nor are all players weird. But the stereotype of the game holds that they are, and the stereotype in some cases actually interferes with players lives external to Dungeons & Dragons. Alessandro’s friends don’t care that he plays.
To them it is either a fun, cool thing that he plays, or it is a kind of weird thing that he is into but they chalk it up to Alessandro being Alessandro, and they don’t tease him about it. However, another Dungeons & Dragons player, who wished to remain anonymous, is scared of what his friends would think if they knew he played.
“I’m not sure how they would feel about it actually,” he said. “It’s just considered geeky in the extreme. And I think that at some point there used to be cults based around it...They’d probably—I don’t really know. I think they would think it was a waste of time.”
ROLE PLAYING
The idea of role play is not so foreign to our cultural consciousness. We all love movies and plays, in which actors assume roles, the more completely and convincingly the better. We play doctor and house as kids. My sister was never ridiculed for having imaginary friends, named Tuna and Salmon, who interrupted family dinner on occasion by knocking on the front door—a sound only she heard.
At that age of development, in adolescence, imagination is a good thing. It is seen as creativity, experimentation. When Alessandro was younger, he says he was quite the daydreamer. “I was running around with a lot of imagination and needed something to do with it.” He never had imaginary friends or played with Magic cards, but from the age of four he created stories in his mind. But for some reason, role play is something we are expected to grow out of. “There is this idea that you shouldn’t play fantasy games after adolescence,” Cole said.
But she also said that she didn’t know from where that stigma stems. Not only is role playing a part of our every day lives—“I’m not the same person at home that I am when I see patient, when I teach”—but “wanting something different or more than what your actual life can offer” can be healthy. Dungeons & Dragons gives its players just that opportunity. “At a very base level, for those who play,” Alessandro says of the game, “it is just an extrapolation of playing pretend when you’re six.”
Playing Dungeons & Dragons is much like improvisational acting. “This person you are pretending to be—what is their body language, how do they talk, do they have an accent? What is their emotional make up?” Alessandro asks. “All of these considerations are exactly the same as considerations you would have if you were acting in a play.”
An additional appeal of role play is that people have the ability to assume powers that they never could have in reality. “Awesome is the word really,” John says of entering a fantasy world. “It’s not like I purposefully go to a science fiction and fantasy stuff in an effort at escapism like I think some people do.
But maybe an element of that happens anyway just because it is so clearly more exciting [than life].”
GROWING UP
Right now, the players in the Quincy dorm room are upper teens, lower twenties, still in school (other than Nathaniel) still answering calls from their parents on Friday nights (Alessandro’s mom called in the middle of the second session), and are still young in many respects.
But to the players, the game has nothing to do with age or maturity level or station in life. The game is something that they say they will continue forever. Not far from the Yard, there is a world of people who are doing just that.
Afer getting off the T from Harvard Square, I asked a Cambridge Police Officer for directions to Pandemonium, Central Square’s gaming hub. “Hook a left past the 7-Eleven. You going to play Dungeons & Dragons or something?” I responded no, that I was going to write about it.
“You didn’t really look like a Pandemonium type of girl.” In the store’s basement, the stereotype of the Dungeons & Dragons player comes to life. The age of the average player looks to be over thirty, and he is probably someone you would not want to sit next to on the subway.
There is something slightly off-putting about the group, dressed for the most part in black shirts, faded from few too many washes but not washed recently enough. But these men say they see no reason ever to stop playing the game. Max LeBlanc, a balding, chubby, friendly man with glasses and a checkered shirt in the basement of Pandemonium, described the game as a way to see friends.
“It’s story telling,” he said. “It’s a kind of Odyssey.” It fulfills “the primal aspect of people—everybody just likes telling stories.” Alessandro expressed a similar sentiment. “It is always new, challenging,” he says. “Humanity has had oral tradition forever. This is but one manifestation of that.” And after all, “that’s what it’s about,” said Alessandro with a smile. “Making shit up.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University of Chicago Philosophy Professor Jonathan Lear said at a lecture in Lowell Lecture Hall yesterday that human beings must question their direction in life in order to become better.
His speech—which kicked off the three-day Tanner Lectures series at Harvard—brought together audience members from across the University, including professors, graduate students, undergraduates, and even University President Drew G. Faust.
“I’ve read his work since grad school,” said Jason A. Pannone, who works in the philosophy library, adding that he came to the lecture for “the chance to hear [Lear] think.”
Lear emphasized the importance of developing an appreciation for irony—the circumstance in which a seemingly comfortable truth returns in an unfamiliar form, disrupting one’s world-view and self-perception.
While acknowledging the ironies of life can be difficult, Lear said, this step is the key to achieving “human excellence.” He also focused on the necessity of accepting one’s own ignorance to achieve excellence.
Lear’s lecture, which focused on difficult philosophical concepts, was directed toward those with a wide-ranging grasp of philosophical history.
“I would probably have to think about it a lot to really wrap my mind around what all the implications would be,” attendee Edward J. Dumoulin ’10 said.
Lear acknowledged that understanding topics surrounding human existence requires much contemplation.
“To become human or to learn what it means to be human does not come that easily,” he said, drawing from Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After the news that HBO TV show “The Wire” would be used as a case study in an upcoming Harvard course made waves online last week, an actor from the show and his wife led a discussion at Harvard Law School yesterday centered around the show’s depiction of public schools.
Cast member Jim True-Frost and his wife Cora True-Frost, a professor at the Law School, used the fourth season of “The Wire” as a jumping-off point to examine wider issues in education and the reality of inner city schools.
“The Wire,” set in Baltimore, focused on a different feature of city life each season from 2002 to 2008. The fourth season, in which True-Frost portrayed the police-officer-turned-teacher Roland “Prez” Pryzbylewski, centered around the city’s school system.
The episodes on education also dealt with poverty, social stratification, and maintaining classroom control.
“It is a godsend that these issues have been brought to a bigger public arena,” said True-Frost, whose character taught middle school math.
One recurring theme in the clips the True-Frosts presented was the difficulty of controlling a rowdy classroom, an issue with which many members of the audience had grappled with in personal teaching experiences.
“I had to invest in being tough,” said Cora True-Frost, who, prior to her career in law, taught in the Baltimore city school district. She said the job was one of her most life-changing experiences.
The Law School student group Child and Youth Advocates sponsored the lecture, which coordinates volunteer activities between HLS students and children in the Boston area.
Lindsay S. See, a second-year law student who organized the event, said she hoped the discussion would promote further contemplation.
“When people start talking, they start thinking about the issues,” she said, “Especially when the issues are so dependent on experience.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Election Commission announced nine unofficial City Council winners near midnight Tuesday, but the then-uncounted 22 percent of the votes may overturn those preliminary results.
The unofficial announcement predicted that seven of the nine incumbents would retain their seats, with the other two spots going to Edward J. Sullivan and Leland Cheung, a student at Harvard Kennedy School and the MIT Sloan School of Management.
But the final tally remains far from certain.
Election commissioners labored Wednesday to hand-count an unusually high number of ballots that could not be processed electronically—thanks to the write-in campaign of five-time City Councillor Marjorie C. Decker, who failed in September to complete her paperwork to be placed on the ballot.
Usually only a couple hundred ballots cannot be processed electronically because they contain a vote for a write-in candidate, a stray mark, or some other error, according to City Council candidate Thomas Stohlman, Jr.—but this year’s commissioners must hand-count 3,590 such ballots.
Decker—who may yet secure a sixth term on the Council—waged an aggressive campaign Tuesday to make her candidacy known. Campaign workers maintained a presence at almost all polling sites on Tuesday, distributing stickers with Decker’s name for voters to affix to their ballots, according to Decker’s campaign manager Jeni M. Wheeler.
“If we win, that’s what will have made us win,” Wheeler said. “We feel very good.”
Cheung, Sullivan, and current Vice Mayor Sam Seidel are the likeliest to not succeed, since they are the three preliminary winners who received the fewest votes.
“It’s absolutely razor-thin,” said Cheung, while adding that he is “cautiously optimistic” about gaining a spot on the Council.
The three candidates declared elected on the first count—incumbents Timothy J. Toomey, Jr., Henrietta Davis, and current Cambridge Mayor E. Denise Simmons—are the likeliest to officially emerge victorious.
Aside from Decker, the only incumbent not listed among preliminary winners was Larry W. Ward, who joined the Council in Feb. 2009 after Brian P. Murphy ’86-’87 resigned his seat. He garnered the most votes out of the 12 unofficially defeated candidates.
“Only the top 3 to 6 of these [preliminary winners] have a lock on the election,” wrote local political aficionado Robert Winters on his Web site, the Cambridge Civic Journal.
He added that it would be “foolish” to assume before all the ballots are tallied that Cheung, Sullivan, and Seidel have in fact won.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences struggles to reduce a $110 million deficit, two social science departments have merged some of their administrative staff in an attempt to cut costs.
Janet Hatch and Judith A. Lajoie, directors of administration for the history department and history of science department respectively, have initiated a two-year pilot program to reduce the overall number of staff by consolidating their departments’ administrative support. The merger reduced the departments’ total number of full time staff by five.
The reduction will return staff levels to what they were before Harvard’s spending spree of recent years that focused on campus and faculty expansion. But Hatch and Lajoie said they have no way of knowing yet whether the merging of staff members will in fact save FAS money.
In August, eight out of the 28 total history and history of science staff members left as a result of layoffs, staff-buyout packages and voluntary departures.
But the merger also involved departmental hiring. Four full time staff members—including three new hires—have taken up offices at 17 Sumner Road, where they will share tech support and financial and faculty assistant duties for the two departments.
Both departments will retain staff in their main locations—but the new space behind the Center for Government and International Studies will serve as a central office for the departments’ faculty services.
The staff that served history faculty offices in the Center for European Studies and CGIS South will not be replaced.
History Professor David Blackbourn, whose office is in CES, said that the loss of the CES faculty assistant has taken a toll.
“In an ideal world,” he said, that staff position would be filled. Under the new model, faculty assistance for many history professors will come from the house, and will not be on-site. “I hope the new arrangement works.”
History Department Chair Lizabeth Cohen described it as “a new model of a collaborative administrative cluster.”
“If it succeeds as I think it will, it will increasingly save us money as more departments may join,” she said. “This is a model experiment.”
Consolidation has increasingly been an answer to slimmer FAS budgets. With support from Dean of the College Evelyn Hammonds, the Office of International Programs moved its offices closer to the Office of Career Services. In this “neighborhood,” as they call it, staff are sharing and coordinating duties.
And Harvard Centers across campus have sought similar initiatives to share staff. “All the centers are working to coordinate our activities and look for synergies where we could,” said Merilee S. Grindle, assistant director of David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies.
But Blackbourn said the coordination between history and the history of science departments was especially apt.
“I’m one of many in this history department who feel that historians of science are close cousins intellectually,” he said.
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTION APPENDED
Three tickets have officially declared their candidacy for the positions of Undergraduate Council President and Vice President, according to an e-mailed statement sent by the UC Election Commission Tuesday Night.
Earlier this month, UC insiders had already predicted two of the tickets from within the UC—John F. Bowman ’11 with Eric N. Hysen ’11 , and George J. J. Hayward ’11 with Felix M. Zhang ’11.
The Election Commission’s announcement confirmed a third ticket, comprising outsider candidates Robert G.B. Long ’11 and David R. Johnson ’11.
Long, a social studies concentrator in Mather House, is involved in the Institute of Politics and PBHA’s Keylatch Afterschool Program and writes for the Harvard Political Review.
Johnson, who is Long’s suitemate in Mather, composes music for various campus groups and is a director of PBHA’s Youth Recreation program. He is also a social studies concentrator.
UC President Andrea R. Flores ’10 said she wasn’t surprised by the announcement of an outsider ticket, as the elections have traditionally featured at least one outsider candidacy every year.
Flores said last week that the race should be very competitive, as the Bowman-Hysen and Hayward-Zhang tickets represent the first time the presidential elections have seen a “completely UC insider double ticket” in recent history.
All three tickets this year are comprised of males, in contrast to last year’s election in which half of the candidates in the four-ticket race were female.
“It is disappointing that we have reverted back to the all-male UC tickets,” said Flores, who is one of five female UC presidents since the position became popularly elected in 1995.
Flores added that she was heartened by the presence of strong female leadership within the Council. “While they are not running for president, the [female] leadership is there,” she said.
All tickets were required to submit a petition for their candidacy with 150 signatures to the Election Commission by Monday. The candidates will be allowed to start campaigning next Monday at 12:01 AM. Voting will be open to the public at noon on Monday, Nov. 16, and close on Thursday, Nov. 19.
—Staff writer Melody Y. Hu can be reached at melodyhu@fas.harvard.edu.
CORRECTION
An earlier version of the Nov. 5 news article "Third Ticket Joins UC Elections" incorrectly stated that there have only been three female presidents in the Undergraduate Council's 28-year history. In fact, there have been five female leaders of the UC since the position became popularly elected in 1995.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard is no longer the American university with the best public standing in the media, according to a report released today by the Global Language Monitor.
After two years in the top spot, the University now has the third best media image, according to the research firm’s rankings. Harvard trails the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor, which took the top spot this year, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The Global Language Monitor, which ranks the media coverage of 225 American colleges and universities, surveys the top 5,000 global media web sites—including online news sources, blogs, and social media—three times a year to determine how popular a school is within the public sphere.
“[The goal is to] see how representations of colleges or universities change over time,” said GLM president Paul J.J. Payack. “It’s a brand analysis, the same way you would do a brand analysis for Nike shoes or a Lexus car to see how many times your brand name is cited and in what area.”
The method used for the report is based on the same algorithm used to determine the top three words of 2009 to date: “Change,” “Bailout,” and “ObamaMania.”
Payack said that Harvard and other elite universities’ rankings may have dropped this year because of the country’s economic struggles. The University’s endowment dropped 27.3 percent during the last fiscal year.
“There’s a lot of movement to public universities,” Payack said. “‘Public Ivies’ are being seen in a new light because they seem to be a pretty good bargain. We saw, not just with Harvard, but among elite private universities, a cut in citations in general.”
Kevin Galvin, Harvard’s Director of News and Media Relations, said he does not see the drop in ranking as particularly significant to Harvard.
“I think it’s worth noting that, regardless of this tally of references in the news media, Harvard reported a record number of student applications this year, a record yield,” Galvin said. “We welcomed the most diverse freshman class in University history, and the teaching and groundbreaking research upon which its reputation rests continues to move forward.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past week, students at Johns Hopkins and Phillips Academy Andover watched their campuses transform into versions of Harvard for the filming of “The Social Network.”
The film, directed by David Fincher and written by The West Wing’s Aaron Sorkin, chronicles the rise of Facebook founder and former Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg. Among other well-known actors, the movie stars Jesse Eisenberg, Justin Timberlake, and Andrew Garfield.
Though the film is meant to take place at Harvard, filming restrictions prevented shooting on campus causing location managers to scout out schools with similar Georgian architecture.
Though Andover and Johns Hopkins both had the right collegiate feel, production teams had to arrive early to make them resemble Cambridge.
In Andover, film crews arrived with fake snow and a John Harvard Statue. At Johns Hopkins, the “Latrobe Hall” sign was replaced with a “Kirkland House” sign and extra leaves were added to the ground.
“It’s remarkable to see the attention to detail. They looked at our bulletin boards and said, ‘the boards at Harvard are much neater than this,’” said Dennis O’Shea, Director of Communications and Public Affairs at Johns Hopkins.
While the filming caused some Johns Hopkins students to be excited, others were irritated that their campus served as a Harvard stand-in, said Ariela Fleisig ’12, a Johns Hopkins student.
“There’s a feeling of resentment for those people who got into Hopkins as a second choice to Ivy League schools,” Fleisig said. “They were reminded of their rejection [by the transformation of the campus].”
A Facebook group was created encouraging Hopkins’ students to wear their own school apparel and to walk in the background of the filming.
While some members of the community were annoyed, Keun Hee Oh ’10, a Johns Hopkins student, said he thought most people were generally intrigued by the film. The director and other members of the production team held question and answer sessions with groups of students at both schools about the industry.
For O’Shea, though, and other members of the Hopkins community, the entire process was tiring.
“The high quality of the people involved made it a compelling project, but I don’t have the energy to do it again next week,” he said.
According to O’Shea, Johns Hopkins decided to allow filming partially for financial reasons.
“The city and the state have tried to cultivate a film industry here,” he said. “We felt that by doing this we would be giving a lot of people some work, and that’s especially important in the recession.”
Both Johns Hopkins and Andover were paid by Columbia Pictures for the shoots. According to “The Phillipian,” Andover’s student newspaper, Andover was paid $20,000. Johns Hopkins would not disclose its payment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cheng Ho deserves better than this.
After coming to the United States not knowing English, let alone football, he helped Harvard to back-to-back Ivy League titles in 2007 and 2008. With all the odds he’s already overcome, the senior running back deserves better than to watch his career end with a lisfranc (mid-foot) sprain suffered last week during practice.
But true to form, Cheng Ho refuses to say goodbye to the team and the sport that have meant so much to him. He comes to practice and meetings early every day, gets fully dressed for every practice and does everything he can to rehab his foot. If he is to spend the last three games of his college career on the sideline, he will not be sulking in a corner. He will wear his heart on his sleeve, just as he has done throughout his career.
“Cheng Ho has to be hands down the most influential vocal leader on the team,” junior receiver Marco Iannuzzi says. “Everyone knows it. If you’ve seen him on the sideline, he gets jacked up, and he gets everyone around him jacked up.”
Ho learned to play with emotion as a nine-year-old basketball player in Taiwan, putting in two-a-days year round for three-straight years.
“If it wasn’t because of [my basketball coach], I probably wouldn’t be able to play a sport at this level,” Ho says. “There would be drills where we would do suicides—conditioning drills—and he wanted people to scream as loud as they could, [to have] the mentality of a warrior. I kind of enjoyed that.”
Ho’s warrior mentality has been evident throughout his Harvard career. As a freshman, he managed to make a name for himself playing behind then Ivy League all-time leading rusher Clifton Dawson ’07.
“Initially when coming in [as a freshman], I was willing to do anything to get on the playing field no matter what,” Ho says. “Having a guy like Clifton right in front of me was just a tremendous experience.”
The freshman wasn’t shy about seeking out Dawson’s advice, something he continues to do to this day.
“He’s extremely coachable, that’s one of his best characteristics,” Dawson says. “It was a pleasure not only playing with him but helping him after my career was done to become the outstanding player he is today.”
The year after Dawson graduated, Ho came into his own. As a sophomore, he teamed with then junior Chris Pizzotti ’09 to lead the team to an undefeated league record and the Ivy Title.
“I wanted to make up for the offense that Clifton had been able to produce,” Ho recalls. “I was very very hungry to do well; fortunately we have a great offensive line for me to do that.”
No one outside the team expected much from the Crimson. Dawson had graduated, quarterback Liam O’Hagan was hurt, and Yale was rumored to have an unstoppable team.
But Ho and Pizzotti emerged as marquee players and built momentum throughout the season, while the heralded Bulldogs were beating their opponents by decreasing margins. On Nov. 17, 2007, Harvard defeated Yale, 37-6, and Ho led the team in rushing with 63 yards.
“It’s just hard to describe,” Ho says. “Afterward it’s kind of an emotional moment, obviously it was very fulfilling at the same time.”
Up to this point, Ho’s story is the perfect narrative for a feel-good movie—a journey from Taiwan to the top of the Ivy League. But here the story takes a drastic turn. Starting his junior year, continuous setbacks limited Ho’s playing time and dropped him down the team’s depth chart.
Just as he was starting to reclaim his spot, Ho began coughing up blood during the Cornell game in Week 4—resulting from a ruptured blood vessel in his lung that Ho initially suffered against the Bulldogs the season prior. When he returned in Week 7, an away game at Dartmouth, Ho was hurt again—this time his shoulder.
“I know that life is not fair,” the running back says. “Sometimes you can do things right, and they can still go wrong, and I completely am aware of that, and my attitude is that I’m going to play with the cards I’m dealt.”
But when Ho played, he averaged 65 yards-per-game, helping his team to another Ivy title.
“Whenever Cheng got in the game, he produced,” Pizzotti says. “I think that’s something people will remember about him. He hasn’t always been the feature guy, but he’s always there to produce and produce at a very high level.”
This year, Ho has been third on the depth chart, playing behind junior Gino Gordon and freshman Treavor Scales. Ho got one last day in the sun on the Oct. 3 contest at Lehigh. With Gordon dinged up and Scales home for a family funeral, Ho stepped up to the tune of 132 yards on 21 carries to lead the Crimson to a 28-14 victory over the Mountain Hawks.
“He ran like a beast that game,” captain Carl Ehrlich says.
Having watched most of the Crimson’s pursuit of a third-straight Ivy title from the sideline, Ho may never again enter a game. Football, it seems, has given all it will give to Cheng Ho.
“It’s heartbreaking to hear that he’s hurt,” Dawson says.
Heartbreaking for his friends and fans, but Ho is far from broken, and he is determined to give back to the game that has meant so much to him.
“[Football] basically opened a new world,” Ho said. “Without football I wouldn’t be here at Harvard right now. So that said, I really would like to keep that as part of my life.”
This September, Ho was part of a TV series—NFL China—that teaches the people of China about the game of football. Ho says that bringing football to China is something he hopes to do in the future.
“The more I think about it, the more excited I get,” he says. “That’s something I really want to contribute...to share my stories...I’d like to start a league there.”
Cheng and NFL China hope that his life of defying odds will inspire people in China to take up football.
“You can’t find a kid who loves football more than he does,” Pizzotti says. “He’s a great ambassador for the game.”
But while Ho is excited about the possibility of a future with the sport, he’s not willing to say goodbye to his playing days yet. He’s trying to contribute as much as he can to the success of the team off the field.
“He’s not selfish,” Iannuzzi says. “I still see him giving tips and mentoring Treavor Scales.”
But there’s no doubt that Ho is itching to get back in on the action, and he refuses to discount the chance, however unlikely, of a late recovery.
“The training staff [doesn’t] think it’s likely,” Ho said. “[But] it’s just my personality that I don’t give up...I really don’t want to look back and have any regrets.”
Regardless of whether or not Ho returns to the game, his legacy is undisputed. His teammates and Harvard fans will remember him as someone who has taken every opportunity and has always left everything on the field.
“He’s always brought an unbelievable intensity,” Ehrlich says. “He’ll always hold himself to the highest standards.”
Ho will be far from invisible the remainder of this season, and he certainly won’t be silent. He’ll be the loudest fan in the whole stadium. And if he does manage to get in the game, he’ll hold nothing back, playing with the same intensity he’s always had.
And why not? As he says, “I’ve got a whole life to recover.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard students, we have the option to take time off and travel anywhere in the world. Timbuktu...Bora Bora...northern California? Junior Janie D’Ambrosia of Radcliffe heavyweight crew took a break from Cambridge this past spring to experience the latter.
D’Ambrosia worked at Emandal, an organic farm located outside of Mendocino County, Calif.
Looking to escape campus, D’Ambrosia traveled to Emandal, an organic farm located outside Mendocino Co., Calif, as part of WWOOF, the World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms.
“I typed ‘outdoor internship’ into Google because I was really looking forward to getting away from the city,” D’Ambrosia says.
Originally from New York City, D’Ambrosia had felt that attending school in Cambridge was not much different from being home.
When she discovered Emandal—located 20 miles outside of Willits, the nearest town in Mendocino County—she immediately jumped at the opportunity to live on an organic farm for two months and experience an entirely new way of life, where everything that she would need was right there on the farm.
“[I] felt so self-sufficient and just really in touch with the land, and how wondrous it was that the land could produce everything that [I] needed,” D’Ambrosia says.
But the transition wasn’t easy.
“I knew nothing about farming when I originally got there,” D’Ambrosia says. “I arrived as such a city girl. I was afraid of the night. I actually walked down the road [thinking] a mountain lion [was] going to attack me.”
Despite the time it took for her adjust, D’Ambrosia feels that the experience was extremely transformative.
Emandal is a five-acre farm that brings in third and fourth grade students from the area to show them what farm life is like.
The students stay at the farm for a week, taking hikes, working with the animals, and learning how Native Americans were able to live off of the land in the past.
As one of 15 workers on the farm, D’Ambrosia was in charge of introducing the visiting students to nature.
In addition to aiding the students with their first encounters on a farm, D’Ambrosia learned many things for herself, such as how to make bread—her daily morning chore—and how to deal with animals.
“We would milk the cows in the morning and drink the warm milk,” D’Ambrosia says. “We butchered a cow while I was there.”
One of the main things that stood out to D’Ambrosia was the fact that nothing on the farm was ever wasted.
The cow and pig manure was used for compost, and every scrap of food went into the pigs’ slop or compost pile.
Living on the farm also made D’Ambrosia more aware of the food she eats.
“Probably the biggest thing I took away, though, was hiking.” D’Ambrosia says, “In the backwoods of the farm, I met up with this self-taught botanist. She would go around and point out different plants to me and how they were used.”
D’Ambrosia’s experience helped her see an alternative way of living; she now realizes just how simple life can be. Life on the organic farm was the polar opposite of academia and D’Ambrosia admits that she would love to have her own organic farm one day.
Since returning to Harvard and the crew team this fall, D’Ambrosia feels rejuvenated and has brought her fresh, new perspective to every area of her life. Representing Winthrop House, D’Ambrosia defended her title at the intramural River Run two weeks ago. And she has a renewed commitment to the Black and White.
“I think [Janie] really enjoys the team aspect of the sport,” Radcliffe coach Liz O’Leary says. “She brings a lot of energy and a positive attitude to the team.”
As the fastest stadium-runner on the team, if D’Ambrosia continues to improve the way she is, O’Leary may want to consider adding a trip to the organic farm as a part of the team’s offseason training.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The urge to compete, the will to persevere, the need to belong, the desire to be loved—one or more of these forces drive most of the athletes on this planet to continuously do what they do.
These passionate sentiments are what constitute the “glory days,” what many sportsmen consciously consider to be the greatest periods of their lives.
Though virtually all athletes strive for strength, victory, and recognition, many fall short of these achievements, left to rationalize their athletic experiences optimistically and apply lessons learned to future situations and responsibilities.
From a vast pool of adolescent athletes emerge high school athletes, who demonstrate energy, interest, and some athletic ability.
The best of the jocks with the letterman jackets move on to college or higher, equipped with uncommon talent, physical gifts, unmatched work ethic, or some combination thereof.
And so continues the athletic selection process, ending with professional leagues and the Olympics.
Athletes across this entire spectrum have one thing in common: the use and maintenance of their bodies.
The same fundamental tool that allows them to realize their highest goals often becomes their greatest obstacle.
Senior Desmond Mitchell of the men’s soccer team is one of Harvard’s many athletes who embodies this path. However, his reluctance to quit and stubborn training mentality has allowed him to enjoy his “glory days” more fully than many injury-plagued athletes ever get to.
Regarded as one of the fastest high schoolers in Georgia in 2006, Mitchell exceled at track and soccer at Campbell High School in Smyrna before being recruited heavily to many Division I Schools. Contemplating his future maturely, he chose to head north.
“I was actually really hesitant in choosing Harvard,” Mitchell said. “[Soccer] is what I wanted to do. I chose Harvard because I thought I would have the best academic exprerience while still having the possibility of pursuing soccer.”
Eight games into his freshman season, during which the Crimson earned an Ivy League Title, Mitchell’s groin checked out on him and never left a note.
He suffered tears in both his groin and lower abdomen, and endured bilateral abductor release surgery and pelvic floor repair surgery.
Still, Mitchell humbly understates his performance in past years.
“My level of play has gone down because of the wear and tear of the injury,” he said.
Judging from his numbers, body language, and clutch performance this season, that statement is simply invalid.
Perhaps his ease of play has decreased, but his presence and achievements make him increasingly invaluable for the Crimson.
Statistically, Mitchell has had his best season yet. While he has performed well with 3 goals and 7 points, his timing has been impeccable.
He has scored key goals in multiple games, setting the tone for the season in the home opener against Stony Brook, when he scored on a clever chip over the head of the Seawolves’ goalkeeper.
The most recent goal came against Providence on Oct. 20th, when Mitchell gave the Crimson the lead with under five minutes, leading to a victory.
Mitchell’s groin has stifled his hopes of playing in Major League Soccer, a realistic goal when he was graduating from Campbell.
While some of his teammates, including forward Andre Akpan and defender Kwaku Nyamekye, will continue their soccer careers after college, Mitchell’s health will abbreviate his future on the field.
That thought is presumably at the back of his mind at all times.
While such a notion would likely slow most of us down, it seems to speed Mitchell up, torn groin and all. It is evident from his play this season that he is immune to excuses, and addicted to his teammates.
“Injuries happen, they’re a part of life,” Mitchell said. “But at the same time, embracing the collective effort, you have to know your role and do whatever you can in order to give back to the team.”
Mitchell is fully aware of his limitations, and like many athletes, he has dedicated everything he has to the team he loves, and the sport he loves. Despite physical hardship, he has enjoyed a championship, cherished his time on the field, and most importantly, maximized his most rewarding moments.
Regardless of what happens after graduation, Mitchell will be well equipped for whatever is next.
—Staff writer Justin W. White can be reached at jwwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With Harvard unwilling to allow film crews on campus, the staff of the new Facebook movie "The Social Network" opted for Johns Hopkins University as the setting for the undergrad days of site creator and erstwhile Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg.
But now, the Baltimore Sun reports, some on the Baltimore campus are up in arms over the decision. Students created a Facebook group encouraging others to wear Hopkins paraphernalia in hopes that some of it might make it onto movie screens. From the Sun,
That'll show them!
But another student quoted in the Baltimore Sun article took a more cynical outlook.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons/Daderot
Sections
They say you can't eat just one. Well, in Adams tonight, you'll be able to eat six—types of potato chips, that is.
Kelly A. Evans '10, the Food Literacy Project representative in Adams House, is hosting a potato chip buffet tonight featuring six different types of Cape Cod potato chips and a bunch of different kinds of dips, everything ranging from the typical French onion to one with clams. She said that she got the idea from a blockmate "who really likes chips," and that this features chips produced locally in Hyannis, Mass.
It starts tonight at 9 p.m. in Adams Dining Hall.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons/Paul Hurst.
Sections
...for the new TheCrimson.com.

Sections
It's that time again: Flyby has gone in search of the best House gyms. Those mysterious and dungeon like havens of good health protect upperclassmen from the freshmen masses or the judgmental gaze of law school students. For a refresher on where we've been before, here are the first two house gym posts: Adams/Lowell/Quincy and Eliot/Kirkland/Winthrop.
Today we set our sights on the Leverett/Dunster/Mather neighborhood. Clearly Flyby is doing everything it can to avoid making the unbearably long trek to the Quad.
As usual Houses will be receiving between one and five stars. SPOILER ALERT: Dumbledore dies. Just kidding. A House gym will actually get a five today. Follow the jump to see which one.
Leverett House Gym (**)
The Leverett House gym resides in a strange, U-shaped room under A entryway in Old Lev. Be prepared ye interhouse: it requires key access.
Though not as offensive as Adam's House, there are visible pipes. And to add to the Rocky Balboa aesthetic, there is also a folded up treadmill and a punching bag laying on the floor.
The gym has three treadmills, one elliptical/cross-trainer, and one bike. It has an array of free-weights and some weight lifting machines  and the abdominal weight lifting machine is a nice additional touch.
The gym is altogether unexciting and does not feel particularly spacious or neat.
Dunster House Gym (*****)
Well, this was a big surprise. Despite the House's reputation for being one of the worst Houses (this blog ranked it as junk last year), the gym is actually quite legit. The Dunster House gym consists of three separate squash courts: one is populated with a fleet of six ergs, another is a cardio room, and the third is a weightlifting room. So what Lowell House tries to do in one squash court, Dunster does in three. The rooms are also clearly labeled.
All three are near each other in the Houses basement—no key necessary. There are two treadmills, three elliptical/cross-trainers, one stair machine, and three bikes in the cardio room. All three rooms are nicely organized. Both the cardio room and the weight room have modern looking flat panel televisions. The weight room even has a picture of the Dunster House mascot (a moose) on the wall.
Mather House Gym (***)
While Mather doesn't have the most cardio equipment in the world, it has some nice touches that put it in the middle of the pack. The gym has a standard two treadmills, two elliptical machines and a wide array of free-weights.
But the room itself has a nice feel to it, including a small cove for a well-worn punching bag. Fully equipped with a sound system, a flat screen tv and two fans, Mather gym is ready to make up in technology for what it lacks in gym equipment.
And forr those of you who need a little more help, a bulletin board with exercise advice and some magazines are there to help.
