Sections
This is basically the episode FlyBy’s been waiting for since we first started watching The Office way back in high school. And OMG. IT WAS THE BEST THING EVER. We laughed. We cried. We winced. We love The Office all over again. Find out why after the jump.
Recap
In this two-part, hour-long episode, the entire office heads to Niagara Falls for Jim and Pam’s wedding (finally!). Various things go wrong—Michael failed to make a reservation and has to sleep in the ice room, Pam’s conservative grandmother finds out she’s pregnant and threatens to leave the wedding, Pam has to drive Andy to the hospital when he tears his scrotum while trying to do the splits, etc.—and Pam gets upset because she feels like the wedding has been usurped and ruined. (We feel for her.) So Jim takes her to get married privately on a boat before they return to get married again for their zany guests.
Best Jim-and-Pam-Are-Ridiculously-Cute Moment
When Pam gets distressed because she tore her veil, Jim cuts off his tie and tells her, “Now we’re even.”
Cue the high-pitched squealing. We're in love with Jim again!
Best Nod-to-Pop-Culture Moment
The wedding party breaks out into a choreographed dance (a la the JK Wedding Entrance Dance). We’re glad they ignored Jim and Pam and went ahead with this. Especially because it prompted this gem from Jim:
“I bought the boat tickets the day I saw that YouTube video. I knew we'd need a backup plan. The boat was actually plan C. The church was plan B. And plan A was marring her a long, long time ago. Pretty much the day I met her.”
Dwightism of the Day
“Pam is constantly throwing up because of the pregnancy. If she eats something the fetus doesn't like, she is screwed. It's amazing: a three-ounce fetus, is calling the shots! It's so badass.”
Hooray for the return of classic Dwight! Runner up moment: when Dwight tells us he got Jim and Pam a turtle cooking kit (including a live turtle).
Office Gossip
Pam’s best friend Isabel hooks up with Dwight, who later gives her the cold shoulder for making love like a dental hygienist/country bumpkin.  (What was she thinking?)  Lucky for her, this relationship doesn’t seem to be going anywhere.
But what’s this? Michael with Pam’s mom? Not as gross as Creed and Meredith, but…wow.
Overall Rating: SO GOOD. We love Jim. Enough said.
Sections
Oh, the sights and smells of autumn. The changing leaves. The cool crisp air. In Munich, Germany, these would be signs that Oktoberfest was sneaking up, not that the world's largest festival, a two-week kegger, is too easy to miss.
The Square's version of Oktoberfest, one of many riffs on the original held around the world, is sedate in comparison. Cantabridgians have celebrated the German beer festival for over 30 years, and today, Oktoberfest festivities commandeered much of the Square with brass bands from across the country, local jewelry makers, and the omnipresent scent of deep-fried mystery food wafting through the air.
Find out more about Oktoberfest's myriad attractions, wonderful and wacky, after the jump.
When this FlyBy correspondent joined locals enjoying what might be the last warm afternoon of the year, a sizable crowd had already gathered to be serenaded by the bold tuba and trumpet tunes of Seattle's Yellow Hat Band. And who might they be, we ask? Said a bespectacled man preparing for his group's act (which included a pair of glittery hula hoops), why, they're the ones with the yellow hatbands, of course!
Of course. Everything makes sense now.
Moving through the blocked-off streets, the sound of the stage blended into the chattering of an outdoor market featuring over 50 food stalls and 200 vendors, according to the Harvard Square Business Association's website. The goods they stocked had a certain je ne sais quoi, a certain flavor of Cambridge inscrutability to them...but then again, Oktoberfest is Cambridge in all its eclectic glory. (Is this how the Square looked every day, 30 years ago?)
Maybe it's no beer-drenched bacchanalia, but that means there won't be any Bierleichen (beer corpses) to drag off the streets the next day. Barring a free ticket to Germany (which we'll take any day), Flyby hopes to see you here next year.
Photo Credit: Athena Jiang/The Crimson.
Sections
Dear Harvard,
We at FlyBy would like to extend our deepest gratitude on behalf of the entire undergraduate student body. We would like to thank you, fair Harvard, for giving us this Monday, October 12, as a day of rest.
As the leaves fall, our midterms have begun blossom. With each degree the temperature drops, another paper is assigned. And our hours of sleep have dwindled, as we are sure yours in University Hall have as well. So having today as a day of rest, to read and write and do problem sets and maybe sleep and laugh with friends for a moment, is not a gift that should go unacknowledged.
It is only fair to history that we admit that the reason behind our day off, Christopher Columbus’ arrival on our continent, will not be very much on our minds today. Some probably would say that it is good – we should not celebrate his arrival, they say, because the indigenous people of North America certainly did not appreciate the genocide he wrought. But, Harvard, we still appreciate the historical gesture. And though Duke and U Chicago, amongst many other illustrious academic institutions in this nation, are not granting their students rest, you are, dear Harvard. And for that, our deepest thanks.
Sincerely,
FlyBy
