News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students criticized planned reductions in Quad shuttle service and hot breakfast offerings at four Town Hall Forums held Monday by Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds just hours after the changes were announced.
Hammonds began the town hall circuit with low-key, primarily one-on-one meetings in Lamont Café, followed by larger group meetings in Quincy, Cabot, and Mather Houses, where she was joined by other members of the College administration to answer questions and hear students concerns about the changes—part of $77 million in reductions announced by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Monday. 
While administrators called the cuts “a grueling exercise for everyone” and “a shared pain” at the meetings, many students said they disproportionately affected student life and that the process of making cuts had not been transparent.
“This whole process shows a fundamental disconnect between what FAS is doing and what matters to students,” said Adams House Committee Co-Chair Amol K. Jain ’10 during the meeting in Quincy.
Chief among students’ concerns—especially at the Cabot venue—were cutbacks to the current Quad shuttle schedule.
According to the list of reductions published on the FAS Web site, the Sunday through Wednesday shuttle service to the Quad will cease at 1:30 a.m. rather than 3:50 a.m. Shuttle service will also begin at 12:15 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, rather than 8 a.m.
Assistant Dean of the College Paul J. McLoughlin said that shuttle service ended at 12:30 a.m. every night before 2004.
In lieu of the shuttle, Hammonds suggested that students rely on rides from the Harvard University Police Department or the evening van services offered by the Passenger Transport Services—which operate until 3 a.m.—though “service reductions will likely take place to this service as well.”
But droves of students—especially Quad residents—expressed concern about the dangers of having to walk from the river to the Quad late at night, especially those who rely on Lamont Library as a late-night study space.
“We care about your safety,” Hammonds said to the Cabot group. “We don’t want to do anything to put you guys at harm walking back. It was our belief that we could make the reductions in the services and it wouldn’t put you in harm.”
When asked what students should do if they need to walk home during a time when neither service is in operation, McLoughlin suggested that students “walk with a friend.”
Students’ other primary concern centered on the elimination of hot breakfast during the week at all Houses.
According to Harvard University Dining Services Executive Director Ted A. Meyer, about 30 percent of students eat breakfast, and the elimination of hot breakfast will save the University $900,000, primarily through the cost of labor.
During the Lamont Café session, members of the Men’s Varsity Swimming and Diving Team said the elimination of hot breakfast would take away a protein- and calorie-filled meal they and other athletes need after morning practices.
Team member C. Andy Krantz ’12 said that the breakfast changes were especially limiting to vegetarians such as himself, who will have to rely on hard boiled eggs and cheese as their only sources of protein after morning practices.
Swimmer William A. Heyburn ’11 said that the changes may negatively affect Harvard’s ability to recruit student athletes.
Students at both Quincy and Mather suggested that the College open one river House for hot breakfast each morning to accommodate athletes returning from practices.
In addition to concerns over breakfast and shuttle times, students also expressed concern over cuts in student jobs and rumors of potential cuts in House administrators.
In response to one question about the changes in teaching fellow and teaching assistant hiring, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris said that the College plans to make a current 18 person per section target rate more of an “average” than a “maximum.”
Also joining Hammonds, Harris, Meyer, and McLoughlin at the meetings were Dean of Freshman Thomas Dingman, Associate Dean of Residential Life Suzy M. Nelson, Associate Dean of Student Life and Activities Judith Kidd, and Senior Associate Athletic Director Patricia Henry.
While students at all four venues said that they appreciated Hammonds and the other deans taking the time to speak to students about the cuts, many said they wished they had been notified of the meetings earlier. The e-mail announcing the Town Hall Forums was sent to students at 3:40 p.m., just 20 minutes before the first one began.
Ross P. Ford ’12 was among the students who also chastised the administration for debuting the cuts during reading period, which he said was a “deplorable” time to notify the community.
Hammonds said that she and Dean of the Faculty Michael D. Smith had spent much time over the past few months working on the cuts and wanted to release them before exam period.
In addition, students at all four events said that they felt like their opinions had not been solicited in designing the cuts.
“We don’t feel involved,” said Manny J. Antunes ’11. “Students were caught by surprise. Students hate to see things cut and not feel like they had a say.”
Though Hammonds said that the students did have the chance to voice their opinions on a Web site earlier in the year, she acknowledged that the site “wasn’t well publicized.”
Hammonds said that students now have the chance to apply to be a part of for one of two 16-person College Working Groups, which will consider further changes to undergraduate education and student life.
—Crimson staff writers Athena Y. Jiang, Peter F. Zhu, and Michelle L. Quach contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Lauren D. Kiel can be reached at lkiel@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the end of each school year approaches, the Harvard sailing team has one number on its mind: three. Three regattas, three national championships, and hopefully for the Crimson each spring, three chances to continue competing after the close of the semester. 
Coming in to the New England Intercollegiate Sailing Association Team Race Championships this past weekend, Harvard had achieved two-thirds of its yearly objective. It had previously qualified for the ICSA Women’s National Championships and the ICSA/Gill National Dinghy Championships. The final piece was qualifying for the ICSA Team Race National Championships in San Francisco the final weekend of May, a spot it could earn with a top-three finish at the two-day affair this weekend. 

Although it faltered a bit at the close of the day on Saturday, the Crimson battled back throughout the day Sunday to tie Yale for second place at this weekend’s competition, qualifying for collegiate sailing’s national championship trifecta in the process. 

“It is our goal to qualify for all three of the national championships every year,” senior skipper Jon Garrity said. “We are excited to head out to San Francisco, and hopefully we will be ready for the windy conditions out there.” 

Harvard posted a 10-4 record during the event, hosted by Roger Williams University. Boston College won the regatta’s team title this weekend with a mark of 11-3, ensuring the Eagles are able to join the Crimson and the Bulldogs on the west coast for college sailing’s most important team racing event of the spring from May 29-31. 

Harvard opened its racing this weekend by winning its first five competitions, as three duos manned the waters for the Crimson. Garrity teamed up with sophomore crew Grace Charles, sophomore co-ed captain Alan Palmer skippered alongside senior crew Lauren Brants, and sophomore skipper John Stokes and third-year crew Michelle Konstadt all contributed to Harvard advancing to Sunday’s gold round robin. 

“There was a light breeze on Saturday,” Stokes said. “We had a great team effort, as we opened the weekend well.” 

Despite some struggles late in the day on Saturday, the Crimson came out sailing well on Sunday in much windier conditions. In the first three races of the day, Garrity teamed up with junior crew Winston Yan, while Palmer worked with Stokes, and sophomore skipper Teddy Himler and Konstadt were a duo out on the water for Harvard. 

“It was super windy on Sunday, so we changed up our pairs a little,” Garrity said. “The range of conditions we faced this weekend and the way in which we sailed in them is a true testament to our team.” 

Stokes, who switched from skippering the first day to crewing on the second day, echoed his more experienced teammate’s words. 

“As the breeze changes, we need to take advantage of different people’s strengths,” Stokes said. “We were able to shuffle people around and show the great depth we have.” 

Brants and sophomore Quincy Bock helped finish off Sunday’s competition for the Crimson, as they crewed alongside Palmer and Himler, respectively. Harvard’s next team racing event will be the national affair in a few weeks, where it will try to improve upon last year’s fifth place finish. 

“It is going to be very windy out in California,” Stokes said. “We need to hike hard out there and try to make it through two tough days of sailing. We have gotten a lot better at sailing in breeze this season, and hopefully we will be able to perform well in San Francisco.” 

Garrity noted the specific preparations the Crimson will undergo in the next few weeks leading up to its trip out west. 

“We need to practice in big breeze, in open water venues, where we have to deal with more waves,” Garrity said. “Anything is possible once the competition begins out there, so we feel nationals is a great opportunity for us.”

—Staff writer Thomas D. Hutchison can be reached at tdhutch@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The VOID is that empty time between 5am and 8am every night where there’s no one on gchat, no sound but your roommate’s blissful snoring, and nothing to think about besides the work you’re not getting done.  But you’re not alone, FlyBy is here to guide you through.
Beloved Reading Period is here (FlyBy uses two benchmarks: the last of the formals, and the last day the Owl or Fly is blasting music at 5pm (crossing our fingers on the second one, we suppose)).  And it's real.  Yeah, those papers/projects last week were cute and all and oh did they take a lot of time, but finals are where legends are made. Sure, a little teamwork can do you good, and practice (please practice) makes perfect, but when it's gametime, it'll just be you, the blue book, and that cute little old lady proctor.
Too bad you're going to lose her moral support after this round of finals.  Eventful day, eh? You can protest the budget cuts in the VOID, too (outside of adding to that 55 email chain with the exact same point everyone else already made).  Make a 5am trek from Lamont to the Quad.  Or better yet, wait for the sunrise and show solidarity with your athlete friends by enjoying a bacony breakfast with them.
For the next couple of hours, though, something to do.  FlyBy knows you're not getting anything done--how long have you been in that same seat?  Here's a long piece from The Atlantic, talking about what makes us happy.  That's nice.  Haiku breakup, on the other hand, will only make you happy because it's not you.  This video about child beauty pageants will probably just freak you out (seriously...).  These Google Chrome commercials will make you feel warm and fuzzy inside (cute commercials don't do that to you?).
In case you need a cheap laugh, this will deliver.  If you've been reduced to a vegetable,   here ya go. Don't have too much fun with that.
O_O
Photo: Wikimedia Commons/William James
Sections

FlyBy donned our Sunday best every day last week while heading to each house's spring formal. Our guide to the balls being inadequate, a more thorough investigation was necessary.  Below: Kirkland, Eliot and Lowell.
Kirkland:
When the uninitiated hear the words “Kirkland” and “Formal” in the same sentence, they usually raise their eyebrows in feigned comprehension and manufactured skepticism and say something like, “Oh, Kirkland has that incest thing, right?” It’s a classic case of fearing what one does not understand, a defense mechanism against that troubling desire to be rid of one’s society-imposed reservations and find out what goes on in that darkened JCR every December.
Fortunately, for the curious, Kirkland does provide one opportunity for outsiders to get a glimpse of the House at its most uninhibited with its Spring Formal. FlyBy was in attendance, and in the end we came to the conclusion that while Kirkland’s spring gala is not quite the family affair that its winter cousin is, Kirklanders will be Kirklanders and lit was as good of a time to see some Kirkland-on-Kirkland love as any. Check out FlyBy’s “live” blog of the formal after the jump.
9:05 – Officially, the Kirkland Spring Formal started at nine with hors d’oeuvres in the dining hall, but with the average Harvard student’s biological drinking clock just starting to tick, FlyBy sees a full table of food and just a handful of people when he peeks through the d-hall window on his way to Doma.
9:34 – Pregames are going full-swing by this point—with a seniors-only event going on somewhere in the house—and FlyBy’s room is no different. While FlyBy generally sticks to the finest that Mr. Rubinoff has to offer, we've decided to class it up even more this time around, splurging on some premium bubbly (re: Andre). Ok fine, there’s Rubinoff too. But you know how it goes: start wit’ straight shots, and then pop bottles.
9:56 – FlyBy starts getting the drunk munchies early, so we slips down to the dining hall to get some grub. HUDS has laid out an impressive spread, with all the necessary standards—cheese and crackers, vegetables and dip, cocktail shrimp—along with some awesome chicken puffs and crab things. Tragically, all the pigs in a blanket are gone by the time FlyBy showed up.
10:21 – Dancing technically started at ten, but people are still milling around the dining hall chatting it up and taking advantage of the open bar. All you need to drink is a friend or two over 21 or the balls to tug on some random senior’s sleeve till he or she finally relents and goes to the bar for you.  Spreading love (and drink) that's the Kirkland way.
11:13 – The HoCo hired Downtown Fever to play in the tent set up with a dance floor in the courtyard. The Top-40 cover band has an interesting style, putting a twist on your run of the mill radio hits with guitar riffs and blaring horns.
12ish – You can take the Incest Fest out of the Kirklander, but you can’t take the Kirklander out of the Incest Fest. Trust me, that makes a lot of sense to FlyBy right now. Anyway, the open bar is doing its work as people are making out and becoming more liberal with their dance moves.
Somewhere between 12 and 2 – Kirkland House Drama means more than just the unapologetic vulgarization of Shakespeare and Neil Simon plays. Harvard formals are sort of like proms, and just like in high school, sometimes tempers flare and feelings get hurt. Says one Kirklander and prominent member of The Crimson: “I’m too hammered and dateless for this.”
Around 2 – Downtown Fever plays Flo Rida’s “Right Round.” The song is appropriate. Most heads in the room are likely spinning at this point, FlyBy’s included.
2 – The dancing wraps up and people wander around the courtyard. Some head to quarters unknown, date in tow. Some linger, hoping to find something (or someone) to do. Some hear about champagne in the Adams courtyard and rush off, heels clicking away into the night.
Eliot:
There's something different about the Eliot Fete. Blame it on the stacks of miniature cupcakes, the quickly exhausted platters of fruit and cheese, the Christmas lights encircling the terrace...or maybe just blame it on the fact that the Fete is known for being very exclusive, ergo everything must be a lot nicer than it actually is. (Sorta like Harvard, now that we think about it).
But self-perpetuated illusions aside, the Fete was tres fantastique. What was once the good ol' Eliot courtyard literally lit up for the night and threw a mysterious glow on the flushed cheeks of partygoers. The night was perfect for general roaming, and one could make a palatable pit stop by the cupcake blowout on the terrace or linger in the shadows with that lucky date. For those quick on their feet, there was swing-dancing in the tent and grinding in the dining hall. Your pick—although we must say that the swing-dancing quite tickled even our non-rhythmic fancy.
We must say, however, that the weirdest part about Fete is just how refined everyone seems to be (even the creeps who stayed in the dark dhall all night and never emerged). Again, maybe it's the name value, but Fete was really good at convincing you that you were part of something special for the night—your unwashed date was actually an indie hipster, your worn-out dress was just a reminder of how Cinderella-esque your life is, and your cupcake binge (yes, mentioned for the third time) was actually a delicate manifestation of your fine gustatory sensibilities.
And maybe you were a paragon of refinement at the Fete. All FlyBy knows is that we feel awkward all over again.
Lowell:
Lowell threw open it's magnificent wears for its annual Bacchanalia.  Was it as wild enough to deserve the name of Bacchus?
Probably not, but the affair had many other charms.  Clearly, it was the courtyard's time to shine: given that every nook and cranny was used, formal-goers got to explore all the contours of the space.  While FlyBy felt it made the formal feel a bit more sparsely populated, each section had its own charms.
The swing-dancing was absolutely divine.  Stuffed with awkward and completely inexperienced couples, everyone had a good time bumping into each other while trying different spins and jigs.  The live band was fantastic, sticking close to jazzy tunes with a variety of tempos for all the dancers to test their mettle.  The other courtyard featured the drinks, where the BAT team served them stiff, but also included random (but well candled) tables populating the grassy area (they did serve as resting spots for the drunk and weary, however).
Inside, the food in the JCR reminded FlyBy of info session food a bit too much (yeah, not a pleasant flashback).  And the bump-n-grind area?  Solid.  Relatively unpopulated for most of the time, DJ Straus kept everyone's body movin' with some sweet mixes for most of the night.  But as the general gripe with DJ Straus goes: the attendants craved classics to sing along to as the night came to a close...and DJ Straus refused to deliver.  No big loss though...
Photo: Wikimedia Commons/Henry Millot
Sections
Today and today only.  Thank us later.
Sections
It appears that Dean Michael Smith and our buddies at FAS have finally let the chips fall.  The budget cuts are out.  Much like our friend Bob Barker, FlyBy lets you know if each cut is a winner, or worth sending home.
Its 2am on a Wednesday night in the middle of February and you have just spent the past twelve hours in Lamont writing a ten-page research paper.  The cobblestoned streets outside are coated with that special Cambridge mix of a black ice, fresh sleet, and grimy snow.  All you want to do is hitch a ride back to the quad on the warm shuttle and crawl under your covers.  Well…too bad.  Instead you are going to have to make that twelve-minute trek up Garden Street on foot.  The Crimson broke the news that the university plans to trim shuttle services next year.  Quad open lists EXPLODED with protest.
River open lists did not (they were gleefully giggling in the corner, though).
Some gems from house email threads after the jump.
CABOT
“Am I the only one disappointed that the proposed reduction in shuttles isn't accompanied by a proposed increase in university-issued jetpacks? Like c'mon, it's 2009 already. Where's my jetpack?”
“I am 5 Foot Tall and NOT a Ninja. So, if they at least leave the Van Service running I can live....otherwise expect to see me bruised and battered at UHS at least once a week.”
“AAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH THE QUAD SUCKS THE QUAD SUCKS” (Hahaha, we already knew that.)
CURRIER
“i actually called one time last year at 1:45 am. they told me none of their escorts had come in that night. escort FAIL.”
“I seriously feel bad for everybody on CurrierWire that doesn't use gmail. Good luck to you all figuring out how this whole thread is going.” (If you don't use gmail, there are clearly bigger problems with your life.)
“Listen, all of you spoiled brats, STFU and stop spamming our mailboxes In the grand scheme of things, does any of this actually matter? The answer is ‘No.’” (This guy is always FlyBy's favorite on the email lists.  Better or worse than section guy?  We say worse...STFU and stop complaining about your mailbox getting spammed, at least.)
“Instead of cutting the library AND the shuttle, can't we just fire a bunch of Harvard workers?”  (GASP! The audacity!)
PFOHO
“Please stop telling everyone to get bikes. It is stupid. If I wanted a damn bike, I'd have gotten one already. I don't want one. It's expensive, I can't carry stuff with me, it might get stolen, and when there is a blizzard on December 15 next year in the middle of finals, you won't be able to use it. You can't wear a suit or other dress clothes on one, especially in the winter when they will get ruined.” (Mckinsey's info sesh, 2:45am, Faculty Club)
“Just because you've never been mugged doesn't mean it doesn't happen. A guy like John might not have to worry too much, but what about a 100-pound girl? She's got to walk just as far. There aren't any special roads for her. And it isn't safe.” (Can we get special, predator-free roads for the ladies, please?  Have Smith and Hammonds thought about this?)
At any rate, the best suggestion for how to balance out the unfair disadvantage that quadlings must bear thanks to reduced shuttle services was offered by a Pfoho resident:
Every day, each student in Adams should be required to donate thirty-two minutes to a Quadling, to be spent doing whatever a Quadling would otherwise have to do himself. This time quota can be fulfilled daily, or can be bundled into larger periods, at the discretion of the Adams resident. What, exactly, the time-tax is put to use will remain up to individual Quadlings. For instance, you may find it useful to employ your Adams resident to paint your room back to its original color, or to proofread your term paper. I intend to use my time-tax credit to make my Adams resident to walk in circles, alone.
I know what you're thinking: this is ridiculous! There are way more people in the Quad than in Adams! And you make a good point. Which is why we it only makes sense that we extend the time-tax to Lowell and Quincy residents, too.
I mean, fair is fair.
