News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Leopold Engleitner, the world’s oldest-known male concentration camp survivor, recounted the story of his ordeal to a packed Science Center lecture hall on Monday evening.Students and other attendees overflowed into the stairwell and along the back walls to hear Engleithner, a 103-year-old Jehovah’s Witness who was incarcerated by the Nazis for having refused military service. His presentation was conducted in interview format, with questions posed by graduate student Johann Boedecker. Engleithner’s biographer, Bernhard Rammerstorfer, sat alongside the survivor to translate questions into his native Austrian dialect of German.Before Engleitner spoke, Rammerstorfer told the audience the story of how he first met Englietner and what he learned from him.“It was clear for me that this man was something special and that his story could provide valuable lessons for the peaceful co-existence for mankind,” he said.Engleithner’s stories ranged from the harrowing—such as the time when he narrowly evaded what would have been a lethal injection of air into his heart after being taken to the camp infirmary—to the fortunate—such as when a mountain guide stalled the Nazis, who were about to find his getaway home in the Alps.The Center for European Studies sponsored the event in collaboration with Martin M. Wallner ’11, a native of Austria who spent two years in the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service before coming to Harvard. He said he was happy with the way the event turned out and that Engleithner imparted many  lessons, among which was the importance of being thankful.“I think the most important lesson is that we should be happy, no matter which situation we have to face,” Wallner said. “This man had to go through so many problems.”Lorenzo Bartolucci ’11, an audience member, said that what he took away from the event was a realization of the difficulty of maintaining personal convictions in the face of adversity.“It sounds like it was easy. It sounds like it was the right thing, but hearing him speak, hearing all he had to go through to keep his religious convictions, makes you realize that it’s a whole different story to keep your beliefs,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


For those of you looking for the next Harvard pornographic magazine, H-Bomb's Spring 2009 edition is not it. For that you'll have to go find that old copy of Diamond Magazine.
H-Bomb is something else. There's a lot of text and some artsy/strange pictures to go along with it—not exactly what FlyBy expected when he cracked the issue open. The pdf available online takes a little while to load (116!), but go ahead, angle your computer away from wandering eyes and open it up. Despite the dearth of pure smut, there are at least a few not-so-private parts to be seen.
Anyway after the jump, more on what you can find inside this season's sexuality magazine.The magazine starts off with a letter from the editor. She explains that H-Bomb has been struggling to raise enough money to put out the magazine they wanted.  But wait, its recession-chic!  It makes you focus on the content!
FlyBy will take black and white any day, but more seriously...How about some sex? The first article, "Finagled," (wait, huh?) is about a women who has sex...with another woman! Nipples are compared to miniature suns with stretch marks radiating out. (At this point FlyBy realizes this magazine's reading level far surpasses that of Penthouse Letters).
But enough (too much!) reading. Time to look for some pictures. Finally on page 21, we find some salvation: a bit of nudity.
Vaginas next to things that look like/symbolize vaginas. Deep. Moving on.
Next is a letter to True Love Revolution, everyone's favorite repressed "nonsectarian" group, and then H-Bomb's response. Humorously, H-Bomb staff placed a picture of two half-naked people making out to go along with the TLR''s article. This doesn't seem to be an argument that is going to be resolved any time soon.
One interesting part of the magazine is they have your sex horoscopes. Here's your horoscope if you're birthday's coming up soon.
Element: Earth 
Usually have an earthy sensuality, and a powerful sex drive. Considers sex very important for the consummation of love, so it’s never casual. They like to have it slow and steady, with formiddable endurance. Likes lots of caresses and skin-to-skin contact, before, during, and after sex. The touch of hand and body communicates love. They focus on the physical sensations so much that they may not move around much in bed. Eating and sex are two big pleasures of life, so dinner followed by sex makes a perfect evening.
Tender Spot: The neck area, as well as skin itself. Best Action Award: Tantric sex. They are the masters of marathon sessions and pure sensation. 
