Sections
In case you haven’t heard, Harvard’s Drug & Alcohol Peer Advisors have cooked up another sweet deal at b.good for tonight: Harvard ID holders can treat themselves to FREE Mango Shakes from Midnight to 1 A.M. tonight at the burger joint, followed by FREE SLIDERS from 1 A.M. to 2 A.M.
While DAPA’s last b.good event was billed as part of their “Kill the Hangover” initiative, tonight’s food giveaway is being advertised less as an attempt to pull you away from party hopping for booze and more as a study break. They’ve even booked a DJ.
FlyBy sure hopes you’re not pulling all-nighters this early into reading period, but we guess it’s a short one, so we’ll gladly take the study breaks we can get -- especially if they’re offering food at our favorite price. NOM NOM NOM.
Likewise, if you find yourself in need of some munchies, hike your tail over to Boloco's tonight, where they're offering 1 dollar burritos in celebration of a recent extension of their operating hours.
Sections
Yalies were treated to an uneasy awakening on Thursday morning as students were alerted via e-mail of dangerous escaped lab monkeys on campus. The bulletin, purportedly from Yale University Police Department (yup, they call it YUPD) Chief James A. Perrotti, warned of five loose rhesus monkeys carrying the dangerous "Motaba virus."
Yale's Cross Campus blog has the full story, which they dismiss as an obvious prank, but we're not so sure. Open-list emails on this campus are rejecting the YDN's parallels to 1995's Outbreak and betraying fears of a 28 Days Later scenario instead.
We e-mailed "Chief Perrotti" over 24 hours ago and have yet to receive a response. Meanwhile, Elis were last heard predicting "THE ENDTIMES" on Facebook. Are there no survivors? Is New Haven finally living up to its post-apocalyptic aesthetic?
As always we welcome pictures and first-person accounts if anyone's barricaded over there right now: flyby@thecrimson.com
Sections
It didn't look a lot like Christmas yesterday or the day before, but starting tonight, Old Man Winter's making his way to Cambridge.
There's a Winter Weather Advisory out for Massachusetts and Rhode Island, warning against the "first plowable snowfall of the season for much of southern New England tonight."
So break out the boots and the crimson-and-white scarves, head over to Burdick's for some exquisite hot chocolate, and make it out to the Yard to push around your loved one like the girl who dies from cancer in Love Story.
Because love means never having to say you're sorry. And snow means not having to work on that paper due on Monday.
Clarification: Our first caption on this post's photo didn't make it clear that this is a picture from two years ago. Not enough of the snow has stuck to make snowmen just yet...but it's getting there.
