News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
According to students in New Leverett, it appears residents there have another problem in addition to that hideous building.
 
Leverett's house list burst into a series of cockroach-fueled horror stories this afternoon. It appears the pests have taken house in the towers, and spread from the laundry areas in the basement, to the top floor. There are even reports of some advanced strains of roach, as one poor Leverite exclaimed:
Mine flew....onto the bed! Ick!
Yikes.
To be honest, as a 10th floor resident of Leverett G Tower who is literally petrified by roaches (it was a scarring childhood experience!), this couldn't have been worse news.  While I've come to enjoy the dungeony hallways, I'll be staying away if one of these things plops on my shoulder while showering.  It almost makes me wish I lived in the Quad.
Almost.
Sections
You’re a freshman. It’s late. You’ve spent the entire night partying in Matthews, drinking cheap booze. You kind of have a headache, but mostly you’re just really thirsty. But drink tap water? The horror! What you really need is a nice glass of Brita filtered water. A wedge of lemon would be great too, thanks.
Well you're in luck! As of this week, filtered water is now a reality for all freshmen. Get the whole story after the jump...
According to an email sent out the UC reps, Brita water filters have been installed in the kitchens of Apley, Canaday, Greenough, Holworthy, Matthews, Mower, Straus, Thayer, and Weld. There’s even one in the Wigglesworth laundry room, just in case you need to hand-wash your cashmere with unadulterated drinking water.
Apparently, though, these Brita filters are the hottest must-have items. From what we read in the email, it seems like some freshmen have gotten a little too attached:
“Please feel free to use the filters as much as you like in any of the dorms, but we would like to remind you that the filters are being installed for common use, and they are property of the University, intended to stay on the taps where they are installed. If by mistake you had previously taken one of the Brita filters from any of the above locations, please do return it to any of the UC Reps, and we will take it back to Yard Ops, no questions asked. You can return it to Wigg E-12 anytime this semester.”
No word yet on how soon we can expect sliced lemons to be made available at the taps, but freshmen across the yard should keep their fingers crossed.
Sections
Discount on dinner in the Square and a free showing of Watchmen?  It’s all part of the College Events Board “Dinner and a Movie” night, which takes place this Thursday, Mar. 12.
First, a flash of your student ID can get you one of the following deals:
•	15 percent discount at Chez Henri, Finale, Grendel’s Den, Harvest, J.P. Licks, Om, Redline, Rialto’s, Upper Crust or Upstairs on the Square
•	20 percent discount at Sandrine’s Bistro
•	Free appetizer with purchase of two dinners at Tommy Doyle’s
•	Two entrees for the price of one at Wagamama.
Or, if you don’t want to spend anything at all, just skip dinner and head straight for the movie.   Pick up your free ticket at the Harvard Box Office in Holyoke Center starting tomorrow, Sunday, Mar. 8.
