News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s expansion plans in Allston have traditionally been met with heated dialogue and suspicion from residents of the local community. Yet on Monday, at the second meeting of two public review sessions held by the Boston Redevelopment Authority, talks between the university and its neighbor barely seemed to simmer.
The university made a commitment—albeit unwritten—to offer up a 0.7-acre site for residential development. The land, which was purchased late last year, is currently occupied by the Brookline Machine Company. The pledge serves as a reminder of Harvard’s commitment to community building and redevelopment in Allston. Moreover, a concession of this scale is rare and generous. The last such contribution of this magnitude occurred in 1998, when the university donated land for an Allston branch of the Boston Public Library.
Despite dissatisfaction with the size of this parcel of land by some Allston residents, we admire the university for its efforts in reaching out to the Allston community. We have seen this not only in providing land but also in pioneering projects such as the Harvard Allston Farmers’ Market—brought to the community in partnership with the Allston Development Group—which brings residents great local produce, baked goods, and specialty vendors. Projects such as this foster community building, improve Harvard’s image, and highlight the university’s dedication to the betterment of an often-terse relationship with its neighbor. Patching up this battered relationship will require more than just one land donation, but it is a great start to thaw the troubled tensions that have plagued what should be a constructive and mutually beneficial relationship.
Harvard’s involvement in residential real-estate development in Allston should continue. The university currently owns a few hundred acres of land in Allston, some of which has been occupied by local businesses but much of which is vacant or part of uncompleted construction projects. The consequences of a construction slowdown at the science complex provide justification and incentive for Harvard to be more proactive about community building projects in Allston. In moving forward, the university should initiate development in ways that promote the intersection of Allston’s interests and its own interests. However the university proceeds, it should keep open a channel of communication with Allston residents as this project continues. Much of the frustrations on the part of residents stem from Harvard being tight-lipped about its current development plans.
For now, Harvard’s proposed land concession is very admirable, and we look forward to a more formal and concrete agreement between Harvard and the City of Boston in the coming days.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Feeling lethargic in your too familiar dining house tonight?  Have you figured out that the Bagel Bites meal plan (pizza in the morning, pizza in the evening, pizza at supper time) isn't for you. Looking for an adventurous meal for five bucks?
Check out the annual African feast hosted by the Harvard African Students Association (HASA) happening right now in Ticknor Lounge in Boylston Hall. The potluck, prepared by HASA members themselves, has already begun and is scheduled to last until 8 p.m.
Food from all corners of Africa will be available, all in the company of vibrant HASA members and friends. African-infused music will accompany your delicious meal. Welcoming both old and new tasters of African cuisine, this event is sure not to disappoint.
“My tastebuds are buzzing with expectation,” said a HASA member, packing her bags quickly in Lamont Café as she rushes over to Ticknor.
Hurry over because HASA has planned to catered for only 100 people.
“This is set to be my best feasting experience this year,” said Rumbi Mushavi, enthusiastic HASA member and sophomore in Eliot House.
FlyBy has heard enough. We're heading over right effing now. See you there!
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Daletronic
Sections
No wonder the popular quip goes: "No one ever says 'I want to go Yale when I grow up.'" In the town of New Haven, you can't even complain about how much your life sucks.
Yalefml.com, a new website inspired by harvardfml.com (we have data on this, as yalefml domain was created on 28-Oct-2009, harvardfml... way before that) went down a couple of days ago “due to high traffic volumes.”
This popular website served as a chance for students to share with the world some unpleasant, and yet funniest moments in their busy lives.
Its malfunctioning must have devastated many, a recent post on harvardfml said: “I just checked out yalefml and got a page that said 'Site suspended due to high traffic volume. Please check back on Friday, Nov. 6, 2009.' Yesterday was Nov 6. And now I don’t know how else to procrastinate. FML."
Well, our sympathies to the sorry Yalies, must’ve been a really bad week. Hopefully you'll be able to bitch about it all soon enough.
Sections
If you’re a “Mad Men” devotee prone to eating your feelings of sadness about this season’s end, look no further than Sweet Cupcake’s Season Finale promotion!  Throughout the day today, Sweet will be offering cupcakes with various Mad Men related images plastered on top of their otherwise normal cupcakes.
The bakery advertises their cupcakes as “fresh baked daily from scratch—just like Betty Draper would have made them.”  Perhaps this is indeed how the embodiment of ’60s-housewife-syndrome would have made them were she Betty Crocker, Baking Guru as opposed to Betty Draper, Ice Queen Extraordinaire.
Sweet will be playing “Mad Men” seasons 1 and 2 on the in-store television; implicit in this aspect of the promotion is a challenge to cupcake consumers to make one cupcake last through 26 hours of television without pulling a Roger Sterling-style cardiac arrest (minus the whole “adultery as cause” part) or Peggy-style psychotic freak-out.  Perhaps Sweet should have consulted Don before pulling this one.
Sections
Asian American Awareness Week kicked off today with “Obama and Asian America,” a discussion with Jay Bhatt, the guy who founded South Asians for Obama. Didn’t make it? Don’t worry, you didn’t miss the sexy part of the week:
MONDAY Asian American Female Sexuality Ticknor Lounge, 5 p.m. A dinner discussion with Lena Chen ’10 (don’t tell us you don’t know who she is), Christine Yu (an MIT student who talks about sex in her blog “Nerdy and Flirty”), and Vivien Wu ’08 (who, as far as we can tell, does not talk about sex in any blog).
Find out what else is scheduled after the jump.
 
TUESDAY Screening of “Don’t Burn It” Northwest Labs B103, 7:30 p.m. Presented by the Harvard Vietnamese Association, this documentary is about a female Vietnamese doctor whose diaries survived the Vietnam War. The film’s director will lead a discussion afterwards.
Human Rights in North Korea Fong Auditorium, 5:30 p.m. An info session for those who would like to get more involved with human rights advocacy in North Korea.
WEDNESDAY UC Presidential Debate Leverett Old Library, 8 p.m. We’re guessing that this is part of Asian American Awareness Week because Felix M. Zhang ’11 is one of the vice-presidential candidates.
THURSDAY Are You “De-Churched”? Yenching Auditorium, 6 p.m. A discussion led by Pastor Larry Kim.
Modern and Traditional Dance Workshop Eliot Dance Studio, 5 p.m. Hosted by South Asian Dance Company and the Asian American Dance Team.
FRIDAY Interracial Dating Panel Discussion Lowell JCR, 4 p.m. We’ve been talking a lot about interracial dating on campus lately.  Here’s another opportunity to talk about it more.
FEAST: Cultural Food Festival Quincy Dining Hall, 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 from an AAA member or $7. Cool fact: e-mail jskm.lists@gmail.com or wlee@fas.harvard.edu and they will deliver food to your door! But then you’ll miss the cultural performances.
SATURDAY MINT Sheraton Commander A charity dance.  For more info on this and any of the other events, contact aa.brotherhood@gmail.com
