Sections
It's probably already been tossed around your House or club list, but if you haven't noticed, the venerable Gentlemen's Quarterly took it upon itself to provide a "heavily researched, possibly stereotypey, but still accurate guide" to America's 25 Douchiest Colleges. Thank heavens someone finally stepped forward to fill this gaping void in the journalistic landscape.
Kidding aside, we at FlyBy took our highly-ranked "Harvard douche" identity to heart, and have combed over the list utilizing our finely-tuned knowledge of douchery.  Where did GQ go wrong?  Who was left out? And when did they just get lazy?  Find out what the douchexperts have to say below.
(As a perhaps-belated warning to our elderly FlyByers, it's nearly impossible to write this post without using the word "douche" over 50 times, so proceed with caution.)
Who Got Tooled?
We begin with an analysis of the schools that didn't really deserve to land a spot on the list.  To preface this segment, we'd like to clarify that FlyBy holds itself to the strictest standards of urbandictionary.com style, which generally classify a "douchebag" as a "pretentious, sugar-coated" type of "asshole."  GQ seems to have expanded the lexicon for the word to anyone who fits a semi-humorous stereotype its editors have concocted.  We respectfully disagree with this method, and thus reject the top-25 ranking of these schools:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Who Got Snubbed?
Perhaps a better question is which schools really deserved to crack the list, but were left off due to GQ oversight.  We're got some ideas:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Why Was GQ So Lazy?
The magazine seems to have slapdashed a few picks along the way.  For example, the selection of Charter College, Wasilla, doesn't really make sense to us.  We assume, based on the GQ prediction that students will in 10 years be "Governor of Alaska," that the school is thrown in as a knock on Sarah Palin. But Palin never went there.  Is this just fact-checking laziness or joke-telling laziness?
The selection of Bob Jones also strikes us as lackadaisical.  Yes, ha ha, it's a highly religious school that used to lack accreditation.  But even Al Franken, who visited with the express purpose of making fun of the school, had to admit it wasn't that bad.  Halfhearted choice.
Finally, Harvard's (#4) write-up is weak.  Incredibly weak.  After Arizona State has 20 lines of commentary lavished upon it, Harvard, the Grandaddy of Them All, gets 24 words, total.  In fact, here's the whole thing:
In ten years, will be: A Harvard douche.
Douches emeriti: Benazir Bhutto, Lou Dobbs, John Quincy Adams, Mira Sorvino."
Uninspired.
We even have to take issue with the "Douches emeriti" picks.  Harvard has a nearly endless crop of potential options—Henry Kissinger, Ted Kaczyinski, Jared Kushner, etc.—and we get these four.  Benazir Bhutto?  For real? Last we checked, Bhutto won an international human rights prize before being assassinated.  And she's classified by the oh-so-knowledgeable GQ editors as one of the top four examples of "the Harvard douche."  Are they out of their minds? (Mira Sorvino also seems like a pretty random choice, but pales in comparison.)
At least the editors have a sense of humor about the whole enterprise, admitting "we were all kind of douchebags when we went to college."  But, in closing, we have to ask, if your full-time job is the type of "journalism" that involves compiling such lists...have things really changed?
(And yes, we understand the irony of spending 1000 words critiquing the list—but at least we don't get paid to do it.)
Sections
While searching for a Bartley’s burger this weekend, FlyBy was surprised to find instead this mysterious note taped to the door:
We’ll venture to guess that the “Mr. Bartley” in the note is Billy Bartley, the son of the original founder and the restaurant's current manager and chef. After making so many Ted Kennedy burgers (famously described on the menu as “a plump, liberal amount of burger with cheddar cheese, mushrooms and French fries"), has Bartley decided it is time for him to be Ted Kennedy? Or is this morsel of a rumor just some more of Bartley’s tongue-in-cheek wit?
FlyBy isn’t sure yet, since none of the vacationing Bartleys could be reached. And we have to assume the burger king isn't actually contemplating a run, but regardless, this is the best excuse we've heard in months. We'll be using it as soon as mandatory sections start. Now if only they were offering The Politics of Congress this semester...
