Sections
Life is getting tougher and tougher for this year's crop of anxiety-ridden Ivy League applicants—now even the blog they frequent to both alleviate and exacerbate their stress is letting them down.
That's right, Ivygateblog.com—founded in 2006 and known for satirizing the good, the bad, and the ugly in the Ivy League—just made its first post in 19 days, an unusually long gap for a site that used to update frequently throughout each day.
Update: And....now they're back with a post on...us? Sort of. Apparently a staffer sent out an angry e-mail to the Business leadership at The Crimson that includes, among other things, a FUCK YOU acrostic. Yep. Seriously.
Even more disconcerting to the Ivygate-obsessed, a Nov. 18 post was neither a snarky analysis of a professorial affair nor a dig at preppy Yale students, but rather a plea for more blog writers.
"Experience is arbitrary," wrote Editor Adam Clark Estes. "But we will demand that you understand teh internet, possess a cutting sense of humor, and write with a proto-David Foster Wallace voice. Seriously, otherwise, just email us if you're up for cranking out content. IvyGate pays in beer and glory. And trust me, it flows freely."
[Note: The misspelled "teh" is not a typo on FlyBy's part.]
Three of the most recent Ivygate posts feature Harvard (one relishes a rather unflattering portrayal of Harvard in a fake advertisement,another mocks an incident involving poisoned coffee at the Harvard Medical School, and the third makes it clear that an act of arson by a Harvard grad is very much out of character with an Ivy League education).  Clearly, Harvard alums and events are crucial to the blog's content. But how big a deal is the Ivygate dry spell for Harvard students?
"When Ivygate first started, I felt like it was very much a site that people would log on to just to procrastinate, but it occasionally broke news," said Lena Chen '10, writer of the blog Sex and the Ivy. "Nowadays there is no shortage of sites that do exactly what Ivy does."
"Also, there are so many college endowment problems right now, maybe it's not really a time tha's right for juicy, gossipy material," she added.
If blog withdrawal starts to get you down, FlyBy is here to keep you abreast of anything truly important.  We're not going anywhere.
Sections
It wasn’t a “Flat Tire”  nor a broken “Hash Pipe,” but rather an unfortunate patch of ice.  An untimely crash on Sunday left disappointed Bostonians without a sweet Weezer  concert to liven up their December.
Rivers Cuomo '99-'06, the lead singer  for the band Weezer, was on his tour bus coming from Toronto, Canada  to Boston for Monday’s concert at Boston University. According to the  driver, “the  back end of the bus slid on ice, then went into the median and hit some  reflective posts before crossing back over the highway, going over the  guardrail and landing in a ditch.” Of course, if they  had been driving on the “Island in the Sun” there would have been  no ice... (yay Weezer puns!)
Cuomo’s wife, daughter, and  his daughter’s nanny were all uninjured.  However, Cuomo cracked three ribs, suffered minor internal  damage, and injured his leg. Cuomo’s assistant was also sent to the  hospital with two  broken ribs and a fractured lower vertebra.
Cuomo’s assistant was released  from the hospital already, but according to the band website,  Cuomo was transferred to a larger hospital and remains under observation.  Surgery is unlikely, and hopefully his recovery will be speedy, and  the band will be in full swing in 2010.
Obviously, the concert at BU  was canceled. The band is also canceling the rest of  their December tour. Students at BU were a little disappointed  in missing the concert, as they are in the midst of final exams, and  needed a study break.
“I know a lot of people who  arranged their study schedules around it so they could go,” wrote BU sophomore Katie  Weller in an e-mail.
Sections
Strength coach Craig Fitzgerald  left Harvard almost a year ago, but it seems his fear-inspiring legacy  just won’t die.
FlyBy gave you an update on good ol’ Fitzy last spring, when he had moved his terrifying antics  to the South Carolina Gamecocks’ football program. Considering that  the weightroom overlord was moving to a big-time SEC program, we at FlyBy naturally assumed that his skill as a coach was being rewarded.
According to former Harvard basketball player Drew Housman ’09, though, the “250 pounds of barrel-chested  meathead” that was Craig Fitzgerald may not have been as wonderful  as everyone made him out to be. Read on after the jump to get a glimpse  into Fitzy’s apparent house of horrors.
Current Crimson athletes are  more or less barred from talking negatively about coaches. After all,  no one wants to rip the man assigning lifts while he’s still around.  But Housman, now a year  removed from what he describes as nightmarish weightroom sessions, is  letting fly a (now) two-part series entitled “The 4 Year War: Drew  vs. Coach Fitz.” Highlights of Housman’s rants include:
“Each time I bent down to  squat there was an audible pop or clicking noise.  I was disconcerted.   Coach Fitz could have cared less.
‘Don’t worry about it,  it’s nothing.’  This “nothing” was a precursor to debilitating  tendonosis that would cripple me for much of my junior year, but no  big deal right?”
“He then began beasting out  curl after curl and yelling ‘Ya! You think the Vermont Coach can do  this!? No way the Vermont coach can do this!’  There is no doubt that  the Vermont coach could not due [sic] as many reps curling 135 pounds  as the man I saw before me.  Problem was, Coach Fitz let this macho,  you-are-only-as-good-as-how-much-weight-you-can-throw-around mentality  drive his whole approach to training athletes.”
“Apparently me wanting to  totally abandon his program was equivalent to me telling him I had killed  his firstborn child.  He simply could not handle such insubordination.”
Not surprisingly, Housman explains  that the strained relationship leads to a couple of confrontations.  Read for yourself to decide if coach Fitz was as out of line as Housman  thinks, but if the former baller is telling the truth, FlyBy’s prayers  are with the poor Gamecocks.
Sections
Cambridge police just released this photo of the man who quietly robbed the Harvard University Employees Credit Union last week by presenting a letter to the teller.
According to Alexa Manocchio, Cambridge police public information officer, although CPD pulled over a bus last Wednesday, no arrest was made, and HUPD has been determined as the lead investigation agency on this case. HUPD spokesman Steven G. Catalano said that the investigation is still ongoing and open, and thus he declined to comment.
Perhaps someone should write a letter asking the man: "Please, Mr. Robber, give our money back?"
Sections
According to an article in the Valley  News in New Hampshire, fans of the Dartmouth squash team heckled Harvard players throughout  a December 2 squash match in Hanover.
The Big Green fans, reportedly  men’s soccer players and Alpha Delta fraternity members, peppered  uncreative criticisms (“dick”, “****sucker”) and standard chauvinist jabs directed at the women (“whores,” “sluts”) with some  food-related fare, reportedly inquiring as to whether captain Frank E.  Cohen '10 had a preference for bagels. They later defended the comments as a reference  to his having zero games at the time, but his parents took the remark  to be anti-Semitic.
It’s funny that the Big Green should  ask about bagels, as the Dartmouth women’s squash team ate one of  its own in a 9-0 loss to Harvard the same day. Meanwhile, the Crimson men won 6-3,  to give the Big Green its first loss of the season, moving its record from 3-0  to 3-1. Maybe their fans should have given bagels a little more respect.
