News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a decade as Eliot House Masters, Lino Pertile and Anna Bensted announced they would step down this June in a Thanksgiving e-mail to the House's listserv.
"The spirit and joy that so many students have brought to the House will carry us beyond the years spent here," the two wrote. "Anna and I have learnt a huge amount from so many of you along the way. We are immensely grateful for that gift."
House Master vacancies are filled by Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds. Along with Winthrop and Pforzheimer, Eliot will be the third House to receive new masters during her tenure.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As some of us found out before (and during) The Game last Saturday, tailgates at Harvard look like tamed pets compared to the wild beasts of tailgates that are thrown at Yale. Back in Cambridge, as hungover students recounted their weekend debauchery, the buzz around campus was that a certain Yale party made Harvard ragers look quite tame as well.  This party was a naked party. Yep, naked. As in no clothes.
Find out how raunchy (or classy?  This is the Ivy League, after all) it got after the jump.

The party took place in a Yale a cappella house. Upon arriving, guests were given plastic bags to put their clothes in and then welcomed inside wearing only a newfound sense of liberation and their birthday suits. According to students who attended the party, it was a surprisingly non-sexual party atmosphere, with “more civilized conversation and good eye contact than at most regular parties,” according to a sophomore in Currier House. The main difference was that there was no dancing, which probably would have changed the gathering’s classification from a party to an orgy. In order to feel more comfortable in their own bare skin, partygoers sipped on a purplish drink that was “basically just pure vodka.”
The crowd reportedly consisted of about 100 people, mainly white, with a moderate ratio skew toward males (some things are the same at Harvard and Yale). It seems like this was not a one-time exposure either. The Currier sophomore said that “girls acted surprised when I told them it was the first time I’d been to a naked party.”
Apparently the crowd, which received positive reviews from those in attendance, was an attractive one. There was one fellow who was a bit too excited to be there, though: as a senior in Kirkland House told us, “the guy with the boner was asked to go into the backyard until he calmed down.”
Sections
Afraid that you’ll miss seeing your inbox fill each day with emails from dozens of disparate student organizations and house lists after you graduate?  Have no fear!  A tip from a recent alum alerted FlyBy to the fact that special-interest e-mail lists exist for Harvard alumni too.
Through the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA), graduates from any Harvard school can join groups to match their interests, such as the “HAA Beer and Brewing Club,” whose members talk about that hobby; “About Sex Organs,” which bills itself as a “discussion of human sex organs, including, among other matters, their proper care and treatment;” and “Near Death Experiences Studies,” for those who have endured such crises or want to learn more about them.
HAA discussion groups have been formed to unite alumni living in various regions of the country, those who graduated in the same year, and those who work in certain professional industries.
The largest group, with 1860 members, is a networking forum called “Harvard Career,” while some groups – such as the Class of 1946 list and a group that offers singles ages 25-35 the opportunity to “make friends from all over the world” – consist of just one member.
Sections
Eliot House Masters Lino Pertile and Anna Bensted announced their intention to step down as heads of the Eliot household in June after ten years at the helm in a Thanksgiving Day letter--uhh, narrative?--to the House. (The missive was a quarter of the required length of the final paper this FlyBy correspondent is currently attempting to write. And substantially more entertaining.)
The announcement begins with a conversation between Pertile and former University President/House namesake Charles W. Eliot. Pertile writes that he thought Eliot "spent fall and winter in Florida and only came back to Massachusetts in the spring, just before the crew races. That anyway is when I expected him to reappear, not now."
When the specter asks Pertile about his rumored departure, Pertile--a Dante scholar who has been notably involved, to say the least, with House crew--offers: “'Mr. Eliot, you see, this is our tenth year, and the third in which we hold the Agassiz Cup. I don’t think we should tempt fortune further...we have had such a wonderful run here for the past ten years, that to ask you and the other Gods'--he liked that a lot!--'to ask you and the other Gods for more'--he loved that!--'might be foolish…I mean, reckless, irritating too…You know, hubris and all that stuff…'"
Having sufficiently flattered Eliot, Pertile makes one final demand: "we must win all the crew races once more, we must keep the Cup and bring back the Plate, too. Will you help us?”
Eliot (the president) agrees.
"Then he suddenly stood up, came near me, gave me a high five, and shouting “Done!” he flew straight out of the window. Yes, out of the closed window! And by the time I looked out, I saw him happily flying free as a bird downstream over the Charles."
The conversation between Pertile and Eliot also suggested that new masters have not yet been set (Eliot: "I like new masters, they are so impressionable…When are they coming? Have we got a date yet?” Pertile: “Not quite yet, I’m afraid.). Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds will be responsible for selecting Pertile and Bensted's replacements. It will be the third set of Masters she will have installed since she took office in June 2008.
