Sections
“Oh Harvard Lampoon, must you ruin everything that's sacred?” asks the Globe. Well, we can’t remember the last time the semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine did much of anything, let alone ruined something through satire, but it looks like they're giving it a try this year.
The 'Poon has announced the completion of its second parody novel, Nightlight: A Parody, a satiric take on the oh-so-popular Twilight phenomenon. The book follows Belle Goose, a young girl who becomes convinced the new boy in school is a vampire and her soulmate, despite evidence that he thinks girls are "repulsive." The Edward character from the real novel  goes by Edwart in this version, a name which the book itself informs us is "Much funnier than Edward."
(more, including a link to an excerpt of the book!, after the jump)
The Lampoon's first parody book, Bored of the Rings, dates back to 1969, so we're not sure why it took this long to produce a follow-up that's 16 pages shorter, nor what the criteria were for choosing the new target. Still, we're curious to see how the pamphlet does. The official press release, book blurb, and excerpt all emphasize Edwart’s “zero interest in girls." (The insinuation, we think, is that he may be a homosexual.)
The official release date is November 3rd. In the meantime, Random House has posted an excerpt.
A Lampoon spokesman said no one was available to comment on the book they're currently trying to promote.
Sections
Welcome to the weekend, dreary Harvard students.  Trying to put stuff of by a few more hours?  FlyBy's got your back with some quirky news from around the Ivies.
Princeton has gotten more draconian/sustainable by setting a year-long printing quota for undergraduates (2,100 sheets of paper) and graduate students (3,000 sheets of paper), effective Oct. 15.  Stay tuned for the May rush as frenzied students barter each other for their print credits.
Yale is now razing buildings for real, to make way for their 13th and 14th residential colleges. As of Tuesday, the 119-year-old Daniel Cady Eaton house is now no more.
Hazers continue to harass Princeton students, with a fifth incident of lewdness just this year occurring on Monday. The incident: a shirtless middle-aged man, whom students described him as having “grayish-brown hair” and “a protruding stomach,” exposed himself outside Charter Cub. Honestly, who are these people?
More Ivy League news after the jump.
The Yale Daily News selected their new guard of editors over the weekend. The new editor-in-chief may or may not get a better internship gig than his predecessor, who was forced into a back room at Vanity Fair to watch eight hours of cable news straight for four consecutive days in August.
Yale lab technician Ray Clark, who has been arrested in connection with the murder of pharmacology student Annie Le, appeared in court for a second time Tuesday but has not entered a plea.
After the death of Full Moon on the Quad, an illustrious 19th-century tradition where seniors would make out with freshmen under the first full moon of the year, due to swine flu concerns, another Stanford party may soon die from budget cuts. Stanford is suddenly getting drearier.
Perpetually stressed U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner—an East Asian Studies graduate from Dartmouth—may finally have an assistant treasury secretary for financial markets (from Cornell) to help him out. Now it's up to the Senate to approve her, and we all know how long that takes.
Sections
Once upon a time, in a dark era of hardship, lost riches and budget cuts, the Faculty resolved to make a noble sacrifice: forego cookies at their monthly meeting.
Hearing of their gloomy plight, one kind stranger wrote to us with this idea:
“I normally don't do this sort of thing, but I read the article […] in the Harvard Crimson just at the moment I was contemplating that I needed to do more things in my life that I really enjoy.  One of those things would be baking treats for others.  What do you think about me supplying some baked goods for the next faculty meeting for free?"
FlyBy decided we had to make this happen. Would the Faculty accept this unusually sweet offer? Find out after the jump.
In her email, Anna Yun, a mental health counselor at South Bay Mental Health Center in Boston with no apparent connection to Harvard, offered to make “pumpkin muffins, sour cream coffee cake, [or] coconut cream pie” (her specialty) for the next faculty meeting.  The reason?  None, except “that it would make me happy and hopefully make the faculty meeting more fun.”
Alas, when we brought the proposal to Faculty Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith, he gave this heartfelt—but sadly disappointing—reply:
“Ms. Yun has made a very kind and generous offer, and I would want her to know that I am touched that she has offered her time, energy, and money to make our faculty meetings a little brighter. We choose to forego cookies at our faculty meetings as part of our larger effort to live within our new budgetary reality. Unsurprisingly, this amenity was less important to our mission than, say, maintaining financial aid for one more needy student. We certainly didn't eliminate cookies in the hope that someone else would pay for this amenity. The FAS is, of course, not unique in having to adjust in these difficult financial times, but the future certainly looks brighter knowing that individuals like Ms. Yun clearly care about helping others that they have never met.”
Ah, well. Can’t say we didn’t try to do some good in this world.
Sections
We were on to Peggy Noonan before she even started her IOP study group, when we reported on her hilarious syllabus, frequent misspellings and all.
Now, thanks to a tipster for Gawker, we can peer deeper than ever inside the inner machinations of Noonan’s complicated mind. These study groups are supposed to be off the record, but apparently the vultures in other parts of the blogosphere could not obey the rules. However, we straight-laced Harvard journalists are more than happy to share their illicit reporting.
Peep some of the more savory quotes and episodes after the jump.
Here’s how Gawker’s tipster found Noonan: “A couple of times she spit onto her brown vest and pretended it didn't happen…After she completed a thought, she'd pause and smile, staring at the air in front of her, reflecting on her impeccable delivery and overreaching wisdom. She used baseball metaphors more than twice.”
Some choice selections from the tipster (in fairness to Noonan—how much did those unscrupulous folks at Gawker massage this stuff?):
"I'm not a brain surgeon. You have to be a professional. I did my best and I didn't kill anybody. I can't remember what the point of my answer is."
"My study group is about being a person who thinks things and believes them and turns them into words that convey thoughts and feelings."
"I wasn't sure I could wear mascara every day. One should dress. One should wear mascara when one can."
"I wasn't sure I could stay awake all day. This is one of the major stresses of life—making sure you can stay awake all day. I happen to think sleep is one of the most important things in life. Trying to wake up, trying to fall asleep. I don't know why I'm talking about this."
"It's not a faux pas to love your country. Its history. Its traditions. Love it. Bring that love into the world. Share it and the world looks at you and says, ‘Oh, I get it!'"
"You Have To Let Your Freak Flag Fly."
Photo courtesy Happyme22/Wikimedia Commons
Sections
If Medical School Professor and Professor of Sociology Nicholas Christakis, the co-author of the new book Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social Networks, sat with your friends in Pfoho, where he is the House Master, he could tell you a lot about yourself—how likely you are to become obese, and maybe even whether you would be an efficient choice for a flu vaccine.
Earlier this year, Time magazine named Christakis one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Connected’s co-author, James Fowler ’92, an associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego, provided the first evidence of the positive “Colbert bump” in polls for politicians appearing on the Colbert Report.
The book has received favorable reviews in the press, and popular Harvard Professor of Psychology Daniel Gilbert raved about their new book: “We think we are individuals who control our own fates, but as Christakis and Fowler demonstrate, we are merely cells in the nervous system of a much greater beast,” he wrote. “If someone you barely know reads Connected, it could change your life forever.”
More on fat, flu, and Facebook after the jump.
The book combines years of the research by the authors with other studies to support its ideas. One of their most striking findings—from a large study that began in 1948 in Framingham, Massachusetts—is that obesity is greatly determined by social networks (some other researchers have questioned this interpretation). According to Connected, “If a mutual friend becomes obese, it nearly triples a person’s risk of becoming obese.” Because of imitation and shared expectations called “norms,” even friends who are 1,000 miles away produce this strong effect. But don’t get ready to dump your friends just yet—people who do are even more likely to become obese, the authors found.
Your social networks, and in particular how popular you are, may also affect how good a candidate for a flu vaccine you are. Vaccinating an entire population may be less efficient than choosing people at random, asking them to name their friends, and then vaccinating those friends. The friends are likely to come into contact with many people, so vaccinating them might do the most good, the authors argue. "You can achieve the same level of protection for the population at one-third the cost doing an intervention like this," Fowler said, according to CNN. He and Christakis hope to do a preliminary experiment monitoring the spread of the H1N1 virus on a college campus.
Social networks are powerful, but, the authors argue, online sites do not seem to be increasing how many close friends students have. In a study of Facebook pages at an unnamed university, students traded posts and photo tags with six and seven people, not far from sociologists’s estimate that people have four to six close friends in real life.
The British anthropologist Robin Dunbar estimated that humans would have social groups of around 150, and Fowler said that the average Facebook user has about 110 friends on the site, which fits the relatively small groups humans evolved in. He and Christakis found that there is a “Three Degrees Rule”—networks are influential to point of the friends of a friend of a friend, but not very much beyond that.
So, next time you order another late night burger at the grill, think of all the people you are affecting. And next time you meet a few potential friends, hike with them to Pfoho to seek the advice of House Master Christakis.
Photo courtesy Nicholas A. Christakis/Wikimedia Commons
