Sections
In an interview on PBS-aired talk show Charlie Rose Wednesday night, Faust confidently lapped up PR for Harvard's financial aid programs, got excited about the Internet revolution and studying slavery, and smoothly dodged (not rigorous) inquiries about the University's financial conundrum. As one frequent Harvard pundit and critic remarked: "The president has spiffed herself up a lot, she’s dressing better, and somehow she looks younger. Botox? Cosmetic surgery? Or just great TV makeup?"
Rose, an acclaimed interviewer, contented himself with pitching softballs (How is the Harvard of the '60s and '70s different from that today?) and inane questions (Imagine a freshman asks you, "What do you want me to get out of this? What kind of person should I become in the next four years?"). Faust, the humble historian, talked about diversity and lauded the Q guide as an example of Harvard's dedication to quality teaching. (Unfortunately, only the first ten minutes of Faust's interview were posted on Charlie Rose's Web site.)
But Faust seemed to only really get excited when Rose got talking about education itself. Indulge in Faust-isms after the jump.
Rose: "How about this: [Dramatic pause.] The simple process of someone, uh, teaching someone else, and someone learning from someone else. [Painfully slow and deliberate word choice.] Has the dynamic of that thing...that has been...the engine...of becoming...an educated person...changed?"
Faust: "Both yes, and no." [She delivers a speech on the benefits of the Internet and talks about superimposing maps of Africa using computers to study the slave trade. This leads to philosophizing on the information age itself.]
Rose: "Does that make a smarter society?"
Faust [wide-eyed]: "Well, depends on how you define a smarter society. We have more information, but do we succeed in turning that into knowledge and, as you say, wisdom? Those things are not necessarily always correlated."
Deep.
Sections
With Harvard's old heating systems and generally non-existent air-conditioning, it is of little surprise that during this transition from the uncomfortably warm Cambridge summer to the unbearably cold Cambridge winter some students would find the temperature of their rooms less than satisfactory. (Yeah, it snowed today.)
Since the beginning of the month e-mails have been hitting House lists asking, in one form or another, "When is the heat getting turned on?"
One member of Winthrop House went apple picking and returned to a cold room, emailing Winthrop House to find out when it would get a little warmer. Responded a Winthrop senior, helpfully:
Another responded with knowledge that seemed to be gained from first hand experience:
It's advice that appears to have been particularly pertinent for Eliot residents, who over the weekend complained of sweltering conditions and radiators like the surface of the sun. More, after the jump.
Each House has to cope with its own unique radiator problems and start dates—and of course there is no universal agreement on when heating is needed. With recent budget cuts, including the loss of hot breakfast, some students if only sarcastically have expressed skepticism that heat will be turned on sometime soon. One Kirkland resident joked,
While some Houses have begun to turn their heat on, two weeks ago one Quincy House resident worried he would not make it to the winter.
I have no glove. I have no fire. I have no brightly colored peruvian hat. My roommates cannot type without mittens and they have no mittens or they would agree.
We cannot get out. We cannot get out. It is coming.
