Sections
Whenever FlyBy goes to symphony concerts, it is always distressing to see a slew of gray- and white-haired heads in front of FlyBy—and very few young people.  It is also distressing to hear one's hometown classical music station begging for donations, explaining (subtly but not) that their fundraising base is literally dying off.
So now that the BSO is offering $20 (i.e. dirt-cheap) tickets for people under 40, don't judge. Like newspapers, symphony orchestras either have to beg on their knees for young people to dish out at least some money, or they may die along with their patronage base.
This turns out to be more convenient than free concerts under the $25 BSO College Card, because for that, you would have to trek all the way to the box office on the day of the concert to see if they actually have tickets available for that night. For this new deal, which was made possible by an anonymous (elderly?) donor, you can actually buy tickets online and show your photo ID when you're picking up your tickets at the door.
This symphony season, FlyBy is not going to lie, looks pretty sweet. Some of the most memorable pieces being performed this year are listed after the jump.
Mozart's Requiem, Tues., Sept. 29 at 8 p.m.
Beethoven's complete symphonies (all nine of them), in three parts in late October and early November
Brahms' violin concerto (performed by Joshua Bell), in late November
Dvorak's Symphony No. 8, in early December
Brahms' Symphony No. 4, in early February
Rimsky-Korsakov's Scheherazade, in mid-March
Mahler's Symphony No. 7 ("Song of the Night"), in early April
Beethoven's Leonore Overture and Piano Concerto No. 4 (performed by Emanuel Ax), in late April and early May
Get cultured!
Photo Credit Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
Here's a diagnosis: Harvard students suffer from an unfortunate mental disposition to conflate work and play. Now, some of you may be pshaw-ing and pulling out your tattered lexicons to inform us that, no, you know the difference between those two words, thank you very much. Fair enough.
But seriously. We here at FlyBy are no exception. We work until we feel like it's play. Or we tell ourselves that work is play! It's amazing what the mind can do. We've all been there. Nothing feels quite as pleasurable as working yourself into the ground, crossing off that item from your to-do list, and then promptly adding some more items in preparation for the coming week. Man, that was awesome!
Well, Harvard Business School leadership professor Leslie A. Perlow headed a study that reveals that less work can mean better work. What?? Time for some major disillusioning, after the jump:
In the four-year study—the results of which will be published in the October issue of Harvard Business Review—members of twelve consulting teams at Boston Consulting Group had to take breaks during every work week. Not surprisingly, it was pretty difficult to force some of these individuals to relax: "we had to practically force some professionals" to get away from work, Perlow tells the Wall Street Journal.
No Blackberries, no work e-mails, nothing—for one evening every week after 6 p.m. At first, these people sort of freaked out. They had "tummy rumbles," which are "gut worries or concerns about their project," the WSJ reports. They felt like they should be doing something...well, productive, during these free evenings.
But the results revealed that the experiment helped consultants "communicate better, share more personal information and forge closer relationships." Work quality and morale improved. You see, the experiment targeted "bad intensity"—that feeling that you can't get anything done if you're not spending all your time working, that you need to be constantly on go-mode to keep yourself caught up.
It's a lesson that FlyBy thinks we could live by. Tummy rumbles don't sound pleasant.
Sections
Sounds reasonable. But the whole double-metal-bar-thing seems more intimidating than it should be. Look at what FlyBy found today.
This really raises some profound questions about the purpose of having books in the Dunster Library in the first place. For decoration? To permeate the hallowed room with an appropriately musty smell? For general authenticity, whatever that word means? Or, just so that the Dunster Library can be called....a library?
If it's for the latter reason, allow us to raise another question: is a book really a book if it can't be read? So, if these "objects" are not books after all, then perhaps this room is not a library either. Just sayin'. (Off with the bars!)
