Sections
According to The New York Observer,  former Crimson editor Jennifer 8. Lee ’98-’99, a star Metro reporter  for The New York Times, has accepted the paper’s buyout package.
So far, there has been much  mystery over where Lee, whose byline is one of the Metro Desk’s most  recognizable, will go after she leaves the Times.
Yesterday afternoon, FlyBy was able  to reach Lee, who declined to divulge any information regarding her  future plans after the Times.
FlyBy did, however, manage  to speak to her colleague Sewell Chan ’98, another former crimed who  once penned no fewer than 422 articles for the Times in a single year.  In an email, Chan, who has known Lee from high school, college, The  Crimson, and the Times, wrote, “Jenny and I have been friends for  more than 20 years, so her decision to leave The Times leaves me with  sadness, even though I am excited about the new career opportunities  she is pursuing.”
I terms of what those  opportunities might be, find out what Chan wrote after the jump:
“Jenny has told me she plans  to pursue her interests in the emerging new forms of journalism and  the business models that will support it, at The Times and at other  news institutions. She also is a successful book author, and plans to  continue as a writer and journalist.”
Lee’s book, The Fortune Cookie  Chronicles, explores the historical and cultural presence of Chinese  food in America and was featured on the New York Times bestseller list  as well as many prominent television programs such as The Colbert Report  and The Today Show after its March 2008 publication.
Chan also shared with FlyBy  a copy of the speech he gave at the staff sendoff meeting this past  Wednesday evening.
“Jenny,” he said in the  speech, “you have been like a sister to me – you are a sister to  me — and it’s going to be hard imagining The New York Times without  you.”
Editor's Note: This post originally contained information published in violation of a source agreement. It has since been removed.
Sections
Some people graduate from Harvard and escape to Hollywood. Former Eliot House resident Rashida L. Jones '97 has been forced to come back.
While you may have seen her as the now irrelevant Karen from "The Office," Jones has just been cast in the upcoming David Fincher movie "The Social Network."
Though it's not clear what role Jones will be playing, there is speculation that Jones is "too old to play a college student" (come on, she's only 33!). However, FlyBy believes that she could very well be one of the Zuckerberg sisters, Randi, Arielle, or Donna, since the only female cast member whose role is confirmed is Brenda Song (think Disney) as Priscilla Chan, Zuckerberg's girlfriend but no female leads have been confirmed.
In case you've been under a rock for the past couple months, "The Social Network" is a movie in progress about Mark E. Zuckerberg '06-'07 and his beloved creation, Facebook. A partial cast list was released mid-October, and scenes were filmed at Harvard for a couple of days around Halloween. The movie premieres Oct. 15, 2010.
As for Jones's acting skills, here's a short clip... we'll let you judge for yourself.
Editor's Note: An earlier link for Donna Zuckerberg was incorrect. The right link has since been added.
