Sections
Editor's Note: Upon the publication of "Kids Who Would Be King" on Nov. 12, 2008, a major source in the article claimed that the author of the piece had made an agreement with him that was henceforth broken. Consequently, editors at The Crimson determined that it would be appropriate to alert readers' attention to the following addendum written by the author, explaining in finer detail the circumstances of the agreement she had made with her source at the time of the article's reporting.
 
About a year ago, I e-mailed  one of my classmates for an article about Harvard students with political  ambitions. He wasn’t sure he wanted to be interviewed, so we talked  about the article on the phone. He told me it was stupid for college  kids to speculate about their political careers.
That’s fine, I said. You  don’t have to talk about your future plans.
I just don’t want to look  like a tool, he told me. You won’t, I promised.
What Caleb L. Weatherl ’10  wouldn't find out until much later—until I was sitting across from  him in a D.C. restaurant, and we had already spent a whole day together—was  that my article wasn't just about Harvard kids who like politics. It  was about Harvard kids who want to be President of the United States  of America. And the central question of my article was: does Caleb Weatherl  want to be President? Or, as his Harvard classmates would read it, Is  Caleb Weatherl a tool?
By then, it was too late for Caleb  to back out of the story. He was stuck. I had planned it that way.
THE FIRST CALL
When I started working on an  article about Harvard kids with presidential ambitions, I knew that  getting interviews would be tricky. I wanted to talk to Harvard’s  savviest young politicos—men and women with enough chutzpah to dream  about the Oval Office and enough talent that they actually might succeed.  But the students who were most serious about the presidency would, I  assumed, be the quickest to deny their ambition. If I called them up  and asked, "So, I've heard you want to be president," they  would say, “No, that’s crazy,” and hang up the phone.
No interviews, no article.  And no chance to get a closer look at what students this ambitious were  actually like.
My editors and I decided I  would have to be careful about the way I described the story. When I  called campus politicos for an interview, I would talk about generic  political ambition rather than Oval Office dreams. I would say I wanted  to interview “prominent students on campus interested in politics”  rather than “presidential wannabes.”
For journalists, this is standard  procedure. You’re not obligated to tell the people you interview about  the specific angle of your story. If you think it might alienate them,  you often don’t tell, at least not at the beginning of the interview.  If concealing information from a source means getting more or better  information to the public, then journalists will do it—within certain  bounds, of course. I could be vague; I wasn’t allowed to lie.
I had never met him, but I  pitched the story about wannabe presidents with Caleb already in mind.  Twice, in passing, I had heard him referred to as “that guy who wants  to be president.” He was a former head of the Harvard Republican Club,  and I found out he was taking a semester off to work for Karl Rove in  D.C. I assumed he wouldn’t admit to any presidential ambitions, but  that was part of the draw. Some students who were serious about the  presidency would be too savvy to admit it in print. I hoped Caleb would  fall into that camp.
The first time I talked to  Caleb on the phone, I had my editor sit next to me to monitor the call.  We had already decided that I wasn’t going to tell Caleb about the  presidential angle of my story. My editor was there to make sure that  I struck the right balance and told just enough of the truth.
I hadn’t played this kind  of journalistic hardball before, not with one of my own classmates.  But a guy who was working for Karl Rove? He was probably fair game.
On the phone, Caleb was polite  but wary. I told him that I was writing about the dynamics of political  ambition on campus, and about the arc of political ambition from freshman  year to the final years of college. (I would also be interviewing the  inevitable Harvard freshmen who publicized their presidential goals.)  I said he was a well-known figure in campus politics and that I wanted  to fly down to D.C. and profile him in-depth. He asked about the other  people I would be interviewing. Finally, he agreed to the interview.
I hung up the phone and turned  to my editor. He nodded. Fair enough, he said. I was good to go.
That should have been enough—I  had the interview—but Caleb had said one thing, something about the  future, that I hadn't understood. I could have let it go, but it was  clear just from Caleb’s attitude that he wouldn’t have agreed to  an interview about presidential ambitions. If I was going to be sneaky,  I should at least give him a chance to push back—to ask a question  I couldn’t talk around.
So I called him and left a  voice message. By the time he called back, I had left The Crimson’s  newsroom and was walking along a dark street towards Winthrop House.
I asked him to clarify what  he had said before. He told me that he wasn’t going to say that he  was planning to reach a certain political office in a certain number  of years. He said he had no definite plans for post graduation, and  he thought it was stupid for college students to make grand predictions  about their political futures. It made them look like tools, he said.  He didn't want to come off as a tool.
When I heard this, I was relieved. I had assumed Caleb wouldn’t admit  to any political ambitions, and now he was fulfilling my expectations.
That’s fine, I told him. You don't have to talk about the future.  I'm interested in what happens here, at Harvard—in the dynamics of  political ambition among the student body, and about the ways those  ambitions are perceived.
I felt this was actually a more honest description of my article than  anything I had said before. I didn’t expect Caleb to confess to Oval  Office dreams. I sort of hoped he wouldn’t. What I wanted to know  was how he would respond to the fact that, despite his denials, his  fellow students perceived him as wanting to be president.
I hung up the phone feeling  better. I had given Caleb his chance, and we hadn't agreed to put any  of the questions I cared about off-limits. When I told him he wouldn’t  end up looking like a tool, I believed it. He seemed smart and grounded,  not someone prone to making toolish pronouncements. I thought he would  come out looking okay.
What I didn’t know was that  Caleb had interpreted what I said in a very different way. He thought  I meant my interview with him wouldn’t be about future political ambitions  at all—that this topic was off the table.
THE INTERVIEW
When I first met Caleb for our interview, I was more nervous than he  was. The Crimson had paid to fly me down to D.C. to interview him. If  I got there and he backed out on me, I wasn’t sure what I was going  to do.
So the first day I spent interviewing  Caleb, I did everything I could to put him at ease. I laughed and joked  and tried to be unintimidating. As we had lunch and walked around Georgetown,  I asked him about his background and how he snagged a job with Karl  Rove. We chatted about his semester abroad in Italy and his Texan upbringing.  Easy question after easy question, nothing to scare him off.
Not until late that evening  did I finally get to the point. That was when I told Caleb that I had  heard his classmates refer to him as that guy who wants to be president.  This would be a central moment of my article, so I watched his reaction  carefully and took notes. After a few minutes, I backed away from the  question and talked about other things.
The next day, as we did a  photo shoot on the Washington Mall, I kept pressing him: why was he  the one his classmates singled out as a presidential hopeful? He kept  repeating he had no plans about the presidency either way, and I kept  saying, all right. Then why do so many people think you do?
He refused to let me take a  photograph of him in front of the White House. So I shot him in front  of the Washington monument and the Capitol and the Lincoln Memorial.
By this point, the real angle  of my article was clear, and Caleb was frustrated. He told me, calmly,  that I had not been honest with him when I set up the interview. Why  had I told him the article was about Harvard, not the future, when I  was actually focused on his supposed presidential goals?
It is about Harvard, I said.  It’s about how presidential ambition is perceived on campus. I don’t  care whether you say you want to be president or not, but I do care  how you explain why your classmates think you do.
He didn’t buy it.
It’s understandable that  you're upset, I told him, choosing my words carefully. But this is what  journalists can do.
I could have gone back to Boston  without making it clear to Caleb what the angle of my story was going  to be. But I wanted to make sure he had a full chance to respond to  the questions I would be raising in my article.
Of course, allowing Caleb to  respond to the angle of the story didn't mean that I was going to change  my take, no matter how much he protested against it.
There wasn't much Caleb could do, in fact, except register his objections,  and then, when the article came out, call me on the phone to tell me  that he thought I had done exactly what he thought would be most unfair:  portray him in the pages of Fifteen Minutes as some toolish junior with  delusions of presidential grandeur.
In my photograph of Caleb,  The Crimson's designers had photoshopped a campaign button on his chest  emblazoned with his name.
FAIR IS FAIR?
There’s a longstanding debate  among journalists about what kind of honesty reporters owe their sources—about  what they are obligated to tell and what they can conceal.
"Every journalist who  is not too stupid or too full of himself to notice what is going on  knows what he does is morally indefensible," New Yorker reporter Janet  Malcolm famously wrote. "He is a kind of confidence man, preying  on people's vanity, ignorance or loneliness, gaining their trust and  betraying them without remorse."
In her book, The Journalist  and the Murderer, Malcolm describes the real case of journalist Joe  McGinniss, who spent years interviewing and buttering up a convicted  murderer—only to publish a biography of the man arguing that he was  a psychopathic killer. The convict sued him for fraud; he had thought  the journalist was his friend. The case ended in a hung jury, but the  jurors had tended to favor the murderer.
For Malcolm, this case is a  metaphor for what all journalists do, especially in the context of profiles  and feature stories. Reporters seduce their sources with their attention,  their willingness to listen, all the while imagining a story in their  heads that has nothing to do with how the people they interview see  themselves.
No journalist is fair to his  or her subjects, Malcolm argues. There’s always a kind of deception;  the game is inherently unfair.
It’s worth noting that Malcolm  herself was unsuccessfully sued for libel by the main subject of one  of her nonfiction books. But other writers also make arguments like  Malcolm’s. “My only advantage as a reporter is that I am so physically  small, so temperamentally unobtrusive, and so neurotically inarticulate  that people tend to forget that my presence runs counter to their best  interests,” Joan Didion wrote. “And it always does. That is one  last thing to remember: writers are always selling somebody out.”
Plenty of journalists think  this is nonsense.  They say they’re always up front with sources.  They don’t play any games. They tackle tough questions right away,  and they don’t conceal their angles, even if this means that sources  may be hostile or unwilling to talk. NYU journalism professor Jay Rosen,  who teaches a course on press ethics, includes “You have not relied  on deception, lying or trickery to obtain the information in your account”  in his list of “how to know if you are behaving ethically as a journalist.”  If journalism is about freedom of information, many journalists argue,  that needs to apply as equally to reporting process as to the publishing  of stories.
No matter where we are or who  we're talking to, I heard a Pulitzer-Prize winning investigative reporter  say, "We have to act as if the daylight is always around us."
I had read The Journalist and  the Murderer the month before I started working on the students who  plan to be president story. I didn’t want to agree with Malcolm. I  thought it would be possible to write an arch saga of Harvard ambition  without selling anyone out. I imagined my conversations with Caleb as  a level playing field—a wannabe journalist and a wannabe politician  playing the interview game across the streets of Georgetown. Caleb had  experience dealing with the press. He had been hand-picked by Karl Rove  to serve as his assistant. I wasn't putting him in a situation that  he couldn't handle.
In many ways, of course, that was true. I never forced Caleb to say  anything he didn't want to say. He could respond to me in any way he  chose. He might not be able to control the angle of my article, but  he had full control over himself.
What I hadn't realized, though, was how different it would be for Caleb  to experience what it was like to have a journalist writing a full profile  about him. It wasn't just a phone call for a few quotes. I spent the  better part of two days with him. I went inside his apartment to take  notes on the magnets on his refrigerator and the peanut-butter-covered  spoons in his sink. And then, after all that, I wrote an article about  him based on a premise I had come up with before I met him and which  he thought was fundamentally unfair.
I’m still proud of the article I wrote. It engaged the questions I  had set out to answer, and I was careful to write in the first person  and distinguish what Caleb and others said from my own speculations.  I was confident enough in what I had written to submit the article to  a journalism contest, where it won first place in a regional round.
Yet the article did no favors to anyone who I interviewed—not Caleb,  not the Undergraduate Council hopeful who watched her musings about  ambition published just as she was beginning her UC presidential campaign,  not the freshmen Oval Office hopefuls whose quotes may have rebounded  on them in painful and upsetting ways.
Shortly after the article was published, I told Caleb I was working  on a short reflective follow-up—not a correction, but something of  a personal apology. This wasn’t something Caleb or any of my other  sources had requested; but I felt ambiguous enough about the reporting  process that I thought a follow-up might be appropriate.  I told my editors  about it, but then I stalled. I tried to write, but couldn't get down  anything that satisfied me. I wasn't sure what it was that I was trying  to apologize for.
What I had done to Caleb in  being deceptive about the angle of my story certainly wasn't nice. It  wasn't nice either to write a story about Caleb—or about any of the  others—that I had good reason to think would make them upset. By the  standards of personal ethics, it wasn’t particularly virtuous to publicize  my classmates’ ambitions in order to further my own.
As a journalist, though, I had no ethical responsibility to be nice.  My responsibilities were to the truth, as best as I could understand  it, and to my readers. It was my job to pose interesting questions and  find out the answers. As a reporter, making people unhappy or uncomfortable  is often a sign that you're onto something that's actually worth writing  about. Of course, there’s a calculation to be made about the value  of information to the public versus the distress it may cause to individuals—a  calculation that’s more difficult when the main public benefit is  entertainment.
I dithered over these questions for months, procrastinating on a follow-up  I wasn't sure it was appropriate to make.
Finally, last April, Caleb  approached The Crimson’s editors about the follow-up. He also raised  concerns about what I had said to him during the reporting process.   He suggested that by telling him, in that initial phone call, that he  didn't have to talk about the future, I had straight-out lied to him.  That would be a breach of journalistic ethics that could invalidate  parts of my article.
For me, the distinction I had  made to Caleb in our second phone call had been a real one. I assumed  he would be vague about his political future. I wanted him to talk about  what his ambition—real or perceived—meant at Harvard.
Of course, I understand his perspective. In the context of my larger,  purposeful deception of him, that moment may have put him unfairly at  his ease.
The Crimson’s masthead had  changed over since the fall, so I was called in to explain my reporting  process to a new set of editors. I talked them through what I had done,  telling them, in rough form, what I’ve written here. They agreed with  me that what I had done did not merit a retraction or an apology. But  they decided to add a clarification to the online photograph of Caleb  to emphasize that the campaign button on his chest had been added with  Photoshop. The whole situation, they said, was a little dubious. I said  I was still willing to write a personal reflection on reporting the  article, and they agreed that readers would benefit from the added context.
Maybe you put a toe over the line, a professional journalist told me.  But every journalist has done what you did. And some keep doing it over  and over again.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
WASHINGTON, D.C.—Yesterday afternoon, I stood in the parking lot of the Verizon Center along with my fellow Crimson writers waiting for the lot’s manager to come discuss the boot his staff had deemed necessary to put on our car’s front left tire.
With time to spare, I reflected on the game we had just watched—the Harvard men’s basketball team’s 86-70 loss to No. 13 Georgetown—and two moments from the contest remained particularly clear in my mind.
The first happened with about four minutes remaining in the first half, when Crimson co-captain and star guard Jeremy Lin stole the ball and raced down the court on a fast break. All that stood in the way of Lin and two points was the Hoyas’ imposing standout forward Greg Monroe, who finished the game with 16 points, 16 rebounds, five blocks and four steals.
But despite the 6’11 juggernaut obstructing his path to the basket, Lin fearlessly attacked the net. Taking to the air, the Harvard guard went up and under—twice—to evade Monroe’s block attempt and put away the layup.
The basket brought the Crimson within two, 33-31, and Harvard would tie the score on its next possession before giving up an 11-0 run that allowed Georgetown to run away with the game.
The second moment that stood out most to me came in the contest’s closing minutes, with the game already out of the Crimson’s reach, when Harvard coach Tommy Amaker sent out a lineup of sophomore forward Keith Wright and four freshmen: Christian Webster, Brandyn Curry, Kyle Casey, and Dee Giger.
It seemed like the kind of move many coaches would employ in a blowout defeat—let your rookies eat up garbage time, keep your veterans from getting hurt, and live to fight another day. But the five guys on the court weren’t exactly benchwarmers Amaker was handing out meaningless minutes to. Harvard’s young guns have seen significant playing time this season—Webster has even started in place of injured sophomore guard Max Kenyi—and their play will be critical to the Crimson’s success in its quest for its first-ever Ivy League title.
What do these two images have in common? More importantly, what do they mean for Harvard’s chances in the Ancient Eight hunt? I’m glad I asked.
To answer the first question, both should give Crimson fans reason for optimism and cause for concern.
Lin is a legit NBA prospect, an Ivy League Player of the Year frontrunner, and one of the greatest players in Harvard history.
“We have a sensational player in Jeremy Lin,” Amaker said after the game, “one that can carry us for stretches at a time.”
The senior has made a name for himself by rising to the occasion against tough opponents, dropping 30 and 25 points, respectively, against UConn and Boston College this season. Yesterday, it seemed like he was on his way to another memorable performance, and the way he went at Monroe without hesitation was inspiring.
“Lin is terrific in every facet of the game,” Georgetown coach John Thompson III said, “in how he’s so poised, keeps putting pressure on you.”
But after Lin went 3-for-3 from the field with nine points in the first half, the Hoyas threw double team after double team at him in the second and kept him relatively quiet—Lin scored just two points in the game’s final 17 minutes and finished with 15 overall.
This is bound to happen sometimes, especially against good teams. But when it does, Lin’s teammates need to step up and draw the defense’s attention away from the Harvard star. Yesterday, besides a few spurts of hot play from Wright and sophomore Oliver McNally, the Crimson failed to pick up the slack.
As for the rookies spending more time running down the court than they do riding the pine, that also has its ups and downs. It’s encouraging that Amaker trusts his young players—and he should, since he recruited them. They’re a talented group who represent Harvard and Amaker’s commitment to revitalizing a program that has remained stagnant for decades.
But they’re still freshmen, and yesterday their inexperience showed. Webster, playing in front of his hometown crowd, seemed nervous, putting too much into his shots and clanging them off the rim. Casey made a few nice plays, but got into foul trouble and—not that he can really be blamed for this—was woefully overmatched in the few instances he was stuck guarding Monroe. Giger committed three turnovers in 11 minutes of play.
Still, Georgetown is a top-25 team and was a 13.5-point favorite coming into the game, so what does this have to do with the Ivy League schedule, which will pit Harvard against less talented competition? Not much in a direct sense, but it does provide some insight into what the Crimson is up against as it tries to unseat defending Ancient Eight champ Cornell.
The Big Red also played a skilled Big East squad this weekend in St. John’s, and Cornell took down the Red Storm, 71-66. St. John’s is no Georgetown, but after watching that game at Madison Square Garden, it was apparent that the Big Red won despite lacking its opponent’s athleticism and raw talent. Cornell’s advantage came from its discipline and poise, instilled in the team by its veteran leadership, spearheaded by the impressive senior trio of Ryan Wittman, Louis Dale, and Jeff Foote. Even when St. John’s pulled ahead, the Big Red kept its composure and found good looks at the basket.
Against Georgetown, unless the offense was running through Lin and the Hoyas weren’t neutralizing him with persistent double teams, Harvard seemed lost. The Crimson failed to generate quality offensive opportunities time and time again, and when it realized it couldn’t ride its star the entire game, Harvard simply fell apart.
The Crimson is in a better position to challenge for an Ivy title than ever before this year, but unless the squad learns how to function when Lin is prevented from taking it to the hole at will and stays focused in the face of adversity, Harvard will simply be an exciting team that has little shot at making the NCAA Tournament.
There’s still time for that to change, and one bad game against Georgetown doesn’t mean that the Crimson doesn’t have what it takes to make a tourney run. But yesterday’s contest showed that right now Harvard is nowhere near where it wants to be as team, and the Crimson’s quest for an Ivy championship will make noise but can’t be taken seriously unless Lin’s teammates can ease the burden on him and the freshmen mature quickly and start making better decisions.
Maybe yesterday’s loss will serve as a wakeup call and set the wheels to success in motion. Or maybe Harvard will have to wait for next year.
—Staff writer Loren Amor can be reached at lamor@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
