Sections
A medical student has gone missing at Yale, Penn has reduced its lectures to 60 seconds, and a retired Yale employee almost shot up the HR office.  Add to that the fact that Harvard and Yale have posted 30 percent endowment losses, and we're left to conclude that the Ivy League might be going mad.  More after the jump.
Yale
Medical student Annie Le went missing on Tuesday—less than a week before her scheduled wedding to her college sweetheart. Authorities still have had no luck in finding out her whereabouts.
Meanwhile, a 61-year-old retired Yale employee  armed with a gun and ammunition, believed to be targeting Yale's HR building, was spotted and arrested on the same block. “We presume that he was headed toward a University building because it’s all University buildings around there,” University Vice President and Secretary Linda Lorimer told the Yale Daily News.
Anyway, Yale's endowment has fallen $1 billion more than expected, and their provost has shaved off his signature mustache, so we're left to conclude that New Haven might be a bit off kilter.
Penn
The University of Pennsylvania is sponsoring four short outdoor talks each semester, consisting of lectures that are 60 seconds each, to give professors an opportunity to showcase their research. With only a minute to talk, maybe these professors will have to start speaking as fast as high school CX debaters (start at 0:36).
In the meantime, Penn students have been flocking to religious organizations. Maybe they're looking for someone to explain what they should do now that there aren't any more jobs?
Columbia
While Harvard seems to be moving to halt construction in Allston, Columbia officially kicked off construction for their new 17-acre campus in Manhattanville yesterday. Of course, their endowment fell only 16 percent this past year, so they may have a bit more wiggle-room—both in terms of spending and building space.
Sections
Most Harvard students eat meat. And most Americans probably think of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals as an extremist group.
You wouldn’t have known it at the debate the Harvard College Vegetarian Society organized this afternoon between Wesley N. Hopkin ’11, a social studies concentrator and member of the Harvard Speech and Parliamentary Debate Society, and Bruce G. Friedrich, vice president of policy and government affairs for PETA.
The most heated dispute concerned our own Harvard University Dining Services. Hopkin praised HUDS: “They are moving in the right direction,” he said. “We can, generally speaking, eat meat or eat meat products with a relatively clear conscience even now.”
Friedrich responded sharply. He noted that HUDS buys eggs from cage-free farms, but said that is the only bright spot. “Eating meat in HUDS when they are doing nothing for farmed animals, and eating meat in the real world, in any restaurant around here,” he said, “for people here who said you do eat meat: that is unethical.” Get the skivvy on Hopkin's response and more after the jump.
Throughout most of the debate, though a slim majority of the packed Science Center audience admitted to eating meat, Hopkin conceded Friedrich’s arguments about the immorality of being a carnivore in today’s world. PETA seemed downright reasonable.
Hopkin and questioners from the audience rarely presented compelling reasons to dispute the main thrust of Friedrich’s well-supported argument. The PETA leader argued that facts overwhelmingly show that eating meat is bad for the environment, for the world's poorest, and for the conscious experiences of animals. Instead of disputing Friedrich's figures, Hopkin and others raised abstract intellectual questions heard in Social Studies 10 and “Justice”: How can we compare animal pain with human pain? And can animals be a part of the social contract?
Friedrich's argument, by contrast, was direct and sure of its moral clarity. Throughout the event, he peppered his arguments with colorful quotations from celebs and intellectuals alike:
From Paul McCartney: “It’s staggering when you think about it. Vegetarianism takes care of so many things in one shot: ecology, famine, cruelty.”
From Leo Tolstoy: “Vegetarianism is the root of humanitarianism.”
And from Cameron Diaz, on eating bacon: “It’s like eating my niece.”
Hopkin, the subtle debater, conceded that today's factory farming practices are "unconscionable, and should not be permitted." Instead, he wondered whether better farming techniques could ever create a world in which eating meat was ethical. He advocated an approach to animal rights that focused on the social contract instead of utilitarianism, and on leveraging consumer power to work for better farming practices instead of abstaining from eating meat.
During the question and answer session, Harvard’s lofty minds posed provocative questions:
Is it ethically permissible to eat the meat leftovers of your friend sitting across the table at dinner?
How anthropocentric is the social contract, after all?
Cuteness aside, can we kill kangaroos in the barren outback of Australia?
And: is it morally responsible to own a pet—or should you buy a bonzai tree?
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons
Sections
Every house comes together in its own way. Pfoho, with its remote location, unpronounceable name, and endangered polar bear mascot, is a bit more conscious of its shortcomings than most (or so it seems to this chauvinistic Cabot cod). But its hardy residents, fresh off the shuttle, are happy to celebrate them.
An email the HoCo sent out over the house open to announce the second year of their newest tradition contains fully 10 instances of their ubiquitous “pf.” There are three “pfailure”s, followed by “pfun” and even “pflove." Why are these polar bears so emotional?
It’s pFML, or pFuck My Life—the Pfoho version of the popular blog “FMyLife: Get the guts to spill the beans.” More after the jump.
The blog that inspired the wall says it “is a space where you can let it all out and unwind by sharing the little things that screw with your day, and maybe realize that you are not alone in experiencing day to day crap.”
Pfoho’s version is a prominent swath of wall on the second floor of its dining hall. The HoCo’s message calls for students to “Pull out and iron out all of those job rejection letters and failed midterms wrinkled and inside your trashcan AND/OR think up all of your favorite recent pfail stories,” post them on the wall anonymously or signed, then “Smile & feel accomplished/cleansed” and finally “Read all the other posts and stop feeling like you are all alone in your troubles. Pfailure is pfun!!!”
The HoCo decided to divert a few dollars from stein club to purchase a healthy supply of notecards, pens, and tacks for students who want to post. Pfoho residents are confident it will fill up when midterms and job applications begin, but so far the results reveal mostly repression.
"I'm a virgin! pFML" wrote one poster. Another fantasized about a dreamy professor. And one student decided to write about finding poop in a shower (what would that mean to a creative psychoanalyst?).
Quelling any concerns for the awesomeness of we droppers of the H-bomb, two more confident posters showed the full range of Harvard swag. "I just got a BlackBerry last week. I dropped it in a garbage can on Saturday night. It's landed in a cup. The cup was half-full of beer. I no longer have a Blackberry," shared one conspicuous consumer. Another wouldn't have been impressed, and wrote in impeccable script (who needs to text?): "I love organic chemistry, and I don't mind that it has taken over my (social) life."
Though most of them have yet to open up, Pfoho residents seem to like their wall.
“I’m personally a fan of places where people write things on walls at 4 a.m. in the middle of an all-nighter,” said Pfoho resident Natalia I. Irizarry-Cole ’11. “It’s nice to know you’re not in it alone.”
When asked whether the wall would keep Harvard students from taking their failures seriously and learning from them as they should, new Pfoho resident Graham M. Frankel ’12 said that “we go to Harvard, and we end up internalizing failure and work hard regardless, and in the exact moment, it’s nice to laugh.”
Pfoho HoCo co-chair Laura Jaramillo ’10 said that the pFML wall is helpful because “in a really high stress environment, everyone needs an outlet.” She added that the wall makes the house closer: “Little things like that all help a feeling of community.”
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Robbot
