News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Perhaps with the real Hermione Granger sitting on their side of the field, the Brown Bears could have borrowed her Time-Turner to reconsider their final play call. But in the muggle world, the Bears will have to live with their decision: down by only three points with under five seconds remaining and poised on the Harvard 25-yard line, Brown coach Phil Estes elected to keep his field goal unit on the sideline and take one last shot at the end zone. Brown quarterback Kyle Newhall took the snap out of the shotgun formation and lofted the ball for wide receiver Bobby Sewall in the right side of the end zone.
Sewall elevated to make the would-be game-winning catch as time expired, but senior linebacker Jon Takamura was there to make sure the ball did not end up in the hands of a Brown wide out as time expired. With the final whistle, the Crimson (1-1, 1-0 Ivy) took home its Ivy League opener, 24-21, in front of 17,263 fans on Friday night under the lights at Harvard Stadium. “It was a good thrown ball, [and] I thought I was in good position,” said Sewall, who finished with 116 all-purpose yards and three TDs. “[I] went up for it, and there was a swarm of crimson there.” Brown’s decision to pass for t
he end zone rather than attempt a 42-yard field goal that would have sent the game into overtime left many fans scratching their heads. But for Brown head coach Phil Estes, the decision was a no-brainer. “I don’t have a kicker that can kick the ball that far,” Estes said. “I know what our kicker can do, and that’s not within his range. I’d rather throw it up to my three best guys and give them a chance to make the play.” But for Brown (0-2, 0-1 Ivy) to simply get a chance to win the game took some magic in its own right. Down 24-14 with 3:07 remaining in the
, it looked as if Harvard would easily walk away with an early-season victory over the team it shared the Ivy League crown with last season. But thanks to an 80-yard touchdown drive and a recovered onside kick, Brown managed to put itself in a position to win the game with under a minute to play. Starting at his own 20-yard line, Brown quarterback Kyle Newhall-Caballero in h
is second career start orchestrated an 80-yard touchdown drive in which he threw for seventy yards, rushed for ten more, and completed an eight-yard touchdown pass to Sewall with 34 seconds remaining. After Drew Plichta’s extra point attempt was good, the Bears trailed by just three, 24-21. And as Brown lined up for the onsides kick, Harvard knew all it had to do was come u
p with the football to all but assure victory. But sophomore Alex Gedeon was unable to hold on to the 13-yard kick from Brown’s Nathan Lovett and Chimso Okoji recovered the ball for the Bears at its own 43-yard line with 32 seconds remaining. Newhall’s opening rush for 18 yards and the subsequent pass to Trevan Samp for 14 yards placed the ball at the Harvard 25-yard line with under thirty seconds remaining and the Bears down by three. Newhall took three shots for receiver Sewall in the end zone, but each landed incomplete and Harvard snuck away with the victory. “Brown gave us everything they possibly had, and we’re fortunate enough to squeak it out,” said Crimson coach Tim Murphy, whose team was defeated by Brown last season on the road, 24-22. “Though it
wasn’t necessarily pretty in the last two minutes of the game, the kids finished it.” Also making his second career start at quarterback was junior Collier Winters (223 yards, 2 TD), whose second half heroics helped Harvard overcome a 14-10 halftime deficit. On the Crimson’s second drive after halftime, Winters led Harvard with both his arm and his feet on a 92-yard drive that culminated in a three-yard touchdown run from Winters, giving Harvard a 17-14 lead it would not relinquish. After a short rush by rookie Treavor Scales, Winters completed a 38-yard pass to junior wide receiver Chris Lorditch, who ran out of bounds at the 50-yard line. Winters scrambled for ano
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Right now river house residents can take advantage of the nice weather and go for a run outside, or they can make their way over to the Malkin Athletic Center in their gym shorts. But what will happen when the snow gets too high, the cold too unbearable, and the MAC's 10 p.m. closing time too early? While freshmen have little to turn to besides the Law School's  Hemenway gym, upperclassman can resort to their house gyms. That is, if they can find them.
This is the first of a series of posts showcasing (and judging) Harvard's house gyms. Each gym will receive somewhere between one and five stars. Today, following the jump, we consider everyone's favorite neighborhood: Adams, Lowell, and Quincy.
Adams House Gym (**)
Maybe it is a testament to Flyby's inexperience with the multi-building complex that is Adams House, but finding the house's gym along a subterranean path filled with beautiful murals was nearly impossible. After asking for directions, Flyby finally found the two-room gym, which is in the house's basement nearby the Mt. Auburn Street entrance. While Adams' is the only house reviewed today that split its cardio and weightlifting equipment, the layout failed to give this prison-like gym a sense of space. Instead, it felt hot and cramped.
The equipment in the weightlifting room had no semblance of order or organization. Both rooms had awkward and intruding pipes in the ceiling, making the spaces feel even busier. The gym lacked a television. In Adams' defense, the entire floor was nicely covered with green interlocking mats. The cardio room included three elliptical machines/cross ramps, a treadmill, a bike, an erg (Concept 2), and a stairs machine.
Lowell House Gym (*)
Thank goodness Lowell House residents live so close to the MAC. Their gym is simply underequipped. Most significantly they lack a treadmill and an erg. They don't have a television either. Their gym is in an unlabeled, converted squash court in C entry. They do have three bike machines, but two of them look like they're decades old. There is one elliptical machine/cross ramp, an assortment of dumbbells, two inflated balls for ab exercises and some weightlifting equipment. The gym is small and the floor has a smattering of exercise mats covering it.
To Lowell's credit it does have some quality exercise facilities outside the gym proper which were not included in this assessment. They have a rock climbing room, a basketball hoop in a squash court, and a handful of usable squash courts.
Quincy House Gym (****)
You can take an elevat0r to the Quincy gym. It's one floor below the entrance to the house office and sits next to the Bullitt Room. The room is clearly labeled a "Fitness Center" and requires Quincy swipe access to enter. Inside this very blue, mirror-lined room sit five  elliptical machines/cross ramps, two treadmills, two bikes, well-organized dumbbells, an erg, and one television set in the corner. The room feels much bigger than both Lowell and Adams and had the most cardio equipment of the three. The only thing unbecoming about the Quincy House gym were the random tears in the gym's carpeting.  And that's why it tops today's list, with four stars.
Sections
 
Right this second, in Boston’s South End, the Berkeley Berklee Beantown Jazz Festival is in full swing. What are you still doing here on campus? Hurry over to the corner of Massachusetts and Columbus Avenues, where Ernie Andrews, Plas Johnson, and Melvin Sparks are playing on the Target Stage (681 Columbus Ave), and Eguie Castrillo and his orchestra are playing on the Dunkin Donuts Stage (594 Columbus Ave). They’re the last free outdoor shows of the day, so don’t miss out. We’ve even looked up the directions for you.
But if you really can’t make it in time, you can always head to the Scullers Jazz Club (400 Soldiers Field) tonight to hear Kurt Elling sing the music of Johnny Coltrane and John Hartman. Tickets are $28, and there are shows at 8 and 10 p.m.  Get the details here.
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Jlencion
