Sections
Harvard is like Hogwarts in so many ways—we’ve got the house system, we’ve got Annenberg, we’ve even got Quidditch—but one thing notoriously absent is any form of love potion.
Harvard is known for a lot of things, but for better of for worse, a thriving dating scene is not one of them.
Sanyee Yuan ’12 hopes to change all this with the new-and-improved second season of Harvard’s premiere dating show, “Love@Harvard.”
“Upperclassmen always say freshman year was the best for meeting people and the dating scene becomes a little nonexistent after that,” said Yuan, the host and executive producer of the show.  “When people talk about their futures here, they talk about concentrations and jobs, never about finding a significant other.”
The HUTV reality show, created last year by Emma Coleman ’09, hopes to bring love back into the picture by catalyzing relationships in ten minutes or less. More after the jump.
In each monthly online episode, a student bachelor or bachelorette interrogates three hopeful suitors with burning questions like:
-- What would you do to keep the flame of a Quad-River love burning?
-- What romantic dinner could you make me out of food from your house dining hall?
-- Are you a Widener or a Lamont?
-- What amazing date can we go on for less than a dime?
These questions put Harvard students’ oft-wasted creativity to good use, Yuan says.
After three rounds of fast-paced responses, the bachelor or bachelorette will (hopefully) emerge with a newly-found lover and the seeds of a relationship.
This year, the show is revamping its repertoire with themed episodes. The roommate-themed premiere, set to debut in the next couple of weeks, features three roommies as the lucky contestants attempting to woo the lovely bachelorette. December’s episode is set to star eager freshmen, while future themes may include guest appearances by MIT and BC students, or perhaps psychology concentrators.
“I know Harvard people already over-analyze things, so having an episode with psych students could be really funny,” Yuan said.
Season Two will also showcase bonus features like behind-the-scenes interviews and deleted footage to entertain viewers.
Will the new season revolutionize love in the Ivory Tower?
“I really object to some aspects of the hookup culture in that some individuals feel pressure to engage in it as the only way of meeting people,” Rachel Singh ’10 said.  “People don’t always have the courage to take that step and ask someone to dinner, so it’s good that this show promotes a healthy dating culture.“
One of Yuan’s dreams for the season is to film the finale in front of a live audience in Lowell Lecture Hall in the spring.
“It could be a seniors-only episode, maybe a last-chance-at-love kind of theme?” she hinted.
Want to test the waters of love as a contestant, or maybe just admire from afar?  The Season Two teaser, and all Season One episodes, can be viewed at http://hutvnetwork.com/shows/loveatharvard.
Sections
Check out the new thecrimson.com when it launches at 8:07 p.m. tonight!
Sections
Of all the confections to be had in the Dining Hall these days, there can be little doubt over the one type of cookie that elicits the most intrigue.
FlyBy refers, of course, to the Ranger Cookie, the brownish, semi-gooey, quasi-crunchy treat on the menu all too infrequently that can fit in the palm of your hand.
And while students line up to take one or five or maybe even ten of these cookies back to their tables during lunch or dinner, no one seems to know exactly what Ranger Cookies are, why they taste so good, or, for that matter, why on earth they’re even called “Ranger Cookies” in the first place. This is Hahvahd after all, not some sort of dude ranch in one of the many fly-over states between here and LAX….
To read more about FlyBy’s quest to find the answers to these questions or simply to get to know the HUDS cookie we all know and love, read more after the jump.
In setting out to discover just what exactly is in the Harvard breed of the Ranger Cookie, FlyBy first contacted Ted Mayer, Executive Director of HUDS, who, in an email, wrote that “This secret recipe, long sought by Harvardians, and kept in a vault with only three people in the world, each knowing only a portion of the recipe, without knowing each other's identities, may be had by contacting Martin Breslin at the above email.”
Ooooh, a hunt!
At first, FlyBy felt a little bit like the Hardy Boys or the Boxcar Children or whichever group of kids it was that used to ask lots of annoying questions about insignificant things before solving an even more inconsequential mystery.
But then it remembered that Ranger Cookies are no trivial issue and e-mailed Martin Breslin, Director for Culinary Operations, who came through with the scoop—the dough?—right away.
According to Breslin, the cookies are a mixture of oats, coconut, rice krispies, margarine (ewww), eggs, and flour. And, he added, even though the cookies are baked fresh each day that they're served, HUDS buys the dough from Otis Spunkmeyer! Quelle Horreur!
Actually, come to think of it, the foreign provenance of Ranger Cookies isn't that big of a deal in the larger scheme of things. At first, FlyBy was upset to learn that they weren't a sustainable, local crop like squash or whatever, but it turns out that these cookies are pretty darn delicious, and FlyBy will take whatever it can get in that department, especially here at Harvard.
And why are they called “Ranger Cookies?”
“The origin of name ‘Ranger cookie’ is rather interesting,” Breslin wrote FlyBy. “Some claim that the cookie originated in Texas and was originally called the ‘Texas Ranger Cookie’ or ‘The Lone Ranger Cookie.’ The recipe is similar to the Cowboy cookie which has oats, chocolate chips and pecans.”
Yeah, Ranger Cookie’s definitely the best name out of those choices. Can you imagine raving to all your friends about ‘The Lone Ranger Cookie?’ FlyBy certainly can’t—too many syllables, man.
Besides, these cookies by any other name might not bear the same significance for devotees, like Currier sophomore Liza Pincus.
“What I like the most about them is that no one knows exactly what they are, and no one bothers to ask,” she said.
That is, no one until FlyBy.
Sections
The Bostonist, a website about all things Boston (go figure), discovered Harvard FML yesterday, and they didn't have anything all too flattering to say about it.
Starting with the headline (Harvard FML: Because Going to Harvard Is Just That Hard), it was clear that this wasn't going to be a glowing review of the website. The post offered a sharp criticism of Harvard FML, a creation of the Harvard Voice, and lampooned Harvard FMLs often mundane posts. The author even recommended that a "my life is average" site might have been more accurate—not exactly the first time this idea has been proposed.
Sections
Kosher diners will have to wait one more night before they can eat at Hillel again. The dining hall, which closed last night due to a sewage leak on the kitchen floor, will be closed again tonight.
FlyBy was assured by a Hillel spokesperson that it was just a little leak, no big deal.
But according to David P. Davidson, director of operations for HUDS, a floor drain located underneath the kitchen was backed up, causing a small puddle of sewage from the restroom upstairs. More details after the jump.
After an afternoon of intense sanitation (large blasts of steam could be heard coming from the closed doors), the Cambridge Health Inspectors okayed the kitchen for production once again.
Jack G. Barbosa, food supervisor for Hillel, said that all the food was thrown out last night. Cooks were not let into the kitchen until after 3 p.m., so they did not have time to prepare service for tonight.
All that remains seems to be a metal cart of chocolate chip and oatmeal raisin cookies that FlyBy noticed waiting patiently in the dining room earlier today.
Hillel Dining Hall will reopen tomorrow night. Until then, diners can turn to frozen dinners in Kosher corners of dining halls. Or a cookie.
Sections
In honor of America's finest, there will be no shuttle service today.
Yeah, we don't get it either, but all we know is if you want to do anything today (except for, well, staying in the Quad), you'll have to walk, not ride, to wherever you may want to go.
It could be worse. On this day last year, it was 40 degrees outside according to the Northeast Regional Climate Center, but today, it's a pleasant 53 degrees. And you thought global warming was all bad news.
Sections
GoToBus, an internet travel agency, is now offering a direct bus trip from Cambridge to New York. A one-way ticket will cost you $20 and roundtrip tickets currently cost $40. That's a lot cheaper than a plane ticket.
Once the service starts operating regularly on Dec. 4, buses will leave Cambridge at 1 Bennett St. (near the Charles Hotel) on Friday at 7 a.m., 1 p.m., and 5 p.m, on Saturday at 7 a.m., and on Sunday at 7 a.m., 1 p.m., and 5 p.m., according to Amy Veiga, the marketing manager for GoToBus.
The New York City bus stop is at the intersection of 9th Avenue and 42nd Street. The bus will leave NYC on Fridays at 9:30 a.m., 4:30 p.m., 7:30 p.m., on Saturdays at 7:30 p.m., and on Sunday at 9:30 a.m., 4:30 p.m., and 7:30 p.m.
The bus will also run Nov. 25, the day before Thanksgiving. Seats are still available, according to Veiga. They will leave Cambridge at 7 a.m., 1 p.m., and 5 p.m. There will be a return bus leaving New York City Sunday at 9:30 a.m., 4:30 p.m., and 7:30 p.m.
The new service is offered in cooperation with Azumah Bus.
Hat Tip: Wicked Local
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons/Bernd Untiedt
