News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Matt Brown, one of the most highly-touted basketball prep stars in the Northeast, has committed to play for coach Tommy Amaker and the Harvard men’s basketball team, the Northstar Basketball Blog reported on its Twitter page on Jul. 16. 
The Northfield Mount Hermon (Mount Hermon, Mass.) rising senior held offers from every Ivy League school and received serious interest from major programs such as Stanford, Notre Dame, and Virginia. 
But for the 6’3, 190-pound Brown—who stars on his school’s football team as well—the decision to join the Crimson was an easy one. 
“I committed to Harvard because that’s the place where I want to go—to play for Coach Amaker,” Brown said. “He’s a big name. When he first came to Harvard, it really opened up my eyes. I wasn’t really considering Ivy League schools in the past.”
Harvard’s prestigious reputation and prominent name also proved appealing to Brown.
“[Harvard] is the No. 1 university in the world,” he said. “When I visited, I felt the connection, and I felt more comfortable than the other places I went to. It’s an amazing opportunity. Hopefully, I can take advantage of it when I’m here.”
As the first Amaker recruit to commit to the 2010 class, Brown gives the third-year coach a solid start in his attempt to bring in three consecutive highly-regarded recruiting classes. 
Due to NCAA regulations, Amaker and his staff are not allowed to comment on unsigned recruits. 
Just as Amaker was able to bring in one of the top players from Massachusetts last year in Kyle Casey, Brown’s addition not only reaffirms Amaker’s commitment to recruiting in-state talent, but also clearly demonstrates his aptitude of convincing blue-chip prospects to play in the Ivy League.
“Coach Amaker pretty much has his pickings [in Massachusetts] if the kid can qualify [academically],” Casey said. “That’s the big focus—keeping kids who are able to play at the level and getting them hyped about Harvard.” 
While Amaker bears the responsibility for bringing top-notch recruits to Harvard, Brown is intent on helping his future coach in attracting other elite prospects to Cambridge. 
“I’ve been talking to a few players from all over the country at camps that I’ve attended,” Brown said. “We’ve been ‘Facebooking’ each other and really keeping in touch.” 
Following in the footsteps of 6’10 sophomore Andrew Van Nest and senior guard Dan McGreary—both Mount Hermon graduates and current Crimson basketball athletes – Brown will give Harvard another key player in the program’s quest for an Ivy League championship and a trip to the NCAA tournament. 
Quick, versatile, and equipped with a high basketball IQ, Brown has combined his ability to distribute and shoot the ball as a combo guard with a knack for guarding defenders closely on the defensive end of the court. 
“[Brown’s] a big-time player,” Casey said. “As a guard, he’s physical, he’s got the foot speed to guard the one and the two positions. He has a lot of versatility in the back court and has a lot of strength to finish above the rim.” 
“I’m an extremely hard worker,” Brown said. “I do everything I can to win, to get the job done. 
With the recruiting process now behind him, Brown will focus on his senior season, looking to cap off a high school career in which he’s excelled in one of the most competitive conferences in the country.
“I want to continue to improve everyday—my ball handling, decision making, and three point shot, everything,” Brown said. “I also want to go out and have fun. Hopefully, we can bring home a championship.”
Although Brown won’t step out onto the court at Lavietes Pavilion until 2010, he gives fans something to look forward to. 
“Matt Brown will give Harvard a winner,” the promising star said. “Matt Brown will be a role model on and off the court and give Harvard someone exciting to watch.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
