News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cabot House Masters Jay M. Harris and Cheryl L. Harris announced their intention to step down as Masters of Cabot House at the end of the academic year in an e-mail to the House earlier this evening.
In the summer of 2008, Jay Harris, also a professor of Jewish studies and chair of the General Education Committee, was named Dean of Undergraduate Education by Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds. By June, the pair will have been in their posts for seven years.
“While we very much wanted to stay on through ten years as Masters, we feel that with Jay's new responsibilities in University Hall and the escalating demands of Cheryl's job we are unable to put in the time or do the job the way we think it ought to be done,” they wrote. “Cabot deserves better than we feel we can give it at this time, and so we think it is best that we step aside and allow the College to bring in some new blood.”
The news comes three days after Eliot House Masters Lino Pertile and Anna Bernsted wrote to their House that they would be stepping down after 10 years.
House Master vacancies are filled by Hammonds. In addition to Winthrop, Pforzheimer, and Eliot, Cabot will be the fourth House to receive new masters during her tenure.
--Check thecrimson.com for updates throughout the evening.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Out with Thanksgiving and in with Christmas, the holiday season is here!  As Harvard students flock back to campus with full stomachs and stressful schedules, one house takes the Christmukkah spirit to a new level.
As one of the smallest houses on campus, Kirkland prides itself on its strong community, but after a semester’s worth of Masters' Desserts with the Conleys and countless emails from the overactive house list, the time has come for the most unique Kirkland experience—Secret Santa week.
“More than anything else Secret Santa week is the initiation for sophomores and new members of the house to truly become part of Kirkland,” says HoCo chair Brad M. Paraszczak ’11.
For one week, Kirkland residents find themselves secretly doting and being doted upon, waking up to hot breakfast in bed, returning to their rooms to find their suite transformed into a winter wonderland, or bumping into a house “crush” waiting for them with a bottle of champagne and freshly baked cookies.  And that’s just the private stuff. More after the jump.
Editor's Note:The author is a resident of Kirland House, a fact not originally disclosed in this post.
Kirkland Dining hall will transform into a musical theatre and chapel at once, complete with skits, serenades, fake marriages, and a few romantic dinners sprinkled here and there.
“I got married to my roommate for one of our friends who said we were always together so we might as well be married,” said Paraszczak.  “There’s always someone who requests a lap dance or a strip tease but they’re not specific so what they want always turns into five guys and they blindfold the one—that actually happened to me last year.”
If the merriment of the week doesn’t tire everyone out, Kirklanders will conclude with the annual Holiday Dinner and Dance, less formally known as “Incestfest.” Bringing out-of-house lovers? Highly discouraged.  Making out with that house crush you’ve had your eye on? Highly encouraged.
With over 50% of the House participating and a whole extra day of dining hall skits, Kirkland should be high on holiday cheer.  With the "Single Ladies" dance being so 2008, however, the floor is open for the next big thing.  What will it be?  You’ll have to check back to find out.
Sections
As if Harvard students needed more ways to procrastinate, Teymour Shahabi '06 recently launched Dantoon, a site that he calls "the world's first search engine of thoughts."
If you ever wanted to Tweet, Facebook, Digg, blog, e-mail, and FML all in one post, Dantoon is the place to do it. The social networking site, open only to Harvard students for now, was originally launched on Nov. 11 but redesigned and relaunched last weekend with a new home page. Find out how it works after the jump.
Each post begins with a subject line, like an e-mail, and follows with a boundless (as far as Shahabi knows) text entry box, like a blog post. You can post anything from a 140-character rant to a manuscript-in-progress. Unlike FML, it's not monitored except for potential spam that is flagged by other users. Shahabi says to think of it like YouTube, but for written content.
The idea came to him while he was a sophomore at Harvard, when he wanted to delve into the world of opera appreciation (yes, opera) but didn't know where to start. Shahabi said he was looking for an online repository of thoughts but could only come across the occassional useful blog post or two if he was really lucky.
This was an urgent problem. He really needed to find opera that people like him enjoyed listening to.
"I met a girl who was an opera singer," he said, "[so Dantoon] literally came as a need." See? Urgent.
The story behind the name is much less romantic. Actually, there is no story. Rather, there was only a list of criteria. The name had to have no preexisting meaning, it had to be easy to spell, it had to have the potential to be a verb, it could be no longer than two syllables, and so on. After spending many months putting random syllables together, Shahabi came upon "Dantoon."
What we find interesting about Dantoon is the optional "type" quiz that you can take upon registering. Here's one of the twelve questions: "If you ruled the world, your parties would be a) big, friendly, and fun, or b) social obligations and nothing more."
In the end, the user is assigned one of 16 Dantoon types (think Myers-Briggs, sort of) based on what he or she values. These types then help you find others who value the same things you do.
Sections
In a move sure to excite enthusiastic undergrads, the Boston Globe endorsed Alan Khazei ’83 in the special election for the Massachusetts senate seat left vacant by the death of Ted Kennedy.
“The 48-year-old Khazei offers a strong vision for success in the Senate, channeling the energy of activist groups and private-sector policy incubators while dedicating himself to the laborious task of building legislative coalitions,” wrote the Globe.
As a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Khazei has been popular on campus among those paying attention to the quest for Kennedy’s replacement. More after the jump.
Elizabeth J. Newton ’11, who has been active in the Khazei campaign, is thrilled with the news.
“I think that Khazei's major challenge all along has been name recognition,” she wrote in an email to Flyby. “Once people learn about how much good he's done, they love him, but many people simply don't know who he is...I think [the Globe’s endorsement] will draw much more serious attention to a candidate who has been fantastic from the beginning.”
The Globe lauded Khazei’s high potential in personal style and leadership as well as his progressive political approach, writing:
“In supporting Khazei, the Globe believes that this state’s future depends on new ideas. The next Massachusetts senator should be the person who best embodies forward-looking thinking, and not the traditional paths to power.”
Khazei has habitually trailed behind in polls since announcing his candidacy on September 24th. But don’t take down those “Alan Khazei for Senate” signs peppering your dorm window just yet—as our current President knows well, it ain't over till it's over.
Sections
Does no one want to be a House Master anymore?  Three days ago, Eliot House Masters Lino Pertile and Anna Bernsted announced that they will be stepping down after a 10-year tenure.  Today, in an e-mail to their House open list, Cabot House Masters Jay M. Harris and Cheryl L. Harris said their good-byes.
"Cabot deserves better than we feel we can give it at this time, and so we think it is best that we step aside and allow the College to bring in some new blood," Harris wrote.
We almost fell out of our chairs. Et tu, Jay? But why? We analyze the e-mail, after the jump.
Harris wrote that commitments to his position as the Dean of Undergraduate Education, as well as his wife Cheryl's work, would interfere with their ability to "do the job the way we think it ought to be done."
Fair enough. But do we also detect some bizarre emo-ness here?
"Back in the fall of 2002, Jay was asked if he was interested in being a Master; he, of course, brought the question home to Cheryl for deliberation. Neither of us really knew what the job entailed, and the effort to find out from those who had served or were serving as Masters was not all that revealing."
Hmm...is Harris trying to tell us that they weren't exactly crazy for the job in the first place? Sure, he said they eventually came to love their work. But that makes us wonder what this line really means: "We would not know how to describe it to our successors, other than to advise them to hang on for the ride of their lives."
In the rest of the e-mail, Harris thanked the Cabot community for providing "us with far more than we could ever provide you." Lovely, typical stuff. But the last paragraph, which contains shout-outs to various Cabot administrators and personnel, is perplexing.
"Finally, there is Susan, who, like Fidel Castro, outlasts them all. No one is more devoted to the House than she, and we are grateful for all that she has done for all of us during our time at Cabot."
We want to know the story behind this. Is there another reason that House Administrator Susan Livingston, besides her 28-year tenure, was compared to a dictator that the world just can't seem to get rid of?  Guess we non-Cabot residents just don't get it.
You can find out more at TheCrimson.com.
Sections
You know who they are...you find out every other week they're leading something new, all the while getting fellowships you've never heard of (and some you have) and having twice as much fun...
Nominate these stars for FM's Fifteen Most Interesting Seniors!  Shoot an email over to fm@thecrimson.com with suggestions and a short blurb on why your picks are so darn interesting.  Be on the lookout for the issue!
