Sections
Mass. House Representative Barnett "Barney" Frank has never been one to shroud his exasperation. (The man compared a woman to an inanimate household object, if you recall.) But it seems like his disinclination for coddling audience members has become a source of inspiration for at least one individual.
"Well, I guess you can say it started at Harvard in April when I had a debate with Congressman Barney Frank at the Kennedy School," says Joel Pollak '99, who is running for Congress. "I asked him a question, he lost his temper, and it turned into a very big thing. I got hundreds of Facebook messages and e-mails... I realized, 'Wow, people really wanted to challenge this person, and people felt like no one was speaking for them.'"
Pollak, who graduated from Harvard Law School this past year, decided Tuesday that he would be challenging Jan Schakowsky to represent the 9th district of Illinois. In an interview with FlyBy yesterday, Pollak said he had been considering politics as a career option even before the altercation, but the responses he received afterward inflamed a sense of urgency.
Pollak, who currently works in human rights law as a legal researcher for a think tank, will be on campus  Tuesday for a discussion with law professor Alan M. Dershowitz at 5:00 P.M. in Hillel.
Photo courtesy of Joel Pollak
Sections
Ye Olde Quad Library will be home to its first party of the new school year tonight, and FlyBy predicts its going to be a barn burner. "Rush Hour," a title that highlights interracial collaboration between the Black Students Association, Black Men's Forum, and Chinese Students Association, will kick off at 10 p.m, and better yet, admission is free.
"I basically thought it was a great buzz word," said Rebecca Gilmore '12, the BSA's Arts and Entertainment chair, who explained that the CSA chose the name "Rush Hour." She added that the BSA is trying to "encourage collaboration" with student groups not just within the black community, but also outside of it.
Well we here at FlyBy applaud this thinking outside the box, and while we can't be in attendance tonight, we've got some predictions as to how this East-meets-West hootenanny is going to go down. These predictions are, of course, entirely based on the most excellent movie from which the party derives its name, and we make no claim to accuracy. But in our hearts we know we're right, and you will too if you check out our predictions below.
The BMF will be in charge of the music. This is common sense. You never touch a black man's radio.
The CSA will brood around for the first hour or so while coming to terms with the fact that they have to party when they should be out looking for the diplomat's daughter. Or something like that. The BSA/BMF combo will pick up the slack.
An evil criminal mastermind will try to smuggle relics out of the library, forcing the BSA and CSA to unite in order to undermine this plot and save face. Someone will play "Make it Rain" and dollar bills will fall everywhere ya'll.
There will definitely be some "Kung Fu Fighting." Definitely. We've done some calculations, and we're pretty sure the kicks will also be fast as lightning.
Two freshmen will go to the hospital. No, that's not in the movie, we know. It's just the facts of life. Freshmen drink too much. They go to the hospital. Sorry for the spoiler parents, but if you get a phone call between the hours of midnight and 2 a.m., don't say we didn't warn you.
Now that the quad library is book-free (do they just call the whole thing SOCH now?), we look forward to many more parties of this sort. Who needs books anyway when you have a space to get together, put aside your differences, and just boogie? I'm sure all the quadlings would agree with us here. Especially in two months, when they have to shuttle themselves back and forth from Lamont, AKA Hell, every day.
Photos courtesy Wikimedia Commons
Sections
It's probably already been tossed around your House or club list, but if you haven't noticed, the venerable Gentlemen's Quarterly took it upon itself to provide a "heavily researched, possibly stereotypey, but still accurate guide" to America's 25 Douchiest Colleges. Thank heavens someone finally stepped forward to fill this gaping void in the journalistic landscape.
Kidding aside, we at FlyBy took our highly-ranked "Harvard douche" identity to heart, and have combed over the list utilizing our finely-tuned knowledge of douchery.  Where did GQ go wrong?  Who was left out? And when did they just get lazy?  Find out what the douchexperts have to say below.
(As a perhaps-belated warning to our elderly FlyByers, it's nearly impossible to write this post without using the word "douche" over 50 times, so proceed with caution.)
Who Got Tooled?
We begin with an analysis of the schools that didn't really deserve to land a spot on the list.  To preface this segment, we'd like to clarify that FlyBy holds itself to the strictest standards of urbandictionary.com style, which generally classify a "douchebag" as a "pretentious, sugar-coated" type of "asshole."  GQ seems to have expanded the lexicon for the word to anyone who fits a semi-humorous stereotype its editors have concocted.  We respectfully disagree with this method, and thus reject the top-25 ranking of these schools:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Who Got Snubbed?
Perhaps a better question is which schools really deserved to crack the list, but were left off due to GQ oversight.  We're got some ideas:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Why Was GQ So Lazy?
The magazine seems to have slapdashed a few picks along the way.  For example, the selection of Charter College, Wasilla, doesn't really make sense to us.  We assume, based on the GQ prediction that students will in 10 years be "Governor of Alaska," that the school is thrown in as a knock on Sarah Palin. But Palin never went there.  Is this just fact-checking laziness or joke-telling laziness?
The selection of Bob Jones also strikes us as lackadaisical.  Yes, ha ha, it's a highly religious school that used to lack accreditation.  But even Al Franken, who visited with the express purpose of making fun of the school, had to admit it wasn't that bad.  Halfhearted choice.
Finally, Harvard's (#4) write-up is weak.  Incredibly weak.  After Arizona State has 20 lines of commentary lavished upon it, Harvard, the Grandaddy of Them All, gets 24 words, total.  In fact, here's the whole thing:
In ten years, will be: A Harvard douche.
Douches emeriti: Benazir Bhutto, Lou Dobbs, John Quincy Adams, Mira Sorvino."
Uninspired.
We even have to take issue with the "Douches emeriti" picks.  Harvard has a nearly endless crop of potential options—Henry Kissinger, Ted Kaczyinski, Jared Kushner, etc.—and we get these four.  Benazir Bhutto?  For real? Last we checked, Bhutto won an international human rights prize before being assassinated.  And she's classified by the oh-so-knowledgeable GQ editors as one of the top four examples of "the Harvard douche."  Are they out of their minds? (Mira Sorvino also seems like a pretty random choice, but pales in comparison.)
At least the editors have a sense of humor about the whole enterprise, admitting "we were all kind of douchebags when we went to college."  But, in closing, we have to ask, if your full-time job is the type of "journalism" that involves compiling such lists...have things really changed?
(And yes, we understand the irony of spending 1000 words critiquing the list—but at least we don't get paid to do it.)
