News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 FAVORITES OF THE YEAR
MOVIE: “UP”
ALBUM:   LADY GAGA, “THE FAME MONSTER”
SINGLE:   MILEY CYRUS, “PARTY IN THE U.S.A”
BOOK:   “I DON’T READ BOOKS”
STUDENT PRODUCTION:   HPT 161: “ACROPOLIS NOW”
What was your favorite celebrity death of 2009? (MJ, Ted Kennedy,  Farrah Fawcett, Kanye’s dignity, etc)
- This is a morbid question.
- Roman Polanski’s freedom.
- Farrah because it was anal cancer. Who gets that?!?
What was your favorite use of the “Imma let you finish” meme?
- God, imma let you finish, but Sega had one of the best Genesis of  all time!
- Yo Balloon Boy, Imma let you finish, but Amelia Earhardt had one of  the best  disappearances of all time.
- Yo Descartes, I’m really happy for you, and Imma let you finish, but  empiricism is one of the best theories of epistemology of all time.  OF ALL TIME.
- Yo MLK, I’m really happy for you, Imma let you finish, but last night, I had one of the best dreams of all time. Of all time!
What was your favorite Lady Gaga stunt? YouTube links are considered appropriate answers.
- Lady Gaga reveals herself to be Peter “Petros” Shields in unconvincing disguise.
- The one where she jumps off a fucking building and dies.
- When she sat down to the piano on SNL wearing a rotating glass ball, preventing her from playing.
What was your favorite pandemic of 2009? This includes both newcomers like H1N1 and old standbys like obesity.
- BIEBER FEVER.
- Pandemic of Peruvian flute bands.
- Mono. I got it and it rocked my world.
In a short essay, please explain why “Kid A” is either superior or inferior to “In Rainbows.”
- I think this question is a prime example of why everyone on The Crimson hates Arts.
- I don’t really understand. I think these are albums by Radiohead, but I can’t be sure at this point. I like the song “High and Dry” a  lot and also the one from Romeo and Juliet.
- Honestly, “In Rainbows” is better. “Kid A” was out there—oh, look, weird music can get popular. But who the fuck cares if it’s popular or not when assessing an album? People do the shit they were doing  on that album better. I mean, I love some of those songs, and I like the whole philosophy behind the album—it’s very Cagean and shit. And that’s cool. But I rarely listen to Cage’s compositions.  I read his books and talk his talk when I’m drunk at parties, and then I go home, and I listen to Weezer. In that sense, I think “In Rainbows” is just better music...Radiohead is a band, and popular music is popular music. Anyone trying to conflate it to more than that in order to sustain some wet dream is fooling himself.
- In Rainbows was free to download, right? My boss at Borders Bookstore tells us that we’re not supposed to get people to sign up for the Borders Rewards program by telling them that it’s a free card because when we tell people something is free, “[we’re] essentially telling them that it’s worthless.” I guess he would say  Kid A is superior. I’m pretty sure we don’t have that in stock at  Borders though.
- Kid A is the best album of all time, full stop. I’m not feeling  nearly eloquent enough to explain the reasons why, so just go listen to “Idioteque” instead.
- “Kid A” was made first and old things are better than new things.
- Kid A is inferior, because the only thing superior to rainbows are unicorns.
Any other opinions on 2009 or the decade or anything?
- I’m an English major, so I read real books.
- WTF? Why is there a radio button for “I don’t read books” but not “I don’t listen to your twat music”?
- OBAMA-mania!!!!
- If it weren’t for Momentum having been such an awesome show, I never would have taken this shitty poll.
- You’ll never take me alive.
- Circumcision is necessary for a beautiful penis.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Wes Anderson has spent a decade as one of America’s most important filmmakers, and the better part of that same decade shaking the good will earned by the films that gave him his reputation. Anderson’s characters—idiosyncratic, often emotionally opaque and depressive—inhabit worlds whose visual splendor assumes the sentiment, both delicate and deliberate, of an auteur—his awareness of the history of cinema giving way to reverence and innovation in equal parts. His films identify with a generation still in turmoil over lost innocence and the transition between adolescence and adulthood. He crystallized that ethos in 2001 with “The Royal Tenenbaums,” his masterpiece. Since then, Anderson has done little more than replicate that film’s model, to no more than occasional success.
It could be that the creative slump punctuated by 2007’s stunningly bad “The Darjeeling Limited” is what makes Anderson’s sixth feature such a warm surprise. It could also be that “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is a light, lovely, and clever comedy that finds the director’s vision coinciding with pure entertainment for the first time in years. A stop-motion animated riff on Roald Dahl’s classic book, the film reunites Anderson with frequent screenwriting collaborator Noah Baumbach (director of “The Squid and the Whale”), casting George Clooney as the title character in a war for land and life against a trio of demonic factory-farmers. Clooney is the latest in a line of charismatic paterfamilias—common in the director’s films—whose hubris outstrips any thought of the well-being of those around him. Fox steals, sabotages, and generally goads the farmers into hunting him and his kin almost to the point of extinction, the reason for which never becomes totally clear. “I’m a wild animal,” he tells his wife and the audience. But that never sits quite right.
To be sure, the market for films typically branded ‘for kids’ has expanded in recent years, and “Fantastic Mr. Fox” anticipates an audience ready to take the film on its own terms. But in the spectrum between the aestheticized nostalgia of Spike Jonze’ “Where the Wild Things Are” and the ambitious visual and emotional scope of the latest releases from Pixar Studios, the film feels slightly ill at ease. By any standard other than its source material, “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is not a kids’ movie. The dialogue is packed with ironic jokes and self-referential winks that sail over children of the appropriate age to read Dahl, and while its narrative rarely stagnates (at barely an hour and a half, it can’t afford to), most of the film’s action operates a shade below that of an average episode of “Wallace and Grommit.”
But on those terms that it asks—merely those of an open mind—the film has considerable mileage. “Fantastic Mr. Fox” is a small wonder of mise en scène, richly crafted and painstakingly choreographed, allowing for the total control over composition to which Anderson always seemed to aspire in his earlier films. Anderson’s decision to shoot an animated film comes as no real surprise. It’s the natural end of a fascination with vibrant color schemes in his films in general—a runoff from his French New Wave influence—and specifically the stop-motion footage he experimented with in “The Life Aquatic.”
Live actors in a Wes Anderson movie put on a sort of theater of artifice; faces become masks, from behind which the humanity of a character can either struggle or fail to emerge. Perhaps the greatest failure of “The Darjeeling Limited” was in reversing this formula instead of developing on it. But the utterly blank faces of Fox, his family, and friends—posturing, wry, flummoxed, or brooding countenances as they fit their respective characters—allow for development that’s left totally up to the script. Fox’s son Ash, voiced by Jason Schwartzman, another perennial Anderson collaborator, strikes the perfect timbre between obnoxious humor and endearing awkwardness. Schwartzman’s delivery is appropriately adolescent, all but reprising a more frustrated Max Fischer—the protagonist of “Rushmore,” the movie that made both him and Anderson famous. The dynamic that Ash shares with his parents, his schoolmates, and particularly his cousin add charming wrinkles where “Fantastic Mr. Fox” could have been dangerously slick.
Of course, the question of a moral framework is more problematic. Anderson’s work has always been deeply moralizing—whether on the resilience of family or the fidelity of close friendship—but here he trivializes Fox’s recklessness. The casual way that he endangers and deceives everyone in the film, or how he neglects his own son to an almost condemnable degree, is never answered for. Instead, “Fantastic Mr. Fox”—dramatically revised from Dahl’s book—ends ambiguously, with its characters unchanged and the danger yet present. More puzzling than it is substantial, it doesn’t negate what was, until its very end, a happy detour for an artist desperately in need of some fresh scenery.
—Staff writer Ryan J. Meehan can be reached at rmeehan@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Not many students tell their parents they’re going to Harvard to study dystopian worlds run by a race of machines. But reading novels with these sorts of themes is exactly what over a hundred undergraduates have been doing this past semester in English 182: “Science Fiction.” Under the guidance of English professor Stephen L. Burt ’94, students have delved into the works of H.G. Wells, Margaret Atwood, and Philip K. Dick as assiduously as many others have studied Milton and Shakespeare.
Burt, a poetry writer and scholar by profession, has taught such English department staples as “Modern American Poetry” and “Major British Writers II” since arriving at the university in 2007. But he is also a longtime student of science fiction. Once a childhood reader of Robert Silverberg, Ursula K. Le Guin, and Isaac Asimov, he now writes course syllabi and critical articles on the genre.
Burt first began teaching a science fiction class at Macalester College in Minnesota, where he drafted his reading list with the help of several students. He brought the course with him to Harvard and taught it for the first time in Fall 2007.
The choice to teach science fiction was a natural one. “When anyone in the humanities is deciding what to teach,” Burt says, “we ask ourselves: what do we like? What is worth studying? What is important to make available and isn’t already being covered in courses that others are teaching?” For Burt, science fiction literature fits the bill. “A number of Harvard students seem to agree,” he notes.
The class fills a void for these Harvard students by introducing them to authors they would otherwise not have come across. “Most Harvard College students could discover major SF prose writers such as James Tiptree and Cordwainer Smith on their own,” Burt explains, “but you don’t unpack your bags in Matthews knowing all of these writers already, unless you’re quite an unusual reader.” With the intention of cultivating more ‘unusual readers,’ the course presents an eccentric syllabus that has elicited praise from students, who say they find themselves doing the reading more often than not.
Part of what makes a science fiction class such a draw for Harvard students is attributable to Burt himself, whose lecture antics are the stuff of legend amongst his pupils. “He’s a fantastic lecturer—he throws candy at us, he jumps out windows, he gets his point across,” says Betsy C. Isaacson ’10. This year, Burt’s dynamic style attracted such a large number of students that additional Teaching Fellows had to be hired and a bigger lecture venue procured.
Apart from Burt, what do so many undergraduates gain from this ostensibly niche subject? For some, it’s the tantalizing possibility of being able to think outside the literary box and extrapolate from the page to society at large. Ian J. Storey ’10, a student in the course and a member of the Harvard-Radcliffe Science Fiction Association, says, “Because SF takes place in unusual worlds where new things are possible, societies or situations can be set up to ask fascinating ‘what if’ questions.”
Storey offers examples that have emerged from the course: “What if capitalism and industry were introduced into the Middle Ages?” “What if one person could actually own another’s mind, in a new and more complete form of slavery?” “What if there was a society containing only one gender?”
Storey explains, “While these questions initially seem interesting but not necessarily useful, they can be thought experiments which argue positions on modern issues, or at least present those issues as needing to be addressed.”
Burt sees similar value in the works studied in the course. “The study of science fiction helps us think about social and political life outside literature,” he says, “because in science fiction the effect of material conditions on individual lives becomes unignorable.” According to Burt, this perspective is in contradistinction to other forms of prose that students often encounter.
“In certain kinds of psychological or realist fiction,” he says, “peoples’ inward states appear to be determined mostly by who they fall in love with or how their families work. But when you read science fiction attentively you see how much of an individual’s life is guided not by psychology, and not by the unconscious so much as by technological and material circumstances—the difficulty of obtaining information, the availability of transport fuel, the speed of communications.”
This is not to say that Burt is ready to quit his day job as an author and critic of poetry and more traditional prose. “I don’t think we need to have ‘Science Fiction’ available to study every year, in the way we need to have Shakespeare and Virginia Woolf available,” he explains. “But I do think science fiction is important and interesting and includes some wonderful works of art.”
He also believes that science fiction can train students to better understand the nuances of what they read, whatever the genre. “Part of learning to read attentively is learning to pick up on those signals a text gives out about what you should expect, so you can see when that text and its language violate those expectations,” Burt says. Originality, in other words, is only perceptible if the reader knows what conventions have been broken.
According to Burt, science fiction, as a highly self-conscious genre, lends itself to this sort of analysis. But being cognizant of how a text expects to be read, he says, is as important for comprehending poetry as it is for understanding science fiction. For Burt, the experience of reading Robert Heinlein and Octavia Butler is similar to going line-by-line through the poetry of John Ashbery or Jorie Graham. Reading science fiction helps students grasp other literature as much as it encourages them to ponder space ships, telekinesis, and sentient robots.
But don’t think science fiction is merely a pragmatic pursuit. “It’s true that if you study 18th century poetry that you can acquire skills that will help you read Victorian fiction and skills that will help you read contemporary graphic novels,” Burt says. “But we teach 18th century poetry because 18th century poetry is worth studying in and of itself. Science fiction is an end in and of itself.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This J-term, Harvard students will be scattered across the globe—traveling, working, catching up on seasons of TV shows, or otherwise taking a much-needed hiatus from the feverish pace of campus life. Among those who are choosing to remain in Cambridge, however, are 20 undergraduates who will be taking part in a unique opportunity: the American Repertory Theater (A.R.T.) Institute’s January Undergraduate Theater Training Intensive. This program, taking place between January 5 and January 24, will take advantage of the intersession period to immerse students in graduate-level theater training.
The Intensive emerged as a collaboration between the Office for the Arts (OFA), the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club (HRDC) and the A.R.T. Institute, the graduate-level educational program offered by the A.R.T. The Intensive will offer a wide range of classes, workshops, and discussions intended to introduce students to the kind of training provided by graduate school programs. Alongside the class component of the program, some of the undergraduates participating in the January Intensive will also be involved in the A.R.T. Institute’s production of Tennessee Williams’ “Stairs to the Roof.”
“The program is absolutely unique,” says Matthew C. Stone ’11, assistant director of “Stairs to the Roof.” “These are all teachers that you would find at the A.R.T. Institute and even more people that they are bringing in from outside. It’s the highest level of acting training that you could possibly find at Harvard.”
Teachers involved in the program include Scott Zigler, the director of the A.R.T. Institute, Diane Paulus, the A.R.T.’s artistic director, Jim True-Frost of “The Wire,” and Anatoly Smeliansky, the Dean of the Moscow Art Theatre School, among others. The classes explore various elements of the acting experience, including voice and speech training, character work, Shakespearean scenes, theater history, and even a class on yoga for actors. A seminar involving the business side of acting is also included, touching on topics such as agents and casting directors, the differences between working in New York and Los Angeles, and the pros and cons of MFA programs.
“I thought what we were missing [at Harvard] was preparing for life as an actor and figuring out how you go about the business of acting and graduate school,” says Beth G. Shields ’10, president of the HRDC. “This program is a taste of what you would get in graduate school, so you know if it’s right for you.”
Although many of the program’s classes are intended to guide students who aspire to careers in acting, the Intensive also has wider appeal for individuals interested in directing or working behind the camera, as well as those who simply harbor a passion for theater.
“[The Intensive] is geared for people who care deeply about drama—about the art form—not as detached scholarship, but as practitioners,” says OFA director Jack C. Megan.
Over the course of the three-week program, classes are scheduled from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., with rehearsals for “Stairs to the Roof” running from 2 p.m. to 11 p.m. Following this demanding schedule, the participating students are able to delve into the many facets of theater training offered by the Intensive.
With the sacrifice of College-sponsored J-term programming due to budget cuts, the Intensive’s use of the period to provide practical training not possible during the normal academic year is particularly significant.
“One of the beauties of the program is that, for a very brief period of time, students can really commit themselves to this in a very full way without compromising themselves academically,” says Megan. “It is a focused period of time during which they get to work on a variety of disciplines and ideas related to theater practice, and they get to do this in a very concentrated way, without interruption.”
The program’s impressive scope was largely made possible by an effective synergy between three arts-related organizations in the Harvard community. “I was really amazed by the way the A.R.T., the OFA, and the HRDC brought this all together so early on in the formation of a J-term,” Stone says. While the A.R.T. Institute brought in the instructors and curriculum for classes, the OFA handled logistics such as obtaining campus housing for the participants, and the HRDC facilitated the program’s involvement of undergraduates. All three organizations cooperated and exchanged ideas on the direction of the final program.
The Intensive’s focus on providing high quality training for undergraduates demonstrates the potential uses to which J-term could be put in the future. “I’m incredibly happy to have this opportunity and be a part of this given the fact that most J-term programs really aren’t under way yet,” says Stone. “It’s a great opportunity and I think it’s something that’s going to evolve into something really awesome over the years.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvardians and Yalies may have faced off two weeks ago at the Game, but this weekend they’ll be sharing the stage in the Ivy Dance Exchange. The two-day extravagnza of performance and discussion at the Harvard Dance Center will feature dancing talent and choreographic originality and bring together artists from three Ivy League schools.
Riding on the coattails of a similar collaboration between Harvard, Princeton, and Barnard at New York City’s Merce Cunningham Studio last March, Ivy Dance Exchange will showcase representative works from Harvard, Brown and Yale’s dance programs. Merritt A. Moore ’11 and Kevin Shee ’11 from the Harvard Dance Program will perform a set of pieces by acclaimed choreographer Trey McIntyre. Harvard dancers will also perform two pieces—choreographed by Ricky D. Kuperman ’11 and Nina K. Stoller-Lindsay ’10—that were recently featured in “Momentum,” Harvard Ballet Company’s dance showcase at the Loeb Mainstage this past November.
Dancers from Brown will present original student choreography as well as pieces from Robert Battle’s “Rush Hour.” Yale’s performance will feature an original, contemporary West African piece by Lacina Coulibaly. “I’m as interested as anybody to find out about their programs and to see them dancing,” says Elizabeth Bergmann, the Dance Center director who helped to organize the event and will take part in a panel discussion.
This panel discussion, slotted for tomorrow and led by Folklore and Mythology Senior Lecturer Debra Foster, will explore the common challenges that face dance programs in the Ivy League.
The Dance Program at Brown, for example, struggles with providing a balanced dance education and maintaining sufficient staff size for both its curricular and extracurricular branches.
Julie Standberg, the Founding Director of Dance at Brown, says that the biggest challenge is leading students to the understanding that there is a balance between contemporary and classic influences that should be maintained in dance.
“[Brown] is trying to provide a range of experiences for the students over the four years,” Strandberg says. She notes, however, that this is becoming increasingly difficult as more students arrive on campus wanting to continue in a vein of dance they have already began to master.
The Yale Dance Studies Curriculum is facing a similar problem. “One of our big challenges is space,” says Emily Coates, a lecturer in Theater Studies and Artistic Director of the World Performance Project at Yale. “The interest in dance is blossoming as students realize the possibilities within their extra-curricular programs and the curriculum... bringing an increased demand for studio performance space and rehearsal space.”
In the past two years, the University renovated three floors of a building—now called the Broadway Loft Studios—for courses and extra-curricular groups to gather, but the space is not enough to keep up with the demand for dance space on campus.
While the Harvard Dance Program no longer has an issue of space, it does face an issue that Yale rectified with the creation of its dance studies curriculum, now in its fourth year.
“We’re still just a program. We have a curricular program but we’re not a department,” says Kristin Aune, assistant dance director at the Harvard Dance Program. “Even if our students dedicate half of their lives to dancing, it’s still in this extra-curricular category.” Aune went on to point out that there are many Universities around the country that have successfully incorporated dance into the academic field of study and produced positive results.
Over the past several years, Harvard has begun to offer a few dance-related courses for college credit and has introduced a secondary field of study in dramatic arts, but there is still no major dance presence in the curriculum. The leadership of the Harvard Dance Program continues to express a desire to see more dance classes offered for credit in the coming years.
Students in the Harvard Dance Program had their own take on the program’s situation. “I think it’s hard because most people coming to Harvard have chosen Harvard because they want to do other things beside dance. There’s a reason we chose Harvard over a conservatory,” Stoller-Lindsey says. “The more they incorporate into the curriculum, the more we’ll be able to fit dance into our schedules.”
Kuperman, her fellow student choreographer, expressed a similar sentiment: “I think that certain dancers here are at a comparable level to those dancing at a conservatory, so it’s impressive to see that commitment to their arts.” Kuperman notes that this commitment is especially remarkable in light of students’ need to handle a heavy academic workload in addition to their extracurricular involvement in dance.
Despite the challenges facing dance programs in esteemed academic institutions, these Ivies have been attracting more dancers in the past several years than ever before. With its potential for collaboration and sharing of ideas, the Ivy Dance Exchange hopes to further promote this growth.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
TV
Most Alcohol Consumed On-Screen
Mad Men
Best In-Joke Comedy
Arrested Development
Best TV Show Set In New Jersey
The Sopranos
Best TV Show Not Set In New Jersey
Lost
Best Use Of A Baldwin
30 Rock
Most Endearing Propaganda
The West Wing
Best British Accents
The Office (UK)
Best Show About Nothing
Curb Your Enthusiasm
Best Theme Song
The Wire
Tenth-Best TV Show
Weeds
REALITY TV
Best Ego Vehicle
America’s Next Top Model
Most Sportsmanlike Behavior
Top Chef
Best Mentor
Project Runway
Best Show Based on the Film “Rat Race"
Amazing Race
Best Representation of Harvard Males
Beauty and the Geek
Best (And Worst) Educational Programming
Jackass
Best Cuisine
Survivor
Best Catfights
Flavor of Love
Best Costuming
The Pick-Up Artist
Best Use Of Anderson Cooper
The Mole
MUSIC
Best Album You Heard Thirty Years Ago
The Strokes, Is This It (2001)
Best Album To Listen To After Being Dumped
Arcade Fire, Funeral (2004)
Best Album To Make Again... And Again... And Again?
Jay-Z, The Blueprint (2001)
Best Album Written By Your Dad
Wilco, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot (2002)
Best Album To Name-Drop
Radiohead, Kid A (2000)
Best Album We Own On Vinyl
The Unicorns, Who Will Cut Our Hair When We’re Gone (2003)
Best Pre-Insanity Kanye Album
Kanye West, Late Registration (2005)
Best Radiohead Imitation
Coldplay, A Rush of Blood to the Head (2002)
Best Album By A Band Named For A Body Part
The Shins, Chutes Too Narrow (2003)
Skronkiest Album
White Stripes, White Blood Cells (2001)
MOVIES
Best Emo Movie
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004)
Best Movie We Didn’t Really See
The Lives of Others (2006)
Best Movie We Couldn’t Stay Awake Through
There Will Be Blood (2007)
Best Josh Brolin Movie Since “The Goonies”
No Country for Old Men (2007)
Best Movie We Pretended We Didn’t Cry At
The Royal Tenenbaums (2001)
Best Movie We Pretended To Understand
Mulholland Drive (2001)
Best Pity Oscar
The Departed (2006)
Best Movie We Made Out Through
Amelie (2001)
Best Comic Book Movie We Didn’t See High
Dark Knight (2008)
Best Pixar Movie We Did See High
Monsters, Inc. (2001)
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
GREASE
December 4-12
Loeb Experimental Theater
Directed by Mia P. Walker ’10
Music Directed by Adam Gold
Choreographed by Beth Shields
Produced by Matthew P. Zehnder ’11
Fifties classic “Grease” gets a modern update in the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club’s upcoming production. With a plot centered on self-discovery, rebellion, and love, “Grease” is a perennial—albeit traditional—favorite. The adolescent drama centers on the romance between Sandy and Danny, who serendipitously find themselves attending the same high school after ending a summer fling.
This production imaginatively recreates the well-known film by exploring the grittier side of its material.
“It’s a totally re-envisioned version of ‘Grease,’” says Talisa B. Friedman ’10, who plays Sandy. “It’s much darker, in a sense that it’s getting back to the real roots of high school and what the issues we face are. We stripped away the poodle skirts and bubblegum and all of that.”
The aesthetic vision of director Mia P. Walker ’10 reflects this edginess with a combination of junkyard, diner, and car elements. “‘Grease’ has all the elements there,” she says. “It has sex, it has pregnancy, it has rock ‘n’ roll, it has rebellion, and it has insecurity. But it’s disguised in a sort of happy-go-lucky nifty fifties, toothbrush, Colgate, Coca-Cola guise. It’s the perfect show to rip apart.”
—Alex C. Nunnelly
BAT BOY
December 4-10
New College Theatre
Directed by Matthew I. Bohrer ’10
Music Directed by Alex B. Lipton ’11
Choreographed by Ricky D. Kuperman ’11
Produced by Katherine R. McNicol ’12
No need to doubt the sensationalist tabloid, “World Weekly News”; elusive sensation Bat Boy can soon be found at the New College Theatre. “Bat Boy: The Musical” follows the half-human, half-bat phenomenon as he is taken from a cave in small-town West Virginia and taught to integrate himself into society. Bat Boy must fight his natural animal instincts as he discovers family, friendship, and love amongst the townspeople.
“Bat Boy is a very bizarre musical, and I liked the idea of a show that functions on many levels,” says Walter B. Klyce ’10, who plays Bat Boy. “On the one hand, it’s almost Shakespearean in scope, with a misshapen tragic hero, a dysfunctional family, a lot of blood and guts, and general disorder in the Great Chain of Being. But at the same time, it’s very funny and self-referential, often poking fun at itself or interrupting serious moments with bits of irreverent humor.”
Laurence C. O’Keefe ’91, who wrote the original rock score for the show, specialized this production of “Bat Boy.” O’Keefe altered some of the vocal parts to fit the unique ranges of the performers and helped direct the actors to refine his original vision.
While humorous, “Bat Boy” also features its share of gory and dark moments, aided by such props as knives, syringes, and, of course, blood. “‘Bat Boy’ is already a dark comedy,” says executive producer Katherine R. McNicol ’12, “but our show is going to take that part to the extreme.”
—Renee G. Stern
SHULAMIS
December 2, 3, 5, 6
Agassiz Theater
Directed by Debra L. Caplan and Cecelia A. Raker ’11
Produced by Debra L. Caplan
The last production of the classic Yiddish operetta, “Shulamis,” was performed in the Warsaw ghetto in 1939. On Dec. 2, this opera will reopen for the first time since, revived and reinvigorated with original, modern themes. “Shulamis” is the crowning achievement of Avrum Goldfaden, the poet and playwright widely considered to be the father of Yiddish theater.
“Shulamis” tells the story of a young girl, the opera’s namesake, as she wanders lost and alone in the desert. Thirsty and desperate, Shulamis lets herself down an empty well in search of water. Trapped underground, she is saved by Avsholem, a handsome and courageous young man. Though Avsholem must continue his journey to Jerusalem with his servant Tsigitang, the young hero promises to marry Shulamis upon his return. While Avsholem disregards his vow and establishes a comfortable life in Jerusalem, Shulamis clings to the memory of her beloved and fakes madness in order to discourage suitors. The story follows Avsholem’s new life and Shulamis’ interminable yearning.
“It’s important that ‘Shulamis’ forces us to consider morality in a world where fairness isn’t always possible,” says music director Lidiya Yankovskaya.
Caplan, who is pursuing a Ph.D. in Yiddish Literature, and Raker are attempting to bring this traditional play to life in a modern context. “What feels ‘modern’ about our interpretation of ‘Shulamis’ is simply that we’re not striving to reproduce a 19th century operetta as it was performed in the 1880s,” Caplan writes in an email. “We opted to bring ‘Shulamis’ into a 21st century theatrical framework.” Among other changes, Tsingitang, formerly a comic foil, has become Tsigitang (“tsig” means “goat” in Yiddish), a psychologically complex former goatherd with a story of his own. In addition, the production features a combination of new dance routines, lighting schemes, and set designs.
“Shulamis” intends to be more than a romp in the delightfully obscure; rather, it seeks to prove that a long forgotten operetta in a dead language can be made relevant for a new audience.
—Alex E. Traub
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
TOP FIVE MOST UNINTELLIGIBLE ROCK SONGS AND MY INTERPRETATION OF THEM
5. Pearl Jam, “Worldwide Suicide”
Featuring some of Eddie Vedder’s more articulate moments, this track cleanly comes in at number five for intelligibility. There’s an earthquake, and it makes Eddie want to kill himself, because apparently there are earthquakes everyday where he lives. Sucks to be him. So much so that he wants everyone else to die with him. Yeah, right Vedder. No one wants to join your cult of nasty facial hair and scraggly manes. Get some Nikes and sweet jumpsuits for us and maybe we’ll talk.
4. Pearl Jam, “Even Flow”
Of Eddie’s oeuvre, “Even Flow” is one of the most visionary and artistic. It opens with a radish head on a concrete pillow. That’s fucking poetry man. Then there’s something about chasing butterflies and a cavalcade of something or other that ultimately leads to rebirth. Can you feel it man? The beauty, the glow, the fucking badassery. Alright, in truth, the chorus is the only part I can even understand a little bit.
3. Pearl Jam, “Yellow Ledbetter”
Okay, here’s what I’m thinking: a big old beached whale wants to leave the beach again. A wizard comes to help. A coal miner empathizes. A local marine biologist, perhaps George Costanza, wants to take the whale home, but doesn’t know how to do it, as he isn’t interested in taking it in a box or a bag. Honestly, your guess is as good as mine. Check the YouTube “misheard” lyrics for a pretty astute play by play.
2. Pearl Jam, “Lukin”
WTF?????? I’m really winging this one, but Eddie Vedder holds up local farmer’s market “Lukin’s” while wearing a yarmulke in hopes of disguising himself. He suceeds?
1. Creedence Clearwater Revival, “Down on the Corner”
This song is certainly more intelligible than one or two of its forerunners, but I find it unconscionable to ever put Pearl Jam in the number one slot of a superlative list, unless it’s a list about bands have sucked the hardest for the longest. That said, I think CCR are talking about tricking or something. The title of the song is the tip off. They also talk about laying your money down on the corner, and how people come from all around to watch the magic whore. At least I think that’s what they say. All I can say for sure is that there is a dude named Happy Feet down there, and if that’s not a pimp’s name, I don’t know what is.
—Joshua J. Kearney is the outgoing Arts Chair. The first time he listened to Pearl Jam was after he read about them in Dennis Rodman’s “Bad As I Wanna Be,” so you can imagine how fraught his relationship with the band has been.
TOP FIVE SMASHING PUMPKINS MOMENTS OF 2009
It’s been almost a decade since the first Pumpkins break-up, and even longer since most fans gave up on them, yet somehow the original Pumpkins keep showing up in the news. Here are Corgan and Co.’s five shining moments of 2009.
5. James Iha joins supergroup Tinted Windows.
Taylor Hanson gives Iha competition for girliest-looking band member.
4. Billy Corgan fights at show with a fan who claims that the Pumpkins “no longer rock.”
According to Rolling Stone: “This prompted Corgan to bring a female audience member onstage and [he] referred to her as ‘James Iha,’ then asked the faux-Iha what she’s been up to.”  Amazing.  (This took place in late 2008, but I talked about it for two months so it still counts.)
3. D’arcy Wretzky randomly calls Chicago radio station.
The second-most-feminine Pumpkin talks about how Marilyn Manson’s parents kept dead rats in their freezer, among other amusing anecdotes.
2. Corgan dates Tila Tequila.
When I first saw the pictures, I just thought he and James Iha were buddies again.
1. The Pumpkins hire a 19-year-old Berklee College of Music student as new drummer.
“We just kind of jammed for about 15 minutes and then talked about Fugazi for the other 15 or so minutes.”  Mike Byrne, I hate you.  Also, James Iha looks like a girl.
—Jeffrey W. Feldman is the outgoing Music Editor and incoming Arts Chair.  “Tales of a Scorched Earth: The Smashing Pumpkins Saga,” a 19-hour celebration of the Pumpkins’ discography, airs in the early mornings of December 16-18 on 95.3fm WHRB Cambridge.
BEST SONGS TO PUCK TO
When first elected to The Crimson Arts Board, I was asked for my favorite pick-up line. Ask me the same question now, and my answer is slightly, but significantly, different.
“Nice shoes. Wanna Puck?”
Now when I need a pick-me-up, I don’t turn to the pleasures of the flesh. Oh no. I turn to the pleasures of the pet. My pet. The world’s best. With rockin’ hair and an attitude, he’s the perfect incarnation of hip and hop. And to set the mood I turn on a few tunes that’ll make your nose twitch with the best of them. You know you want to.
5. Deerhoof: “Basketball Get Your Groove Back” - “Bunny jump! Bunny jump! Bunny! Bunny! Bunny jump!”
4. Sufjan Stevens - “Enjoy Your Rabbit”
3. Jefferson Airplane: “White Rabbit” - “And if you go chasing rabbits, and you know you’re going to fall, tell ‘em a hookah smoking caterpillar has given you the call.”
2. Animal Collective: “Who Could Win a Rabbit” - “Wabbit or habit, habit or real. Wabbit or habit, habit or real.”
1. Magnetic Fields: “Let’s Pretend We’re Bunny Rabbits” - “Let’s do it all day long. Rapidly becoming rabid. Singing little rabbit songs.”
—Beryl C.D. Lipton is the outgoing Arts Chair. She doesn’t really get why you guys are always making fun of furries.
TOP FIVE MOST AGGRESSIVELY BORING ARTIFACTS OF 2009
Some things are simply boring; others thrust their boredom upon us. The following is a list of the latter.
5. Health Care Reform
Is this still going on? How could the most important legislative move in 30 years be as boring as the last Toni Morrison novel? It sounded like the part about “death panels” could’ve been cool, but apparently that was made up... Or was it? It was.
4. Dave Eggers
If the least boring thing you managed to do in 2009 was a screen adaptation for a children’s book, and the second least boring thing you managed to do was write a novel, you’re walking the fine line between boring and criminally untalented. But we’ll err on the side of boring.
3. Celebrity deaths
Michael Jackson, Farah Fawcett and Patrick Swayze? Yeah, I was sad when they died... in 1997, 1989 and whenever.
2. Lady Gaga
Hedonism! Sexual ambiguity! Synthesizers! Is this disco? I’m bored.
1. Vampires
“Yeah, uh, I’m a society that wants to come to grips with the concept of ‘the other,’ but I’m not really interested in any of its interesting implications. I was thinking more, like, brooding sexual repression... Is there a series of books or movies based on those books that I could consume?” Bwoard! I’m so bwoard! Blahahaha!
—Ryan J. Meehan in the outgoing Books Editor and the incoming Arts Couch.
HARVARD’S TOP FIVE ARCHITECTURAL MONSTROSITIES
5. Holyoke Center
The home of Harvard’s bureaucracy and UHS, the Holyoke Center boasts an outward appearance as unpleasant as the experiences one can have inside it. This was Spanish modernist architect Josep Lluís Sert’s first contribution to Harvard, and one can only wish he had stopped there. Sadly, he didn’t, and his buildings populate 3/5 of this list.
4. Memorial Hall
Contrary to popular belief, Harvard’s taste for architectural monstrosities did not begin in the 1950s and ’60s. As early as 1865, Harvard was beginning construction on its most ostentatious and out-of-place building: Memorial Hall. While it is undeniably impressive on the inside—Annenberg’s resemblance to Hogwarts has probably added a couple of percentage points to the admissions yield—the exterior’s streaky bacon color scheme and remarkably ugly tower set it apart as an eyesore. Gothic arches this dramatic might have looked great in 13th century France, but with no softening contemporary features, they don’t work here.
3. Statue outside Boylston Hall
Statues may not really be architecture, but when they’re this big and obnoxious it’s fair to consider them as such. Except that this isn’t a statue. It’s a giant phallus. A 13.5 foot tall, 70-year-old phallus. Good for inappropriate pictures, not so good for architecture.
2. Peabody Terrace
Peabody Terrace’s greatest contribution to the campus’ architecture may be that it achieves the impossible: it makes its neighbor, Mather, look attractive. Sert’s graduate student housing complex, built in 1964, may have been lauded for its innovative combination of building size and community-oriented design, but that doesn’t change the fact that it is oppressively ugly. The concrete towers and multi-colored metal shutters on the river-side windows seem to go out of their way to ruin what is otherwise an impressive set of buildings and, unfortunately, they succeed.
1. Science Center
Undoubtedly the pinnacle of Harvard’s architectural missteps, the Science Center lurks just outside the Yard, completely at odds with its red brick surroundings. Of course variety is welcome, but not when it looks like this. Sert supposedly took the shape of a camera as his inspiration for the design. Cameras in the 60s certainly looked very different to today, but I’m pretty sure they didn’t look like this. My suggestion: Knock it down and rebuild it in the shape of a sleek modern camera. Imagine the giant digital screen. Amazing.
—Chris R. Kingston is the outgoing Campus Arts Editor. He actually thinks the Carpenter Center is kind of cool.
TOP 5 ACTUAL ANIMAL COLLECTIVES
5. A pandemonium of parrots
4. A superfluity of nuns (the people)
3. A singular of boars
2. A woop of gorillas
1. An ugly of walruses
—Denise J. Xu ’11 is an outgoing Campus Arts editor. A baby platypus is a puggle.
TOP 5 REALITY TV HEAD-SCRATCHERS
Most of my time at The Crimson has consisted of writing reviews in exchange for playing cookie monster with free press tickets. B-town offers much in the way of aesthetic refinement, but all that classiness does get old after a while. Do it one too many times, and you find yourself short on plus-ones to the ballet.
On the other hand, you’ll never find drama—the unapologetically trashy, the outrageously juicy, and the halfhearted in-between—on the clearance rack. I’ll admit I’m hooked on it, but you probably are too; you just don’t know it yet.
So, here are the top five reality TV head-scratchers and WTF’s of this year:
5. Keeping up with the Kardashians
After a whirlwind singles stint in Miami (the radio show was nice, but bringing coke to work was not), Khloe Kardashian decides to give up the “drinking all-day” and “playing all-night” to settle down with Lamar Odom of the LA Lakers. Khloe, I gotta say, your wedding was cute—especially the part where Bruce got mad about your nine-day engagement, and then Kris got mad at him for screaming at you, and then Rob got mad at her for leaving Bruce out, and then you got mad at Rob for hesitating about walking you down the aisle, and then Kim said something like she always does, and then Bruce came around and cried.
Nice guest list too. It was heartwarming to see Phil and Kobe hanging out before the ceremony. I think I blinked and saw a just-supraliminal flash of O.J., but let’s just pretend I didn’t.
4. My Antonio
Poor Autumn, the NASA researcher/Princeton alum. Not only do you have to compete with Botox-happy Christi and sweet, but desperate, cougar Tully, but Antonio thinks going to an Ivy prevented you from learning about “life!” Girl go back and get a Ph.D.—maybe then you’ll be able to match Antonio’s ravishing intellect. Fat chance, though. Brooke wrote her own
“love contract” for him, so unless you have some kind of pre-date pre-nup drafted, perhaps Houston is the better man for you.
3. Who wants to work for Diddy?
No one wants to work for Diddy. Diddy, go home. You’re trying too hard.
2. Tabatha’s Salon Takeover
If you know what I’m talking about, props to you for following Shear Genius all the way to its spin-off death. Perhaps observing the intricacies of hair cutting onscreen has taught you to recognize that La Flamme is where you go for assisted suicide. Watching this twice is also marginally understandable—once in awhile Harvard FML is slow to load, and, I mean, you have to look at something in the meantime, right? Dear devoted Tabatha fan and weekly viewer—buddy, you are so on your own that you should feel special in the worst way possible.
1. Real Housewives of D.C.
There’s a D.C. “Housewives?” Hell yeah. In fact, soon-to-be D.C. housewife Michaele Salahi got some great pub for the show last week with a super classy visit to the White House state dinner. I know it’s hard to follow the table flipping and stripper accusations of New Jersey or the spray-on tan recession woes of Orange County, but this girl really brought it. Meeting Obama is consequential. Being on the guest list and not freaking out the nation is not. Secret Service, you need to work on your bad boy rep after the press is done with you.
—Monica S. Liu is an incoming Campus Arts editor. She recommends you don’t ever try sushi plus iced fraps with extra shots of hazelnut from Lamont Cafe, or swallowing airborne tablets whole to save water for that matter.
TOP 5 PLACES TO PICK UP A HIPSTER
Who says you have to wait until Valentine’s Day for love? While the winter festivities tend to spread merriness all around, it might be a bit more difficult to get into the holiday spirit if you’re single. So if you’re itching to shake off the winter blues, cozy up to my picks for the best places to find your hipster soul mate. Looks like finding love at Harvard doesn’t have to be a Christmas miracle after all.
5. Herrell’s
While this establishment has since met its sad demise at the hands of the corporate machine, you might still be able to spot a plaid shirt and skinny jean-clad hipster or two roaming along Dunster Street. Be a sweetheart and treat him to a cone from J.P. Licks.
4. Crema Café
The next time you’re here, forget about bringing along cash. Bring a credit card to splurge a little on $10 worth of drinks and baked goods, because we all know that hipsters love their fair trade coffee and organic pastries.
3. The Gato Rojo
You know that place everyone knows about but has never actually been to? With its exotic allure and underground mystique, you’re bound to bump into some of the best Harvard has to offer—from undergraduate VES concentrators to GSD students, this is where the artsiest of the artsy congregate.
2. Veggie Planet
You know you’ve picked the right hipster when he’ll be good for your heart in more ways than one. Surely a guaranteed relief from any heartbreak caused by cholesterol clogged arteries.
1. Harvard Farmer’s Market
Come on, it’s not like you actually go there to do grocery shopping in the first place.
—Eunice Y. Kim is an incoming Campus Arts editor. She’s almost completely sure she knows where The Gato Rojo is.
TOP 5 MUSICALS THAT SHOULD NEVER HAPPEN
5. “Joint Custody: The Jon and Kate Story”
Damaged romance and a tale rife with disappointment and anguish? Though it sounds like the makings of a great Stephen Sondheim musical, hopefully this reality television breakup will never make it to the stage. The fascination with this dysfunctional duo continues to mystify, although their eight offspring would admittedly be the most adorable singing brood to hit the theater since the Von Trapp children.
4. “Swine Flu: The Musical”
While the AIDS crisis inspired such heartrending and significant shows as “Angels in America” and “Rent,” what would a swine flu production have to offer? Poorly crafted pig jokes? Swine flu should be turned into a musical when pigs fly.
3. “Just Dance”
The next “Mamma Mia!,” only less Swedish and more sparkly. A jukebox musical inspired by Lady Gaga’s oeuvre would have audiences dancing in the aisles—and leaving the theater completely horrified. A three minute Lady Gaga award show performance alone is enough to inspire shock and awe. Imagine two hours of fake blood, bizarre costumes, and over-the-top stunts. Even Boy George’s “Taboo” would look tame by comparison.
2. “Twilight: The Musical”
It’s bad enough that this is a movie. Or even a book, for that matter. “Twilight” has already sucked enough life out of pop culture; let’s keep Edward and Bella in as few incarnations as possible, please.
1. “McLeod/Hysen”
The thrilling tale of an Undergraduate Council election gone wrong, “McLeod/Hysen” would have all the political drama of the 2006 play “Frost/Nixon” with none of the real-world importance. The Election Commission could sing a power anthem such as “Do You Hear the People Sing?” from “Les Misérables,” while UC Vice President Kia J. McLeod ’10 might perform a heartfelt rendition of “On My Own.” It would close after opening night because, really, nobody cares.
—Ali R. Leskowitz ’11 is an incoming Campus Arts editor. She was not cast as a Munchkin in “The Wizard of Oz” in middle school, crushing her dreams of Broadway stardom forever.
HIGHER ORDER PROCRASTINATION TECHNIQUES LEARNED IN 2009
The reading period that begins today is the shortest in recent memory, but that doesn’t mean you’ll be wasting any less time lurking on Gchat, perusing your favorite blogs, stalking your section crush on Facebook, or watching whole seasons of TV shows on DVD. In the interest of enlivening your procrastination routine, it’s important to periodically discover new and more mindless diversions. So the next time you’re enduring the agonizing 72 minutes before you can treat yourself to more Megavideo, try a few of these on for size:
5. Unearthing your old Livejournal or Xanga account
Nothing is more heartwarming and humiliating than rediscovering a time when your most pressing problems were being grounded for the weekend and not getting tickets to the Bright Eyes concert.
4. Typing tests
While not quite as fun as the elementary school programs on which you first learned to type (I’m lookin’ at you, Mario Teaches Typing), online typing tests are surprisingly addictive. As you near a landmark personal record (mine is 100 words per minute), the drive only increases. This is also the only item on the list that could conceivably aid you in your schoolwork.
3. Thinking of famous people who resemble your friends
Did you know that members of the Arts board resemble Frank O’Hara, Bud Cort in “Harold and Maude,” and young Bob Dylan? Try to guess which ones!
2. Using the Search by Concentration feature on Harvard College Facebook to find the most and least attractive majors.
Though fairly self-explanatory, this one can have some unexpected results. Now that the new sophomores have declared their concentrations, who knows what field of study is dreamiest! Try not to let the Image-Not-Available’s get you down. Those people are the worst.
1. The Hollywood Hair Virtual Makeover on Instyle.com
It would be imprudent to reveal the amount of time I have spent using this interactive feature, which allows you to upload a photo of yourself and test out a range of celebrity haircuts. The name is slightly misleading because you also have the power to do many other crazy things like thin your eyebrows by infinitesimal degrees, preview colored contact lenses, and sample hundreds of different cosmetics, each of which corresponds to a real-life product with the price and purchasing information right there on the page. What started as a serious endeavor to see what I’d look like with a pixie cut has now become an ambitious project: to outfit all my blockmates in Lady Gaga hair. Don’t tell; it’s their Christmas present!
—Jessica R. Henderson is the outgoing Movies Editor. Before she met her boyfriend, he had a rattail.
GREEN IS THE NEW CRIMSON: THE DECADE’S BEST RECYCLED MUSIC
At the dawn of the new decade, with all its ominous environmental challenges, now is the time to honor those musicians who have publicly gone green. In a world that grasps greedily at resources of rapidly diminishing quality, fourteen artists produced ten fascinating new tracks with 50-100% post-consumer material. They are the green imps who have stood on the shoulders of giants—and, by Gore, have they seen further! This is pure outshining gold.
1. Puff Daddy, Faith Evans, and 112, “I’ll Be Missing You”
Remix of “Adagio for Strings” by Samuel Barber, “Every Breath You Take” by the Police and the American spiritual “I’ll Fly Away”
2. Israel Kamakawiwo’ole, “Somewhere Over the Rainbow”
Remix of “Somewhere Over the Rainbow” by Judy Garland, Harold Arlen and E. Y. Harburg and “What a Wonderful World” by Louis Armstrong
3. Eminem, “Sing for the Moment”
Remix of “Sing for the Moment” by Aerosmith
4. Anya Marina, “Whatever You Like”
Cover of T.I.
5. Amy Winehouse, “Tears Dry On Their Own”
Remix of “Ain’t No Mountain High Enough” by the Temptations
6. Jay-Z feat. Linkin Park, “Encore”
Remix of “Numb” by Linkin Park
7. KiD CuDi, “Make Her Say”
Remix of “Poker Face” by Lady GaGa
8. Gary Jules, “Mad World”
Cover of Tears for Fears
9. Dizzee Rascal, “That’s Not My Name”
Cover of the Ting Tings
10. Nouvelle Vague, “Dancing with Myself”
Cover of Billy Idol
—Antonia M.R. Peacocke is the incoming Covers editor. Cross her and she’ll recycle your face.
THE BIGGEST LIES THEY TOLD US THIS DECADE
5. Sudoku was fun.
Just read the description: Sudoku - combinatorial number-placement puzzle in which the objective is to fill a 9×9 grid with digits so that each column, each row, and each of the nine 3×3 sub-grids that compose the grid (also called “boxes,” “blocks,” “regions,” or “sub-squares”) contains all of the digits from 1 to 9. Need I say more?
4. Nipplegate: It was a “wardrobe malfunction.”
Justin Timberlake sings in “Pose,”  “It’s time to expose and break off the roles now take off your clothes, get real close up to the light, and do that thing, show you’re right,” or if you’d prefer to keep your clothes on, he’ll just pull them right off for you. Sorry Janet, should have seen it coming.
3. There are weapons of mass destruction
Still waiting, Bush...
2. Miss South Carolina was just nervous.
No, she was just stupid.
1. Sarah Palin is qualified for office
Explaining why Alaska’s proximity to Russia gives her foreign policy experience, she said in an interview with CBS, “As Putin rears his head and comes into the air space of the United States of America, where—where do they go? It’s Alaska. It’s just right over the border.” Thanks Sarah.
—Ama R. Francis is the outgoing Covers Editor. She’ll cover for you.
FOUR TERRIBLE MOVIES MADE BY GREAT DIRECTORS
Anyone who spent their hard-earned money to see director Ron Howard’s “Angels And Demons” this past summer knows too well that even acclaimed directors can produce worthless trash from time to time. Here is a list of the top terrible movies made by usually great directors.
4. Piranha II: The Spawning (1981) - Dir. James Cameron
The vast majority of filmgoers flocking to theaters this winter to experience the promised eye-raping of “Avatar” likely have not experienced the utter shittiness of James Cameron’s feature-length directorial debut, the delightfully ridiculous horror sequel “Piranha II: The Spawning.” For just a taste of the madness, head to Wikipedia and check out the film’s Italian poster. Yep, those are flying predatory fish chasing down voluptuous beachgoers.
3. Caché (2005) - Dir. Michael Haneke
Many critics hailed French-language film “Caché” as a masterpiece of suspense cinema—a still from the film of Juliette Binoche and her onscreen husband Daniel Auteuil lovingly adorns the textbook foisted on all students taking Visual and Environmental Studies 70: “The Art of Film.” I have a theory, however, that those who praised the movie were simply trying to mask their incomprehension at the never-ending shots of the same nondescript house. Not that it’s their fault; it’s debatable whether there’s anything in the film that can be understood. Haneke’s pretension works in many of his other films, most notably his remake of “Funny Games,” but “Caché” is the worst example of indulgent art for art’s sake.
2. Panic Room (2002) - Dir. David Fincher
When a film’s opening credits are its sole distinctive feature, the movie can’t be all that great. Directly following his masterful cult classic, “Fight Club,” Fincher’s fifth feature was more disappointing than even his ill-fated “Alien 3.” While trailers promised a tense and harrowing thriller, viewers were instead treated to a pre-Twilight Kristen Stewart hyperventilating alongside a whiny Jared Leto with a gun in hand.
1. Planet Of The Apes (2001) - Dir. Tim Burton
Summer is clearly the most dangerous season for an acclaimed director. Burton’s characteristically beautiful costumes and set design remain, but all the style in the world couldn’t save this remarkably unnecessary remake—seemingly written by a studio hack who first identified the original film’s strengths and then thought hard about creative ways to make them much, much worse. In addition, I will gladly offer $30 to anyone who can cogently explain this film’s ending. Emphasis on “cogently.”
—Bram A. Strochlic is the incoming Movies Editor. His Bar Mitzvah was movie-themed.
TOP FIVE WAYS WE IMAGINE THE WORLD MIGHT END
5. Invasion from Space.
Bad News: These aliens might not be looking for Reece’s Pieces.
Good News: With the exception of Scientologists, there aren’t a whole lot of people who think this will actually happen.
4. The Mayan Apocalypse in 2012
Bad News: Although current seniors, juniors, and sophomores will manage to graduate before the end of the world, the class of 2013 is going to miss out. Sorry, freshmen, but at least you don’t have to worry about post-grad plans.
Good News: According to our best estimates, John Cusack and Amanda Peet might survive.
3. Global Pandemic
Bad News: Who knows which epidemic will catch us first? Swine Flu? Avian Flu? Does anyone remember SARS?
Good News: At least Professor Nicholas Christakis will get a chance to finish studying the relationship between social networks and the spread of contagious diseases. For a while, at least.
2. Zombie Apocalypse
Bad News: According to “28 Days Later,” a global pandemic and a zombie apocalypse are not mutually exclusive.
Good News: More target practice for Sarah Palin!
1. Global Warming
Bad News: This one might actually happen.
Good News: Hopefully, with the help of energy-saving light bulbs and vegetarian followers of Jonathon Safran-Foer, we can hold it off until we’ve invented cute robots like Wall-E who will eventually help us repopulate our destitute planet.
—Rachel A. Burns is the incoming Books Editor. She likes happy endings.
TOP EIGHT THINGS THAT SHOULD HAVE DIED THIS YEAR INSTEAD OF MICHAEL JACKSON (SORRY, TOO SOON?)
1. Megavideo Bans
While I acknowledge that most of my productivity occurs during the 56 minute Megavideo bans, I still can’t get over how annoying it is.
2. Farmville
Really? How old are we?
3. Vampires
Okay I know they are already dead, but I’m pretty sure there is still a way.
4. Kanye West’s Ego
Not only is he annoying, but now I’m forced to endure endless strings of “Imma let you finish” jokes.
5. Snuggies
Okay, I guess I just sort of secretly want one and am upset I didn’t get one for my birthday.
6. Twitter
ErikaPierson is writing her top 5 list. ErikaPierson is at The Crimson. ErikaPierson is celebrating the end of classes with a trip to Berryline. Did you care about any of that? Didn’t think so.
7. Party in the U.S.A.
I want to hate this so badly, but when it comes on I just can’t help but move my hips like yeah.
8. My parents trying to friend me on Facebook
Or my friends’ parents trying to friend me on Facebook. Uncomfortable.
—Erika P. Pierson is the incoming Columns Editor. She’s funnied out.
TOP FIVE CRIMSON ARTS VANITY LISTS OF 2009
5. Erika Pierson, “Top 8 Things That Should Have Died Instead of Michael Jackson”
Because it’s never too soon.
4. Bram Strochlic, “Bad Movies by Good Directors”
Someone has to keep them honest.
3. Eunice Kim, “Top 5 Places to Pick Up a Hipster”
She gets bonus points for not including arts meetings.
2. Ryan Meehan, “Top 5 Most Aggressively Boring Artifacts of 2009”
Meehan goes meta with a list that belongs at the top of itself.
1. Beryl Lipton, “Best Songs to Puck To”
Because I’d like to be at the top of HER list.
—Mark A. VanMiddlesworth is the outgoing Columns and Online Editor. He is an 8.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“The Savage Detectives,” Chilean author Roberto Bolaño’s greatest novel, is a kaleidoscopic fictional autobiography—a treatise on youth, love, literature and death—whose frame is the journal of the Mexican poet Juan García Madero. Madero is the disciple, devotee and faithful hanger-on of two older poets, Arturo Belano (Bolaño’s alter ego throughout his fiction) and Ulises Lima, who follows the pair through the Sonora Desert in flight from a violent pimp and his henchmen. The intervening chapters of the novel’s larger arc outline the movements of Belano and Lima from Mexico to Europe to Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa across three decades, through the testimony of friends, lovers, acquaintances and total strangers. But by the book’s end, the two have parted ways with Madero and the last pages belong, fittingly, to him. “Someday the police will catch Belano and Lima, but they’ll never find us,” his girlfriend Lupe assures him. “Oh, Lupe, how I love you, but how wrong you are,” he replies in his journal, to himself and to us. Bolaño suspends Madero’s fate: as readers, we know he will never see his mentors again, but in the novel’s final moments, Madero seems poised for a life of happiness, however fleeting.
If “The Savage Detectives” gives us hope for this dream, then “2666,” Bolaño’s posthumously-published final novel, released in 2004 in his native Spanish and translated into English last year, is the violent and inevitable calamity that finally shakes us all awake. Written as he slowly succumbed to a failing liver before his death in 2003, “2666” is a work of sheer enigma, the cryptic suturing of staggering indifference and nonrelational pain. Bolaño manages to etch the host of themes that characterize his entire body of work—the community of literature, popular culture, and Latin American politics—into a structure that renders them at once inherently meaningless and infinitely meaningful. If the history of twentieth century literature is one of deepening disorder, a collapse of tradition in the wake of Walter Benjamin’s storm of progress, then “2666” is a novel with ambitions to exist at that storm’s center.
At nearly 900 pages, “2666” perfects the digressional style that Bolaño honed throughout his entire fiction career. Characters forget themselves in the middle of monologues that span pages; metaphors mutate from the fantastical to the grotesque; the narrator’s personality (in Bolaño’s notes, he says Arturo Belano is the narrator) and the seemingly irrelevant details that embellish individual plotlines emerge from nowhere and are cast off almost as quickly; “He said his name was Harry Magaña, or at least that’s how he wrote it, but he pronounced it Magana, so that when he said it you heard Macgana, as if the self-sucking faggot was of Scottish descent.” Soon enough, Harry Magaña disappears and never returns. The inconsequence of his place in the world of “2666,” like so many of its characters, projects the novel’s style out onto its very structure; the events and characters in the novel’s five books don’t intersect so much as lie tangent to one another. Instead, they remain in orbit around the novel’s center, the Mexican border city of Santa Teresa (the fictionalized Ciudad Juárez, across the Rio Grande from San Jose, TX) where scores of women are raped and murdered every year without a major conviction.
The first section tells the story of four European critics bound together by a fascination with the elusive German novelist Benno von Archimboldi. Shallow globetrotters with a surplus of luxury time, they combine and couple in various permutations of the three male critics and their single female colleague, endure bizarre and horrifying dreams, and plunge stoically into the breach between art and madness. Their search for a trace of the living author leads them to Santa Teresa, where a brush with the Spanish professor Oscar Amalfitano gives way to that character’s own section. Of all the protagonists throughout “2666,” Amalfitano is perhaps the most typical for Bolaño—a lone scholar and continental transplant who suffers bouts of profound fatigue and schizophrenic delusion. Paranoid over his daughter’s safety in the city, Amalfitano begins to recede into his own delusions. He’s haunted by a voice in his head that claims to be his grandfather, and the icon of a strange geometry text that—in homage to Marcel Duchamp—Amalfitano hangs on a clothesline in his yard for nature to destroy.
The fast-paced noir of the third section finds a Harlem journalist named Oscar Fate reporting on a boxing match in the Santa Teresa. Clearly the most narrowly realized of the five sections, Bolaño’s odd-footed parsing of racial and radical politics from New York City has a Kafkaesque absurdity about it (cf. “Amerika”). The world Fate inhabits is awkwardly fleshless, but the details he chooses can illuminate whole parallel universes; “[T]he Mohammedan Brotherhood caught his attention because they were marching under a big poster of Osama bin Laden. They were all black and they were all wearing black leather jackets and black berets and sunglasses, which gave them a vague resemblance to the [Black] Panthers, except that the Panthers had been teenagers and the ones who weren’t teenagers had a youthful look, an aura of youthfulness and tragedy, whereas the members of the Mohammedan Brotherhood were grown men, broad shouldered with huge biceps, people who spent hours and hours at the gym, lifting weights, people born to be bodyguards, but whose bodyguards?”
One criticism of Bolaño’s fiction is that he mystifies the time and place of his focus, that he covers over the reality of his stories with surrealistic affect, but “2666” abandons all traces of that affect for an unflinching, procedural language that bypasses poetic imagery or strips it to its disturbing core. The Part About the Crimes, the longest section of the novel and its most infamous, unfolds 300 pages of stark summary, illustrating the various cases of kidnapping and murder that took place in and around Santa Teresa between 1993 and 1997. The narrative, based on the actual unsolved murders in Juárez known as the feminicidos that continue to this day, mirrors the structure of “The Savage Detectives” in their ephemeral disinterest. Detectives, bodyguards, politicians, and prophets float to the surface and sink back again into an ocean of brutality, where a phantom mental patient desecrates churches and young girls are swallowed whole by unmarked cars in the Mexican night. With its medically precise descriptions of the symptoms and scenery of murder, the Part About the Crimes is a labor of agony and transcendence.
For the novel’s final section, “2666” explores the life of Archimboldi, who up until now had diminished from the novel entirely. Instead of a faithfully causal chain of events (which Bolaño already showed signs of eschewing in “The Savage Detectives,” and even earlier in “Nazi Literature in the Americas”), “2666” plots the five circles of a sort of literary hell. Beginning with criticism, then academia, journalism, police detection, and finally fiction, the structure of the novel represents a cycle of inexplicable death and rebirth that’s as close to a theory of reality as we’re likely to get from the author. Archimboldi is born in Germany on the coast of the North Sea in 1920, and from the outset he seems a figure emerged from Bolaño’s dreams: “He didn’t like the earth, much less forests. He didn’t like the sea either, or what ordinary mortals call the sea, which is really only the surface of the sea, waves kicked up by the wind that have gradually become the metaphor for defeat and madness. What he liked was the seabed, that other earth, with its plains that weren’t plains and valleys that weren’t valleys and cliffs that weren’t cliffs.” Archimboldi is Bolaño’s overman, a diver walking on Earth who bores through the mist that the rest of the cast seems too nauseous or too stupid to see through. The Part About Archimboldi is the novel’s most ambitious section, and it’s most beautiful. The novelist is Arturo Belano’s kindred spirit, a secret brother who seems to absorb the whole weight of his tragic experience—from his time in the Werhmacht on the apocalyptic Eastern Front to his haunting stay in a rest home for the demented—with a consciousness that remains totally opaque but for his books. But he’s more a symbol than a man: a silent, sage-like alien figure whose enigma never promises anything like life, let alone hope.
Ripped from any sense of sympathy or consequence, the reader approaches “2666” as a sort of museum of humanity, with triumph and atrocity laid bare and placed side by side: never equivocated, but inextricable from one another. The novel’s end comes suddenly, without reflection or resolution, as Archimboldi prepares to depart for Santa Teresa—the novel’s first cause. “2666” begins with an epigraph from Charles Baudelaire (“An oasis of horror in a desert of boredom”) and for many of the book’s critics, it never delivers more than that. But the novel’s central aspiration—perhaps disastrously, the one that can be the easiest to overlook—is unfathomably ambitious: a phenomenological study of destruction at the end of the twentieth century.
—Staff writer Ryan J. Meehan can be reached at rmeehan@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Congressman Tip O’Neill famously said, “All politics is local.” If that’s true, we hope that Harvard students are paying attention to the local election taking place next Tuesday: the primaries for the Senate seat formerly held by Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56. On the Democratic side, there is one candidate who best seems to follow in the tradition of great representatives like Kennedy or O’Neill—whose congressional seat he now holds. This candidate is Michael E. Capuano, and we strongly endorse his candidacy for the Senate.
First and foremost, we are certainly confident in Capuano on the issues. However, given the fact that his politics do little to differentiate him from his Democratic rivals, it is his personal attributes that make him stand out most to us. Specifically, we are impressed with Capuano’s past as a politician who gets things done. Since learning politics in rough-and-tumble Somerville—where he served as the city’s mayor—he has represented Massachusetts’s Eighth Congressional District, which includes Harvard, for over a decade.
Unlike his three rivals for the Democratic nomination, he has spun this Washington experience as a benefit, not a detriment, and we agree with this assessment. During debates and public appearances, Capuano has repeatedly demonstrated how his knowledge of government’s ins and outs has allowed him to work the system to his advantage—whether it is to push progressive causes or speak up for constituent needs. He understands how Washington works and is unapologetic about being an insider. In contrast to his rivals’ idealistic rhetoric about bringing change to the system, we find his realism refreshing.
Also refreshing is his candid, and often feisty, attitude. Capuano is not a typical politician; he is often willing to embrace controversy rather than resort to the tired political trick of sidestepping it. He is also wont to be upfront about issues and his stances on them. When his votes may be unpopular, he explains them, trying to engage rather than fool those who would disagree. Finally, he has also displayed a hot streak that often results in him becoming more animated than the average politician. Rather than seeing this as a disadvantage, we recognize that this invigorating style has served him well in the House of Representatives—the closest thing to the U.S. Senate.
We likewise recognize that there is this endorsement may raise some eyebrows, given that Alan A. Khazei ’83, who has spent significant time and resources here on campus, is Harvard’s favorite son. However, we actually find Khazei’s preoccupation with Harvard to be curious. In an election to represent all of Massachusetts, a candidate should probably not focus so much on a university whose students are largely not constituents.
That said, we do agree with Khazei on one major point: health care. We certainly appreciate the strong pro-choice position taken by Capuano, who says he opposes the health-care bill so long as it contains the Stupak amendment restricting abortion rights. We urge a Senator Capuano to vote for health-care reform regardless of the amendment—and we ultimately have faith that he will do so. Unlike one of his opponents, Attorney General Martha M. Coakley, he has not ruled it out entirely, saying that the current bill is still miles away from the final version and that many things can change.
Capuano’s endorsement by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and several of his Massachusetts colleagues in the House speaks to what is ultimately the most important thing in any election: respect. Simply put, we see Michael Capuano as the most likely candidate to become the next Ted Kennedy. Massachusetts deserves another senator who becomes a lion of the Senate, known for his effectiveness and respected by members of all parties. Capuano’s resume and demeanor have assured us that he can be that senator.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Vampires are hot. And by that, I mean that the entertainment industry is currently capitalizing on the hot concept of hot vampires and their lovely, if not quite so hot, female human companions. With the tremendous success of Stephanie Meyer’s “Twilight” series and the box office records generated by subsequent film adaptations, it seems like everyone’s jumping on the bandwagon. This year saw not only the opening of the second “Twilight” installment, “New Moon,” but also the second season of the popular HBO television series “True Blood” and the premiere of the more PG-rated “Vampire Diaries” on the CW channel. Of course, these modern vampire hunks bear little resemblance to Count Dracula—there’s none of that cape-wearing, sleeping-in-a-coffin nonsense.
In fact, one of the curious things about the current vampire craze is how the more unsavory aspects of the vampire lifestyle have been almost completely eliminated. To avoid the nasty business of murdering people, for instance, Edward Cullen and his model-perfect vampire family feed on animal blood, while the more conscientious “True Blood” vampires opt for a synthetic blood substitute. They get to sleep in comfy beds instead of coffins and don’t have issues with silly things like garlic or silver crosses. Sunshine slightly inconveniences the Cullens—in the light, they look like they’ve been bedazzled—but they handily solve the problem by living in the cloudy Pacific Northwest.
Yet easy solutions like these allow modern vampire franchises to completely gloss over some of the darker—and more interesting—questions that the vampire myth raises. For one thing, the modern construction of the vampire no longer involves the idea that immortality comes with a price. Our society is no longer one in which eternal damnation is a huge concern, but the question of whether one must give up one’s soul in order to live forever remains compelling. Without some kind of sacrifice, like losing one’s humanity or having to prey on one’s former equals, it isn’t terribly clear why staying human is a wise choice at all. Indeed, that may explain why Bella Swan, heroine of the “Twilight” series, is so eager to throw away her human life to become a vampire like her beloved Edward. Can you blame her? She’ll have supermodel good looks, super speed, super strength, and hopefully better coordination. If she plays her cards right, she may even become rich like the Cullens and own a nice car.
Instead of grappling with their monstrous natures, modern vampire characters are instead kept busy with relationship problems (Edward must explain to Bella that they can’t have sex because he’ll break her bones) or civil-rights issues (“True Blood” vampires demand the right to enter the same bars as humans). Despite their undead status, they can be charming gentlemen and lead fulfilling lives complete with loving girlfriends to boot.
Through this technique of making their pale creations not only handsome and alluring objects of fascination, but also romantic and compassionate protagonists, the creators of modern vampire characters have succeeded in turning the genre on its head. However, they fail to mine the potentially rich soil of darker issues—the pain of being aware of one’s own death, the anguish of being transformed into a killer. In short, they ignore all the things that might make vampire characters actually interesting to anyone who isn’t a complete sucker for chiseled cheekbones or cheesy lines.
But on second thought, it’s probably best that “Twilight” sticks with its portrayal of perfect vampire dreamboat Edward Cullen. Too much moral complexity might be deadly for Robert Pattinson’s wooden acting skills.
Adrienne Y. Lee ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a history concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We’ve heard what the American critics have had to say about President Barack Obama’s speech on Tuesday night. On the left, critics voice concern that we are digging ourselves further into a very costly hole. On the right, the talking points were that the speech was insufficiently militant and that Obama failed to provide a sense of assured victory. But, then again, it’s hard to know exactly what the commentariat was looking for. Bill O’Reilly criticized that Tuesday’s speech “was no Gettysburg address.” I suppose that if your standard for every speech is that it be the greatest in American political history, you will suffer occasional disappointment.
But what was the reaction of the foreign press, in particular some of our NATO allies? Afghanistan is ultimately a very backward country, and as long as it doesn’t become a big base for al Qaeda, it has no real bearing on Europeans’ interests. It is more difficult for an American to speak that truth. We inflate the danger due to the shock of 9/11. We also started the war, so we naturally have a greater stake in seeing it through. Europeans clearly don’t feel that. They help us, but there’s no pride of authorship, and their prestige is not on the line.
We are also leaning on them to commit 10,000 more troops to what is effectively our third surge in Afghanistan over the last two years. (In January 2008, only 26,000 American troops were there. By the time this surge has been deployed, we will total 100,000.)
According to sources for the French daily Le Monde, the Obama administration has asked Berlin for somewhere between 2,000 and 2,500 additional troops, Rome and Paris for 1,500 apiece, and London for 1,000. The Obama administration also hoped that another 4,000 will come from an increase in Georgian, Turkish, Polish, and South Korean troop levels.
It is hard to know if countries will meet these goals. Yesterday, European NATO ministers met in Brussels to discuss the surge and whether they can be counted on to add to the 42,000 NATO troops already in Afghanistan. Rome is reportedly ready to commit 1,000 more troops in addition to the 2,750 that already there, the largest increase pledged since Obama announced the surge. Gordon Brown pledged another 500 to bring the British tally up to 9,500, the biggest commitment after America’s. Warsaw will increase its contingent from 2,000 to 2,600.  Madrid will send another 200 troops to bring their total commitment to 1,200.
Germany, whose 4,300 troops make it the third-largest contingent in the alliance, is going to sit on its decision until an international conference on Afghanistan takes place in London this January. Their public and politicians have been preoccupied since September with accusations that a government minister tried to cover up Germany’s role in calling in an air strike that resulted in the deaths of somewhere between 30 and 70 civilians. Paris also seems to be postponing a decision until next month.
Part of the media coverage has focused on the developing drama between Democrats and Republicans. In this sense, they are merely spectators of American politics and say little that really implicates them. The Financial Times emphasized the political risk that the surge represents for the commander-in-chief with the headline, “Obama gambles his presidency on Afghanistan,” as did Le Monde, both in its news coverage and in an editorial titled “A Bet.”
The largest Spanish paper, El Pais, framed the speech more as a plan for withdrawal than  a surge proposal. The biggest Italian paper, Corriere della Sera, ran the headline “Obama: Troop Withdrawal Starting in July 2011” and a subhead that reads: “The American president announces his Afghan exit strategy.”
However, another common thread in the European coverage was just plain support for the United States—a sense of playing their part. At least among their political leaders, there seems to be a genuine sentiment that they are there to help us simply because we are allies.
We have a tendency to see enemies in the regions of the world that we don’t understand as well as we might as posing major threats. It’s a product of our leadership in World War II and the Cold War. And it has carried over as a big part of the Republican Party’s rhetoric, which tends to view the enemy as a one-size-fits-all existential threat.
Europeans have a more nuanced view. Le Monde and Le Figaro—the center right, more pro-business French paper—both seemed skeptical of the claim that winning in Afghanistan is vital to American interests and highlighted the inherent contradictions of a strategy that seeks to placate Democrats and Republicans but pleases neither.
Some call this skepticism a lack of leadership. There’s some truth to that. But considering their limited interest in the outcome of this war and the political cost of staying involved, there is something heartening about the fact that they continue to show such solidarity with us.
Clay A. Dumas ’10, a former Crimson associate editorial editor, is a social studies concentrator in Lowell House. His column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The campus erupted in ravenous outrage at the end of hot breakfast. Cuts to shuttle services evoked literal cries of bloody murder, and when athletes lost their free sweatsuits, it was as if the shirts had been taken off their backs. But for all the indignation on House e-mail lists and in The Crimson, students have remained relatively quiet about more serious cuts affecting the quality of the undergraduate experience.
Take, for example, the English Department, where for the first time in 30 years we have no junior faculty specializing in Medieval, Renaissance, Eighteenth Century, or Romantic literature. With a hiring freeze, a rapidly aging senior faculty, and an academic search process that takes years, it’s a realistic possibility that within the near future there will be nobody left to teach Coleridge or Swift, formerly staples of a liberal arts education. This trend toward faculty shortages might seem less alarming if it were not occurring in other departments as well. Just last year, the Economics Department lost three professors along with the resources to hire visiting faculty, and, as a result, it cut the junior economics tutorial from its undergraduate curriculum. The History Department faces a similar dearth of Americanists. Surely and quietly, Harvard’s ability to offer top-quality courses and professors—and consequently capable graduate student TFs—diminishes with each retirement. Students will just barely notice this transition when perusing the course catalog each semester.
Skeptics might say that the professorial shortages are in keeping with academic vogues, that similar alterations to the faculty’s composition have occurred for centuries. I would argue that such a paradigm shift in the faculty’s course offerings has never been this rapid or extensive outside of a curricular reform. Others might suggest that drastic cuts to the teaching staff are inevitable to balance the books, but I think it’s simply a matter of setting priorities.
In this process of establishing the budget, students are the only population on campus with solely the interests of the undergraduate experience in mind. Both the tone and content of the students’ response to budget cuts have thus reinforced stereotypes that Harvard undergraduates value almost every aspect of the student experience over academic pursuits. In deciding where our own interests lie, students have quietly conceded that the quality of course offerings is not at the top of our list of priorities.
The college community would benefit from introspection about what makes the Harvard experience a valuable one. None of us came for the luxurious housing, sunny weather, raging keggers, or satisfying meals. Though I find it hard to keep this in mind when trudging through rain to lecture at 10 a.m. with an empty stomach, the quality of the course offerings, or at the very least the cache of the professors, is what has made Harvard a great university historically: It’s what will make the Harvard brand both economically valuable and personally fulfilling for the rest of our lives.
The columnist Sydney Harris once wrote that “the primary purpose of a liberal education is to make one’s mind a pleasant place in which to spend one’s leisure.” In deciding what we as students care most about in the budgetary process, I hope we’ll prioritize the leisure of our future over the pleasantries of our lives today.
Benjamin P. Schwartz ’10 is a history and literature concentrator in Winthrop House and a former Vice-Chair for the Committee on College Life. His column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Travel allowances for freshmen international students on financial aid will double in light of the upcoming January Term, Associate Director of Financial Aid Janet Irons said yesterday.
“The decision was that we would include two trips home for freshman international students so that they could be home for the long winter break,” she said.
While international students on financial aid who are upperclassmen will continue to receive an annual travel allowance to cover one round-trip ticket, freshmen will receive an allowance for two, said Director of Financial Aid Sally C. Donahue.
According to Irons, students were notified of their travel allowances in their award letters at the beginning of the semester. But many students were not aware of this change.
Moni A. Trac ’13 said that she believes she currently receives an annual Financial Aid Office travel allowance for only one round-trip. Though Trac hadn’t heard of any changes, she said that any increase in travel allowance would make it easier for her to visit her home country of Cambodia.
“As an international student, it makes you very sad to see everyone going home for holidays like Thanksgiving when you’re half way around the world,” Trac said.
Irons said that the FAO has traditionally expected students to remain with friends over break.
Other international students did not intend to use the increased allowance for J-Term travels. Kidus T. Asfaw ’13, said he knew of the two round-trip travel allowances but will not return to his home in Ethiopia in January. Instead, Asfaw will visit relatives in the United States.
According to Donahue, the funding for this increased travel allowance comes from adjustments in the FAO scholarship budget, which is re-evaluated every fiscal year.
“We do a travel survey every fall where we look at a lot of information about the cost of travel and set the allowances towards travel,” Donahue said.
The FAO, however, does not decide travel allowances on a student-by-student basis.
“It would be impossible to administer,” Donahue said. Instead, the FAO uses results from the survey to determine grant allowances based on where students live. All students on financial aid who are from the same area receive the same allowance.
The travel allowance is granted to “all [international] students receiving financial aid,” Donahue said, and “is included into the cost of attendance and deducted from the expected parent contribution.”
—Staff writer Christian B. Flow contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Manning Ding can be reached at ding3@fas.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Gordon Johnson, deputy vice-chancellor of the University of Cambridge, reflected on the different roles of institutions of higher education in society, emphasizing the importance of building alliances with other universities, in a lecture held in honor of Cambridge’s 800th anniversary this year.
“Collaboration is essential,” Johnson said. “It is incredibly rare for an isolated group to produce something of real interest.”
Johnson, who is also provost of the Gates Cambridge Trust—which awards scholarships to students outside the U.K. to undertake graduate degrees at Cambridge—emphasized that universities are integral to society.
“Universities that are involved in scholarship and research by being critical of the status quo are in a position to influence change,“ Johnson said.
He also said that many of the technologies integral to today’s society are “only possible due to the secure intellectual grounds of the university.”
According to Professor of Christian Morals Peter J. Gomes, who teaches a course on the history of Harvard, the University has long-standing, if informal, ties to Johnson’s institution.
The root of Harvard University’s name comes from Emmanuel College, Cambridge graduate John Harvard, who bequeathed his estate and half his library collection to what was then a nascent college when he died.
“There is always a...gaggle...of Harvard students in Cambridge and Cambridge students in Harvard, and in that sense I think that the ties are continuing,” Gomes said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Director of International Admissions Robin M. Worth ’81 spent one of her nights in Tanzania sleeping on the floor, dining on peanut butter and jelly sandwiches, during Harvard’s three-week recruiting trip to Africa at the beginning of the year.
“It wasn’t glamorous,” Worth said of her travel arrangements.
But her frugality paid off.
Worth spent a total of $500 visiting high schools in Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Swaziland, and South Africa—a recruiting trip she said has cost Harvard and its peer institutions roughly $10,000 in past years.
When the admissions office slashed its travel budget in half to meet mandatory cuts last spring, Worth said that she feared international travel would not be possible this year.
But thanks to generous alumni    donations and penny-pinching on the part of admissions officers, Harvard has been able to maintain a normal international travel schedule, reaching out to students in the U.K., Africa, Turkey, Italy, and Germany, on a tight budget of around $6,000, Dean of Admissions William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said.
“At the moment we are in good shape,” Fitzsimmons said of the office’s cost-effective international trips.
But if the international travel budget reduction is permanent, Fitzsimmons said that there will likely be a “negative effect” on recruitment efforts.
“There is no question that there is a cause and effect relationship between where we recruit and who applies,” Fitzsimmons said.
This year’s tight budget constraints have forced the admissions office to be strategic in recruiting, cutting virtually all domestic high school visits.
But Fitzsimmons said that sustaining Harvard’s international outreach efforts remains a top priority.
“We have not just a national student body and University but an international one,” Fitzsimmons said.
Admissions officers increasingly rely on Skype and the admissions Web site to connect with students in countries they are unable to visit. The office is planning to hold conferences with schools in Pakistan and Saudi Arabia via Skype in the near future, Worth said.
Two weeks ago during a trip to Munich, Germany, Associate Director of Financial Aid Jonathan M. Kaufmann visited the country’s Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS), which serve primarily children of U.S. military, marking Harvard’s first visit to these schools.
“Historically, perhaps, they have not been on the radar,” Kaufmann said. “DoDDS are just high schools—we want to continue to visit schools where there are high quality students.”
At the schools, Kaufmann fielded questions from crowds of over 200 students, parents, and faculty.
“These kids in particular have had wild lives geographically,” Kaufmann said. “But interestingly, the questions these students had were not different from questions all students have about H Harvard—will I fit in? Can I afford to attend?” arvard—will I fit in? Can I afford to attend?”
—Staff writer Jillian K. Kushner can be reached at kushner@fas.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
First Printer Restaurant, Bar, and Grill expects to open its doors April 1, replacing the now-empty Herrell’s Ice Cream on Dunster St.
After 27 years of serving ice cream, Jeffrey Stanett decided to convert Herrell’s and expand the existing location into a casual restaurant due to financial pressure from rising costs and increased competition in Harvard Square, from J.P. Licks in particular.
Due to high labor and materials expenses as well as a $10,000 increase in rent per month, Herrell’s had been unable to turn a profit for the past four or five months, Stanett told The Crimson in September.
“I’m doing this so that all my good people have jobs, a place to work,” Stanett said yesterday.
“The only way to preserve that is to build a restaurant,” he added.
With construction for the new restaurant underway, Stanett is now planning First Printer’s business model, starting out with a traditional American menu.
Stanett emphasized that First Printer will be a “down to earth” restaurant.”
“I will start with very, very excellent, moderately priced hamburgers, very excellent, moderately priced hot dogs, and have weekly specials of standard New England fare,” he said.
Stanett  added that he will later “ramp up” the menu with daily specials and seafood dishes.
Stanett has already procured a liquor licence and plans to offer a “moderately priced” full bar.
“If you take a young lady to a local competitor, it could cost 40 bucks,” Stanett estimated.
“But if you take her here, that 40 would come down to 20 or 30 bucks.”
Stanett said that he hopes to include a takeout option with frozen or prepared foods, such as clam chowder and lobster bisque, as well as desserts.
Finale Desserterie and Bakery, located across the street, welcomed news of First Printer’s opening.
“We’re not afraid of it being competition because we have a very unique business model that fits a very specific need for the public,” said Finale’s manager, Casey Eppskrier.
Eppskrier added that he looks forward to working with First Printer Restaurant, Bar, and Grill to bring business to both establishments.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Exit polls from the 2008 presidential election placed support for Barack Obama at 66 percent from the 18-29 year old demographic. However, a new national poll conducted by the Harvard Institute of Politics shows that his initial popularity with the younger generation may have dwindled since he began his term.
The poll, which was conducted in November of this year, showed Obama with a 58 percent approval rating on his overall job performance, but on individual issues such as health care, the economy, Iran, and Afghanistan, approval ratings were lower. The President saw approval ratings of 44 percent for both health care and the economy, and approval ratings of 42 and 41 percent for the government’s involvement in Iran and Afghanistan, respectively.
IOP Polling Director John D. Della Volpe described young adults as “outliers” when compared to the rest of the voting population because of their enthusiastic support for Obama during the election. But he said that they now mirror the rest of the population with their approval ratings.
Della Volpe said that this decrease may be caused by the realization that the issues the president has to deal with have “no quick fixes”. He also attributed the change to a different communications perspective.
“[During the election] millions of young people were touched on a regular basis by the Obama campaign, through the media, their friends, Facebook, Twitter and general daily interactions,” he said. “Now this has fallen through the cracks.”
William R. Rose ’11, leader of the IOP survey program, said that the disconnect between the approval ratings of Obama’s job performance and his handling of specific issues may be a result of people agreeing with Obama’s general message as a whole but “feel[ing] frustrated because not much is getting done.” Rose used health care legislation as an example, referring to one of the bill’s amendments that would add more restrictions on abortions offered through insurance plans.
“Many young people might find that the health care bill is not exactly the way they want to see it because of something like the Stupak amendment,” he said. The poll numbers may also indicate the extent to which America’s young adults are politically engaged and active, said Della Volpe. He called the strong opinions of the 18 to 29 year old demographic a sign that “the largest generation of voters in our history are independent, passionate and outspoken, and they should not be taken for granted.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTIONS APPENDED
Jarrett T. Barrios ’90, president of the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, criticized what he regarded as pervasive homophobia in a lecture yesterday at the Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts.
Barrios, the first openly gay person elected to both the Mass. House of Representatives and State Senate, drew from his personal experiences fighting homophobia as evidence of existing bigotry.
“We need protective laws and an understanding community,” Barrios said, addressing a gathering of two dozen at the event held at an AIDS activism visual media exhibition. “Right now, not all of us feel comfortable enough to come out.”
Barrios recounted his efforts to “integrate” straight bars while a student at Georgetown University’s law school by encouraging his gay peers to go to local straight bars in large groups.
“I couldn’t just go to a bar and feel comfortable dancing with my boyfriend,” Barrios said. “[But] I was always the kid who didn’t know to be afraid of the tiger.”
In 2004, Barrios married his partner, communications consultant Douglas J. Hattaway, at the First Parish in Cambridge Unitarian Universalist Church.
Barrios also related his experience fielding questions from his constituents over his sexual orientation during his time in the Mass. state legislature.
“I just happen to be gay,” Barrios said, adding that his sexual orientation did not affect his job as a state legislator.
Pointing to both this experience and CBS’s recent censoring of Adam Lambert’s kissing another male at the American Music Awards, Barrios argued that America is still far from curbing homophobia.
“When you have the CBS morning news blurring two gay men kissing,” Barrios said, “I think that shows we’re still a very far way from removing any sort of discrimination.”
But Barrios ended with a note of hope for the future.
“The person who called me a ‘fag’ at the homecoming dance on high school just ‘friended’ me on Facebook,” Barrios said. “I want to accept—I want him to see how I’m living my life.”
CORRECTIONS
An earlier version of the Dec. 4 news article "Barrios Speaks on Anti-Homophobia Activism" incorrectly stated that Jarrett T. Barrios ’90 and Douglas J. Hattaway were married at Boston’s Cathedral of the Holy Cross. In fact, the two were married at the First Parish in Cambridge Unitarian Universalist Church.
The article also incorrectly quoted Barrios as calling his marriage an action that embolded and surprised the queer community.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite overwhelming student support for calendar reform when it was originally proposed several years ago, some are expressing discontent at their newly condensed schedules.
“The only thing I’m going to enjoy about the new calendar is the monthlong break,” said Sarah K. Littlehale ’11. “Otherwise, these past two weeks have been hell.”
In an e-mailed statement, Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds echoed the general student sentiment, saying that Peer Advising Fellows told her that “it has been a transition to write papers before the winter recess,” but would be “worth it when they [students] are afforded a January reprieve from academic obligations.”
Some professors who were accustomed to Harvard’s old schedule, with exams occurring after the holiday season, are being forced to adapt their syllabi to a shorter semester. In an e-mail, Literature professor Leo Damrosch wrote that he has tried this year to extend due dates for term papers past the end of a “painfully compressed” reading period.
But several students complained that they feel that there has been less time between midterms than in years past.
“It feels rushed at times,” said Mark Pollak ’12. “It feels like professors didn’t know how to adjust.”
Harvard history professor Charles S. Maier ’60, who has held tenure since 1981, admitted to feeling “disoriented” by the changes.
“It should be December 15th right now,” Maier said.
On the whole, though, the new calendar has received many positive reviews, despite concerns about finishing coursework on tighter deadlines.
“Whatever the calendar is like, everyone always has to do too much work in too little time,” Damrosch wrote.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A day after the Faculty of Arts and Sciences released a program for early faculty retirement, professors said that they found the plan “generous,” but expressed concern that vacated positions would not be filled as FAS continues to face a $110 million deficit.
“It provides very attractive options for people who want to retire,” said history professor Edward R. Owen, who said he will accept the package.
Owen, 74, said he had originally planned to retire this year, but will now take advantage of the two year retirement option that includes two semesters of paid sabbatical. Traditionally, he explained, one semester of paid sabbatical is offered only after seven years on campus.
Twenty years ago, Owen would not have had a choice as to whether to stay at Harvard. Yesterday’s announcement marks the first retirement program to be offered since 1994, when Harvard abolished mandatory retirement at age 70 in response to changes in federal law.
The retirement plan provides eligible faculty members with three options for financially-supported retirement within a a maximum of four years. The 127 eligible faculty members—tenured professors over the age of 65 who have spent at least 10 years at Harvard—must accept by June 30, 2010.
This year’s plan is the result of a months-long process triggered by financial troubles that began in February. The opening up of high-salary tenured positions will give FAS greater flexibility with salary costs.
Last month, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith said FAS will hire at a lower rate than current faculty attrition, reversing nearly a decade of extensive hiring that has seen the faculty grow by 20 percent.
Departments across FAS are left having to cope with smaller faculties and fewer searches for new professors.
History Department Chair Lizabeth Cohen acknowledged that a History professor is expected to take part in the program, an additional loss to a department that has already lost four tenured faculty members since the beginning of last summer.
“My concern as chair of the department, of course, is to get some assurances that these retirements will not all result in net [full time employment] losses to the department,” Cohen wrote in an e-mail.
“Our ability to offer students the range of courses they want and deserve will depend on getting authorization for new hiring in some, if not all, of the areas where faculty are retiring,” she wrote.
The retirement package will serve an aging faculty whose average age is 56. Twenty-four percent of FAS’s tenured faculty is aged 65 or older.
According to Slavic Language Department Chair Julie Buckler, five of that department’s eleven faculty members are eligible for the program.
“If Dean Smith is planning to shrink the faculty by attrition, it would not be a good thing for the Slavic Department to lose 5 of its 11 professors within a short span without any guarantee of filling those vacant positions,” she wrote in an e-mailed statement.
“The dean has made no promises,” said Astronomy Department Chair James M. Moran. Over a quarter of his department’s faculty is eligible for the plan, including Moran, 66.
But he said he does not intend to take advantage of the single-year offer and retire.
While Owen’s retirement was pushed off a year with the program, the package may incentivize earlier retirement for some professors. English Professor Lawrence Buell said he had already formulated a long-term retirement plan, and he has not yet determined what effect the program will have on those plans. “It is quite generous,” he said.
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Women who frequently drink sugar-sweetened drinks while pregnant may have a significantly higher risk of developing a condition similar to type II diabetes, according to a recent study conducted by Louisiana State University and Harvard researchers.
The study found that pregnant women who drink five or more servings of sugar-sweetened drinks a week are 22 percent more likely to develop gestational diabetes mellitus, which is one of the most common pregnancy complications, according to Liwei Chen, the lead author and assistant professor of epidemiology at the Louisiana State University School of Public Health.
GDM, which causes glucose intolerance in the mother, disappears after giving birth. But babies born to mothers with the condition have a higher risk of birth injury and are more likely to require a C-section delivery. Later in life, these babies also have a much higher risk of developing obesity, type II diabetes, and glucose intolerance.
One unexpected finding was that the risk increase was associated only with consumption of sugar-sweetened cola drinks, such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi, but not with other soft drinks—including fruit punch, diet, and caffeine-free beverages.
Researchers have proposed several hypotheses to explain why sugar-sweetened cola were most strongly associated with GDM, and one possibility is the potentially harmful effect of the caramel coloring used in these drinks.
The next step, Chen said, would be to pinpoint the biological pathway responsible for the onset of the disease.
Although GDM is a serious condition that “increases both short-term and long-term health risk for the mother and the baby,” Chen said that it has not garnered as much attention from the scientific community as other risk factors during pregnancy.
According to Walter C. Willett, chair of the department of nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health and one of the paper’s authors, the study draws attention to “an added risk to the mother and the infant that would be better prevented.”
Willett, known as an active proponent of taxing sugared drinks to reduce consumption, said he believes that the study’s conclusions should translate into policy action and lead to greater public awareness, especially since the average American currently drinks 11 servings of sugared beverages every week.
During pregnancy, women are more motivated to make lifestyle changes, Willett said. As a result, obstetricians should consider emphasizing the dangers of sugared beverage consumption to their pregnant patients, who are more likely to heed the advice.
The results of the study, which was funded by the National Institutes of Health and used data from the Nurses’ Health Study II, were published in the December issue of “Diabetes Care.”
—Staff Writer Helen X. Yang can be reached at hxyang@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Those born in the Southeast may be more likely to die of a stroke even after moving out of the appropriately named “Stroke Belt” region, a Harvard School of Public Health professor reported Tuesday.
The findings, published in the journal “Neurology,” suggest that residents of the Southeastern states are 20 to 50 percent more likely to die of strokes than those living in the rest of the country.
Former inhabitants of the region also face a higher risk than those who have never lived in the South, regardless of race, the study found. White former residents are 20 percent more likely and black former residents are 9 percent more likely to suffer stroke-related deaths.
School of Public Health professor M. Maria Glymour and her team analyzed stroke deaths from 1980, 1990 and 2000 using census data and mortality records across the United States and concluded that geography, not genetics, is likely the driving factor for higher stroke mortality.
“Our best thinking currently is that it is not genetic, and it is probably a risk factor that influences the whole broad population: rich and poor, black and white,” Glymour said in an e-mailed statement.
Though researchers are unable to fully explain the “Stroke Belt” phenomenon at this point, Glymour offered possible explanations such as social norms influencing dietary patterns, quality of public resources, and other environmental conditions.
The “Stroke Belt” is generally used to refer to North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Alabama.
The study aims to look at a person’s entire life and identify possible risk areas, Glymour said.
“We often think of stroke prevention as something that starts in middle or old age,” Glymour said, “but this is like waiting until your ship is half full of water before you start bailing it out.”
Arkansas resident Kathryn C. Stephens ’13 said she was not completely surprised by the Harvard study’s conclusions.
“Eating habits in the South are worse than in other areas, and fried foods are part of the culture,” Stephens said. She added that she would not move away from the “Stroke Belt” region, citing Arkansas’ beauty and friendly people.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTION APPENDED
The family of a Harvard undergraduate who committed suicide two years ago filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Harvard College and two professionals at University Health Services on Wednesday.
John B. Edwards III '10 was a sophomore preparing for a medical career and training for the Boston Marathon when he committed suicide in November 2007.
The lawsuit, filed by his father, John B. Edwards II, alleges that his son sought care at UHS in June 2007 because he could not study for as long a period of time as his friends. According to the complaint, a nurse practitioner prescribed Adderall to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in addition to two antidepressants, Prozac and Wellbrutin. Edwards was also taking Accutane, a powerful anti-acne drug. Three of these four drugs have been associated with heightened suicide risk.
Lisa G. Arrowood, the attorney representing Edwards, said that drug combination is inappropriate and is associated with an increased risk of suicide.
Harvard spokesperson Kevin Galvin released the following statement: “We understand how difficult it must be for John Edward’s [sic] family to cope with such a tragic loss, but we are confident that the care he received at Harvard University Health Services was thorough and appropriate and he was monitored closely by its physicians and allied health specialists. Similar complaints previously have been filed with the Board or Registration in Medicine, the Board of Registration in Nursing and the Board of Registration in Pharmacy, and in all three instances the complaints were dismissed upon review.”
CORRECTION
An earlier version of the Dec. 4 news article "Family Sues Harvard Over Son's Suicide" incorrectly stated that the drug allegedly perscribed to John B. Edwards III to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder was not named in the lawsuit filings. In fact, the drug, Adderall, was named in the suit.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two seasons ago it was Michigan. Last season it was Boston College. Will Connecticut be next?
This Sunday the Harvard men’s basketball team travels to Storrs, Conn. to take on the No. 13 Huskies (5-1) in an attempt to come away with what would be the biggest upset in the Crimson’s (6-1) history.
But this Harvard team is no stranger to the role of underdog.
Over the past two seasons, the Crimson has emerged victorious in two contests against elite non-conference opponents, defeating Michigan in 2007 and Boston College in 2009 by double-digits.
If Harvard is to have a similar outcome this Sunday against a team fresh off a berth in last season’s Final Four, several things will have to fall in place.
“For us to be on the road against a talented team like [UConn], it’s going to take a tremendous effort and performance,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “It’s going to take an effort and performance out of them that would be less than stellar. We understand the dynamics that have to shape up and go our way, but those things have happened.”
Despite losing its nucleus of Hasheem Thabeet, Jeff Adrien, and A.J. Price from last season, the Huskies return an athletic lineup with arguably one of the best backcourts in the nation.
Led by guards Kemba Walker and Jerome Dyson, UConn is a team that likes to push the ball on offense and provide full court pressure on defense.
“We can’t give them a lot of fast break opportunities,” said sophomore point guard Oliver McNally. “Defensively, [we must] stay in front and make them take tough shots—can’t give them the lanes and let them just have layup drills all the time. If they’re going to hit tough shots, then you got to tip your hat but try to make it hard for them.”
Jeff Goodman, senior college basketball writer for FOXSports.com, believes the Crimson’s best shot is to pack a zone in an attempt to force the Huskies to take shots from outside.
“You don’t want to run with [UConn],” Goodman said of Harvard’s game strategy. “Obviously you’re not nearly as athletic.”
Thus far this year, the Crimson has relied on its bench to wear down opponents with less depth such as Holy Cross and Boston University. Led by a strong class of freshmen and senior forward Pat Magnarelli, the Harvard bench has averaged 31.4 points per game.
This does not appear to be a viable strategy against the well-conditioned Huskies, who average more points in the second period than the first.
Despite being outmatched athletically, the Crimson enters this weekend’s matchup with a great deal of confidence after jumping out to its best start since it began the 1984-85 season 8-0.
“I think our kids are playing with a tremendous amount of confidence and I think they have the right to play that way based on what they’ve been able to do thus far,” said Amaker after Wednesday’s victory over Rice. “We’ve played a tremendous schedule thus far. It only gets incredibly tougher for us from this point forward.”
With that said, UConn will step on the court Sunday riding a great deal of momentum, as well. The Huskies have started the season 6-1 with their sole loss coming at the hands of No. 6 Duke in the finals of the NIT Season Tip-Off at Madison Square Garden.
Harvard and UConn have shared two opponents this season—William and Mary and Boston University. While the Crimson and the Huskies each emerged 2-0 in the contests, UConn has done so with far greater ease.
It took Harvard three overtimes to defeat William and Mary and a late comeback to come out on top over Boston University; the Huskies, on the other hand, won the two contests by an average of 18.5 points.
Additionally UConn holds on to a significant historical advantage against the Crimson, leading the all-time series 12-2 with Harvard’s last victory coming during the 1972-73 season.
Despite all signs pointing toward a Huskies victory, the Crimson players believe they can make their presence felt.
“I don’t like the phrase that we have nothing to lose because we expect to compete and do well against them,” McNally said.
If there’s one player who should believe this, it’s co-captain Jeremy Lin. Last season, Lin exploded for 27 points, eight assists, and six steals against then-No. 17 Boston College, propelling Harvard to its first victory over a ranked opponent.
“We’re definitely the underdog,” the 6’3 guard said. “We understand that so we’re all excited and we’re ready to see whether we can make some noise.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s fencing team showed its depth yesterday, cruising to an easy 24-3 victory over the Tufts Jumbos (1-2) at the MAC despite resting its sophomore co-captains Caroline Vloka and Noam Mills.
Coming off a 6-0 run at last Saturday’s Harvard Invitational—where the Crimson defeated the defending national champion Penn State in a 14-13 squeaker—Harvard improved it record to 7-0 with its win over Tufts. Crimson coach Peter Brand has called his team’s performance this year “terrific” and yesterday’s meet against Tufts was no exception. In what Brand called “a rout in every respect,” the Harvard sabre and foil squads both went undefeated, going 9-0. The epee squad also had a strong performance, going 6-3.
Making the feat more impressive was the fact that Brand sat some of his best fencers to allow fencers further down on the depth chart to get a chance to perform. Vloka and Mills, who both medaled at Garrett Penn State Open to begin the season, were among those who sat out the meet this week. But Volka and Mills, who were suited up for the meet, were still on hand to lend their teammates support.
Junior sabre squad member Yunsoo Kim was one of the fencers who took advantage of her opportunity to see action. Kim went 3-0 at the meet.
“This is actually my first fencing of the year, so I was pleased,” Kim said.
Kim’s squadmates sophomore Hayley Levitt and freshman Elena Helgiu also did their part to help the sabre squad stay perfect at 9-0. Helgiu won a particularly fierce bout where sparks flew as she crossed sabres with Tuft’s sophomore Brianna Smith. Levitt was also involved in a memorable contest against Tuft’s sophomore Sarah Danly, a match in which she was able to pull away in the end with a 5-3 victory.
The Harvard women’s foil squad also made short work of Tufts, going 9-0 and finishing off its opponents in time to cheer on its teammates on the epee squad as they closed out their bouts. Senior Arielle Pensler started off the foil squad’s win streak with a victory in the opening match of the meet.
The Crimson’s greatest challenge in yesterday’s meet came from Tuft’s epee squad. Harvard struggled early against the Jumbos, with freshmen Felicia Sun and Alexa Fishman both losing contests.
But the pair came storming back in later bouts. Sun posted two resounding 5-0 sweeps to assist the Crimson to a comfortable victory in the epee. Fellow freshman epee Nadia Eldeib also did her part, overpowering her opposition in a lopsided matchup to end the meet.
Brand was very proud of his team’s performance against Tufts, calling it “absolutely flawless.”
“They all performed extremely well, and I really cannot point to one person who did better than the others,” he said. “This is a team performance all the way, I’m very happy with that, it shows me that we’re fairly deep.”
Brand was also quick to praise his team’s spirit, a sentiment shared by Kim.
“I think our team spirit is strong...and our connection each other is strong,” Kim said. “We have a good future.”
Next up for Harvard is the St. John’s Invitational on Jan. 24th. Brand emphasized the difficulty of the competition at the Invitational, calling it a meeting of the best teams in the country.
“It’ll be it’ll be tough but my fencers are ready and I look forward to [the Invitational],” Brand said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Hofstra University announced yesterday that it will be dropping its intercollegiate football program—the second Colonial Athletic Association (CAA) school to eliminate the sport in the last 10 days.
Hofstra president Stuart Rabinowitz made the announcement in an open letter published on the school’s website yesterday morning. The decision came after a review of the university’s entire athletic program, and Rabinowitz said that budget concerns were not to blame for the decision. Football is the only program that will be cut.
“Football could not attain significant national recognition, and it has low student, community and media interest, attendance and financial support,” Rabinowitz wrote. “In the end, we could not continue to justify the expense of football compared to the benefits it brought to the University.”
The Pride finished 5-6 (3-5 CAA) this season and has not reached the FCS playoffs since 2001.
Hofstra has turned out a number of NFL players, including New Orleans wide receiver Marques Colston and former New York Jets receiver Wayne Chrebet.
The scholarships of the 84 members of the Pride football team will be honored if the students choose to remain at the university. Hofstra’s announcement comes on the heels of last week’s news that Northeastern would be discontinuing its football program.
With only four FCS conferences—including the CAA and the Ivy League—based in the Northeast, the loss of two local programs could have an impact on Harvard’s future recruitment.
—KATE LEIST
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Score another recruit for Harvard men’s basketball coach Tommy Amaker and his staff. Earlier last week, 6’8, 215 lb forward James Moore committed to joining the Crimson next fall. The Jesuit High School (Sacramento, Calif.) senior chose Harvard over a number of West Coast programs, including Seattle, Portland, and San Diego. Cal, Stanford, and USC also reportedly showed interest.
According to Moore, a personal emphasis on education led him to focus on Ivy League schools. He said that his final decision came down to either Cornell or Harvard, two basketball programs “headed in the right direction.” In addition to Harvard’s location and name recognition, Moore cited the chance to “win the Ivy League for the first time in Harvard’s history, to do something that had never been done before,” as a major factor in his choice.
Moore was ranked by Rivals.com the top prospect in Northern California earlier this summer and is currently rated at an 89 by ESPN, which describes him as “a solid ‘four-man’ prospect for the mid-major level.” He averaged 16.6 points and 6.6 rebounds per game in his junior season. According to his high school coach Greg Harcos, Moore’s greatest strength lies in his shooting ability, which he called “unbelievable.” “Three-pointers are layups for him,” Harcos said. “I’ve had some really good shooters, and he’s the best I’ve had.”
Moore is the fourth recruit in Harvard’s future class of 2014. He joins Montverde Academy (Florida) forward Ugo Okam in bolstering the Crimson frontcourt, in addition to Northfield-Mount Hermon (Mass.) guards Matt Brown and Laurent Rivard.
—DENNIS J. ZHENG
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson women’s hockey team hopes that its recent success is a goofor this weekend’s two-game set against one of its biggest rivals, Minnesota.
The puck drops tonight at 7 p.m. at Bright Hockey Center, and the teams will face off again tomorrow at 4 p.m.
Harvard (6-3-1, 6-3-0 ECAC), currently ranked No. 9 in the country, has been surging recently with a three-game winning streak and five-game unbeaten streak, but No. 2 Minnesota (13-2-1, 9-2-1-1 WCHA) has proven a fierce competitor to the Crimson in the past. The Golden Gophers swept last season’s two-game set and beat Harvard in the 2004 and 2005 national title games. The Crimson has dropped eight of the last nine games in the series.
Though this game presents a challenge for Harvard, the team is focusing more on the long-term goal of perfecting its play rather than solely beating Minnesota.
The Crimson got off to a rocky start this season, winning only two of its first five games. Harvard will seek to continue its recent rally in this weekend’s set.
“I don’t think we got off to the best start, but we’ve definitely brought it together over the past few games,” senior goalie Christina Kessler said. “We’re hoping that we’ll be able to ride that momentum through this weekend’s games.”
However, the Crimson is not relying solely on its recent success to pull it through its challenges this weekend.
“We respect Minnesota as a team, and you have to bring your best when you’re playing some of the best teams out there,” junior forward Kate Buesser said.
Several members of the Crimson women’s hockey team are originally from Minnesota, and they have helped to spread this feeling of respect—as well as excitement—to the rest of the squad.
Harvard has been practicing hard over the past week, analyzing Minnesota’s game play and trying to reinforce the teamwork and strategy that has helped it perform well in its past few matchups.
“I think that we play our best when we communicate and work as a team, and the last couple of games we’ve been going out hard and playing as a unit,” freshman forward Jillian Dempsey said.
The Crimson has exhibited balanced offensive play thus far, with Buesser and Dempsey leading the team with 14 and 11 points, respectively. Dempsey’s 1.10 points per game are good for third-best nationally among rookies.
On the blue line, freshman Josephine Pucci leads the way with seven points, putting her seventh in the country in defenseman scoring.
“This is the first year we haven’t had a superstar on the team, and we’ve had everyone contributing,” Buesser said. “We don’t expect all the points from one player, or for one player to keep us in the game obstensively.”
The Crimson also received an extra push last week with the return of junior forward Liza Ryabkina, who recovered from a knee injury. Ryabkina proved to be a valuable player in her first game back, recording one assist and scoring the game-winning goal against Dartmouth last Wednesday.
But Minnesota also boasts an impressive roster, led by freshman netminder Noora Raty who is ranked second in the country with a 0.99 goals-against average and a .962 save percentage. On the offensive end, junior Emily West is seventh in the nation with 22 points.
The Golden Gophers are coming off a dominating sweep of No. 4 Clarkson, shutting out the Golden Knights, 4-0 and 2-0, last weekend.
To skate with Minnesota, Harvard will have to play a complete game.
“Over the past few games, we’ve been coming out with a slow start and picking things up after the first period,” Kessler said. “We know that with Minnesota, we can’t wait until midway through the game to pick it up. We have to go out strong.”
“We need to keep in mind that we’re going to play our game,” Buesser added, “not how they want us to play.”
Though it would be a major boost for the team if it was to win this weekend’s set, the Crimson is not approaching Minnesota differently than it has any other team this season. The focus of its practice and strategy is to play the game out to its full potential, approaching every team it faces as if it were its biggest competition.
“Whether or not we’re playing a ranked team, we’re going for a win,” Kessler said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson women’s hockey team hopes that its recent success is a good sign for this weekend’s two-game set against one of its biggest rivals, Minnesota.
The puck drops tonight at 7 p.m. at Bright Hockey Center, and the teams will face off again tomorrow at 4 p.m.
Harvard (6-3-1, 6-3-0 ECAC), currently ranked No. 9 in the country, has been surging recently with a three-game winning streak and five-game unbeaten streak, but No. 2 Minnesota (13-2-1, 9-2-1-1 WCHA) has proven a fierce competitor to the Crimson in the past. The Golden Gophers swept last season’s two-game set and beat Harvard in the 2004 and 2005 national title games. The Crimson has dropped eight of the last nine games in the series.
Though this game presents a challenge for Harvard, the team is focusing more on the long-term goal of perfecting its play rather than solely beating Minnesota.
The Crimson got off to a rocky start this season, winning only two of its first five games. Harvard will seek to continue its recent rally in this weekend’s set.
“I don’t think we got off to the best start, but we’ve definitely brought it together over the past few games,” senior goalie Christina Kessler said. “We’re hoping that we’ll be able to ride that momentum through this weekend’s games.”
However, the Crimson is not relying solely on its recent success to pull it through its challenges this weekend.
“We respect Minnesota as a team, and you have to bring your best when you’re playing some of the best teams out there,” junior forward Kate Buesser said.
Several members of the Crimson women’s hockey team are originally from Minnesota, and they have helped to spread this feeling of respect—as well as excitement—to the rest of the squad.
Harvard has been practicing hard over the past week, analyzing Minnesota’s game play and trying to reinforce the teamwork and strategy that has helped it perform well in its past few matchups.
“I think that we play our best when we communicate and work as a team, and the last couple of games we’ve been going out hard and playing as a unit,” freshman forward Jillian Dempsey said.
The Crimson has exhibited balanced offensive play thus far, with Buesser and Dempsey leading the team with 14 and 11 points, respectively. Dempsey’s 1.10 points per game are good for third-best nationally among rookies.
On the blue line, freshman Josephine Pucci leads the way with seven points, putting her seventh in the country in defenseman scoring.
“This is the first year we haven’t had a superstar on the team, and we’ve had everyone contributing,” Buesser said. “We don’t expect all the points from one player, or for one player to keep us in the game obstensively.”
The Crimson also received an extra push last week with the return of junior forward Liza Ryabkina, who recovered from a knee injury. Ryabkina proved to be a valuable player in her first game back, recording one assist and scoring the game-winning goal against Dartmouth last Wednesday.
But Minnesota also boasts an impressive roster, led by freshman netminder Noora Raty who is ranked second in the country with a 0.99 goals-against average and a .962 save percentage. On the offensive end, junior Emily West is seventh in the nation with 22 points.
The Golden Gophers are coming off a dominating sweep of No. 4 Clarkson, shutting out the Golden Knights, 4-0 and 2-0, last weekend.
To skate with Minnesota, Harvard will have to play a complete game.
“Over the past few games, we’ve been coming out with a slow start and picking things up after the first period,” Kessler said. “We know that with Minnesota, we can’t wait until midway through the game to pick it up. We have to go out strong.”
“We need to keep in mind that we’re going to play our game,” Buesser added, “not how they want us to play.”
Though it would be a major boost for the team if it was to win this weekend’s set, the Crimson is not approaching Minnesota differently than it has any other team this season. The focus of its practice and strategy is to play the game out to its full potential, approaching every team it faces as if it were its biggest competition.
“Whether or not we’re playing a ranked team, we’re going for a win,” Kessler said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Wondering what has been happening with True Love Revolution since October's blowup?
In case you have been buried under your P-sets all semester, a Crimson editorial piece by Silpa Kovvali triggered a series of heated exchanges on the net earlier this semester. Now it seems that the debate has reached a national forum by garnering the interest of two nationwide media outlets: ABC News and Newsweek.
The ABC article, "Hooking Up for Sex: Sluts or New Feministx" features the dispute as part of its exploration of the custom of hook-ups and its relationship to feminism.
Newsweek's November 6 article by Lisa Miller was entitled "Sexual Revolution, Part II:  The fight over abstinence at Harvard." Miller seems to embrace the idea that abstinence can be an empowering way of escaping sexual discontent. Yet simultaneously, the article says that the polarizing "'one man, one woman' language" used by TLR may alienate individuals.
Despite this criticism, it appears TLR counts this article as an endorsement- they provide a link to the article from their blog under the title "Newsweek promotes TLR."
Sections
Ever wondered just how bad life could get at Harvard (theoretically, of course)? Well, Harvard Undergraduate Television (HUTV) showed the world with the reveal of the FML video contest--after expected self-promotion.
The preview of HUTV’s entire fall  line up kicked off last night at 7 p.m.in the Fong Auditorum, complete with Noch's pizza and 18 pints of Berryline. Audience members battled to stock up on refreshments before filling the seats and settling in for an hour of HUTV.
At 8 PM, Derek Flanzraich '10 screened the  three finalists of the FML video contest, created jointly by the Voice  and HUTV in search of “the most extreme Harvard FML moment”. The winning video, by 14 votes, was “The News Will Spread Like a Flower…” by  Cameron M. Johnstone ‘12 and Andrew P. Coffman ’12.
Find out more about the winners after the jump!
In the video, Coffman dances to Saturday  Night Live’s “Mother Lover.” Johnstone goes to sleep but is awoken by a minotaur whose visit predicts "grevious misfortune" to come. Johnstone then  wakes up to Coffman complaining about his work. “I have this presentation  in two days…don’t even know what it’s on. The Renaissance? Psh!  I don’t know what the Renaissance is!” says Coffman.
Although the video may seem confusing at first, its description is simply "I was visited by a minotaur. FML." Ohh...we guess it puts our usual FML moments in perspective.
Johnstone and Coffman were awarded the  grand prize of a $100 gift card at b.good. Oh, and eternal glory may be part of the deal also. But the winners were happy to share the credit with their fellow castmates. “That’s my dog India in  the picture,” Johnstone said in his moving acceptance speech.
All finalist videos, by the way, can  be viewed on the HUTV website.
Sections
Supporters of the campaign of the Undergraduate Council President and President-Elect will be reveling in the glory of their contested victory today in the Pfoho Bell Tower, according to a Facebook invitation.
President-elect John F. Bowman ‘11 begins his behest, which feels like a pep-talk, by quoting Barack Obama’s acceptance speech, but adding his own twist to it—proclaiming that he and his running-mate will be “celebrating with a vengeance” tonight.
Bowman goes on some lessons to be discussed during the revelry, poking fun at the allegations of vote-tampering that hounded Vice-President elect Eric N. Hysen '11, recommending that “if you rig an election, makes sure you win by more than just 45 votes. It should be at least 60.”
Another hard-earned lesson from a ticket hardened by the campaign: "If you stand in front of the science center for 10 days straight, make sure you bring more than one mix CD. Better yet, stand next to the Asian American Brotherhood. Their iPod is limitless and their speakers are fabulous. Quite fabulous." More on the party after the jump.
Apparently, Bowman’s status as UC President-elect and the copious amount of liquor that will surely be available at the Pfoho Bell Tower may attract more than just students to tonight’s bacchanal.
“Dean Hammonds, President Faust, and Reverend Gomes will hopefully make an appearance, so come before they drink all the booze,” Bowman advised partygoers.
“It’s sure to be the biggest Bell Tower party of the year, this will be the real Bowman/Hysen victory celebration we have been waiting for,” said Christopher A. Devine ’13, freshmen outreach coordinator for the Bowman/Hysen campaign.
