Sections
Halloween is not just about dressing up and getting drunk.  Or…okay, maybe it is.  But it doesn’t have to be!  All kinds of things are going on this weekend—see what FlyBy has rounded up for you (parties included), after the jump.
PARTIES
Harvard’s Annual Costume Catwalk
Friday, Oct. 30, 9-11 p.m.
Annenberg
FREE, but it’s a freshman thing
Freshmen, go to this for the free food.  Or for the opportunity to schmooze with Dean Dingman, Professor Lue, and Professor Berry, who are the guest judges.  Or to cobble together a costume (materials provided).  But mostly, go for the food.
Sweet & Nasty
Friday, Oct. 30, 10 p.m.-2 a.m.
Adams Dining Hall
$7 at the door
Sweet & Nasty, a Halloween classic, has been advertised as “Harvard’s most scandalous Halloween party.” Probably because it’s hard to compete with stripper poles and cages.
More after the jump...
Heaven and Hell
Saturday, Oct. 31, 10 p.m.-2 a.m.
Currier House’s Ten-Man Suite and Fishbowl
FREE
Another Halloween staple, this “multi-story, totally free dance party” has “$1500 worth of club lighting” and four DJs.  If you don’t mind huge crowds of sweaty partygoers, we hear this is the big event of the weekend.
SHOWS
Screening of Asian Horror Film “Shutter”
Friday, Oct. 30, 8 p.m.
Fong Auditorium
FREE
Harvard Thai Society’s will be screening “Shutter,” a Thai horror film that was remade into this forgettable American film.  Free Thai tea with Boba will be provided.
Expressions Dance Company Presents “Experiment”
Saturday, Oct. 31, 3 p.m. and 7 p.m.
Lowell Lecture Hall
$7
After all that ruckus about their promotional videos, maybe it’s worth it to check this out.  Unless the tagline “what starts clean…must turn dirty” makes you too uncomfortable.
HCSUCS Halloween Show
Saturday, Oct. 31, 8:30 p.m.
Adams K-Space
FREE
That acronym, by the way, stands for Harvard College Stand Up Comedy Society.  The show is supposed to last less than hour, but they promise that “you’ll scream! With laughter!”
OTI Halloween Improv Show
Saturday, Oct. 31, 7:30-8:15 p.m.
Holden Chapel
FREE
Another improv show.  Go, and maybe you’ll scream with more laughter.
Marat/Sade
Friday, Oct. 30, 7:30 p.m.
Saturday, Oct. 31 and Sunday, Nov. 1, 2 p.m.
Loeb Experimental Theater
FREE (email marat.sade.tix@gmail.com)
This play is also known as “The Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton under the Direction of the Marquis de Sade.”  We’re not sure what it’s about, but it supposedly involves “a sleepwalker with a knife, a firebrand ex-preacher, four gin-riddled singers, a sexual maniac with a wig, a schizoaffective historical re-enactor, a histrionic man in a bathtub, his mistress, and a Spanish guitar.”
OUTDOOR & COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
Walden Pond Bike Trip
Saturday, Oct. 31, 2-4:30 p.m.
Meet at Mather Courtyard
FREE
If you’re in the mood to cycle 17 miles to Walden Pond, this event is for you.  You can also take the commuter rail home (you know, if cycling 34 miles in one day isn’t your kind of thing).  Email ewood@mit.edu if you’re interested.
Trick or Treat with Harvard China Care
Saturday, Oct. 31, Time based on your availability
Local Boston neighborhoods
FREE (and philanthropic)
Awww…you can go trick-or-treating to support orphanages and fund surgeries for orphans in China.  Transportation costs are provided.  Email mingcheung@college.harvard.edu for more info.
Trick-Or-Treat for Canned Food
Saturday, Oct. 31, 2-5 p.m.
Cambridge neighborhoods near the Quad
FREE (and philanthropic)
Alternatively, you can go trick-or-treating for canned food!  Join in on this formerly Pfoho-only tradition (but now open to everyone) that is being sponsored by the IOP Community Action committee.  Email nleiby@fas.harvard.edu, yan@fas.harvard.edu, or sgottl@fas.harvard.edu for more info.
OTHER EVENTS
HUBSS Halloween Social
Friday, Oct. 30, 7-9 p.m.
Ticknor Lounge
FREE (with free Berryline)
The Harvard Undergrduate Biological Sciences Society has planned “a spooky celebration of things that sparkle in the night,” during which you can “play with your very own flask of bioluminescent dinoflagellates.”  Basically, this event involves “treats without tricks, brights without blights, fun without….sun.”  We’re not sure what this means exactly, but hey, it’s something different.
Dia de Los Muertos
Friday, Oct. 30, 8:30 p.m.
Leverett Dining Hall
$15
Celebrate the Day of the Dead by watching ballet  folklorico, taking part in a skull design competition, and enjoying mariachi music.
Sections
Remember when a bunch of affected artsy hipsters remixed Ratatat and Sara Bareilles to celebrate that rowdy occasion known as Yardfest? Well, here's another opportunity for those plaid-wearing, record-spinning, head-nodding individuals.
In light of this year's Harvard-Yale Pep Rally (Thursday, Nov. 19 at 9 PM), the College Events Board has announced its "10,000 Men of Harvard Remix Challenge," which is asking for students to remix "10,000 Men of Harvard"—that rousing musical rendition of everything good and holy about this institution—into a "high energy dance or pump up track."
The Best DJ of Them All will have his/her song played at the Pep Rally and receive a $50 gift certificate at the COOP. Fame and books! There's no better combination.
To register as a competitor, e-mail HYPepRally@gmail.com by Nov. 1 at 5 PM. You'll receive more information and rules related to the contest. Final submissions are due Nov. 15.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons/extranoise.
Sections
Remember when speed dating used to be a novelty?  Well, these days, everyone seems to be doing it: Hillel, RUS, and now, CSA, which hosted aphrodASIA, its own speed-dating event, last night. Is speed dating is getting a little blasé?  Maybe.  But could we really ignore a name like aphrodASIA?  FlyBy decided to send a semi-undercover correspondent to check it out.
When RSVPing, FlyBy was informed that all spots for guys had been taken.  Hmm…this was interesting.  Since when has speed dating been more popular among males than females?  We immediately imagined a giant room full of white guys with yellow fever.   Great.
Find out how the night went, after the jump.Upon entering Leverett Old Library, FlyBy was impressed by the white tablecloths scattered with rose petals, dim lighting, and mellow jazz. Very classy, CSA!  After picking up a nametag, we made an immediate beeline for the platters of chocolate, nuts and strawberries. (“We were going for aphrodisiacs,” Michael Zhang ’12, who organized the event, told us.)
Plopping down next to a couple who were already engaged in a conversation, FlyBy did what we do best: eavesdrop.  The guy was asking the girl what had motivated her to attend the event.  “Oh, my friend pressured me into it,” she said.  Funny.  That’s what they all say.
When it was announced that the girls would be staying in their seats while the guys would be the ones changing places, one male complained, “The guys always have to do all the work!”  Sorry, dude.  No one said love was easy.
Like at any other speed-dating event, conversations were limited (only 3 minutes long), and participants were supposed to check off the names of individuals they were interested in.  A guy and a girl who checked off each other would be notified the next day.  And only then a perfectly paired romance would blossom.
Or maybe not.  “I checked yes for everyone,” Chi Zhang ’12 told us.  “Everyone was interesting!”
Of the exactly 30 people who participated, about 40 percent were CSA members and 60 percent were not.  Based on information gathered from the 15 guys FlyBy met, we compiled some additional (completely anecdotal) statistics:
Number of math/science-related concentrators: at least 6
Number of humanities/social science concentrators: maybe 2
Highest number of pre-meds in a row: 3
Number of non-Asians: 5
Number of guys who showed up drunk: 2
Overall, most people told FlyBy that the event was much less awkward than anticipated.  Our conclusion?  CSA does speed dating much better than Hillel.  Can't beat those aphrodisiac foods!
Photo from Gveret Tered/Wikimedia Commons
Sections
It's Halloween weekend, and the last thing you want to think about is exams... but for all those non-New Englanders who have been anxiously wondering for what date to buy their plane tickets home, the dates and times for the fall finals have finally been released!  Check them out here.
Sections
Who said going to college means the end of trick-or-treating and the arrival of slutty costumes and drunken parties? Well that person definitely didn't live in Mather House.
This afternoon, Mather House Administrator, Masters, Assistant to the Resident Dean, and Building Manager team up to bring the students and community of Mather its first annual Mather Trick-or-Treat.
The idea first began when Mindy McDonald, Assistant to the Resident Dean, wanted to bake pumpkin-flavored chocolate-chip cookies for the students for Halloween. Quickly, the idea spiraled into a full-fledged, four-station trick-or-treatin’ heaven for everyone.
The first station is located at Building Manager Miguel Casillas’ office, where wafer cookies, candy, and cookies abound. The second stop is at House Administrator JackieWheeler’s office, who helped to organize the event. Third station is at Mindy’s, where the pumpkin-flavored cookies are supposedly located. Fourth station is at the House Masters’, Sandra and Leigh.
During the five or so minutes that FlyBy was there, 4 people came to trick or treat. One of them, Piotr Szamel ’11, said: “I like candy, I like to see people, I was affected by people’s enthusiasm and so I came. And I am very happy that I did.”
House Master Sandra Nadaff commented that this Halloween trick-or-treat is “a terrific idea and hope that it will become a long standing tradition at Mather.”
FlyBy unfortunately didn’t get to try these pumpkin-flavored cookies, as they ran out well before we got there.
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Don Scarborough
Sections
If you’re still looking for a costume idea, FlyBy thinks you should be a burrito.  Or a taco.  Or any other item available at Chipotle’s—because then your outfit will get you free food!  From 6-10 p.m. tonight, you can get a complimentary meal just by showing up at Chipotle disguised as something from their menu.
Some of you will probably come up with really cool ideas for this (maybe you'll even figure out how to be a food item and still look hot…slutty salad, perhaps?), but for those of you who want to get a free burrito by expending as little effort as possible, FlyBy has put together a special guide.  Check it out after the jump.
BURRITO
Difficulty Level: Ridiculously Easy
Wrap your torso in aluminum foil.
SALAD
Difficulty Level: Easy
Shred green construction paper and tape it to your shirt as lettuce.  Carry a fork.
BURRITO BOWL
Difficulty Level: Easy
See above, but also add shredded white paper for cheese. Wear a bowl upside down on your head.  Optional: draw black beans on your face with a washable marker.
CHIPS & GUACAMOLE
Difficulty Level: Easy
Cut triangles from yellow construction paper and tape them to your shirt.  Carry a plastic cup labeled ”guacamole.”
CRISPY TACO
Difficulty Level: Medium
Wear a brown sweater (for meat), a red scarf  (for tomatoes), and shredded green construction paper on your head (for lettuce).  Wrap yourself in a taco shell made out of a large cardboard box.
SOFT TACO
Difficulty Level: Medium
See above. Replace cardboard taco shell with a beige or yellow bed sheet.
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Ryan Michael
