Sections
Chances are you’ve heard of Hayward-Zhang. It’s popped up in your inbox and been plastered on your dorm windows. If you strolled by the Science Center this week you couldn’t have missed the pumping music and zealous students passionately bellowing the candidates’ names and waving banners. By now, you probably know that George J. J. Hayward ’11 and his running mate Felix M. Zhang ’11 are contending in the Undergraduate Council’s presidential elections this year, with a platform built on hot breakfast, campus safety, and budget cuts.
ONE-MAN SHOW
What you can’t tell from the campaigning: Hayward is a big fan of hip hop artist J Dilla, jazz musician John Coltrane, and composer George Gershwin. He has more than 50,000 songs in his music collection. When he’s not adding tunes to his colossal music library, Hayward serves as an active member in both the Institute of Politics and the Black Student Association. Within the UC, he is currently elected vice chair of Educational Policy, vice chair of House Life Issues, and a member of the 2009 Budget Cuts Task Force.
“Driven” is a word that often comes up when friends are asked to describe Hayward.  “He’s incredibly motivated and focused,” said Amber A. James ’11. This is not particularly surprising for someone with presidential ambitions, but Hayward works for more than just glory. His priority after college is to support his family. “I’m on very heavy financial aid. My father is very disabled—he can’t work—my mother is in a tough situation, and my brother’s sick with diabetes and other things,” Hayward said. “I definitely intend to, before pursuing graduate education, work and try to help out my family.”
Hayward was raised in a New York suburb, where he attended catholic school. The candidate said he reached a turning point when he was accepted to Phillips Exeter Academy on a full scholarship. “At Exeter I had a lot of growth and it opened my eyes and opened my mind to applying to places like Harvard, whereas I might not have considered that stuff before,” Hayward said.
Hayward said he joined the UC knowing exactly what he wanted—change for the campus. “I never ran for the Undergraduate Council to figure out what I wanted to do. I had something that I wanted to fix and I thought that the UC would be the best way to achieve that solution,”  he recalled. Hayward is a Currier House resident, and his most notable accomplishments for the UC have been bringing AT&T cell phone reception and ATMs to the Quad. The future he envisions for the UC is one that underscores student voice. In his words, “That’s how the UC should be working when it’s working at its best—when it’s bringing students into the process and working on what students want to see fixed.”
Hayward is known for pursuing issues on his own, and ultimately surprising peers with the results. He campaigned for cell phone reception in the Quad independently, according to Kwang Y. (Joseph) Kim ’12.
James knows Hayward through the IOP and very fondly remembers his efforts to hold events for the 2009 Presidential Elections in the Quad. “We would have board meetings and he would sort of keep us updated, but no one really knew all the things he was doing until we came out to this amazing event,” she said.
“I’ve heard from a lot of people that George Hayward’s weakness is that everything he’s done on the UC, he’s done by himself. He’s not a team player,” said Kim. He adds, “But if you ever work with George, you’re going to realize how hard he works. It’s not that he doesn’t want to work in teams, it’s that he’s a more efficient and faster worker by himself.”
THE TEAM PLAYER
Showing up at the interview with a thin, yellow Lacoste hoodie, Felix Zhang’s disposition is every bit as sunny as his outfit. An economics concentrator from Cabot house, Zhang is a product of two countries—China and the United States. Born in America, then sent back to Shanghai to live with this grandparents, Zhang reacquainted himself with his parents when he returned to America as a child. “One day, my parents did come to Shanghai to pick me up and I was like, ‘Oh...hello, strangers...’ I periodically went back home to Shanghai and moved around a lot,” recounts Zhang about his childhood.
Despite his nomadic upbringing, there’s one thing that really sticks with Zhang even now: “My parents always taught me that whatever you’re involved in, you should always leave it better when you leave,” said Zhang, “So whether it’s CSA or Harvard in general, by the time I leave it, I would have left it better than when I came.” Zhang is the vice president of the Chinese Students Association (CSA) and the director of special projects for Veritas Financial Group. In the beginning of this year, Zhang worked with CSA, BSA, and BMF to host “Rush Hour,” a party held in the Quad that brough members of all three organizations together.
Zhang is known for working between student groups on campus with finesse, however he is new to the UC. This is Zhang's first year on the Council and he has been criticized by detractors for lacking experience.“Felix’s relevant skills [are demonstrated by] work outside of the UC—the student groups perspective," saaid Kim, "He knows how to work across student groups to make things happen. He really knows how to reach out to all the cultural groups and student organizations around campus.”
THE COMPETITION
At press time, Hayward and Zhang currently lead the race in endorsements, with nine student groups behind them. Several of the groups, including BMF and BSA, are organizations wiht which the candidates are affiliated.
Hayward and Zhang are up against the John F. Bowman '11 and Eric N. Hysen '11 ticket and Robert G. B. Long '11 and David R. Johnson '11 ticket this year. “The Long-Johnson ticket is going to the hardest to run against,” said Hayward, though that ticket is widely regarded as a less serious source of competition. “The other candidates are great," he added, "but we feel we have the best record of results.”
Sections
With suggestive campaign slogans such as,  “Long-Johnson: Touching students everywhere” and “Long-Johnson: Erecting a better Harvard,” the Long-Johnson ticket  raises one obvious question: Are these guys serious?
“Very serious,”  said Robert G.B. Long, ’11, the presidential candidate on the ticket.  “This is probably the most serious thing I’ve ever done. This is  a serious, revolutionary idea.”
According to Long, he and his  roommate-cum-running mate, David R. Johnson ’11, have had a grand  dream of inheriting the reins to the Undergraduate Council for two weeks already.
“We just looked at each other  and knew…it might have been simultaneously, by eye contact,” said  Johnson. “Yep, that’s exactly how I think it happened.”
The candidates seem to share an intimate bond: they finish each other’s sentences,  an ability honed from rooming together since January of their freshman  year. The two met when Johnson transferred out of Grays Hall and was assigned  to Long’s Holworthy room. “I was very worried that [David] would  be a bad roommate because he had switched rooms halfway though the year,”  said William “Charlie” C. Schaub ’11, one of their other roommates  and head writer for the Long-Johnson campaign. “I thought he was a  serial killer.”
Fortunately, Johnson soon quelled any suspicions of his character and found a niche in his new room.  “David moved into our room and into our hearts,” said Long. “We  call him our Christmas miracle… just a little late.”
The closest to a complaint that campaign  headquarters, also known as Long and Johnson’s Mather suite, harbors  against Johnson regards the copious amount of “chill” he allegedly brings  to the room.
“Dave, you sometimes bro  out too hard!” said Long to his “heartbreaker” running mate.
“It’s a weakness,” admitted  Johnson, though he refuses to let Long off the hook for being what he  describes as “too intellectual, too smart, and too interesting.”  Indeed, the bro-mance behind the Long-Johnson ticket seems all too obvious.
The only outsider ticket  on the UC ballot this year, the Long-Johnson campaign faces clear challenges  as the underdogs in this election, especially in terms of their experience  with campus politics. When asked about his previous interactions with  the UC, Johnson replied, “I played intramural basketball with Matt  Sundquist last year.”
Long’s familiarity with  the UC is equally limited. “David and I have visited the UC website  several times,” said Long, “We once went to a UC town hall because  they had food, but they ran out of food before we got there, so we only  stayed for about five minutes.”
However, both candidates remain  unfazed by their apparent lack of experience with the UC and are approaching  this campaign with the confidence of future winners.
“We don’t appreciate the  fact that that UC is dominated by insiders and self-serving bureaucrats,”  said Long, “Hopefully, if anything, our outsider status will help  us because people seem to be a little turned off by how seriously  the UC takes itself.”
Many Long-Johnson supporters also  believe that their status as outsiders to UC politics is part of their  appeal.
“For those of us that don’t  follow the UC and only hear little snippets of what they’re up to,  it’s kind of like a joke, and it’s good to have candidates that  come from that same place,” said Luke L. Sperduto ’11.
“I really think [the UC]  needs a kick from the outside to show them what’s what,” said Michael  J. Pankratz, ’11, Long-Johnson campaign manager and roommate to the  duo.
Long and Johnson contribute  their innovative mode of thinking to the fact that they are both Social  Studies concentrators, and they believe that their distinctive outlook  will serve them well if elected to the UC leadership.
“By virtue of Social Studies,”  said Johnson, “we read Freud, and we’d be pretty good at interpreting  dreams [of the student body] in order to make them in a reality.”  In fact, in response to their absence from a UC Presidential debate  last week, the campaign sent out a press release that, according to  Long, centers on a “Foucauldian critique of the dominant discourse  and power structures.”
Dreams and Foucault aside,  supporters of the Long-Johnson campaign are genuinely impressed with  the ingenuity and intellect of the two candidates. “My roommates are  some of the most cerebral people I’ve met at Harvard. I certainly  don’t think I am anywhere near their league,” said Pancratz. “The  amount of thinking they do about issues is striking.”
Sperduto echoes this sentiment.  “If you don’t care about the UC, then vote for Long-Johnson because  neither do they,” he said. “If you do care, then vote for Long-Johnson  because there is no ticket with better competence to do whatever it  is the UC does.”
The team has been endorsed by the Harvard Outing Club.
Sections
CORRECTION APPENDED
The sea of neon green Bowman-Hysen posters hanging all over the Yard on standard posts and countless freshman dorm windows shows that this pair of candidates have mastered the art of being seen and being heard. John F. Bowman ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11 have been running incredibly intense campaign.
GETTING ENDORSED, ONE DOOR AT A TIME
The ticket’s equally neon green web site, designed by Punit N. Shah ’12, expresses the success of the candidates’ campaign thus far. Both the Harvard College Democrats and the Harvard Republican Club currently endorse Bowman and Hysen, along with a handful of other organizations including the Alaska Klub.
“We’re both liberal guys. We’re both on the Finance Committee of the UC, and Eric is the [Harvard Dems'] Treasurer right now. The Dems [want] to further public service job opportunities at Harvard and the Republicans are really concerned with ROTC,” said Bowman, “we can work with both and address both issues. I really feel like that’s what makes us the most appealing.”
Although Bowman is the smallest of the candidates running for president, he has strong charisma and charm to make up for his lack of physical stature. He and Hysen have been knocking on the doors of every single freshman dorm room and speaking to whomever will listen about their vision for the Undergraduate Council. Going door to door, Bowman easily convinces a room of freshman men to take a break from Xbox or Facebook to listen to his ideas on a real J-Term for 2011 and beyond, or the importance of simplifying room reservations. It’s even easier to convince a group of freshman girls.
In fact, the team has engineered a system for tackling the Yard. “I usually have a freshman I know from each entryway go with me door to door, so that the environment is more intimate and I have a basic background on each room before I go into it,” said Bowman.
For example, upon entering Holworthy Hall, Bowman was greeted by Christopher A. Devine ’13, who first brought Bowman into his room and introduced him to his roommates. Also a member of the UC, Devine gave Bowman the latest gossip on the events of the entryway.
“It’s good you’re here now Johnny. Another candidate was here earlier, and he comes up to our door and sees our giant Bowman-Hysen sign, and I hear him go ‘No, let’s skip this door.’ It was so awkward,” Devine said. “Come on, let’s go upstairs. I’ll introduce you to some people."
THE MAN ON THE SIDE
Eric also canvases, but is the quieter member of the pair, preferring to let Johnny dance outside the Science Center while he speaks about his passion for change, government, and computer science.
“Although it sounds corny, and I hate sounding corny, I really do believe that the government is for the people and can provide change. I’ve been an active part of the UC all three years that I’ve been at Harvard, and I even rewrote the UC constitution last year, envisioning what the UC could be,” said Hysen. “It used to have two committees. Now it has five. We now have the Student Initiatives Committee, which does things like DAPA and the Harvard-Yale shuttle and the student relations committee.”
Bowman attributes his campaign’s existence to Hysen’s involvement. “I wouldn’t be running for president if I didn’t have Eric Hysen as my vice president. Eric Hysen is the library of knowledge of the UC,“ said Bowman.
Friends confirm the importance of Hysen as a member of the Bowman-Hysen team. "He's the type of guy every team needs— not just willing, but eager to work through all the red tape and invisible barriers and to get the results he wants," said Cosmo Y. Jiang ’11, Hysen’s blockmate.
A CANDIDATE OF CONTRASTS
Bowman maintains a high social profile on campus: he is a member of Crimson Key Society; a resident of the Pforzheimer Belltower, the House’s primary party suite; and a member of the Spee Club. While some may know him from crowded parties or final club escapades, Bowman asserts that his membership in the Spee, an organization defined by its exclusivity,  has no impact on his beliefs and ethics.
Instead, Bowman cites his support for workers’ rights at Harvard through his extensive participation in the Student Labor Action Movement and applies this experience to his campaign’s platform.
"I’m extremely concerned with making our budget cut process more transparent and more opinion-driven,” said Bowman. “I came up with the idea of the Idea Bank. If we don’t have a [UC] president that is the most knowledgeable on budget cuts, then student life will suffer and workers will suffer.”
Bowman’s roommate Tyler G. Hall ’11 summarizes his perspective on the campaign with an anecdote:
“Whether we are throwing 400-plus person parties in the Belltower or protesting layoffs, Johnny knows how to get other people involved and make them feel invited,” Hall says.
“If he runs the UC anything like the parties we've thrown, then you can expect a well-organized, humorously themed, and sweaty year.”
CORRECTION 
The Nov. 15 magazine article "UC Election Profiles '09: A Green Initiative" incorrectly stated that the Bowman-Hysen ticket had been endorsed by Chabad at Harvard. In fact, the organization did not endorse any ticket, as it is the policy of Chabad at Harvard to refrain from endorsing political candidates.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Live blog here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Social activist Alan A. Khazei '83, one of four individuals vying to be the Democratic candidate for the late Edward M. Kennedy's '54-'56 senate seat, could be the reason that Stephen Colbert may be coming to a political forum near you.
Last Wednesday, Khazei's campaign released a video challenging Colbert to host a debate among the Democratic primary candidates.  In the video, Khazei demanded to know if Colbert was "tough enough to come here to Massachusetts—the birthplace of freedom, the birthplace of our democracy—and moderate a debate up against four progressive Democrats."
"It's for real," David R. Jacobson, Khazei's deputy communications director, told us.
Check out the video—and find out if Colbert has responded—after the jump.
The video has earned more than its share of media attention, according to Jacobson, who said it had more than a thousand views on the first day of its release. It's part of the Khazei campaign's push to have weekly televised debates before the primary election.
"Ninety-three percent of voters in Massachusetts don't even know when Election Day is, which is of course December 8," Jacobson said, referring to the date of the primary. "So we wanted to come up with some sort of idea to gain more attention and get the word out that we need more debates."
The challenge is more than a media stunt, he told us. The Khazei campaign actually wants Colbert to host a debate.
"The goal of doing this video was actually asking him to come down to this debate. so it's not actually to just generate attention," Jacobson said. "We would be open to doing whatever he'd be comfortable with, but I'd assume he'd be similar to the same kind of personality that he has on his show."  Something like this, maybe?
As of now, it's still unclear whether the candidates will get to see Colbert in the flesh. Jacobson said at 4 p.m. today that the Colbert Report's producers have not yet gotten back to the Khazei campaign.
