Sections
As Housing Day approaches, FlyBy will serve as your personal rating agency with a complete rundown by a resident of each House. Not that you have any say (River Gods notwithstanding), but at least you’ll know whether your portfolio is getting a downgrade.
So you might get Quadded. Along with 25 percent of your class. It's okay though—your river friends weren't that interesting anyway, right? Read after the jump for a detailed look of life just a shuttle ride away from, well, life.
Location: Underrated. A short walk from Starbucks on Mass. Ave, less so from the 24/7 Shaw's and CVS in Porter Square (yes, an entire T-stop away). It really isn't so bad. Sure, your life revolves around the whims of the shuttle and its tendencies to just pucker out when you are already running late, but—oh wait, there is no but. Did I mention the muggers' hangout also known as Cambridge Common?
Rooming: Unreal. N + 1 housing does not exist in Pfoho. And why is that? Because no such formula is needed if everyone is guaranteed a single, a common room, and possibly a kitchen, if you're lucky. And the floor-length windows in Jordan? Just make sure you draw the shades lest the College's residential life Dean Suzy M. Nelson calls the cops on you for the "very indiscreet goings-on" in the privacy of your 125 sqaure-foot bedroom overlooking her backyard.
Dining Hall: Empty. Pfoho's two-tier dining hall boasts a modern look, longer hours, and navigable chairs (cough, Adams, cough). You never have to worry about overcrowding or the guy who rudely scoops the last of the tater tots in Quincy. Get used to eating in the company of your lone thoughts—or just stroll into Adams and smirk triumphantly when Lucy the card-swiper opens her mouth to enforce interhouse restrictions before realizing that you, in fact, have dining rights as a Pfoho resident.
 House List: Pf-air. The Pf-open list is a pf-orum for pfohosers to add a "pf" in pf-ront of every pf-reaking word that begins with an "f." We get it. "Pfoho" has a silent "p." Not that pf-ucking pf-unny after the pf-irst pf-ifty times.
 House Masters: Wild card. Current housemasters Jim and Sue McCarthy bid farewell and welcome the Christakis—a lovely couple who has promised to continue the McCarthy's tradition of BBQ ribs every fortnight.
House Culture: N/A. What?  We kind of only sleep here.
The Rating: Junk.* Sorry, Pfoho. You can boast your magnificent lawn and spacious rooms, but face it—you live in the Quad.  You will psyche yourself out that it's not so bad, but on that occasional night where you're standing around freezing at 3:30am, you'll think about the hundreds of hours you light on fire because of living in the Quad and you'll shed a little tear for the cold arbitrariness of life.
*Ratings run as such: [AAA > AA > A > BBB > junk > subprime]
Sections
As Housing Day approaches, FlyBy will serve as your personal rating agency with a complete rundown by a resident of each House. Not that you have any say (River Gods notwithstanding), but at least you’ll know whether your portfolio is getting a downgrade.
As one of the smallest houses on campus, Kirkland may be a welcome sight on the morning of Housing Day. Maybe you’ve heard whispered rumors of Secret Santa Week or about the house life—incredibly close-knit, bordering on downright incestuous. But there’s more to Kirkland than raunchy dining hall skits and regrettable hook-ups. Find out after the jump…
Location: Snuggled at the end of Dunster St. right beside its larger neighbor, Eliot, Kirkland is only a quick walk from the Yard and about as close as you can be to 'Nochs, Felipe's, or any other place your drunken feet might carry you to on a Saturday night. The downside is that you can’t get directly to JFK street from the house for some ridiculous reason, and Advocate parties will keep you up all night if you get Annexed.  Also, you might be able to see William James from far away...but yeah, you'll definitely notice that it's really far away.
Rooming: Sophomore rooming is a double-edged sword. You’re damned if you do Dewolfe, but damned if you don’t. The Dewolfe suites are slightly larger and offer the lush amenities of a full bath, cable (if you pay), and a kitchen. But what you gain in creature comforts you lose in house spirit. Rooming in the house is cramped, with not even seniors guaranteed n+1 housing. But the community, Kirklanders will tell you, all but makes up for it. And you’ll find yourself playing social catch-up if you’re too lazy to make the long hike from Dewolfe to the house for daily meals.
Dining Hall: Sparse, but bright. This dining hall lacks the showy flourishes that you’ll find in Lowell and the austere woodworking of its sister house, but the cheery atmosphere and lack of unsightly napkin containers on the tables make it welcoming nonetheless. The kitchen is shared with Eliot, and Kirklanders get the short end of the stick, with their salad bar occupying about twice as much space as the servery. Brain Break is pretty standard, closing down between 1 and 2 a.m. and offering the same selection of bread and spreads every night.
House List: Kirkland-list is a battleground for House titans. A select few of the House’s larger personalities dominate the discussion, generally promoting their own legendary status. The graduation of list dictator Omar Musa ’08 has left a power struggle in its wake that stretches at the fabric of blockmate friendships and everyone else’s patience. More intimate than most other house lists, expect to have your inbox filled with lengthy, heated chains discussing the merits of everything from Housing Day t-shirts to vaguely discriminatory beauty pageants.
House Masters: Tom and Verena Conley are, for lack of a better term, baller. Though no longer for credit, Tom still offers his immensely popular Wine Seminar every spring. He’s also a regular staple of Stein Clubs, where his conversation vacillates between sophisticated chatter about fine wine and French films to impassioned rants on his fierce, if somewhat contradictory allegiances to the Boston Red Sox and New York Giants. Verena plays his quieter counterpart, welcoming freshmen like sheep into the fold and secretly accumulating information about everyone in the house so she can strike up conversation at the drop of a hat.
House Culture:  House culture in Kirkland is a red pill/blue pill situation. Take the blue pill and live in blissful harmony with all your house bros. You’ll spend all of Secret Santa week watching underclad men gyrating in the dining hall and figuring out who you’ll hook up with at Incest Fest. You’ll lose at Case Day to Crimson Sports Chair Loren Amor, and you’ll be indoctrinated into the cult of John Thornton Kirkland, the house’s namesake. Take the red pill and you’ll see that house dinners are really just the same food with little fake candles and bad music, Secret Santa week is really uncomfortable, and incest is just gross. Ultimately, you’re participation in house culture will dictate whether you become part of the family or spend your time eating in Quincy dining hall, hiding away in your Dewolfe suite, and regretting you didn’t get into that final club. Buy the ticket and take the ride, or you might want to consider making friends with someone in another river house who needs to add a member to his/her blocking group.
The Rating: A*.  Kirkland has a lot to offer, from lectures by prominent public figures to a super close-knit house community. Brain Breaks are weak, the Grille is even weaker, and that close-knit house community can be a bit smarmy sometimes. But the culture is what really drives Kirkland's appeal. It is still prime real estate, like that cramped Manhattan apartment building you’ll probably move in to in a few years. If you score this river gem, just nod blithely when everyone tells you that “you won!”
*Ratings run as such: [AAA > AA > A > BBB > junk > subprime] 
Sections
Johnny Jen—a self-described “Asian guy with a mohawk”—gave a workshop on social confidence this afternoon in the Quincy Bullitt Room.
The presentation, hosted by the Taiwanese Cultural Society, was officially billed as “Developing Social Confidence: Overcome Limiting Beliefs and Breaking Social Barriers.”  The email advertising the event began: “Do you know how to make a good first impression?  What about making a good impression to date a MOVIE STAR?”
That’s not exactly on Flyby’s list of things to do, but we were intrigued by the description of Jen, who was advertised as “a San Francisco born Taiwanese-American [who] has traveled all over the world from Australia to Hong Kong, talked his way into backstage concerts, mingled with celebrities, bungee-jumped in the jungle, and dived among sharks.”  Naturally we had to check this out.  Were you too shy to show up?  No problem—Flyby’s got some of the highlights from Jen’s advice below.
1)	Dig deeper.  That is, stop making superficial small talk and start making meaningful small talk.  Instead of talking about what you do, talk about why you do it.  Sharing stories about your childhood, especially about your relationships with your parents, is a plus.
2)	Break rules.  “There are a lot of rules that society says that don’t really make any sense,” said Jen, who added that he recently ate at a Harvard dining hall and printed out fliers at Lamont without a Harvard ID.  He also said he has sweet-talked his way to Ireland and back without a passport—although he did say this was not really a good example to follow.  Not everyone should break the rules, Jen said, but “it’s okay if a couple of us do it.”
3)	Wear pins.  Jen, who loves scuba diving, said he likes to wear a pin that reads “I dive” so that he can start conversations with people who also like to sucba dive. “Nobody ever wears a pin unless it means something,” he said.  It’s a great way to pin down a meaningful conversation topic (see #1).
4)	Submit your resumes in FedEx boxes.  Jen said job-hunting is all about who you know—no one wants to read piles of anonymous resumes.  But if you don’t know anyone, a FedEx box will do the trick.  “If a company gets a FedEx box, they assume it's important,” Jen said.  He also suggested that you could just show up in person with your resume.
5)	Smile and make eye contact.  Just don’t give fake smiles.  Although those are better than blank faces, which Jen said could be misinterpreted as angry.  The best thing is what he calls the “selective smile,” which is when you make eye contact with someone and smile slowly.
6)	When going bungee jumping, don’t jump feet first.  Jen explained that the cords are tied to your feet, so if you don’t dive headfirst, you’ll end up doing a back flip that’s pretty painful.  What does bungee jumping have to do with being socially confident?  Well, Jen said, if you can do that, you can pretty much do anything.  Plus you’ll have a great story to share in conversations (see #1).
At the end of the workshop, Flyby decided to ask Jen if anybody ever criticized him for being too smooth.  He said, “People always hold you back.  Especially because it makes them uncomfortable to have a change even if they know it’s better for them.  If you know what’s good for you, and it could potentially make you feel happy, just ignore everyone else.”
We'll keep that in mind.
Sections
As you enter the Adams Artspace, you notice blue balloons—bright pops of color against the grey concrete—spilling out of the room, scattering all along the dark, narrow corridor.  Breathe in, and you inhale the warm smell of latex, so reminiscent of childhood birthday parties. Pull aside the curtain, and behold an ocean of “6000 Balloons.”
The idea to fill Adams Art Space with thousands of balloons was conceived by Will M. Skinner ’09, who was doing a handstand amidst the balloons when I approached him.  Wading through the chest-high sea of balloons, I asked him what had inspired the project.  Skinner, a sprightly Adams House senior with a puckish smile, told me, “I have a lot of free time on my hands.”
Skinner organized about 30 people to inflate 6000 balloons last night during a party that ran from 8 p.m. to 4:30 am.  The Artspace is now filled with balloons, and according to Skinner, “anyone’s welcome to come and play.”
The theme was originally “Undersea Adventure”—hence the selection of the color blue for the balloons, and the sea creature balloon animals.  And actually, people twirling, running, and diving in the balloons did create ocean-like waves.  At one point, FlyBy joined everyone else in the room as we ran from one end of the Artspace to the other, creating a giant balloon tsunami.  For a final touch, the static electricity generated by thousands of balloons rubbing against each other allowed some to stay stuck to the ceiling, creating splotches of blue sky.
Skinner said he wanted this project to be a way for people to enjoy themselves and get in touch with their inner child. “One thing I’ve noticed about Harvard is that people tend to take themselves and their lives too seriously,” he said. “We need simple fun things sometimes.”
If you haven’t had the chance to check this out, the Facebook event posting said there will be a “6000 Balloons” rave happening in the Artspace tonight.  Skinner said he expects the project should last until Sunday—but the balloons are popping fast.  “The sea level has dropped considerably,” he said.
So don’t miss out!  Just a bit of advice, though: watch out for the static.
“If you do wear a sweater, prepare to pay the consequences,” said Lianna E. Karp ’10.
Sections
 
As Housing Day approaches, FlyBy will serve as your personal rating agency with a complete rundown by a resident of each House. Not that you have any say (River Gods notwithstanding), but at least you’ll know whether your portfolio is getting a downgrade.
You've seen it.  That hulking, blue-capped brick tower thrusting itself triumphantly into the clouds.  From the river and from the Yard, Lowell House's spire is a defining feature of the Cambridge skyline.  But does the fact that you might be able to spot your House from Logan Airport make it a good place to live? Find out after the jump.
Location: Premium. Lowell is the geographic center of River House life.  Quincy and Leverett are seconds away, and Winthrop, Eliot, and Kirkland are sneaky close once you pick up that Lowell-residents-only backdoor swipe access.  You can get to the MAC without putting on a sweatshirt in 20 degree weather.  The Mt. Auburn latenight food spots are close enough that you feel like your odds of getting mugged are acceptable, as long as you get that burrito. When you rub your eyes and see that it's 11:03 and you have 11 a.m. class, you won't be that late (if you run). Only Adams could claim a better location, and that's arguable.
Rooming: Rigidly hierarchical. If you are a senior, you will get n+1, and you will be at the top of the lottery, so you will grab one of the best rooms available.  Juniors will get a pretty solid n room.  Sophomores will get a smile from Beth Terry (House Administrator) and a big fat question mark.  Flyby called its sophomore 2-room double "The Cell," and only half-jokingly.  Walkthroughs are present but often avoidable, and Claverly overflow housing is very nice for those who don't mind being a bit of distance from a dining hall.
While Lowell is notorious for its roaches, a major extermination effort a couple of years ago has kept FlyBy from seeing any in rooms in its time in the House.  They're definitely not dropping on you every time you take a shower, and other Houses are secretly much worse.
Lowell rooms have a cool old-Harvard vibe to them, and you can snuggle in your claustrophobic sophomore pad dreaming of the day you and seven friends will rule the 9-room "Labyrinth" above the super-sweet Library.
Dining Hall: Eh.  The dining room is beautiful, particularly in sunshine, but the servery garners a lot of (mostly-justifiable) ill will.  It's cramped and has to outsource important culinary functions (anything drinkable, cereal, microwave) to assorted satellite sections of the dining hall.
Lowell also enforces interhouse dining restrictions, and during opera season won't let anyone who is not a Lowellian eat there, which sucks.  (As an aside: we at FlyBy think interhouse dining rules are the best real-life example of what Mankiw taught you in Ec 10 about the evils of trade restrictions.  So far Lowell, Adams, Kirkland, Winthrop, Leverett, Eliot and Quincy have rules keeping people out.  If you somehow manage to have friends in the 11/12 of Harvard that doesn't live in your house, you're screwed when 6 p.m. rolls around.  Who gains from this insanity? No one. Everybody loses because of a few vocal protectionists. Open the dining hall borders today!)
House List: A low-level stream of events punctuated by a few house-list "heroes."  Maybe five topics per semester generate a moderate level of discussion, and the rest is just the same four dudes arguing with each other.  If you happen to post something that even vaguely offends one of the hyenas' sensibilities, prepare to be absolutely savaged in the way only a self-righteous kid bored at his laptop can.
House Masters: Caring and hospitable. Diana and Dorothy love Lowell and the people in it, and express this love via weekly teas. Lowell tea is delicious and classy, and you should go as often as you can.  Bring your friends who trash on the house and see what they have to say after their third scone or miniature cookie.
House Culture: Disjointed.  Based on last year's LowellCat t-shirt and this year's rejected "FML" design, apparently there's a healthy love for internet memes within Lowell's walls.  That said, this certainly doesn't represent the whole House, and we doubt anyone can really put a finger on what does.
Bacchanalia, the spring formal, seems to bring in everyone, and its three dancefloors, ice sculptures, and openness to guests from other Houses (see!) make it one of the best and most popular events on campus.
X-factor: Beauty. Lowell looks good. Really, ridiculously good. That tower, the brick, the classic enclosed-quad design...if you want to show people a Harvard House, bring them here.  This place was built to be gorgeous in green ivy and stunning in snow.  If you want a stock Harvard story to tell, just give them the brief rundown of the famous Russian (now replica) bells.  Lowell is built like a fortress, and on the inside it feels like a sanctuary from the hustle and bustle of Harvard life.
The Rating: AA.* Sure, there are flaws, but you should be going pretty much ballistic with joy when you crack open that housing envelope and read the words "Lowell House."  It guarantees that for three years, whenever you show a stranger around campus, they'll ask with incredulity, "You LIVE here?" And that's worth something.  When you walk in that front gate and breathe the cool Lowell courtyard air, you'll know you're home.
*Ratings run as such: [AAA > AA > A > BBB > junk > subprime]
Sections
Did your Friday afternoon include a Thingamajig 100x, aliens in fuzzy dresses, and a visit to Planet Aloha?
Well, it did if you attended the debut of the Harvard Story-Time Players’ new show “Aloha to the Stars.” The group, which performs for children in local hospitals, premiered their show to an audience of 10 people—two under the age of four, one of whom slept through the entire production—in the Lowell JCR. Read more after the jump...
The play begins with the introduction of two friends: Bug, who gets picked on by the other kids, and Lola, a bully. The two decide to make use of “Interplanetary Awareness Day” and travel to other planets. The pair travels to a planet obsessed with working—a place that sounded oddly similar to Harvard—and helps a resident learn to have fun.  Then they hop back into their Spacecar 2000 to head to another planet where they find a character that loves “floating, chilling, dozing, and sleeping” (Harvard students’ other favorite pastimes).
In typical fashion, the play has a happy ending—Bug joins the debate team, Lola practices being nice to others, and everyone is happier than an 8-year-old at Disney World.
It certainly wasn’t “Acropolis Now,” but my 3-year-old seatmate couldn’t have enjoyed it more.
