Sections
Someone makes Michael an offer he can’t refuse (or so he thinks).  Kevin pretends to be Jim. The episode ends.  Hmm…That seemed quick.  Guess we’re still spoiled from last week’s two-part episode.  See what we thought of this week's, after the jump.
Recap
Andy and Dwight convince Michael that an insurance salesman is a member of the mafia who is out to get him.  They try to advise him on how to avoid getting killed, but only embarrassing moments ensue.  Kevin starts using Jim’s office as a place to fart, but likes it so much that he moves in. When the credit card company calls to verify Jim’s identity, Kevin plays along, pretending to be Jim—but then the company thinks that someone has stolen Jim’s card and is using it in Puerto Rico (where the Halperts are honeymooning).  Oh, and Michael, Kevin, and Oscar all try to call Jim and Pam at various points, even though the couple had asked to be left alone.  So much for that!
Best We-Love-Jim Moment
When Michael calls to ask Jim’s advice about how to escape the mafia, Jim says he will tell him exactly what to do but then pretends the phone connection is breaking up. So all Michael hears is “…[crinkle]….[crinkle]…and then you’ll be safe….bermuda triangle…[crinkle]….”  Hilarious!
Most Eye-Roll-Inducing Pop Culture Reference
Have the writers been throwing a lot more of these lately, or did we just never really get them until now?  This week it was “cash for clunkers.”  Groan.
KevinFail
We don’t know why he didn’t get his own category earlier, but he definitely deserves it.  This week, Kevin says he thinks Oscar would love being in jail because Oscar is gay.
Ah, Kevin, if you weren’t so dumb…
Dwightisms of the Day
“R is among one of the most menacing sounds. That's why they call it murder, not ‘muckduck!’”
“Criminals are like raccoons. You give them a taste of cat food, pretty soon they’ll be back for the whole cat.”
We just couldn’t choose one over the other.  Can you?
Office Gossip
Definitely a slow week.  Not a word on anyone!  FlyBy’s prediction: expect a reappearance from Pam’s mom later this season…
Overall: Quotes, excellent.  Storyline, eh (are Andy and Dwight really crazy enough to think that guy is a gangster?).  In general, mediocre.  Of course, nothing could beat the wedding, so we understand.
Sections
If you're in Lamont this afternoon, perhaps trying to cram for next week's midterm for Stephen Pinker's class ("Why is it so hard?  It's supposed to be a Core!") or catch up in one sitting on the whole last month's worth of reading for Paul Farmer's upcoming exam, FlyBy suggests that you take a break and go outside—down by the river, to be exact.
Great weather, a happy atmosphere, and free food are abounding at the Head of the Charles.  No, it's definitely not just about the crew races.  Find out more about what's going on by the Charles while you're in the stacks, after the jump.
"This is really good," said a girl as she ate her cup of Turkey Hill ice cream.
"I know...  I had no idea there would be so much free shit," her friend responded.
This exchange, overheard this morning by the bridge across from Leverett House, pretty much sums up what is happening on the shore as teams from across the nation and outside U.S. compete at the Head of the Charles Regatta.
As of 12:30 p.m. today, Green Mountain was giving away free cups of coffee, including a seasonal Pumpkin Spice flavor, and BestBuy was handing out free tote bags.  There were free organic fruit bars, organic juice and granola, Israeli chocolate, Cholula hot sauce, and samples of amazing kettle corn.  One vendor offered free appointments with dermatologists from Harvard Medical School; the vendor for Sketchers announced that you could try on shoes for free. Maybe they need to work on their pitch a bit.
For sports fans, the race is a must-see, as over 8,000 rowers are competing in this annual two-day competition, now in its 45th year.  For everyone else,  FlyBy recommends stopping by to take advantage of free stuff and enjoy the beautiful day.  It's a nice change from college life to see so many families; everyone seems to have brought a dog or a child, or both, or several.  Although Chipotle and Boloco burritos can be found, you can also indulge in autumnal fare, such as cider and "chowdah".  Even if you can't make it today, stop by tomorrow; things will still be popping off then.  You never know what great deals you'll find.
"Get a free basement fully furnished!" yelled a man from in front of a booth as FlyBy left.
Photos by Anita B. Hofschneider
Sections
Officially, your Harvard degree costs about $200,000.  In Russia, you could get one for 20 percent of the price… or maybe less.
RIA Novasti, a Russian state-run news agency, reported that a Russian criminal group was just arrested for selling forged degrees from Harvard and other colleges.  The going rate for a fake Harvard diploma ($40,000) was just a little less than the the official cost of one year's tuition, room, and board ($48,868 for 2009-10, according to FAS).  But Alexander Khazin, deputy chief of a Russian Interior Ministry investigative department, told RIA Novasti that “a large group of fraudsters are involved in the [diploma forgery] business, and much time is required to discover them.”  So basically, if you really want a fake Harvard degree, you can probably still find some Russian gangsters to help you out.
But why bother, really?  You can get your own forged diploma online.  No promises it’ll pass as a real degree from the College (it looks more like a version of some graduate school degree, actually), but hey, it is free.
