Sections
On a recent Friday afternoon, students gathered in Dunster’s Junior Common Room for a conversation with Hollywood screenwriter Gregory Allen Howard, whose screenwriting credits include “Remember the Titans” and “Ali.”  Howard, however, was not here to talk about becoming a successful screenwriter, nor was the event sponsored by Harvardwood. Rather, the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative (HFAI) brought him in to speak about educational equity issues.
Former Harvard President Lawrence H. Summers announced the creation of HFAI in 2004. Since then, HFAI has helped reduce economic barriers that might prevent low- and middle-income students from attending Harvard by eliminating parental contribution for Harvard families making less than $60,000 a year, in addition to decreasing contribution for families at higher income levels.
For years, HFAI has also tried to engage the campus in discussion on issues surrounding access to higher education through academic speakers. But this year, HFAI’s student coordinators are trying to bring in a fresh array of speakers—such as Howard—who hail from fields one might not normally associate with the issue of educational equity. Their efforts represent not only HFAI’s innovative involvement with students under the Initiative once they arrive to Harvard, but also HFAI’s increased outreach to the campus as a whole.
INCREASING CONVERSATION
Through the speaker series, HFAI looks to broaden its influence within the larger student body. “The important thing is to engage everyone in a dialogue about educational access,”  HFAI Student Coordinator Doris Le ’12 said. “That’s my goal for the speaker series.  I think there is always room for more discussion.”
In fact, the speaker series is primarily student planned. “One of the great things about the speaker series is that the students who work with HFAI are the ones helping us to construct the whole program,” said Sally C. Donahue, Director of Financial Aid.
Precious E. Eboigbe ’07 agreed that student involvement is key.  A student coordinator as an undergraduate, Eboigbe is now an Assistant Director of HFAI and an Admissions and Financial Aid Officer. “There was so much agency that student coordinators could take to get the word out,” Eboigbe said of her days as an HFAI student coordinator.
In the past, students have listened to prominent Harvard academics, such as Christopher N. Avery ’88, Roy E. Larson Professor of Public Policy and Management at the Kennedy School of Government, and Caroline M. Hoxby '88, Harvard’s former Allie S. Freed Professor of Economics who now teaches at Stanford. Both have focused on socioeconomic factors in American higher education in their academic work.
But now, HFAI has moved the speaker series in a new direction by seeking non-academic speakers.
“It’s a different approach that we’re taking,” said Director of HFAI Patrick R. Griffin ’05, also an Admissions and Financial Aid Officer. “We’re opening up the speaker series to anyone who has an interesting perspective [on educational access].”
THE STORY OF A FAMOUS SPEAKER
As opposed to dealing with issues of access to higher education from the abstract, these individuals can speak from personal experience.
Take Howard, the accomplished Hollywood screenwriter who most recently spoke for HFAI.  After attending high school in Vallejo, California, Howard received a scholarship to attend Princeton University.
Howard talked about his transition from working class Vallejo to the Ivy League.  “I felt like I had landed on a spaceship,” he said at the event. “There were these preppies [and] I didn’t even know what a prep school was.”  Howard, however, found a passion freshman year: history.  And today, as an historical drama writer, he benefits from his education everyday.
For Harvard students also hailing from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, Howard offered some poignant words of advice.  “Don’t let any half-wits make you feel bad that you are here. Feel good about yourself. I always did.”
Howard’s appreciation of his own education led him to launch the Dr. Howard Lonsdale Scholarship, named after his mentor who encouraged him to apply to Princeton. The program supports students from Vallejo who otherwise would be unable to afford college tuition.
Recipients of Howard’s scholarship attend California state schools. However, as he views public university tuition as too high for many students, Howard hopes to encourage more students to apply to private institutions where they can receive financial aid. Howard said at the panel, “Counselors shovel kids into flagship or second tier state schools. Wouldn’t they want to go to private schools so they could get more aid?”
Le, who organized the event, can personally attest to Howard’s passion for increasing access to higher education.  She met Howard while a student at his high school alma mater.  The two maintained a relationship as she went through the college application process.  “Greg really believed in me,” she said.
Despite low attendance, the Gregory Allen Howard event was viewed as a great success by HFAI student coordinators, HFAI officials, and attendees. “I thought he was fascinating to listen to,” said Donahue, “Here’s this hugely successful guy just sitting around as a regular person sharing his life story.”
GETTING EVERYONE INVOLVED
The speakers series represents one of the many efforts of HFAI to increase its profile on Harvard’s campus. Leaders of the Initiative are now considering increasing the Phillips Brooks House Association’s involvement in HFAI’s outreach efforts as well as creating an online guide for living on a budget that could be constantly updated.
By leaving the realm of academic speakers and including those with personal experience in the conversation, HFAI hopes to accomplish two goals.  First, these speakers can serve as inspiration for working class students who may be having difficulty adjusting to life at Harvard.  HFAI Student Coordinator Sean L. Po ’12 said these speakers offer a powerful message: “Look at all these success stories; they started out like you, and you can enjoy the same success.”
In addition, HFAI hopes that speakers such as Howard draw the larger Harvard community into a discussion on higher education in America.
“We are trying to say that HFAI is not only for those from modest economic backgrounds,” said Po. “HFAI is an initiative for anyone to participate in.”
Sections
The Grand Opening of the Laboratory at Harvard was celebrated with the flair one might expect to see at the opening of an art gallery. Members of the audience nibbled on hors d’oeurves in small clusters as they circled the large, softly lit room, perusing exhibits. Women wore pearls and heels; men wore scarves and leather gloves. Music played, and small groups lounged on low-seated red sofas. The air buzzed with eager discussion. But this wasn’t a traditional art show.
THE SANDBOX
College students in sweatshirts circled the room with equal enthusiasm, the red sofas spelled out “LAB,” and the audience wasn’t admiring still life paintings. Instead they viewed a smartphone that can lead them to the nearest metro with three-dimensional sound and a soccer ball that can harness the energy of motion for later use as a power source.
The Lab at Harvard will serve as a uniquely interdisciplinary place, encouraging students to exhibit and discuss their ideas, inviting other students and the public to partake in the process of creation.
The Lab is modeled after Le Laboratoire, an experimental art and design center in Paris, and has been in the making since 2005. It is like an experiment in itself, only designed to last for three years, when it will be reevaluated.
“Like any experiment, we’ll look at the hypothesis,” says W. Hugo Van Vuuren ’07, a fellow at SEAS who helps lead the Lab. “What have we learned? Where are we going to go from here?”
According to Professor David A. Edwards, faculty director of the Lab, the space is intended to be a “sandbox sort of play zone,” where creative people can be “encouraged to dream like they’re encouraged to analyze and not [be] punished by breaking a mold that is defined by some concentration.”
The Lab works to facilitate interdisciplinary discussion and teamwork, as displayed by its six motley partners—the A.R.T., FAS, GSD, the Idea Translation Lab, the Lab Office of the Provost, Le Laboratoire, and SEAS.
A “noble goal” of the Laboratory, says Edwards, is “to make clear the universality of creative thought at Harvard University.”
Local alum Ogden T. Ross ’75, who attended the grand opening, notes that this effort is a departure from when he was a student. “When I was here there was a division into specialized units. Now there seems to be an interdependent movement to enhance the productivity of the university.” He did question, however, how the Lab could function within the University at large. “It’s hard to see the structure of the Lab at this point.”
A PLACE TO CREATE
Much of the Lab’s structure—and its spirit—seem to lie in its location. In the basement of the Northwest Science Building, concrete floors, whitewashed walls, and a large, open space greet the visitor. Twelve “idea columns” that will be used to exhibit ongoing projects surround the open space.
Van Vuuren stresses that the Lab’s versatility meets the scope of its purpose: “You can change the room from an academic colloquium to a cutting edge post-modern art space to a catwalk to a design studio where you can have charrettes.”
The Lab seems to construct a hip aura from its website’s nerd-cool font to the presence of members of the Donkey Show at the Grand Opening. Edwards, who was recently selected as one of the 25 most stylish Bostonians by the Globe, says the Lab has a “very anti-institutional feel to it.”
Venkatesh “Venky” Narayanamurti, former dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and a member of The Laboratory’s Executive Committee, calls the Lab a “Renaissance place,” and says he fully supported its construction on one condition, “that it’s intimately tied to the Harvard undergraduates.”
Many of the undergraduate projects  exhibited at the Grand Opening are the products of ideas first materialized in Edward’s Idea Translation course, Engineering Sciences 147. The class encourages students to develop breakthrough ideas by fusing the arts and sciences.
Yi Wei ’10, a student fellow at the Lab, began developing Gigue, which turns a person’s body rhythms into music, during the class. Wei stresses that the boundary between the class and the Lab is not as important as the number and diversity of talents involved in the creative process.
And for the Lab, the process is key. Van Vuuren, who hopes that the Lab not only encourages students to come to Harvard, but also to stay here after they graduate says, “Society doesn’t celebrate the painful process of creation. We celebrate the beginning and the end. Rather than focus on making products we [at the Lab] focus on the process.”
Van Vuuren encourages all students to partake in this process. The Lab will hold its first Idea Night on December 4 with student exhibitions and performances, food, and music. The Lab is also reaching out to experiential courses, and by the spring should become a common space where students can have meetings and access equipment.
Just as “the pub is for weekend socials,” Van Vuuren says “the Lab is where students can showcase creativity. It’s where they can come to create.”
Sections
Grooooooorrn. I am a Barvardian Blromp! And I’m magical, other-worldly and mildly derivative.
“Huh?,” you say in a spoooooky voice, “Moooore informaaaaaation?” Well…
The year is 2014 and I appear on posters and book bags. Twilight has grown staaaaale. “Vampires?,” you say, scoffing and playing your Nintendo “Them” like a Zelfingorger! Forget vampires, give me gorgeous teenage Blromps loving each other’s bodies on a Bliztorte! That would be vokerous!
Oh—I’m sorry. Still confused? Then step into my time machine.
(Time Machine)
There we go. Let’s try this again. This time, I’ll start at the beginning.
It’s June 30,1997.
J. K. Rowling, unknown author, British woman, poor napkin lady (or so my mother first described her to me), publishes the surprise mega-hit Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.
At once, the country is stricken. Hollywood and Corporate America, however, play a bit of a catch up game. First, pencils start to appear. Then bookmarks. And finally, the flood gates come down.
Movies. Toys. Ties. Beans of Every Flavor. $90 dollar stylized brooms. Children and adults alike happily whip out their checkbooks to embrace a universe previously ruled by the trading-card toting, RPG humping few.
Fast forward to October 5, 2005.
Stephanie Meyer drops Twilight and the country drops everything for vampires. But this time, America is ready; the Hollywood crank machine is primed to pump out, not just reasonably shitty adaptations of the Twilight books and all the accompanying accoutrement but also a host of derivative and corollary shows, like True Blood and The Vampire Diaries.
Hollywood has sold the fad wholesale, and we’ve just gobbled it up.  Soon, I can’t even turn around without someone playfully biting my neck or dumping a bucket of blood juice on my face.
Now jump to 2009.
Our buddy J. J. Abrams (note: I don’t actually know J. J., so I’m assuming you’re his buddy) releases his Star Trek and our enemy James Cameron (again, assuming you’re his enemy) teases us with his Avatar.
Forget vampires. Space. Has. Arrived.
And this time, Hollywood’s not just primed and ready. It’s done gone wet its panties.
According to Denofgeek.com, a name that strikes me as somewhat redundant, there are no less than 36 movies slated for release within the next two years about space, outer space, space aliens, or the set of elements or points satisfying specified geometric postulates (in other words, space).
Now, I have nothing against space—personally or professionally—but I do have to ask if this is the best we can do. Are we doomed to surf from one supernatural crave wave to the next, collectively losing ourselves in the mythology du jour-ney quest?
If so, we’ve got a problem; there are only so many supernatural beings to exploit. And apart from zombies (which this cultural prophet predicts are next), the majority of these creepers are hard sells as potential supernatural sensations.
Werewolves? Bestiality is just too complicated these days. Mummies? Are covered in shit paper. Bridge trolls? Eh—I guess I’d maybe screw a bridge troll.
But even bridge trolls will only last us through 2012—if we’re lucky. Then, like it or not, justified or no, we’re moving on to Barvardian Blromps and their Thortback Bruners.
Is there any hope? Can we possibly save our children the task of assembling Halloween costumes with all 47 necessary Blromp horns?
It would be easy for us to say “no, there’s no hope”; easy to sit back, blame Hollywood and invest heavily in horn futures. But not only would that be cowardly, it would be wrong. After all, Hollywood doesn’t exist for its own satisfaction. Hollywood exists because we buy what they sell.
So, the change, if it comes, must come from within. We must harness our collective inner nerd and return to an era of fantasy and sci-fi snobification, demanding a more diversified fantastical fare. Brothers of the horde, it can be done!
It has been done! TGIF’s fall lineup circa 1997 featured You Wish, a show about genies, Sabrina the Teenage Witch, a show about teenage witches, and Teen Angel, a show about getting canceled, which is a complication we should probably discuss.
If Hollywood takes risks on strange, fantastic shows from worlds we’ve never seen, we have to accept that they might suck. They might be Rancho the Corn Beast, a failed UPN show about a corn-based alien who’s created after a meteor crashes into some corn (think of it as a starch-based Dawson’s Creek).
But they might be awesome. Heroes, Sabrina, The X-Files, Buffy the Vampire Slayer—these are shows that created culture rather than merely playing into it.
So, the next time you sit down with vampires, think about the future. Think about the Blromps. And maybe, just maybe, take a chance on something new.
Sections
For those headed to New York this Thanksgiving, don’t worry about paying for a cab ride to Logan or hauling your luggage to South Station. GoToBus.com and TransportAzumah are bringing back the Cambridge, MA to New York, NY bus line. Hopefully, the third time’s the charm.
Even though the bus line won’t be in full service until the weekend of December 4, TransportAzumah is starting a preliminary run on November 25, the Wednesday before Thanksgiving. So if mom and dad won’t pay for you to fly home for the holidays, grab some friends and catch either the 7 a.m., 1 p.m., or 5 p.m bus to the Big Apple and you’re well on your way to enacting your favorite Gossip Girl fantasy. You’ll be dropped off at the corner of 9th Avenue and 42nd Street, right near the Theatre District.
When the revelry comes to an end on Sunday, hop the 9:30 a.m., 4:30 p.m., or 7:30 p.m. bus back to Harvard Square. The Cambridge stop is only a little ways away at 1 Bennett Street, which is right in front of The Charles Hotel. The Thanksgiving tickets are currently priced at $17 each way, but the regular price will be $20.
Regular bus service from Cambridge will leave at 7 a.m., 1 p.m., and 5 p.m on Fridays and Sundays, and a 7 a.m. bus is set to depart on Saturdays. New York departures will be at 9:30 a.m., 4:30 p.m., 7:30 p.m. on Fridays and Sundays, and at 7:30 p.m. on Saturdays.
There’s a catch though—no wi-fi. At least, not yet. According to Joel Azumah, owner of TransportAzumah, “We foresee putting in wi-fi in March or April. We want to make sure we have a group of long-term operators with us, and once they prove they’re reliable, we’ll start putting the equipment on their buses.” So, be sure to charge your iPhone or BlackBerry before the big trip.
Sections
Paper due dates are approaching, finals are just around the bend, and the days are growing shorter, engulfing Cambridge in metaphorical and actual darkness. “Happiness can be found even in the darkest of times if one only remembers to turn on the light,” said Albus Dumbledore in the movie “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.” This month, Boston’s Museum of Science is putting a spotlight on “Harry Potter: The Exhibition.”
The exhibition features over 200 authentic costumes and props from the popular “Harry Potter” film series, all on display just as they are set up in the movies. An adult ticket, priced at $26, gives you a full day of access to famous artifacts such as Harry’s original wand and the Marauder’s Map. In addition, the audio tour will let you listen to behind-the-scenes stories from the film’s creators.
Julia E. Cain ’11, who visited the exhibit several weeks ago, said that its appeal is the level of detail that fans can only appreciate up close.
For example, Professor Umbridge’s educational decrees from “The Order of the Phoenix” start out with actual text, but the fine print at the bottom simply reads: “blah blah blah.”
“It made me laugh, knowing that that is there and that the person who made these props amused themselves by writing that,” Cain said.
But the exhibition is geared towards Harry Potter enthusiasts, and those searching for a stronger link between the magic in the wizard world and the science in ours may be disappointed.
“There is a lot that they could have done with maps, or geography even, that could have made it educational, and it’s just not at all,” said Dara B. Olmsted ’00, the resident tutor who organized a trip for Mather House. “I don’t know why it was at the Science Museum.”
“Harry Potter: The Exhibition” runs until February 21, 2010.
Sections
As the big Game approaches, Harvard students find themselves desperately seeking a place to lay down their heads after a drunken night of revelry to prepare for even drunker revelry to come on Game day. Young men and women turn to friends, family, or anyone really, in search of a place to stay, hoping they won’t find themselves turned out on the streets. Don’t worry—FM helps keep the Harvard homeless off the crazy streets of New Haven.
1. Seduce a Yalie: The possibilities are endless, albeit unpleasant.
2. Use Your Friends: Oh, you didn’t go to a New England prep school? That’s why you don’t know anyone at Yale! No worries, it’s Harvard, so chances are that your roommate, your blockmate, or the kid across the hall did. They’ll know at least five Yalies, so follow them.
3. Crash a Hotel Room: Your Type-A friends pooled their money to spring for a real hotel room? How silly of them! Your frugal self can reap the comforts of their bed without the hit to your wallet.
4. It’s Called Networking: Call up your grandma’s brother’s daughter’s niece’s best friend’s brother who goes to Yale. You’re all family now.
5. Let’s Get Physical: Break in to the stadium and find the physical therapy room. Trust us, the gurneys are comfy. Besides, when you wake up, you’re already at the Game!
6. Make Friends with a Townie: But don’t get too intimate—you wouldn’t want to end up with children who aren’t double legacies. Then again, they don’t go to Yale, so that’s one thing in their favor.
7. Takeover: No, not literally.  For just a $20 donation to the Phoenix Club, you are guaranteed a dance party and a DFMO. Just be sure to follow through...all the way back to their rooms.
8. Go Greek: Either join a frat or sorority quickly or learn everything you need to know to convince them you’re in the Harvard chapter. Find frat row and crash with your new bros or sisters.
9. Find a Car: Throw your mattress in the backseat, drive to Yale and voila—a bed in New Haven!
10. Yale UHS: Alcohol poisoning? Check. Free hospital bed? Check.
11. Swine Flu (...we had to): Just walk in with “flu-like symptoms” and make sure they disappear in time for you to wake up and get your drink on.
12. Find a Homeless Shelter: I’m sure they have plenty of them in New Haven.  You’re effectively homeless for the night.
13. Commit a Felony: Something just serious enough to land you one night in jail with minimal bail.  We recommend public drunkenness.
14. Find Your Sister College: If you’re in Kirkland, find Calhoun.  Another house? They have a sister, too.  The best part? If you get past the common room and into a bed, you know you’re going to see them again—in exactly one year.
15. Polyjuice Potion: A last resort—find someone who you know has a bed, stir up some of this baby, (warning: make sure the hair you choose comes from a person and not their cat) then hide your victim in a treasure chest in your office until the game is over. You’ll sleep comfortably in their place and, well, they can have their identity back when the juice rubs off.
Sections
You’re an ardent environmentalist. You go trayless on Tuesdays, consider “Green is the new Crimson” your own personal mantra, and...make love to the Earth? No? Maybe you should.
In their show “Dirty Sex-ecology or How to Make Love with the Earth,” Annie M. Sprinkle, former prostitute and porn actress with a Ph.D. from The Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality, and her partner Elizabeth M. Stephens, a professor at the University of California at Santa Cruz, explain ways to show the planet some good loving and get a whole lot in return.
1.
FM: Exactly how does one make love with the earth?
EMS: We have 25 ways in the program of the show from last night. Any of those ways are fabulous beginning ways to make love to the earth. Give her a massage with your feet.
AMS: Lick her, smell her, protect her.
EMS: Just really try to protect her. That’s one way to make love with the earth, is to really try to be a better steward.
2.
FM: Can you define “sex-ecology” or “eco-sexual”?
EMS: An eco-sexual is someone who takes the earth as their lover. This is now someone who’s going to take care of the earth.
AMS: Sex-ecology is exploring, a place where sexology and ecology overlap.
EMS: Generally, if you take care of something erotically, you’ll take care of it in other ways.
3.
FM: You say that we should treat the earth as a lover, not a mother. What does this mean?
AMS: It’s just a little paradigm shift. More mutuality. We expect the earth to just take care of us, to just always breastfeed us.
EMS: We just have to give something back. When you are in a relationship—and you’re really in a good relationship—there’s complete mutuality between lovers. It’s not one person takes all and the other person gets depleted, you know?
4.
FM: Your show in Boston is billed as the U.S. premiere. Do you find that people are more receptive to your shows and your message in other parts of the world?
EMS: We did a half-hour version of the show in Bern, Switzerland, and they loved it. They love their mountains in Switzerland so they were able to really relate to the work we’re doing around mountaintop removal...but I think people in Boston really—we’ve gotten some very, very nice feedback and some very intelligent feedback.
5.
FM: What was your first sexual experience?
AMS: I would say my first sexual experience was really with water. My parents, we had a house with a swimming pool. And I think I really felt so good in the water all the time. And of course we grew up in L.A., by the beach. And so I’m really realizing that before I became sexual at 17 with a person—with a man—I was really making love with the water.
EMS: I did ride horses a lot as a young kid. I probably started riding around six. And that’s definitely when you become one with a horse—it’s just all about power and sexuality. I mean the horse is between your legs; there’s just no way to avoid that, you know?
AMS: Riding it, not fucking it.
EMS: (Laughs) I was not having sex with horses.
AMS: The horse is between your legs! You have your legs wrapped around this hot, sweaty, heavily breathing animal.
EMS: (Laughs) Yeah, whatever. Probably my first sexual experience was really riding horses. Galloping the horses, as a little kid. And it was hot.
6.
FM: You’ve discussed the healing powers of sex. Do you believe that doing good for the earth and being “green” can generate the same pleasure?
AMS: Oh, absolutely! I feel like since I made vows to love and cherish the earth, my heart is so open, and my love has grown so big, and it’s so deeply satisfying.
EMS: In Appalachia now, where there’s mountaintop removal, people have horrible diseases. But when people were living more in harmony with the Earth that just was not true. Even if they smoked cigarettes, they lived into their 70s and 80s. The relationship with the earth was really healing both to the earth and to the people who lived on it.
7.
FM: When did Ellen Steinberg become Annie Sprinkle the porn actress, and when did Annie Sprinkle become Anya?
AMS: Oh yes, they all still exist. These are all different personas I’ve adopted in my life. I was born Ellen Steinberg, and I created the person I wanted to be, who was Annie Sprinkle, kind of sex goddess. And then Anya...let’s say I was a liberated slut, and then I became Anya who was a sex goddess. And it just kind of evolved over time and I integrated different personalities over the years.
8.
FM: How did you two meet?
EMS: We met for the first time because I curated Annie’s tit prints at an exhibition at Rutgers University, where I was a graduate student getting my MFA. So I curated her tit prints into this show called “Outrageous Desire”...and then after, she was so gracious as to lend us her tit prints. In fact, she gave me those tit prints.
9.
FM: Diablo Cody went from stripper to screenwriter, and you went from prostitute to Ph.D. Are there certain, unique lessons to be learned from working in that business?
AMS: Oh, absolutely! I learned all kinds of skills in the sex industry. I learned publicity, I learned filmmaking, I learned editing. Writing, let’s see...I learned how to say “no,” how to say “yes.” I learned a little bit about performing. I learned a lot about sex. I learned how to have safe sex on camera. Self-promotion. Make-up tips, hair tips. I mean...intimacy, well, intimacy? I don’t know about that. Well, yeah, in prostitution I learned about sexual healing. I think I learned a lot about love. About love and generosity of spirit. It goes on and on.
10.
FM: 42 percent of Harvard students had zero sexual partners during the past academic year, and Harvard is ranked 62nd of 141 colleges and universities in terms of availability of sexual health resources on campus. What would you say to the Harvard student body?
EMS: First of all, what I would say is that each individual person can be their own best lover. So that just because you haven’t had another person as a sexual partner, that doesn’t mean that you don’t have a sexual partner. Second of all, I think that it’s a crime that 100 percent of colleges and universities don’t have a very structured sexual education program, and as Harvard is a leading university in the world, it’s just really unfortunate that they lag behind in that area.
AMS: I don’t see anything wrong with not having physically a lover, a human sex partner. Anyone can be lovers with the earth and lovers with themselves. And everything in due time. When it’s time to study and work, it’s time to study and work. And all the women should have a good vibrator. A good, strong vibrator.
11.
FM: You put on cuddle performances, sexual séances, extreme kiss performances, erotic art shows, and more. How did you become so comfortable with public displays of sexuality?
AMS: Sexuality is everywhere. The flowers. Birds and bees and flowers—they’re all doing it. It’s like birth and death.
EMS: What we’re actually trying to display is really love. We’re looking at love, even more than sexuality.
12.
FM: What do you think is the sexiest thing in the world? The least sexy?
EMS: I think the sexiest thing in the world is Annie. And I think the least sexiest thing in the world is hatred.
AMS: I had a good answer on the tip of my tongue. Well, of course I think Beth is super, super sexy. I’m just trying to think if...Beth and the earth. Yeah, I’ll say Beth. Beth and the earth.
13.
FM: Your performance echoes the free love, tree-hugging days of the late ’60s, early ’70s. What would a second sexual revolution look like?
EMS: I think social or sexual revolutions are really another way of approaching social justice issues. I think a lot of the revolution around gayness and queerness, and the sexual revolution in the sixties—they were both about rights...and next might be the great question. Maybe nonhuman things like the Earth! (laughs) That could be the next sexual revolution. And sex-ecology!
AMS: Well, to me, what we’re doing is not so much about sexuality. It’s about ecology.
14.
FM: You’re both involved in academia; Annie, you have Ph.D. and Elizabeth, you’re a professor at UCSC. Do you ever find it difficult to reconcile liberal sexuality with a stereotypically staid profession?
EMS: I don’t find the profession of academia staid. I find it very exciting and challenging. It’s collaborative...I think it’s one of the last great places where people can really speak their minds. Especially after getting tenure—and I do have tenure, and I did run up to some troubles getting tenure because of issues of sexuality. It wasn’t about my research. I think that—well, I love academia.
AMS: I think academia is really sexy, really hot, and smart people are sexy, you know, not in the obvious way. Culture might think porn stars are sexy; I think academics are sexy because I’m in love with one.
15.
FM: You’ve been in the business of sex for decades. Do you ever get bored of it?
AMS: Well, I consistently recreate myself, and I try to stay in the truth of the moment. I mean, bottom line, I tell it like it is, where I’m at in the moment. Originally a lot of my work was about playing the role, playing the role of what was sexy. But then when I reached over to art I really started telling the truth. And my truth is always changing. I change, and as I’ve changed my work changes. So there’s never a dull moment.
EMS: I’ve never actually been bored once in my life. I don’t know if I even understand that concept. I have on vacations, but...
AMS: Yeah, I’ve never been bored ever. Not for a minute.
Sections
In the confines of the ever-so-convenient Harvard Square, it’s easy to believe that knowing all of the homeless people outside of CVS on a first name basis constitutes social engagement. But the department of African and African American Studies is actually venturing outside the ivory tower and establishing an education that transcends the ten-mile radius of Crimson territory.
AN EXPERIMENT IN EXPERIENCE
The Social Engagement Initiative is a program that allows students to take the theories they have learned in the classroom and apply that knowledge in the field in a way that has a social or political impact. Professor Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, the chair of African and African American Studies, explains why she spearheaded the program when she became chair of the department in 2006. “What we were trying to do was to wed a very sophisticated, rigorous, intellectual program—very much a Harvard academic course of study—to something experiential.”
In venturing into the experiential side of the program, students find that—gasp—the textbooks and professors aren’t always right. Overachieving nerds that we are, this may seem like sacrilege, but it is in this that the program finds its unique value. “You have to learn if what you’re reading in books pans out,” says Professor John Mugane, director of the African Language Program.
When Darryl W. Finkton ’10 and Sangu J. Delle ’10 set out to improve water sanitation in Agyemanti, they found that much of it didn’t pan out. Despite its success in Kenya, Professor Michael Kremer’s model for bringing water to East Africa was not feasible in Agyemanti. No matter how cutting edge and brilliant the use of solar panels sounded at first, they realized that once those panels broke, no one would be there to fix them. Higginbotham concludes, “Some of what we do academically doesn’t always apply to the real world.”
However, this is not to say that the academic side of the social engagement program is downplayed at all. Higginbotham goes further, saying, “If anything it’s probably strengthened because the experiential causes you to rethink what you learned.”
Professor Diane L. Hendrix, who is teaching Making Media Across Cultures in the African American Department for the first time this year, notes the ability of students to apply academic theory in the real world.  “Students take this class...and learn about the shifting media landscape from traditional TV broadcasters to the new media of the internet and the influence of YouTube and individual producers on culture,” she says. “They also learn what’s new in development theory and newer approaches to collaborative change in developing nations. Students bring that theoretical knowledge to the media pieces (video, web elements, blogs) they create.”
Students preparing to embark on a social engagement project look at the subject from every angle, integrating a wide range of viewpoints. “What we offer is a team of perspectives in this department to our students,” says Higginbotham, using a group of students working with Haitian Creole diabetes patients as an example. “They have to work with John Mugane’s African Language Program because they have to get the Haitian Creole under their belt; they have to work with an anthropologist so that they can get the ethnographic skills; and they have to get a cultural or historical perspective just to understand what are the conditions in Haiti, what’s the culture that people came out of historically.”
CROSSING LINES
This cross-disciplinary feature is most obvious in Darryl and Sangu’s partnership, which brings together the expertise of an neurobiology concentrator and an African Studies concentrator. In addition to this combination of knowledge, Darryl and Sangu went through the African Language Program and met with a variety of experts in African anthropology, culture, and history. Higginbotham recalls with pride when Darryl introduced himself to an Agyemanti town meeting in their native tongue of Twi and received a round of applause. “They trusted him. There was an openness.”
Darryl returns the love. “I think she’s constantly trying to make something innovative. She’s always thinking of better ways for us to get involved and understand that it’s not just about having a great job. Giving back can be a part of your lifestyle.”
Darryl is just one example of the social entrepreneurs that Higginbotham hopes to breed through this program. This summer, Oluwadara A. Johnson ’10 launched a camp for young girls in Nigeria to learn the value of education, enlisting the help of a Nollywood film star to discuss issues of self-esteem. Cherie N. Rivers, a graduate student in the African and African American Studies department, is currently trying to write a rigorous scholarly dissertation while also upholding the aims of the social engagement initiative.
“You don’t have to lead a bifurcated life,” she explains. The social engagement program can add to the list of glossy careers that Harvard students traditionally take after college—doctors, lawyers, etc.—by creating entirely new professions.
However, despite the inventiveness of the program, Higginbotham feels that the African and African American department is simply going back to its roots. “We feel like we are fulfilling a mission that was inherent to the whole call for African American and African studies as we see it today. We feel that we are...living up to a mission that was part of our founding call...” The student protestors of the ’60s and ’70s did not just want to learn about the black contribution to the world and American society; they also wanted knowledge they could take back to their communities. This is precisely what Harvard is now allowing students like Darryl and Sangu to do.
“I don’t know if there’s many schools where a department can latch onto an ideal like that,” says Darryl.
So maybe the ivory tower is just one of those misconceptions concocted by the haters (read, Yalies). Professor Hendrix seems to think so. “I asked someone what’s the difference between MIT students and Harvard students…she said that Harvard students seem to be more aware of culture and society and how everything fits in.”
Whether the program is a novel step toward revamping academia or a return to the African and African American Studies Department’s roots, it is taking education into what Darryl calls the “reality realm.” If there is an ivory tower, Professor Higginbotham is tearing it down.
Sections
If you’re looking for more than a generic HSA ride to The Game, going in club or house-specific buses might be a healthy alternative (and in most cases, a cheaper one, too). But the clock is ticking, and these buses are in high demand—so start sending out mass e-mails and networking to find out which buses have seats left. For those at a loss for where to begin, FM has three suggestions:
Mather House: The Crunk Bus
The cheapest of the bunch, the Crunk Bus seats 55 eager Harvardians but already has an extensive waiting list. Pull some connections or sabotage those with confirmed seats—tickets are only $30 roundtrip. The Crunk Bus departs Harvard at 6 p.m. on Friday and is homebound 4 p.m. on Saturday.
The Black Student Association: The Soul Bus
Tickets for the Soul Bus will be $35 for BSA members and $40 for everyone else. Set tentatively to leave at 4 p.m. on Friday, this bus gives you time to crash on a Yalie futon. If you just (inconveniently) broke up with your significant other at Yale, the BSA can also set you up with a host. Don’t party too hard on Saturday night, though; the bus is set to depart 11 a.m. Sunday.
Radcliffe Rugby Football Club: Women’s Rugby Bus
$35 round-trip tickets are offered for a seat in a bus of lovely rugby ladies. Five dollars less than the traditional HSA bus, the rugby bus also promises interesting conversation regarding the predecessor of American football. The bus leaves Harvard  at 8:30 a.m. on Saturday, leaving you plenty of time to indulge in refreshments before the game. The bus leaves New Haven at 5:30 p.m.  on Saturday, also giving you time to indulge in refreshments afterwards if your liver is still intact.
Sections
NYU may be the new breeding ground for Blair, Dan, and Vanessa’s drama, but crimson is so the new purple for Gossip Girl.
Yes, Upper East Yarders, we’re talking about Crimson Girl, your one and only source into the (semi) scandalous lives of Harvard’s elite.
Though Canaday seems more likely to take inspiration from Prison Break than Gossip Girl, the secluded yard-within-the-Yard served as the unlikely birthplace for this new campus phenomenon.
“It started with just me and my friends in our entryway. If something funny happened or something really ironic happened, I would just text it to everyone,” says Crimson Girl, who has chosen to keep her (or his) true identity anonymous. “It didn’t even start as Crimson Girl. It started as me just saying, ‘Oh my gosh, guess what happened.’”
But soon enough, the escapades of the “Upper C Side”, the group otherwise known as Canaday  Cs, spread like, well, gossip. “It’s been growing exponentially,” says Crimson Girl, whose readership has grown to about seventy-five students and whose scope now includes the whole freshman class.
“My friend from home gets it,” says Corley E. Stone ’13, one of Crimson Girl’s avid followers.
Due to popular demand, Crimson Girl has even hit the World Wide Web with a new Twitter account, though the three followers currently places Crimson Girl at Lonely Boy status.
So how does Canaday’s knockoff compare to the original Gossip Girl?
“The humor stems from the reality that there is no secrecy as to who Crimson Girl is or the people in the texts,” says Eliza L. Malkin ’13. “It merely makes Sunday brunch gossip get going a little quicker.”
However, although “Clumsy Girl”, “Down Under Boy”, and “Messy Hot Mess” don’t exactly live up to the Waldorfs and Van der Woodsens, Harvard and NYC do have their similarities.
“There’s a lot of inflated egos that need to be, not taken down a notch, but, you know, check yourself before you wreck yourself,” warns Crimson Girl.
Most agree, however, that unless you’re one of Crimson Girl’s BFFs or frenemies, you’re pretty safe for now.
Sections
This weekend at Yale, if you’re doing The Game right, you’ll be far too busy partying to worry about the actual football game. The real priority is making sure you have some stellar party options in lackluster New Haven. FM to the rescue: we give you the lowdown on five places to get down at Yale, both post and pre-tailgate.
1. The Yale Asian American Student’s Alliance, one student group that apparently knows how to do more than just study, is having their “Elixer” party on Friday night. Held in the two-floor, lavishly decorated club, Downtown at the Taft (261 College St), from 10:30 p.m. to 1:45 a.m., the party will feature the dance beats of DJ Bunkey, an open bar until 11:30 p.m., and $3 drinks thereafter. Tickets $5 in advance, pre-order online at www.yaleaasa.org.
2. Our very own Phoenix Club invades Yale on Friday night, setting up camp in the chic club Alchemy (223 College St.) for their party, “The Takeover,” just down the street from the Elixir party. “The Takeover” offers an open bar from 10-11:30 p.m., and tickets are $20 in advance from Phoenix members.
3. Last year, the Harvard-Yale “Big Gay Mixer” ended in a heated dance-off. This year, The Yale Law School Outlaws, an LGBT organization on campus, is hosting a mixer on Friday night, dubbed “The Yale-Harvard Party with a Bunch of Queers.” Located at 123 York Street, Apartment 6G, the rager promises to rival last years. A small donation at the door is requested. 11:00 p.m.-3:00 a.m.
4. If you’re craving a carb fix after one-too-many drinks from the open bar, take a tip from Yale students and check out the favorite undergrad haunt, Ivy Noodle, a generic, slightly sketchy, but nonetheless delicious Asian grease-spoon that’s open until 2 a.m. Try their teriyaki bowl or their scallion pancakes.
5. Take time away from post-victory revelries on Saturday to check out “Pride and Prejudice,” the Harvard-Yale talent show with the tagline “…because the real rivalry starts after the game.” Harvard arts groups, including Expressions, will show Yalelies why Harvardians are always superior, on and off the field. $10, at 1 Prospect St. Doors open at 7 p.m.
Sections
The year is 1966 and you are a young Harvard student.  You wander the streets of Cambridge in search of quality music.  Where to go? The Nameless Coffee House on Church Street offers free performances by the likes of Tracy Chapman and Dar Williams. You can head over to Club 47 on Palmer Street where Joan Baez performed her first show. In a few years, you could stroll into the Harvard Square Theater and catch Bob Dylan. Or, turn on your radio and listen to the legendary “Hillbilly at Harvard” program on WHRB. You lived your life with folk music in the background.
This month in Harvard Square, you can relive those glory days with “Forever Young: The Amazing Grace of Folk Music History,” a month-long nod to the area’s rich past, in the form of events and displays throughout the Square.
Cambridge’s stake in folk music lore reaches all the way back to 1888, when the American Folklore Society was founded in Harvard Yard by Francis James Child, ballad collector and Harvard professor. His storied ballad collection, the result of a years-long literary search collaboration with folk song collectors in other countries, was a resource that singers such as Joan Baez, Tom Rush, and Eric Von Schmidt would later return to as a source of folk tradition.
In the 1950s and ’60s, however, the scope and the character of folk music and culture began to change in Cambridge.  Fueled social movements including women’s rights, civil rights, and eventually anti-war protests, folk music emerged as a key outlet for young people looking for a distinctive way to express themselves.
“When the scene was coming about in the early ’60s, kids were rebelling and wanting to carve out a niche for themselves,” explained Katrina L. Morse of the Cambridge Historical Society.
In some ways, this was a revolutionary development; the chords of bluegrass and southern blues were foreign to the ears of many of the young Northeasterners. At the same time, though, this was a return to the traditions of America’s rich musical past. “There was certainly intellectual interest in the music, but also just a, ‘Wow, you don’t hear this kind of music around Cambridge. You don’t hear people talking about coal mining or tenant farming,’” said Millie Rahn, Folklorist and Archivist at the New England Folk Music Archives. “People really made this emotional and human connection to these people and their stories.”
At the heart of the Cambridge folk scene sat Club 47, known these days as Club Passim.  Thomas W. Rush ’63, Harvard alum and notable folk musician who came out of the Cambridge revival of the 60s, called it the “flagship of the fleet.” Club 47 boasted an impressive list of past performers including, among others, Joan Baez, Jackie Washington, the Charles River Valley Boys, the Jug Band, and Jim Kweskin. Many of these premier folk musicians played gigs at Club 47 during the year and then congregated at the Newport Folk Festival during the summer.
“These musicians made Club 47 their home,” said Betsy Siggins, Founder and Executive Director of the New England Folk Music Archives and former Director of Club Passim. A tight-knit community of musicians, music-lovers, and songwriters alike formed around Club 47 and the surrounding area, brought together by a shared love for music and passions about social issues.
The folk music scene in Cambridge was also unique in the way that it transcended racial and class barriers.  When African-American performers came to Cambridge to perform back in the 50s and 60s, Cambridge was still a quietly segregated city.  Instead of staying in hotels, artists stayed with Cambridge residents in their houses.  According to Siggins, Club 47 filled a gap in American music history—it brought incredible talent and unique voices to the table that would otherwise go unheard.  Folk music in Cambridge was also blind to class and social distinctions—that is, the clubs would be concurrently filled with Harvard kids and native Bostonians.
“There were folk scenes in other cities around the country and in Canada. In New York, for instance, it was more about using the music to make it. But in Cambridge, it was about the music.” said Rahn. Siggins agrees: “You could be from anywhere, but the music was what mattered.”
The year is 2009 and you are a young Harvard student. The legacy of the folk music revival lives on in Cambridge today, if you know where to look. You can still tune in to WHRB’s “Blues Department” or “Hillbilly at Harvard”, and you can stop by Club Passim on any day of the week to hear some of the top up-and-coming performers.
“Boston/Cambridge is one of the hubs for folk music in the country, if not the world. A lot of people aren’t even aware of a legendary folk music venue sitting right around the corner from Harvard Yard,” said E. Forrest O’Connor ’10, President of the Harvard College American Music Association.
“The student organizations on campus have really cultivated a community of songwriters and folk musicians,” O’Connor said.  “But also, we’re trying to break down the barriers between Harvard and the local community, when it comes to music, in particular.”
This month especially, Harvard students can appreciate the richness of Cambridge’s folk character just by wandering the Square. Glossy black-and-white photographs of Bob Dylan, concert programs, colorful posters, and record covers line the display windows of Eye Q Optical and the late Z-Square as part of the “Community Gallery Window Project.”
The displays, set up by the New England Folk Music Archives and Harvard Square Business Association, are more than just an exhibit—they tell the story of a generation.
“For a lot of people in the metropolitan area, it’s their coming of age story. They really relate to Harvard Square as where they grew up, whether they came here for college, or came here to hang out. They were hearing music that was unfamiliar, and meeting people that had new ideas that they were unfamiliar with,” said Rahn.
But the story continues to this day.
“Folk music is a tradition that is handed on within communities” says Maggie Holtzberg, Folklorist and Manager of the Folk Arts and Heritage Program at the Massachusetts Cultural Council. “Folk music is still happening and going on. It changes constantly, and it’s very vibrant.”
Cambridge changes, music changes, but the tradition lives on.
Sections
Dan C. Hazen wandered around Peru, moving from Arequipa to Cuzco to Puno. He talked to locals, examined old newspapers and journals, and dug through a variety of governmental and private archives. It was 1972 and he was conducting research for his dissertation on 19th and early 20th century Indian rebellions in the southern highlands that border on Lake Titicaca and Bolivia.
“The process of assembling all of that data gave a different kind of nuance to the whole way that period of time was chronicled,” he says of the project.
Today Hazen sits in his office, papers  strewn everywhere. A spider plant hangs from the ceiling. As the Associate Librarian for Collection Development at Harvard, Hazen oversees the acquisitions of one of the biggest library systems in the world. On the first floor of Widener, among the hundreds of stacks and hundreds of students on laptops, Hazen writes reports that emphasize a digital future. But he is not afraid to also wonder if something is lost in these new kinds of resources.
There is no question that this is where research is moving: the Harvard Task Force on University Libraries’ report, which came out last week, stated: “Perhaps most destabilizing to our operating model is the digital revolution. Though it is still in its early stages, it has already penetrated nearly all aspects of research and teaching.”
Yet it is also a time in which text resources are still highly valued and circulation numbers remain high. It is a time in which the boundaries between the world of text and digital resources remain unclear, where digital resources require personal interaction, where books are being energized digitally, and where the library itself is taking on physical transformations while finding its new place in the global scene.
OUT OF THE LIBRARY
Susan M. Gilroy enters the classroom in Emerson Hall. Petite and bright-eyed, the head of reference services at Lamont Library has already been briefed on the topics of the students’ tutorial papers. She wheels behind her a suitcase containing a projector, but—no need to use it—the room is already equipped with a computer connected to the Internet. The librarian proceeds to ask students more about their individual projects, pointing them to particular databases that might be useful as she weaves back and forth between the Harvard College Library (HCL) homepage and the world of e-resources.
As research moves into a digital age and resources become increasingly available online, the natural assumption might be that the library and librarians are losing their relevance. But as Professor of History Laurel T. Ulrich notes, this is certainly not the case. She is no stranger to the online world, having helped to digitize materials in Harvard’s museums as well as frequently using online databases like Visual Information Access system (VIA).
“We’re going to teach the students how to work with those digital materials because it’s not necessarily intuitive,” she says. “We find that even though students use iPods and iPhones and Blackberries and Facebook and YouTube and all of those things, they don’t always know how to do scholarly work online.”
For Karen L. Heath, a senior preceptor in Expository Writing, it is precisely because of the changing nature of resources that librarians have become increasingly more important.
“Because students are more likely to look for sources from their dorm room at two in the morning, they need that really good instruction about the stuff that isn’t helpful, that’s wrong, that wouldn’t be credible in an academic paper,” she says. “We need the librarians to help sort out how to tell what are the good ways of evaluating that stuff and how to find better stuff.”
Gilroy confirms that knowing where to find the best resources today is not intuitive; librarians are necessary not only to help sift through the mass of online research, but also to help evaluate the reliability of materials, both in terms of source and content. She stresses that HCL needs to make its own interface and database organization more user-friendly.
“I think that people assume that because someone can use technology they can use information well, and that’s not always the case,” Gilroy says.
So the digital world has become a world in need of personal interaction for HCL. It is common for librarians to enter classrooms, especially if they are a liaison for that particular department.
“We’re placing a high priority on classroom visits,” says the Roy E. Larsen Librarian of Harvard College Nancy M. Cline. “Undergrads are only here four years, they can’t waste one of the years not knowing how to do things well. We help people exploit what’s here and a lot of focus is on how to use online resources.”
Gilroy is quick to note that this librarian-student connection, though necessary in today’s age of digitalization, is nothing new.
“The library has always been a place where conversations are suppose to happen,” she says. “But we need to continually remind people that the library is not just a physical place, not just a warehouse, but that it’s a living system.”
Yet librarians are now engaging in a different kind of conversation.
“It becomes more important to be available outside of the building,” Gilroy says. HCL reaches out to students through all sorts of venues—classrooms, Houses, freshman dorms, and even online forms including blogs.  She adds, “If we’re not tied to a physical collection, the access to the physical collection doesn’t have to begin with inside the building.”
Both Gilroy and Heath cannot foresee a time in which this intermediary assistance won’t be necessary.
As long as electronic information keeps growing, Heath says, there will be a need for experts who can help navigate that world.
“In person stuff is so critical,” Gilroy says. “There’s nothing like sitting down with people and talking about an idea whether it’s in the cafe over coffee or on the street corner.” She continues, “You don’t come to Harvard and know it all, you have to be shown. That’s the role of an intermediary, someone who’s trustworthy, authoritative, knowledgeable, who can at least point you in the right direction and know when to let go.”
While emphasizing the in-person part of this outreach, HCL also engages students through technologies like instant messaging for reference help. They also plan to test a text-a-librarian system, according to Susan M. Fliss, Associate Librarian of Harvard College for Research, Teaching and Learning. But Fliss notes that in-depth questions would still require personal contact.
ONTO THE WEB
As librarians march back and forth between their Widener offices and the classrooms in the Yard to teach about online resources, students have not stopped traveling the other way to use tangible sources. Circulation rates remain high, according to Gilroy.
“I think there’s this assumption that, particularly with special collections, that the more you put online the less reason people have to come and use the collections,” says Thomas A. Horrocks, Associate Librarian of Houghton Library for Collections. “That hasn’t proven to be true as we’re slowly but surely starting to digitize part of our collections.”
The office in the basement of Houghton Library is dimly lit, crowded with Abraham Lincoln busts, portraits, and books.  One might wonder if they’ve stumbled into an overcrowded gift shop. Yet as this keeper of special collections pulls up Web page after Web page on Houghton’s Web site, he emphasizes that the images on the screen can actually help bring the people into the building.
“We have this increased mobility, we don’t have to be anchored within the midst of collection with all the pieces spread out,” Fliss says. “It’s exciting. We can show people selections of rare books, music scores and yet that serves as an invitation to bring people in to see the depth of existing collections.”
Horrocks says that this is the hope: that digitizing collections will actually have the effect of drawing people in to see physical holdings.
“People will discover these things not by thinking I’ll go to Houghton, but these things are all Google-able. People doing a John Updike search come across the Houghton blog entry and then come to Houghton library and hopefully start reading the other entries. Updike’s getting a lot of hits,” Horrocks says, pulling up the Web page for Houghton’s Longfellow Exhibition.
And Horrocks is not alone. Throughout HCL, librarians hope that the digital world will draw people back into the world of books. Hazen describes new online initiatives that will encourage this behavoir.
“We’re finding ways to energize analog resources in the catalog,” Hazen says. “Often in Hollis you get a flat record, it gives you what used to be considered adequate info about a book, but when you look at that as opposed to looking at a listing in Amazon with a cover, snippets, reviews, all this sort of stuff makes it a much more engaging interaction.”
Hazen says that the library system began using the provider Syndetic Solutions in the past year, which aims to “enhance library online catalogs” through various types of information and images.
Hazen believes that texts must continue to be energized within HCL, as current efforts have been inconsistent.
BACK TO THE STACKS
Students sit in Widener’s periodicals room, surrounded by magazines and newspapers. They click away on their netbooks, miniature laptop computers available for loan at the reference desk. An HLC news bulletin boasts that netbooks allow students to peruse electronic journals and “to continue to be able to read those titles in the comfort of the Periodicals Reading Room.”
The room, which contains dozens of magazines and newspapers, is now a site to read dozens of online magazines and newspapers, as subscriptions begin to be cancelled.
In addition to the “netbooks,” HCL has carved out a place within Lamont devoted to new types of learning, which include digital initiatives.
“I’m so excited,” Fliss says as she describes Lamont’s new collaborative learning space. The room includes two built-in projectors and screens, ten laptops, a DVD player, a VCR, document camera and wireless control system. Here, librarians can teach students about using resources. It is a different world from Horrocks’ office, full of Lincoln memorabilia.
While new measures focus on the classroom and the Internet, HCL has not ignored its own building, proposing new rooms and new materials to engage patrons as it moves into the digital world.
INTO THE WORLD
As librarians march into classrooms around campus and answer questions via Instant Messaging in cyber space, it seems as though HCL has mastered the realms of physical and digital resources.
“We all feel that we’re pretty empowered,” Cline says, from her large office overlooking Tercentenary Theater. “Librarians don’t teach the content, but the tools, the databases, which keep changing so fast that it’s hard for students to keep up with them.”
Yet this ever-expanding network of resources causes certain problems.
“The library can no longer make the same kind of claim to authority,” Hazen says. “Libraries used to say we have everything or virtually everything that someone wants to know about just because we can wrap our arms around the universe and scoop it in. Today there’s almost nothing that a library can make a claim about. We find ourselves in a niche of holding onto this claim of being comprehensive and a reality that everything is swirling, spilling and overwhelming our abilities of making sense.”
He continues, “It puts librarians and library collections in a strange place where we’re struggling to figure out what can we say about what we’re doing, what our collection means relative to the universe out there, what kinds of service and support the library can provide to people in making sense of what’s out there.”
John G. Palfrey, the Vice Dean for Library and Information Resources at the Harvard Law School, says he sees a fundamental shift within HCL, moving from possession of resources to access. “This is quite jarring for Harvard where historically we have sought to control objects in every field,” Palfrey says.
The recent Taskforce’s report acknowledged this fact. “Harvard libraries can no longer harbor delusions of being a completely comprehensive collection,” it stated. One of the report’s primary goals is to “collaborate more ambitiously with peer libraries and other institutions.”
Hazen explains one difficulty, though. Universities are naturally competitive, yet need to adjust to a world where there must be interdependency between their digital collections. For this librarian, the fact that one university will try to acquire poetry collections from Mexico, while another does so from Argentina means that, in providing access to their digital acquisitions, both communities benefit from their own strength.
This fluidity of resources among libraries will change how they are evaluated.
“We’re in a strange time where the traditional measures for judging libraries are under fire. As recently as 10 or 20 years ago the only number that really seemed to count was how many books, and Harvard could always afford to say that’s not really what should be counted,” Hazen says. “Now when we think of that libraries, they’re less free standing autonomous entities. We have to look at libraries as part of networks, webs of knowledge, collections that are all over the place.”
Cline says that Harvard has been working with members of the Association of Research Libraries to determine the new criteria for judging libraries, which she notes is hard to do as each has different costs and needs.
AND FOR THE STUDENTS
These changes, which balance text and digital resources, hope to  improve the patron’s library experience.
However, many students don’t see the need for personal librarian assistance in navigating e-materials.
“I don’t feel like I’ve missed out on Harvard’s resources,” says Geoffrey A. Smith ’10 whose experience with librarians has not been useful. “It seems like in general the specific instruction needed for your discipline or class will be better provided from someone in that field, like a TF or a professor. A lot of classes have specialized tools for accessing resources or specific databases they expect you to use.”
For others, the libraries do not serve any other purpose than to take out the occasional book. Tim M. Jundanian ’10 jokes that he’s only been to a library when he lived next to one freshman year and when the Quad library was still open. He says that geographical proximity is important.
Yet for many the impact of HCL’s changes is clear.
Stephany Y. Lin ’11, who is researching both on Copenhagen’s wind turbines and Turkish immigrants in Northern Europe, is in the process of setting up an appointment with a librarian. Probably Gilroy, who came to her Junior Tutorial class earlier this semester.
“I think my problem has been that I’m not focused enough when I use online resources. I end up searching a bunch of places, but not using any one resource to its fullest capacity,” Lin says. “It’s hard to tell which ones are best suited for my particular need, particular project. I think we will always need the intermediate help of librarians, another eye to help navigate all the materials.”
Julia M. Taylor ’10, a Religion concentrator writing her thesis on the relationship between myth-making and “The Matrix,” sits in Currier Dining Hall reading one of Widener’s copies of “Lolita.” She reflects on librarians’ ability to help students as online resources expand. Pam Matz, a librarian who works with the Religion department spent half an hour  working with Taylor. Matz figured out an exact combination of search terms for a specific database to trigger certain tags, something which Taylor says she would not have known how to do on her own.
“There are so many new technical developments that will continue to make librarians very important,” Taylor says. “They figure out how to use these new resources and digital stuff, have meetings about it, they learn about these databases endlessly.” She puts aside her library book. “Research librarians will always have a one-up on students because that’s what they do all day.”
Sections
The Harvard Club of Boston, located in the heart of Back Bay, boasts a lobby lined with dark wood panels. A crimson carpet covers its floor. It is the kind of place that conjures up images of graying men in well-cut suits lounging in leather armchairs, nursing a scotch in one hand and a smoking cigar in the other, all the while discussing politics or stocks.
The Harvard Club of New York boasts a similar aesthetic. “It looks more formal with the panelled walls and the animal heads,” says Nicole M. Parent ’93, President of the Harvard Club of New York (and, incidentally, the club’s first female president). She continues, “But we are really trying to move into the modern day.”
Harvard’s first alumni clubs were founded in the 19th century. In the 21st century, the Harvard clubs of the world confront new challenges and, especially in the midst of a recession, adapt old traditions to stay relevant. With 130 clubs scattered across the globe, the organizations have assumed a diverse range of activities, from organizing athletic events and networking panels to throwing Halloween balls.
BREAKING WITH TRADITION
In 1857, the oldest existing Harvard Club was founded in Chicago as a social club where Harvard alumni could get together and retain their ties to the hallowed halls of their alma mater. Today, they exist for much the same purpose.
“Ultimately we like to think that membership stems from an underlying desire to remain connected to the Harvard community,” Harvard Club of Southern California President Ken S. Williams ’78 says. In addition to camaraderie, club membership also grants reciprocal privileges at all the other Harvard Clubs, social and cultural outings, and, of course, some fierce networking potential.
The clubs fall into two main categories: those with clubhouses and those without. The former have the luxury of consistently returning to the same location, while the latter sort host events in various rented venues.
The clubs in Boston and New York City run their own clubhouses, complete with dining rooms, event venues, gyms, and accommodations for out-of-town Harvardians. Boston even has a downtown location in addition to its main clubhouse.
“The Boston and New York clubs are unusual in that we have a clubhouse, so there is an undercurrent element of the club, that we actually run a business,” says Thomas H. Mattox ’82, Treasurer of the Harvard Club of New York.
As businesses operating in a time of financial pressure, Harvard clubs in Boston and New York seize opportunities to remain pertinent. In order to achieve this goal, they hope to combat the recession by expanding membership. There seems to be two distinct routes. In New York, the Harvard Club requires that potential members have significant ties to the university, as outlined on their Web site. For example, an applicant could be a Harvard graduate or a faculty member of the University. In Boston, however, these membership requirements expanded to include partner schools such as Bryant University and Holy Cross. Membership expansion has been ongoing since 2003.
Questions of image are tied to these changes, as the organizations try to shed their “the old boys club” reputation while remaining true to their roots.
NEW YORK, NEW YORK
The New York club has just finished renovating their Harvard Hall and Main Dining Room. “We are in a unique position despite the recession,” Parent says.  “We have a terrific board, and the club is in a better position financially than it ever has been.”
In January, the New York board will launch “Vision 2020,” a survey asking for member input on future projects. As their membership expands, the club hopes to pursue projects based on majority opinion rather than the opinions of particular individuals.
“Historically, it becomes a squeaky wheel problem, where projects take on a life of their own just because a board member wants it to, as we’re trying to avoid that,” Parent says.
According to Mattox, the Harvard Club of New York has lost very few members, especially when compared to other clubs. He explains that this is partly due to the decision not to raise dues this year, unlike many clubs, which have seen a hike in dues thanks to the recession.
THE CLUB NEXT DOOR
The Harvard Club of Boston also faces the challenge of member retention. In response, the club has begun to allow non-Harvard affiliates to join, access to club facilities and all.
Director of Marketing and Membership Development Thomas J. Martorelli HBS ’82 says, “As far as we know, we have heard nothing but good things about the new program.” Martorelli admits, however, “We did wonder whether people would think the Harvard Club was not as special.”
Member response to the initiative is divided.  “It is disconcerting to see that they are trying to expand membership to anyone who has the cash, but are not making an effort to reach out to the Harvard community at large,” said Joseph S. Evangelista ’96, the former Young Members Committee Chair and member of the club.
“There is a lack of transparency between the board and the members, which really gives the club an old boys feeling that is not helping anyone,” says Young Members Committee Chair Jason E. Bressner ’99.
Furthermore, the drop in membership has also signified a drop in programming.  “In the past, the club was not as concerned about making a profit.  Now, they are struggling to reconcile the spectrum of offerings with the bottom line,” Bressner says.
Nonetheless, the Harvard Club of Boston has recently been named one of the Platinum Clubs of America, a high honor chosen by other club presidents and general managers. This is the fourth time the club has been recognized, and members see it as a reason to be optimistic about the club’s future despite its challenges. “We try to provide services to a broad spectrum, and make an effort to appeal to as many people as possible,” General Manager Eric W. Gillberg says. “We are always trying to become stronger and more meaningful to members,” he adds. “We know that this is a very special place to the Harvard community, and we hope to keep it that way.”
ANYTOWN, USA
Harvard clubs across the country face similar challenges. “Although membership has taken a little bit of a hit, we have ramped up programs with a myriad of events to generate interest among the members and potential members,” says Stanley P. Mark ’73, President of the Harvard Club of Seattle.
The Southern California Club has opted to give members the option of pre-renewing their membership for several years at once in order to maintain their numbers. Meanwhile, the Seattle and Southern California Clubs have begun to modernize their communication techniques, contacting alumni via e-mail and Facebook.
It seems, though, Harvard clubs throughout the nation are experiencing a moment of redefinition. “We have to maintain a balance of tradition and what we all love with moving forward,” Parent explains “We want, above all, to stay relevant in people’s lives, and to do that, we have to look at ourselves.”
Sections
Harvard-Yale may be the only college football game you actually attend this year. And, chances are, the most fun to be had in New Haven won’t be inside the stadium cheering. To get in the spirit, whether you make it to the stands or not, look no farther than the fields surrounding Yale Bowl.Leverett HoCo is getting their tailgate on for the first time in recent memory this Saturday, serving up the basics in large quantities. They’ll be providing plenty of warm food and drinks to ward off the chilly November air and you can start your 10 a.m. off right with peppermint schnapps and hot chocolate, as well as cider, coffee, and tea. Breakfast and grilled goods will also be in plenty.Pfoho’s tailgate will showcase the House’s winning chili, which is selected annually before the Game at the Master’s Open House. They’ll be giving away cowbells, horns, and other surprises for those who manage to move away from the booze and into the stands to cheer. The staples of hot chocolate, cider, and beer will be provided along with face painting and games of cornhole.If you’re looking to keep it classy, head over to Eliot’s tailgate party to pregame with champagne and mimosas. They’ll have baked goods and face painting as well, but FM recommends doing the latter before Eliot HoCo’s hands are occupied double-fisting with stemware.Technically, tailgating ends during the third quarter, but if you aren’t in the mood for the game, or are unable to master the stairs, don’t worry; most HoCos plan on serving throughout. The tailgates offer ample opportunities to show some Harvard pride, whether you remember making it into the stadium or not.
Sections
Anyone in Science of Living Systems 20: “Psychological Science” could tell you that Freud thought dreams brought up a person’s subconscious issues. A study by Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry J. Allan Hobson, who graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1959, postulates that dreams have another purpose. The study says that dreams might actually physiologically help our brains prepare for the mental activities ahead—a sort of mental warm-up. FM thinks up a couple of dreams and what they might be prepping for.   Dream: You’re in a strange land surrounded by books and drool, and guards are laughing at you as the sun rises. Oh...wait...damn...again? Predictions: You will subsist for the next six hours on coffee.  You will pass out briefly in a random, uncomfortable locale that is NOT your or anyone else’s bed, most likely in lecture. You will subsist for the following six hours on Red Bull. Rinse. Repeat.   Dream: You’re sitting around a dinner table, eating caviar with Mankiw and Pinker, intelligently discussing the Prisoner’s Dilemma and its implications.   Predictions:  You’re that kid in section. You will be obnoxious and everyone will glare at you. Please be quiet. On the plus side, you’ll probably ace that final. Dream: The wind is whipping around your cold, questionably dressed self as you trudge along forever and ever, never seeming to reach your final destination.   Prediction:  Best case scenario: shuttle of shame. What will probably happen: the shuttle won’t come in time, and you’ll have to make the walk of shame from the quad, themed outfit and all. Oh, and you’ll probably run into your professor on the way.   Dream: You go on a wild quest to find the queen. After much toil and trauma, you are finally granted an audience, only to become mute as you are finally introduced. Prediction: You will make a fool out of yourself in front of Drew Gilpin Faust.   Dream: You make friends with leprechauns and some of the guys from “Where the Wild Things Are”, lots of random people show up, and you make a speech in a foreign language you don’t take. Then you all go for ice cream and play ring around the rosie.   Prediction: Let’s be honest, this means absolutely nothing, dream research or no.
Sections
The huge groups of foreign tourists trying to peer into Annenberg finally have something new to gawk at in Memorial Hall. The Transept, the space between Annenberg and Sanders Theater, is now home to a public art installation entitled “Constellation (Stranger Fruit)” by Sanford Biggers, an African-American sculptor known for his evocative installations. The work represents the struggles of slaves escaping via the Underground Railroad, a theme Biggers recalls in several pieces. “Constellation” evokes heavenly constellations and quilts marked with secret codes that helped guide slaves to freedom. “There is something magical about this work; the light from below gives the installation a celestial mood...” says Raymond C. Traietti, Assistant Director at Memorial Hall.“Biggers demonstrates a great range in his work; he is a sculptor but also involves music, video, and performance in his creations,” says Cathleen D. McCormick, Director of Programs at the Office for the Arts (OFA) at Harvard. Traietti agrees. “I love it because Memorial Hall is a theater and a dining hall, but also a work of art. When we have pieces like ‘Constellation’ in the Transept, they are talking with the building – they contemporize it.” Students filing in and out of Annenberg have certainly noticed the modern art installation exhibited in the Old World space of the Transept. “Students always stop and look around. ‘Constellation’ is not so much a contrast to the space as it is a complement to it,” Traietti says. The engagement of students with community space is a goal of the OFA’s Public Art Program, according  Teil Silverstein, “Constellation”’s Harvard Project Manager. “Students engage in an examination of artmaking for public sites through dialogue and/or collaboration with the participating artists,” wrote Silverstein in an e-mail. So next time you’re rushing to that Ec 10 lecture, take a minute to soak up the magic of Biggers’ piece, before it’s gone on December 2. We guarantee it’ll take your mind off that Expos paper...at least until the Mem Church bells remind you you’re late for class, anyway.
Sections
When Harvard students thought they could count on hot breakfast, they got their hearts broken like eggs into a HUDS dumpster.  So it was with great trepidation that FM rolled out of bed one morning to try out the Quincy Grille’s new breakfast offerings.
Quincy Grille is very different in the morning.  It is mostly empty, with only a one in three chance that there will be some guy working on a problem set you haven’t started yet, and only a one in four chance that he will come up to you and ask about problem number five.
To one side, the dining hall staircase watches jealously, like a bested ex-girlfriend.  To the other, the morning news hums softly away on a mounted TV screen, a metronome of normality outside the Harvard bubble. The place does feel a bit desolate in comparison to its nocturnal glory, but only until the food comes.
FM sampled several of the offerings. The egg and cheese quesadilla was cheesy and rambunctious, the nutella toast light and European, the carrots with ranch dipping sauce crunchy and belligerent.  More impressively, it was all hot.   One small detractor was the sausage burrito: a misnomer, it was in fact a quesadilla.
In addition, the sausage had neither been chopped up nor flattened, but rather protruded with phallic obscenity in its full, undiminished form.
Overall, though, it was exquisite.  Furthermore, any food can be made extra delicious with ranch dressing.  And for those who can bear looking at empty pans where bacon once sizzled without giving into violent fits of nostalgia, the beverages and light fare of the dining hall are an attractive complement.
For those interested,  e-mail the Quincy Grille managers—the hot breakfast was only a trial program, but it’ll return if interest is deemed sufficient.
Sections
Maybe you’re planning to bury yourself in your books, or maybe you’re a cheapskate who’s just too darn stubborn to dish out the bucks to get to New Haven. Maybe you’re frantically avoiding the Yalie who broke up with you via Gchat. Whatever the case, you find yourself stuck on campus after the masses have departed for Harvard-Yale. What’s a straggler to do?
1. If you’re anxious to see some badass art:You’ve seen the MFA, HMNH, and [insert random acronym here]. But you haven’t seen culture until you’ve visited the Museum of Bad Art, or rather “MOBA: Art too bad to be ignored.” Located in the basement of Somerville Theater, the exhibit is perfectly situated for you can check out a movie while you’re at it.55 Davis Square, Friday, 5:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m, Weekends, 12:00 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Admission=your movie ticket.  (Seriously.)
2. If you want to show your Crimson pride:You don’t follow football, but still want to show some school spirit. Unleash some stress and take a study break by watching men passionately whack pucks with sticks.Men’s Varsity Ice Hockey vs. Clarkson, Saturday, November 21, 7 p.m.
3. If you like drinking in the afternoon but don’t have a tailgate to attend:Who needs tailgates when you can take a tour of Samuel Adams Brewery? Play tourist, take in history, and sip some free beer while you’re at it (with ID, of course).30 Germania Street, Friday, 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m, Saturday, 10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Admission free but donations welcome.
4. If you’re that kid who already listens to Christmas music:Check out the Harvard-Radcliffe Chorus concert, Handel’s Messiah (Part 1: The Christmas Story). Aww. Don’t you love the holidays?Sanders Theater, Friday November 20, 7:30 pm, $20 per adult. $10 per student.
5. If you need a temporary escape from psets and papers:Take in the brisk fall air with a stroll along the Charles while you can still feel your toes. Sure, you may be that loner surrounded by touchy-feely couples, but an empty campus = me-time. Embrace it.Charles River, 24/7. (Except when it’s really, really, dark.)
Sections
I am a Taurus. Well, that’s my sun sign. And I am addicted to astrology.
I realized this yesterday, when I had a panic attack. Twice, on my way to the Quad, I swiveled around on Garden Street, certain someone was calling my name. “Hey Asli,” I heard. It was a woman. Maybe she was calling, “Hey, ask me!” or “Hey, Ashley,” I thought. There aren’t many Aslis wandering around New England, after all. But no one was there.
At that moment, my horoscope for the week flashed across my mind: “Don’t be too alarmed if you start to see or hear things that aren’t there—it’s just your subconscious trying to spice things up a little! Go with the flow and things should settle down soon.” Comforting words, perhaps, but a shiver still crawled up my spine.
This was more than just a coincidence. Three days earlier, I was meant to navigate a trying ordeal because the planets were misaligned—and I couldn’t use credit at Boston Tea Stop. A week earlier, I was supposed to undergo a difficult negotiation, and I had a face-off on that narrow little sidewalk down Plympton when some frail little freshman was skittering in the other direction. There was only room for one of us.
Normally, I would use my massive size and sheer physical force to barrel by her. But this time, I hesitated, then stepped into the street.
“Be the bigger person,” my horoscope had advised me. But instead, I felt small.
As I write, Venus is entering the seventh house, and things are supposed to get better. Still, I am dreading this month. November is rough for those of us born in May, even worse when your moon sign is Gemini.
More importantly, every action suddenly has some ulterior cosmic meaning. These predictions are starting to whittle away at my sense of autonomy.
I wasn’t always blinded by the stars. In fact, most things I love in life began as jokes. But then, slowly, somewhere between puberty and freshman year, they turned serious. Dead serious. Take, for instance, the Xanga page I curated until well after I was legally an adult. Then, there’s the first six seasons of “Degrassi: The Next Generation.” Also my wardrobe, generally. And learning, and then regularly using, the NATO phonetic alphabet. Even my firm belief that, even though I didn’t live in a glamorous alternate universe or have creepily perfect teeth like Kristen Bell, I am, in fact, just like Veronica Mars.
I remember being cynical even as a young child. I never liked horses or movies with dogs as the protagonists. Whenever I played Barbie with friends I would rename the doll “Vivian” and weave tragic yarns in which she wound up destitute and hopeless, forced to sell her dream house to Keisha and curse philandering Ken. (My elder sister watched The Lifetime Network. A lot.)
I recall these things because, in some ways, I am still like that. I’m not the kind of person who goes for palm readings or deciphers tarot cards, and I never thought Ms. Cleo was any more clairvoyant than a fortune on a popsicle stick. But as suspicious and dry as I may be, I like to think that there is some sort of order to things. It may as well be a cosmic one.
And perhaps astrology has its own peculiar appeal. Maybe it’s because I’m on the cusp of adulthood. I turned 21 and a half this past Monday, and all of a sudden I realized that pop stars are all younger than me and the average Real World contestant is my age. Some of the girls I once played Barbie with are now married, or worse, have their own little babies who have their own little sun signs. I, on the other hand, am still counting half birthdays as legitimate events.
I’m young, but I’m too old to be cynical about everything. Things are beginning to matter.
And there is some comfort in knowing that there is a set of ancient, celestial guiding principles, a galactically correct course of action. If anything, horoscopes make me think about the big picture in a way I haven’t before, especially at Harvard. It’s easy to go through the motions, to think of the little things, to feel independent, responsible, and alone.
And though this month looks like it’s going to be rough in the little ways, it has so far been oddly comforting. There  is something about knowing that competitors and allies are governed by the same stars and houses, that somewhere, deep in the recesses of outer space, Jupiter is slowly nudging me along regardless of how much I screw up. If only my e-recruiting Taurus friends knew that Neptune was ruling their professional tenth house sector, and things were looking up, I think they all would be a bit sunnier. Or if my best friend knew she was feeling low because—obviously—Mercury is in retrograde.
But that’s the thing about horoscopes. You have to embrace them. You can’t choose to ignore the bad ones and listen to the good ones. And they are nuanced: the bad omens are not so bad, and the good signs are something else altogether. The stars are populated with possibilities and courses of action rather than good and evil or right and wrong.
And, ultimately, the whole point of horoscopes is that you don’t really know what will happen, it’s the process of unwrapping the mystery that is exciting. I know next year is supposed to be strong for Tauri. Maybe that means I’ll actually finish my thesis. Or, hell, even graduate! If it’s not guaranteed, at least it might be written in the stars.
—Asli A. Bashir '10 is a History and Literature concentrator in Currier House. She dedicates this endpaper to Emily C. Graff '10, perennial astrology expert and occasional life coach.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ten-year-old Will Phillips of West Fork, Ark., isn’t your average disobedient kid. Despite repeated promptings from his elementary-school teacher, the young boy refused to say the Pledge of Allegiance in class on the grounds that the U.S. fails to live up to its promise of “liberty and justice for all” by barring gays and lesbians from marrying. In an interview with CNN, Phillips stated that he thought that “[gay people] should have the rights all people should” and that he was “not going to swear that they do.”
Phillips’s act of defiance was a brave move for a 10-year-old—or anyone, for that matter—especially in the face of criticism from his teacher and his peers. Phillips claimed that other students at his school reacted negatively toward his behavior, hurling derisive epithets at him for bringing up the issue of gay rights. He acted all the more admirably by standing up for his beliefs in the face of opposition and prejudice.
Certainly, Phillips’s reasoning was somewhat simplistic and his manner of objection crude—his decision to tell his teacher to “go jump off a bridge,” for example, may not have been the most diplomatic way to deal with her attempts to make him say the Pledge. But the argument behind his protest was a sound one. Phillips demonstrated a remarkable level of political and social awareness well beyond his years in recognizing that equality and justice for all citizens has not yet been achieved in America.
Only a few weeks ago, the passage of Maine’s Question 1 overturned recent state legislation allowing same-sex couples to marry. Prior to the repeal, Maine had been one of only five states to legally recognize marriage between same-sex couples. The vast majority of states have Defense of Marriage Acts—limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples—on the books. Given that the right to marry is still withheld from many individuals because of their sexual orientation, Phillips had good cause to question the existence of “liberty and justice for all.”
Phillips clearly found the meaning of the Pledge inconsistent with the status of equal rights in America, and he should not have been pressured to say it against his will. His refusal to pledge allegiance to the flag was in fact a patriotic form of dissent in keeping with the best ideals of the republic for which it stands. Numerous important movements in U.S. history began with individuals who recognized injustice and inequality in society and did something about it. His conscientious objection was a principled act of disobedience that deserved respect and encouragement rather than derision. The ideals of the Pledge of Allegiance may never completely align with the realities of society, but there’s no reason to why people like Will Phillips shouldn’t strive to narrow the gap.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Pick up any typical women’s magazine, and you’ll find in it one of the usual phrases—“Touch Him There,” “How to Play Dirty (and Like It!),” and, of course, “5,367 new sex positions.” These features can provide some amusing Friday night material over which to giggle with your girlfriends or embarrass your boy/guy friends. But they also serve as a reminder of what our culture still apparently believes is a woman’s place, if not in society, then at least in the bedroom—on the bottom.
Our literature on sex does not reflect any of the striving for gender equality so prevalent in today’s world. In fact, the sexual inequalities it endorses may reflect how deep-seated gender inequality still is. If we’re not even equal in bed, how are we to be equal at school or work?
The disparities are on most obvious display in gendered magazines like Cosmopolitan and Redbook. Look at those magazine headlines again. All those titillating taglines are about making the man feel good: “Find His Sensitive Spots,” “10 Moves He’s Secretly Begging For,” “The Foreplay He Craves.”
Of course, these articles have their undeniable uses. But there are practically no symmetrical “what-she-wants” articles in men’s magazines, or even complementary “what-you-could-want” articles in women’s magazines. A cursory glance at any standard men’s publication such as GQ or Esquire, not to mention Maxim, makes this clear. Anybody expecting to find actual women in the section labeled “Women” will be sorely disappointed; instead, there are usually pictures of bikinis with breasts in them and accompanying articles about how to meet those breasts. And any sections labeled “Sex” will almost always be about how the man can tell the woman how to make him feel good. The ultimate message sent to women is that their desires are at best secondary to their man’s and at worst essentially nonexistent—or at least not important.
Any girl with experience knows these issues matter. Only 29 percent of women report reaching orgasm “every time,” as compared to 75 percent of men. As Hannah Seligson, a current girl-power guru, observes, “The male psychology on women’s orgasms is comparable to their psychology on housework: Men don’t pull their weight on either front because no one makes them.”
Why don’t women make them? There are several possible reasons: One, they’re too afraid. Two, they don’t care. Three, that they don’t know what they want themselves. Women do seem to be at an impasse: We’ve gotten as far as figuring out that we like sex but haven’t yet figured out how to make it fulfilling for ourselves. How could we, when all we read is how to “Give to Him the Orgasm He’s Always Wanted”?
There are those who would have women replacing this steamy bedside material outright with Newsweek or the Economist. One is certainly entitled to one’s own opinion on the issue. Personally, after a long day of dealing with papers, personal drama, and general stress, I feel a strong urge to flop down and read something light and fluffy, like Cosmo’s “Red Hot Reads.” And we all need a few new pointers now and then—just not for his body and desires alone.
If women’s magazines wish to fully cater to their audiences, there needs to be a push not to eliminate the types of articles currently being published, but to include comparable ones for women of the same type, intensity, and depth. To their great credit, a few men’s publications, such as Men’s Health, have just begun to publish some features in this mold. But this is a novelty—and still an unfortunate rarity. Despite the sexual and feminist revolutions, we are still a long way from understanding women’s sexuality with the level of detail in which we understand men’s. And one of the most efficient and effective ways to change this and help bridge our gender gaps would be through our pop literature. It will be a great day when I can walk by a magazine stand and see a Details cover proclaim, “Give Her What She Wants!”
Maya E. Shwayder ’10-’11, a Crimson editorial comper, is a psychology concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I never wake up in time for breakfast. Every morning, I set my alarm for 9:30 a.m., yet I still sleep right through Currier dining hall’s breakfast hours. Despite my own inability to appreciate the first meal of the day, as the Undergraduate Council president, my past six months have been defined by discussions of hot breakfast. When I ran for the position one year ago, I never thought that over half my time on the council would be spent talking about one meal of the day. Since last May, students have been asking me to fight for the return of their scrambled eggs, and the UC has spent a semester discussing a strategy for bringing the bacon back.
In the midst of Harvard’s budget crisis, it seems almost humorous that hot breakfast has gained such prominence on campus. We are in the middle of a national recession, and yet the majority of complaints given to the UC in the past six months have been about the inadequacies of cold cuts and hard-boiled eggs. I have attended countless meetings with administrators discussing student dissatisfaction on this issue, but each conversation comes back to the question of why students care so much. What I finally realized is that hot breakfast symbolizes much more than food. The frustration is indicative of a greater misunderstanding about the budget-cut process—and a greater distrust about what steps have been taken since hot breakfast was removed.
There is no question that students understand that budget cuts are happening, but the last thing we all remember was the day we received an unexpected e-mail announcing the reduction of services in the Quad Library, late-night shuttles, and HUDS breakfast services. In the aftermath of that announcement, there were countless discussions on e-mail lists complaining about the changes. But the overarching theme of each discussion was that students wanted greater transparency and inclusion in the budget cut process and that, for the next round of cuts, something needed to change.
The administration heard the message and brainstormed ways to effectively incorporate student concerns starting in May. When the UC asked Dean Hammonds to create a feedback system modeled off an online Idea Bank at MIT, she immediately found a way to develop a similar site for Harvard. The Idea Bank was created to guide the community discussion on the next round of budget reductions. The website launched in September and allowed all members of the Harvard community to include ideas on how to make Harvard more efficient. Not only could people submit recommendations, but they could also rate the quality of other ideas. So far, submitted ideas have included recommendations such as cutting the salaries of top administrators to downsizing the number of campus events. Some have even suggested the removal of the UC—I gave that idea one star.
The Idea Bank is an important step in the budget-cut process and one that should be further utilized. Dean Smith and Dean Hammonds responded to student complaints and created an online forum that is meant to guide and influence the recommendations of the working groups on Student Life and Education. Eight students serve on these committees, and as one of those representatives, I can testify how seriously the Idea Bank is taken every week in our discussions.
But this outlet is only as effective as students make it. In the past month, submissions have dropped, and we have found ourselves once again without concrete community input in the budget process. Students have asked for transparency and inclusion in the budget-cut process, but even when Dean Hammonds and the working groups ask for input, students have not participated.
This is not to say that students are at fault, for the working groups must also take seriously student concerns that their deliberative process is not transparent. But as students ask for more involvement in the College’s decision-making process, it is hard to argue for greater student input when students do not use the communication avenues already available to them.
As the semester ends, we still have $110 million of budget cuts to make, and hot breakfast is less than one percent of that figure. To bring back hot breakfast, something else will have to go, and students need to ask themselves what they are willing to sacrifice. If any member of the Harvard community is concerned about hot breakfast, House life, or college life in general, then the Idea Bank is the most effective way to have your voice heard.
Admittedly, there are still a number of ways that student input should be increased in College governance, and we have to take advantage to participate when the opportunities are there—such as the Idea Bank and working groups. Let’s stop focusing on scrambled eggs unless we are prepared to sacrifice something else in return.
Andrea R. Flores ’10 is a history concentrator in Currier House. She is the president of the Undergraduate Council.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last Thursday, I attended former New York Governor Eliot Spitzer’s timely and stimulating lecture on banking reform. Spitzer exhibited a thorough understanding of the causes of the recent financial crisis and laid out a convincing case for robust regulation of America’s troubled banking system. Among other things, he concluded that the sheer size of American banks was a major contributor to the financial crisis and continues to present a systemic risk to the economy.
After the talk, I found myself wondering how these banks grew so large in the first place. In 1999, Congress passed the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, allowing retail banks (which accept deposits and issue personal loans), investment banks (which trade securities and manage corporate acquisitions), and insurers to merge. Subsequently, the pace of bank mergers accelerated, creating gigantic one-stop financial shops. When these banks teetered on the brink last year, Congress, fearing that their collapse would cause economic cataclysm, was forced to bail them out.
The Obama administration’s proposed banking reforms include measures that will indirectly restrict the size of banks. Although this represents a step in the right direction, the president’s economic team has no plans to restore the wall between commercial banks, investment banks, and insurers. This means that the administration is overlooking an underlying cause of systemic bank risk.
Retail banks and investment banks have fundamentally different functions and thus different appetites for risk. Retail banks are low-risk ventures; their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Investment banking is more lucrative but involves greater risk. When these two businesses are placed under the same roof, the result is a severe conflict of interest.
This is the case because the investment banking division can use FDIC-insured funds from the retail-banking division to indirectly finance excessive risk-taking. The retail bank’s customers will not transfer their deposits to a safer institution because they know that the FDIC will compensate them in the event of a bank failure. This moral hazard encourages further mergers between retail and investment banks, which in turn begets more institutions that are “too big to fail.” When excess risk gets a conglomerate bank into trouble, the bill goes to—you guessed it—the taxpayers.
Conglomerate banks that are too big to fail are often too big for executives to manage effectively. As Spitzer pointed out last week, most bank CEOs probably did not want to take on ruinous amounts of risk, but the scale of their operations hindered their oversight. Unsurprisingly, these financial behemoths tend to become unwieldy as they attempt to do too much at once. Consider the case of Citigroup, the product of Citibank’s historic 1998 merger with Travelers, an insurance company. The one-time “financial supermarket” was exposed as a bloated, mismanaged basket case by the financial crisis. Today, Citigroup is selling many of its investment and insurance divisions in an effort to reach a more manageable size and return to profitability.
Finally, conglomerate banks are often large enough to stifle competition. Last month, Alan Greenspan argued that institutions deemed “too big to fail” operate under an implicit subsidy from the government, since they would likely be rescued in a future financial emergency. This allows these banks to borrow more cheaply than their competitors and gain even greater market share. Today, four conglomerate banks (JPMorgan, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, and Bank of America) hold 39 percent of all domestic deposits. Placing this many eggs in four baskets will harm the entire economy should one mega-bank falter in a future downturn.
Paul Volcker, the former Fed chairman, and Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, agree that governments should mandate separation between commercial and investment banks. Volcker argues that President Obama’s “regulate the giants” approach is insufficient, since the market changes faster than regulators can keep up with it. Under Volcker’s plan, commercial banks and investment banks would still be free to flourish—just as separate companies.
Reversing Gramm-Leach-Bliley would help prevent future financial crises before they start, improve the efficiency of America’s banks, and protect taxpayers from future bailouts. Instead of being too big to fail, America’s banks ought to be small enough to succeed.
Anthony P. Dedousis ’11 is an economics concentrator in Leverett House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When you think about Harvard’s top rivals, the list is pretty slim. There’s Princeton for women’s soccer, Cornell for men’s hockey, and for everyone, there’s Yale. But for women’s hockey, there is New Hampshire.
The Crimson (3-3-1, 3-3-0 ECAC) and the No. 4 Wildcats (8-1-4, 4-0-1 Hockey East) renewed their rivalry last night at Bright Hockey Center, and the perennial powers battled to a 1-1 tie.
Harvard set the tone with an early goal from junior forward Katharine Chute.
As New Hampshire tried to clear the zone, Chute snatched the puck from a Wildcat defender and found open ice between the circles.
Her shot flew into the top right corner of the net to give the Crimson an early 1-0 lead on its first shot on goal of the night.
“I was forechecking one of the high players and I think one of their D passed the puck up towards the center,” Chute said. “I picked it off and saw the top of the net wide open.”
Chute’s goal shifted the momentum squarely in Harvard’s direction, as the team relied on crisp passing and good defense to hold New Hampshire without a shot on goal for the next 11 minutes.
“Had we played the way we had played in the first for the whole game, we would have definitely won the game,” senior goaltender Christina Kessler said.
But as soon as the first intermission ended, the Wildcats got even.
Opening the period with 48 seconds of penalty kill remaining from junior Courtney Birchard’s first-frame interference, New Hampshire prevented the Crimson from setting up on the power play.
And after forcing Harvard back into its own zone, senior Micaela Long stole the puck and launched a shot on net. Kessler made the first save, but Long put her own rebound under Kessler’s extended leg to tie the score at one just 41 seconds into the second.
“[It was] very disappointing how we started the second period, and we also played the second period watching,” Stone said. “We stood around and spectated quite a bit.”
The Wildcats kept up the pressure throughout the second frame, outshooting the Crimson, 10-6.
Half of those shots came on an early-period power play.
With co-captain Cori Bassett in the box for checking, New Hampshire set up on its nation-leading extra-man unit. Though the Wildcats peppered Kessler with five shots, the netminder held up to the pressure.
“Kessler played well tonight for us,” Stone said. “She was big in some pretty key spots…There was one post in the third period that was a little scary, but we didn’t give them awesome looks on the power play, which was really good.”
The third period proved to be a much more balanced affair.
Harvard came out on top in the shot count, 10-7, and rookie Kaitlin Spurling and senior Anna McDonald each had scoring opportunities, with McDonald hitting the pipe on a breakaway shot.
“We weren’t there on that second tier of attack,” Stone said. “Even though we were generating a lot of the offense, we weren’t there for the rebounds.”
But when junior Leanna Coskren was called for hooking with 1:35 to play in regulation, the Crimson gave New Hampshire a crucial opportunity.
Harvard’s penalty-kill unit stepped up once again, and the game headed into extra time.
“The shots were outside, which helped me a lot,” Kessler said. “I think that we played it perfectly.”
Five additional minutes wasn’t enough time to decide the contest—the Crimson and Wildcats each recorded two shots on net, but couldn’t break through Kessler or New Hampshire goalie Lindsay Minton.
And just as the Wildcats did at the end of regulation, Harvard squandered a key power-play opportunity in the final minutes of overtime.
New Hampshire junior Courtney Sheary spent the last 85 seconds of the game in the box for a hooking infraction, but the Crimson couldn’t muster a shot on goal.
It was yet another disappointment for the Harvard power-play unit, which has scored just two extra-man goals in seven games—good for just 27th in the nation.
“We’re getting better at it, but we’ve still got to have faith in each other that we can move the puck,” Stone said.
For the game, the Crimson outshot the Wildcats, 28-25, but in the end, it was another disappointing result from a close game against a top team.
“They’re a good team, they’re going to be in the hunt down the stretch, and they’re going to knock off some people,” Stone said. “But it’s just unfortunate because it would have been a real good win for us. It’s a decent tie, but it would have been a real good win.”
—Staff writer Kate Leist can be reached at kleist@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ever since I was a little kid, I would drag myself out of bed at 7:30 on Saturday mornings to watch ESPN College Gameday, college football’s only show that broadcasts live in front of a crowd of rowdy college students cheering on their alma mater’s team. I was never one to sacrifice sleep, but come college football season, sleep always took a backseat to the pigskin.
College Gameday was my pregame for all of Saturday’s big showdowns—­­­no football game could be watched without the analysis, behind-the-scene features and predictions from hosts Kirk Herbstreit, Lee Corso, and Chris Fowler, three charismatic guys who really know their football.
But beyond the fight songs, the eye candy (SEC coeds, anyone?) and the X’s and O’s, Gameday introduced me to an aspect of the game that truly got me hooked on college football: rivalry.
In no other sport does rivalry matter more to a team and its fans, where a player’s legacy is defined by his performance against the hated archrival, where a disheartened fan finds his BMW 750 sedan torched on fire by fervent Buckeye fans because the license plate gave away that he was from Michigan.
My entire perception of college was shaped by what I saw on Saturday mornings, and by my junior year in high school, I was determined to attend a school where football mattered as much as academics. Like my dad, who had joined the ranks of the Buckeye faithful after attending Ohio State, I too wanted to become a living piece of a heated football rivalry.
By coming to Harvard, I guess some things just weren’t meant to be.
As a freshman last year, I had no problem accepting the fact that our football team wasn’t exactly loaded with blue-chippers who could run 4.3-second forties. What bothered me, however, wasn’t how we played football, but how we—as a student body—didn’t care very much about the sport. Despite the Crimson’s absolute dominance in the Ivy League in recent years, the fan support just wasn’t there.
Then everything changed that third Saturday of November.
The Game had finally arrived.
With a good enough excuse to lay off the books, unfinished papers and problem sets, we showed up in full force for the first time all season to watch our Crimson athletes fight valiantly against the despicable Elis from that community college down south.
Sure, the game was sloppy and boring to watch at times, the weather was wicked cold and Ivy League football was still, for lack of better words, Ivy League football. But that didn’t matter.
What mattered was that for once, ten thousand men (women, and alumni) of Harvard wanted victory that day. A win would give fair Harvard not only a share of the Ivy League title but another year’s worth of bragging rights over Yale—a prize arguably just as coveted. If only for a weekend, Harvard had the same swagger and gameday atmosphere of schools like USC or Florida.
Looking back, my first Harvard-Yale experience was the defining moment of my freshman year. I came away from it surprised and excited at the same time, because I simply did not expect that type of passionate rivalry to exist in the Ivy League. But as I did more research, I’ve come to realize just how storied of a rivalry Harvard-Yale really is.
For starters, The Game has history.
From Walter Camp, a Yale grad often referred to as the “father of American football”, to the Yale Bowl—the inspiration for the iconic Rose Bowl, Coliseum and Michigan Stadium—Harvard-Yale’s contribution to college football has been significant.
The Game has passion.
It was 1908, and Harvard coach Percy Haughton needed to motivate his players in the locker room. In a move that would have made Woody Hayes look like a saint, Haughton brought in a live bulldog and strangled it to death with his bare hands. The Crimson ended up winning 4-0. Today, many consider Haughton’s actions simply a myth. True or not, however, its legend is a testament to the passion of the rivalry.
Finally, The Game has perhaps the greatest football game ever played.
Led by future NFL running back Calvin Hill and quarterback Brian Dowling (known as “God” in New Haven), the ‘68 Yale squad entered The Game well on its way to extending its 16 game winning streak. But a scrappy Harvard team, down 29-13 with just 42 seconds left in the fourth quarter, would have none of it as it fought back to “defeat” Yale, 29-29.
It’s hard to believe that Harvard and Yale were once the big boys of college football. At the same time, it’s hard to believe that in the most unsuspecting place, I’ve found the perfect rivalry for me.
I still wake up early on Saturdays to watch College Gameday. But this time around, that aura of envy I once had for students who have big-time football teams to cheer for no longer exists in my mind.
With this year’s edition of The Game only two days away, I have my own team to root for now.
—Staff writer Kevin T. Chen can be reached at ktchen@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When an unranked team plays against the No. 4 powerhouse in the nation, it’s assumed that a 1-1 tie would be cause for celebration, or at least locker room smiles. But for the Crimson, the tie with New Hampshire was less than satisfying
“We’re very disappointed,” Harvard coach Katey Stone said. “The kids know they could have won and that’s a good thing, but it’s also a stinky thing.”
Going into play, the Crimson knew it was going up against not only one of the best overall teams in the country, but also the top ranked team on power plays. In comparison, Harvard’s nine-percent success scoring on power plays seemed dismal to the Wildcat’s 34 percent.
“It was something that we knew was one of their strong points and that we needed to come up big on our penalty kills,” senior goaltender Christina Kessler said.
Ranked 19th nationally on the penalty kill, the Crimson showed the result of a seasoned commitment to playing a man down, stopping UNH from scoring on its three power plays.
“We like how we’re killing penalties, and I think the kids are becoming much more eager to block the shot and recognize that it gives our team a ton of energy when they do that,” Stone said.
Short on Time
In the last three games, Harvard has played two into overtime, losing to Princeton 2-1 on Friday before last night’s match-up where the Crimson played the final five minutes against a four-man Wildcat team.
“At least we didn’t lose this one,” Kessler said. “It’s always disappointing to have a power play in overtime and not be able to capitalize on it. That’s something we aren’t necessarily happy with and I think that we had enough scoring chances throughout the game to win it in regulation.”
The last two times Harvard and UNH faced each other on the ice, the games also went into overtime. Dec. 5’s game last year showcased similar features and also ended in a 1-1 tie, while the Wildcats secured a 3-2 win later in the season.
“It’s good experience, however, you want to come up on the high side of those,” Stone said. “We’ll be in, I’m sure, more overtime games because we’re going to be in low-scoring games that are going to come down to the wire all year long.”
But for Stone and the Crimson players , experience, doesn’t  feel the same as a win.
“I don’t like it, I really don’t,” Stone said. “I thought we’d win in overtime. We lost one the other night, we tied one; I’m hoping the next one is a win for us. ”
Stone’s House
For Stone, playing her alma mater each year is nothing more than another game. Unless Harvard wins.
“It’s fun, it’s enjoyable, but it means so much more to me when we win, to be honest with you,” she said. “They’re just another team that we play, and I like to beat everybody.”
A two-time ECAC champ with the Wildcats from 1986-1987, Stone has recreated the same storied environment at Harvard that she experienced during her college days.
“They’re very good, they’ve got a very good program and a long-standing tradition and certainly we feel like we’ve established that here,” she said.
Even with a 322-game winning career with the Crimson, the second-most victorious coach in the division has yet to beat UNH since 2003.
There used to be a day where Harvard never beat UNH, and so now it’s pretty good that it’s a great battle every time we play, and that’s important to me,” Stone said. “I’m just glad we’re doing well, but I wanted us to be better tonight.”
—Staff writer Alex Sopko can be reached at sopko@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sophomore Peter Swiatek and classmate Peter Boehm have left the men’s basketball team for this season.
A 6’7, 240 lb center from Cascia Hall Preparatory School in Tulsa, Okla., Swiatek said that a surgery in March did not successfully treat a patellar injury in his right knee, and that a second surgery would be required—leaving him unable to play this year.
A meeting with Harvard coach Tommy Amaker in May will be held to “reevaluate” his situation for next season, he said.
Swiatek appeared in 12 games as a freshman for the Crimson, making six out of the 11 field goals that he attempted.
“[I’m] just taking some time off,” said Boehm, a 6’6, 200 lb forward out of New Trier High School in Winnetka, Illinois.
He appeared in all 28 games and made 11 starts last year, averaging 24 minutes per contest.
Due to multiple frontcourt injuries, Boehm was often forced to play at the power forward spot, despite being undersized for the position.
Recruited for his shooting ability, Boehm averaged six points and two rebounds per game and led his team with 123 three-point attempts—going 36 percent from behind the arc—and was named Ivy League Rookie of the Week twice last season.
Neither player was expected to compete for significant playing time during this year, due to a healthier frontcourt and a sizable incoming freshman class.
—DENNIS J. ZHENG
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Newly returned from his second tour in Afghanistan, Professor Kevin “Kit” Parker said yesterday that investments in low-tech fighting methods will offer lasting advantages.
In an event at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, the professor of biomedical engineering, who first went to Afghanistan in 2002, described ground conditions in the war and assessed the challenges facing U.S. forces.
He said “fighting in the third world and developing countries is here to stay” and emphasized the importance of information dissemination and communication in waging these wars effectively.
Parker, a major in the 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, said that while advances in armored vehicles have saved lives, the army has, in many ways, “overengineered this battlefield.”
Focusing primarily on non-combative tactics, Parker stressed the importance of securing the populace, training the Afghan army, mentoring local leaders, facilitating legal commerce, and building infrastructure.
“We always try to live with the Afghans,” Parker said at the Maxwell Dworkin Forum.
Parker said he encouraged rural villagers to network, trade, travel, get involved with the government, and join the army.
Referring to the rural regions as “medieval,” Parker emphasized the societal disconnect in many of these communities by telling an anecdote about how some Afghans initially believed that American forces were Soviet soldiers, who invaded the country more than two decades ago.
For soldiers, it’s important to be able to communicate with peoples of seemingly different worlds. Parker said effective battlefield diplomats are those who could walk into a bar and strike up a conversation, rather than cling to the wall.
“Can you make a friend if you have nothing in common?” Parker asked rhetorically, talking about the skills necessary to make a difference in Afghanistan.
In conclusion, Parker reflected on the changes he observed between his tours of duty, noting the limited gains made in the country. “We are still waiting for a leader class in Afghanistan,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A handful of students discussed human psychology and neurobiology with professors yesterday at the Harvard Society for Mind, Brain and Behavior’s biweekly “CommuniTea” event in Emerson Hall.
“This is basically a get-together to allow students who are interested in the MBB track to interact with professors who are already in the MBB department or to get to know more about what MBB is and basically to interact with other people interested in the same things,” said Yingna Liu ’12, who is concentrating in neurobiology and was one of the event’s organizers.
“It’s a very casual setting,” she said. “People can come, eat cookies if they want, drink some tea, and then just socialize with each other, talk about science and anything else that’s interesting.”
With chocolate chip cookies, raspberry tea, and tables to lean against, the setting encouraged open discussion, questions, and humor. The feel was intimate yet friendly, with opportunity for one-on-one conversations with some of the top professors in the study of the brain.
The professors who joined the discussion were Daniel Gilbert and Felix Warneken from the psychology department and John Dowling ’57 from the molecular cellular biology department.
Students interested in studying the brain and its behaviors were able to talk over tea with the professors about their respective fields of study, research, and opportunities for future learning.
Gilbert discussed his study of the human tendency to make mistakes and fail at predicting the future accurately.
Warneken talked about behavioral studies in infants and chimps and their inherent altruistic inclinations. And Dowling described his neurobiological research of visual systems and the retina.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Even the most frugal of Harvard students can read e-mail and check Facebook while waiting to depart from Boston Logan Airport this holiday season, thanks to Google’s free WiFi at 47 airports across the nation and on all Virgin America flights from now until Jan. 15.
The marketing campaign comes with no strings attached, said the head of the Google project, Jeffrey Aguero ’06. He said Google initiated the project in collaboration with airports and Internet providers. “It’s been a tough economic year and we wanted to show a token of appreciation to our users,” he said.
Ankur Agrawal ’11 happily took advantage of the free WiFi this past weekend. He said it was easy to connect but he was not impressed by the speed.
“It wasn’t fast, but it was fast enough to be able to check my e-mail without too much trouble,” he said.
Like Agrawal, Nora Ali ’11 admitted that she only uses WiFi at the airport when it is free.
“It makes sense to [offer free WiFi] over the holidays because that’s when most people travel,” said Ali, a frequent traveler. However, she said she “would prefer it all year long”.
Google has no plan to extend free WiFi throughout the year, Aguero said.
Though Vivek R. Sant ’10 is appreciative of free wireless at airports, he said he is slightly suspicious of Google’s motives. “It is hard to believe that they are doing this just because they have these high principles of giving free WiFi to everyone,” said Sant, the business manager of the Harvard Computer Society.
At sign-in, users of the free wireless are invited to download various Google products such as Google Chrome or Google Toolbar. Furthermore, users are encouraged to give to Google-supported charities including Engineers Without Borders and Climate Savers Computing Initiative.
Users won’t be bombarded with external advertisements to pay for the project, Aguero said. He declined to disclose the program’s cost.
But Sant believes the free WiFi  will benefit Google because it will increase use of popular Google applications. “Google is branching out into every Internet application,” Sant said. “More people who have access to the Internet are inherently going to use Google more.”
The extent of Google’s influence on everyday Harvard college life does not surprise some students.
“Google is known for being an innovative company,” Ali said. “It would only make sense that Google will be providing free Internet at airports.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was “the worst case of police brutality” in Boston history—and the victim was himself a Boston cop.
Author Dick Lehr told the story of Officer Michael Cox during a forum last night at the Harvard Kennedy School to illustrate a “code of silence” that he and other speakers said is an “informal culture” among police officers around the world.
One night in 1995, Cox was mistaken for a gang member and severely beaten by fellow officers, recounted Lehr, also a Boston University journalism professor.
Afterward, several police officers lied in reports and Cox’s severe injuries were explained as a “slip on the ice,” so that the police officers who beat him received minimal punishment, said Lehr, who wrote about the case in his book, “The Fence: A Police Cover-up Along Boston’s Racial Divide.”
By refusing to reveal the wrongdoing of their fellow officers, police endanger the credibility and honesty of their departments, concluded members of the panel.
Malcolm Sparrow, a Kennedy School professor, drew both from academia and his experiences as a former detective chief inspector of the British Police Service, saying he was asked to lie in a police report just three months after joining the force. “You get the impression that their integrity is at zero,” he said of many police agencies.
Ronald Davis, the chief of police in East Palo Alto, Calif., and former captain of the Oakland Police Department, said the “code of silence is not a sinister plot—that’s what makes it so dangerous.” He said officers fear that telling the truth about colleagues’ misdeeds will harm their careers, and he tries to encourage openness. “Police solidarity,” he said, comes from a “we versus them mentality”, which he agreed leads to a “distorted view of justice.”
The seats of Bell Hall were packed and some of the roughly 70 people who attended stood along the walls or sat on the floor. The audience included students, but also Cambridge residents, a member of the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, and a Boston police officer, in uniform.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Uninsured trauma victims were nearly twice as likely to die from injuries in a hospital than insured patients, according to a study conducted by Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.
Dr. Selwyn O. Rogers Jr. ’87, a professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School, said he did not expect to find the disparity.
“Our initial hypothesis was that because trauma is not something that people plan for, there would be no death disparity between those who were insured and uninsured,” he said. “So we were surprised to find that lack of insurance affected mortality.”
Researchers analyzed patients of similar age, race, sex, and injury severity treated in trauma centers nationwide from 2002 to 2006.
The mortality rate of uninsured victims was found to be 80 percent higher than the rate for insured individuals, though the authors said there was no evidence of conscious bias by doctors.
Ellen R. Meara, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School who was not involved in the research, suggested there could be several explanations for the disparity.
“There could be structural differences that are at work here: the uninsured could go to different medical facilities or wait to seek medical care,” Meara said. “Doctors may order similar procedures, but make it more difficult for an uninsured patient to receive them. There are still factors worth exploring, but we continue to see evidence that the uninsured are receiving different care, less care.”
The Harvard researchers pointed to a 2007 study at the University of Rochester demonstrating that uninsured patients were less likely to receive consultations with doctors and tended to have shorter stays than insured patients.
Uninsured patients may also be less apt to tell physicians their health concerns or to be accompanied by family members who can help communicate with the medical team.
Robert Blendon, professor of health policy and political analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health, said the research findings have implications for health care reform in the United States.
“The body of studies suggest that if you insured much of the 37 million Americans without health insurance, lives would be saved and a great deal of suffering would be avoided because people would receive a quality of care that is difficult to get in the medical community now,” Blendon said.
“This study adds to a broader picture of the differences in what happens to the uninsured.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTIONS APPENDED
Teachers should emphasize critical thinking among their students as education moves increasingly online, a four-person panel said yesterday at Lowell Lecture Hall.
“We are facing a new world in which we need guidance,” said panelist Robert Darnton ’60, a history professor and director of the Harvard University Library. “I believe a lot of the guidance will come not from search mechanisms, though they are terrific, but from human beings called teachers.”
The panel, part of a celebration of the Extension School’s centennial, touched on the future of the printed book, the pros and cons of multitasking, and the role of educators in the modern age.
In addition to Darnton, the panelists were Craig D. Silverstein ’94, Google’s director of technology; David Weinberger, a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society; Sherry Turkle ’69, an MIT professor of social studies and technology. Harry R. Lewis ’68, a professor of computer science, moderated the discussion.
“Books give us the sense that knowledge is masterable,” Weinberger said. “Links are a new type of punctuation that, instead of telling you where to stop, tell us to continue.”
Not all in attendance were persuaded of the virtues of links and multitasking.
“I was struck by the celebration of links as a way of expanding knowledge,” said Christopher Queen, a religion professor who just stepped down as the Extension School’s dean of students. “To me, the definition of a critical thinker is one who can decline to link an existing problem to every possible source, who can focus in and look deeper.”
Darnton stressed that information overload is nothing new but said he is worried about a corporation like Google monopolizing information rather than democratizing knowledge.
Silverstein declined to respond to concerns about Google’s future, instead emphasizing the need for comprehensive computer education on the “common-sense” level.
The panelists also discussed the implications of texting and surfing the Web during lectures.
“When I was in school, there was such a thing as a beautifully crafted lecture, but now we lecture to a hierarchy of back channels,” Turkle said.
Lewis teasingly noted that he had never seen Weinberger at a meeting without an open laptop.
Weinberg defended the practice as a “social good” because he uses his laptop to discuss events as they’re going on.
Turkle also warned the panelists and audience to question simulations of reality made possible by computer programming.
“Simulation wants—and it demands—immersion,” she said. “But there will always be something in the social real that will not be represented by our simulation.”
CORRECTIONS
An earlier version of the Nov.19 news article "Panel Discusses Online Education" incorrectly referred to Berkman Center fellow David Weinberger by the last name Weinberg.
In addition, the version also misquoted Computer Science Professor Harry R. Lewis ’68 as saying that he had never seen Weinberger at a faculty meeting without an open laptop. In fact, Lewis simply said meeting, not faculty meeting, which Weinberger would not attend as he does not hold a faculty position.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean Michael D. Smith said he will shrink the number of professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, ending a decade-long expansion in order to offset the school’s $110 million deficit.
In an interview, Smith said FAS would achieve the cuts by leaving vacancies unfilled and offering early-retirement packages to professors. He said the scale of the reduction hasn’t been determined.
FAS is currently looking to fill 31 faculty positions and will continue to make new hires—but not “at the rate that would maintain the size of our faculty,” Smith said. There are now 720 associate professors and professors in FAS, an increase of 20 percent since 2000.
The Faculty even grew during last year’s hiring freeze, though Smith said the increase was a result of employment offers that predated the school’s financial troubles.
Smith said that he and other administrators are still working out the details of the faculty retirement package. Among the issues that need to be resolved are which Faculty members will be offered packages and how to encourage retirement without making the offer too generous.
Tenure and Harvard’s lack of a mandatory retirement age will also complicate the process.
“There are some people who would say that they are highly effective teachers at the age of 70, and there are people who are never going to be highly effective teachers or producers,” said Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds. “So age doesn’t get you too far. It’s too blunt an instrument.”
Last year, the University offered an early-retirement package for staff members aged 55 or older who had worked at Harvard for at least 10 years. Bill Jaeger, director of the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers, called the staff buyouts effective and said trimming the ranks of professors “might be even more important” for cutting costs.
“A voluntary program with the faculty could be a good way to avoid other types of cuts that could be more traumatic and more harmful,” Jaeger said.
Administrators first floated the possibility of retirement packages for professors in April. The Harvard faculty has grown slowly older since American universities were barred from implementing mandatory retirement ages in 1994. Previously, universities could force professors to retire at age 70.
Smith said that not all departments will be equally affected by the reductions. In particular, student-faculty ratios will serve as “one of the inputs” in determining which faculty searches to pursue, he said.
Some departments are plagued with high student-faculty ratios that result in large class sizes and little interaction between students and professors. The economics department, for example, was forced to cut its junior seminars last year because it did not have enough faculty members to teach the courses.
Smith said that he is currently in talks with the department about ways to bring back the seminars, whose cancellation students protested last spring.
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dozens of students rallied yesterday in front of the Harvard T station to protest the Stupak amendment, which would prohibit coverage of abortions by publicly funded health-insurance plans.
Students from the College, Kennedy School, and Law School held signs, chanted, and brandished coat hangers to warn of dangerous alternatives that women might be forced to pursue under the law, which the House passed on Nov. 7. The Senate is still considering its version of health-care reform.
The group, Students Stop Stupak, hopes to attract the attention of senators through the media.
“We’re young people. We’re going to be their constituents for a long time,” said Leah Reis-Dennis ’13, political chair of Harvard Students for Choice. “Basically, we’re going to force them to listen to us.”
Signs at the rally displayed slogans such as “Abortion is not a class-based right” and “Call your senator to oppose Stupak.” The protesters also handed out flyers that read, “Legal restrictions do not stop abortions from happening, they just make abortions dangerous.”
The group emerged from a meeting last Friday among members of Students for Choice and two IOP fellows, Kim Gandy and Gina Glantz, who are leaders in the abortion-rights movement.
Before the meeting was over, the attendees had formed Students Stop Stupak and created a Google group. Over the weekend, they set up studentsstopstupak.org and launched a Twitter account.  Yesterday was their first rally.
“It’s pretty amazing that [Leah] was able to go from angry about an issue to taking action about an issue in about one week’s time,” said Peter J. Witzler, a Kennedy School student. “She convened a meeting and it spread like wildfire from there.”
The protesters were pleased with the rally’s effect on bystanders, some of whom joined in the chants and took turns holding the posters.
“The response from passers-by has been tremendous,” said Gandy, who was president of the National Organization of Women from 2001 until this year. “We ran out of flyers in 20 minutes.”
“It’s fantastic,” Gandy added. “Anybody who was wondering if students still go from angry about an issue to taking action, this should put an end to their speculation.”
Before the protest, a blog post by Reis-Dennis was published on The Huffington Post, a liberal news website.
“Watch out, America’s politicians,” she wrote, “students are back on the streets.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Student satisfaction with all aspects of the dining services dropped this year, according to a survey released yesterday.
Harvard University Dining Services attributed the results to the reduction in hot breakfast service.
The biannual survey of undergraduates showed a fall in overall satisfaction from 3.85 to 3.72 on a five-point scale, as well as decreasing scores in all 15 other categories ranging from the taste of the food to the cleanliness of facilities.
Taste remains students’ top priority, and the favorite dish among undergraduates is chicken parmesan.
The least favorite dish, pad thai, will be temporarily discontinued and reworked to improve taste.
Among the requested foods that will appear more often on the menu are steak, Indian food, potstickers, and fish. Herb-baked salmon will be served for lunch tomorrow, and those not going to Yale this Saturday will have curry and naan for dinner instead of the sticky rice bar.
Sushi, which was among the top five requested items, will not find itself in dining halls because of cost issues, said HUDS spokeswoman Crista Martin.
Martin said that she believes part of the reduction in satisfaction can be explained by a negative “overall feelings” regarding breakfast.
“I suspect that it has a great deal to do with the change in service, the change particularly in breakfast service,” Martin said.
Several students offered similar explanations.
“I’ve heard from many people that I know that they don’t go to breakfast anymore,” said Lauren B. Hawkins ’11.
“I would say that’s the main issue. I play football so I know a lot of the guys need protein in the mornings,” said Andrew D. Hatch ’09-’11.
But only 4 percent of respondents complained about the elimination of weekday hot breakfast in the Houses, according to a blog post by Ted A. Mayer, the executive director of Harvard’s dining services.
When asked about the decrease in HUDS survey scores, students said that they did not notice a difference in food service or quality.
“I don’t think there’s a difference. I don’t think quality or service has at all really changed,” Hawkins said.
“I personally haven’t noticed a significant difference,” said Sarah Berhanu ’10-’12.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The two insider Undergraduate Council presidential candidates disagree on whether all Harvard undergraduates should have access to gender-neutral housing.
Currently, only students with a “gender-based need,” primarily transgender or transitioning students, are guaranteed gender-neutral housing, which allows students of any gender to share a suite.
A UC position paper holds that all students over the age of 18 living in a House should be allowed to lottery for mixed-gender housing regardless of their gender identity or perceived need. UC presidential candidate George J.J. Hayward ’11 has endorsed the recommendations.
The paper, written by UC representatives Daniel V. Kroop ’10 and Michelle E. Crentsil­­ ’10, will eventually be put before the Council for a vote.
“Everyone should have the right to gender-neutral housing,” Hayward said in an interview yesterday.
But the other major UC presidential candidate, John F. Bowman ’11, said that gender-neutral housing only needs to be given to those with a gender-based need.
“If you have no gender-based need... I don’t think it’s Harvard’s obligation to provide you housing,” Bowman said. “I would say that has not arisen as a major need of Harvard students, and therefore it’s not something I would push for.”
Expanding the policy could jeopardize access to gender-neutral housing for those who need it the most, said Joshua McIntosh, associate dean for student life at the College.
“There are students who want gender-neutral housing and there are students who need gender-neutral housing,” McIntosh said.
Because the policy is restricted, the “handful” of self-identifying transgender students have all had their requests met despite the limited number of gender neutral suites in some Neo-Georgian houses, McIntosh said.
Harvard College Queer Students and Allies board members Marco Chan ’11 and Jia Hui Lee ’12 echoed McIntosh’s concern.
“Due to the limited number of suites available, I don’t think it’s a good thing to expand the policy as it is,” Lee said.
As the policy currently stands, those who are neither transgender nor gender questioning can still ask for mixed-gender housing, but their requests are not necessarily accommodated and differ by House.
“We want to make it more of a University-wide policy, so there’s some degree of standardization in it so it’s not going to rely on how conservative a House master is,” Hayward said.
Supporters of an expanded gender-neutral housing policy, including Hayward and Kroop, believe students with a gender-based need should still be given priority. According to the paper, they would be guaranteed a gender-neutral suite without participating in the housing lottery.
The position paper suggests creating more gender-neutral housing by installing locks in gender-accommodating suites. Hayward quoted a draft of the position paper, which is being developed in consultation with the QSA and the Transgender Task Force, in his response to a publicly available QSA questionnaire for UC presidential candidates.
But not all suites would meet the College’s standards for gender neutral rooms, McIntosh said. For example, locks cannot be installed on walkthrough bedrooms or in rooms that have the only fire exit.
After Harvard undertakes its House renewal project, slated to begin in 2012, there may be more suites that could hold gender-neutral rooming groups.
The Report on Harvard House Renewal released in April suggests that Harvard housing should get “as close as possible to making all suites gender neutral.”
—Staff writer Danielle J. Kolin can be reached at dkolin@fas.harvard.edu
—Staff writer Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A commitment to defying political convention and reaching voters in new ways were key to President Barack Obama’s victory last year, the president’s campaign manager David Plouffe told an audience at First Parish Church last night.
Plouffe, who has also helped to elect mayors, governors, and representatives across the country, was promoting his book, “The Audacity to Win,” as part of a speaker series presented by the Harvard Book Store.
The book provides an inside story of the campaign and lessons from the election from Plouffe’s perspective.
The  campaign staff originally thought third place was the best it could hope for in the Democratic primaries, Plouffe said.
Nevertheless, he said, Obama’s team remained focused on its message and electoral strategy.
“Forty-seven percent of America disagreed with us but we had to win,” said Plouffe. “Every candidate has the responsibility to run a campaign to win.”
Plouffe also stressed the campaign’s new approach to reaching out to voters by deviating from conventional means and remaining receptive to new strategies, such as analyzing demographic data to best reach swing voters.
“We didn’t have a dusty playbook on the shelf about how we or how anyone should run a campaign,” Plouffe said. “We probably won’t be using the same one four years from now either.”
Throughout the book and last night’s presentation, Plouffe addressed what he said were four fundamental threads to Obama’s election: belief in the campaign’s ability to defy political convention, refusal to judge success by the news and politics of the moments, the power of the grassroots campaign, and Obama’s performance as a whole.
“We had a belief in a long-term strategy of not being buffeted by the winds of the moment,” Plouffe said.
Daniel A. Habtemariam, a Newton resident who worked on the campaign, was not fully satisfied with Plouffe’s presentation.
“He spoke really well but he’s not as nuanced and professorial as President Obama,” Habtemariam said.
“Many of his answers were hamhocked and media-based instead of the data-based answers I was expecting,” he said.
Tessa L. Simonds of North Hampton was more positive.
“It’s a campaign that we are all still trying to evaluate and be inspired by. It was engaging to hear David Plouffe speak on it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Family man. Self-starter. Entrepreneur. Winner.
Meet Derrick Barker, senior cornerback for the Harvard Crimson.
“Derrick is the leader of the family,” his sister Dalicia says. “Everyone in our family looks up to Derrick. My uncles and aunts still come to him and ask him for advice to raise their own children.”
The preseason All-American learned to be independent at a young age. The son of a military pilot, Barker was constantly changing towns and schools as a child, including a stretch in Spain from third to fifth grade. Growing up in changing environments, his closest relationships were not with kindergarten friends but with his sisters Dalicia and Danielle.
“We’re each other’s best friends,” Dalicia says. “A lot of things we’ve been through together have made us closer, made us stronger.”
The siblings encountered adversity early, as their mother died of cancer when Derrick was four years old. Their closeness would help them deal with not only the stresses of moving but also with their father’s required absences.
“He’d have to go for extended time [in Spain],” Derrick says. “Every time he’d leave, it seemed like me and my sister would get sick.”
But despite his busy work schedule, Derrick Sr. had a strong influence on his children, especially through athletics. All the Barker children were strong athletes. In her sophomore year of high school, Dalicia was MVP of her cross country team, rookie of the year in track, and captain of the basketball team. Now a sophomore at Spelman College, she is captain of the Majorettes. Danielle was a strong gymnast before switching courses and joining the Majorettes. Derrick, the only boy in the family, followed in his father’s footsteps and took up football at the age of four.
“I don’t remember a time without football,” he says. “It’s a part of my identity... Even when I was in elementary school, there was never a time when I was like, ‘Hmmm, maybe I won’t play football in college.’”
Since arriving at Harvard, Barker has thrived on the gridiron. As a sophomore he led the Crimson in special teams tackles, as a junior he started every game, and this season, heading into the weekend, he ranks second on the team in pass breakups. Barker has also recorded an interception in all four seasons of his collegiate career.
Although successful on the football field, Barker has been anything but one-dimensional. He was undefeated for three years in wrestling before an injury forced him to forfeit the national championships during his post-graduate year at Avon Old Farms. He also experimented in track, basketball, and baseball. Ironically, it was fear of contact that turned Barker away from baseball.
“I got hit by a ball a few times, and you know seven-year-old Derrick just didn’t want to be out there,” he says. “In football, I felt like, ‘I’m faster than all the people trying to get me.’ [In] baseball the ball is faster than me, it is trying to get me, and I’m just like, ‘No. You’re telling me I have to stand in this little box with this guy throwing a ball at me? No.’”
Aside from his aversion to the baseball diamond, Barker has always enjoyed anything that involves competition.
“I like winning a lot,” Barker says. “I will play something I don’t like playing just because I want to win. We had NBA Live when I was little. I did not like that game, but just because I like winning, if someone’s playing and they beat somebody and they start talking trash, I’m like, ‘Know what, I’m going to play just so I can win.’”
That competitive intensity makes him a natural fit for business. The cornerback will be working in trading next year for Goldman Sachs.
“You go against the market, and every day you know the score,” he says. “Every day you win or lose. So hopefully I’ll get the same type of feelings and the same type of rush.”
Barker hopes his ventures into business will eventually lead him to starting his own company.
“He has the drive,” Derrick Sr. says. “[He has] the motivation to follow through, not just to come up with an idea and shrivel and let it die, but the motivation to follow through, [to] make the idea become a reality.”
The younger Derrick has always turned his ideas into reality. At Westlake High School in Atlanta, Barker founded a robotics club—even coaching a middle school robotics team—and started a financial literacy club. At Harvard, he founded the Veritas Financial Group and Veritas Enterprises.
“I just like starting organizations,” he says. “I like running stuff. That stuff excites me. I like getting people together, getting things done, managing and running organizations.”
Barker hopes to be equally innovative in the social sector, particularly in education.
“I feel that I am cheating myself and cheating other people if I have this knowledge...and I don’t try to do something about it,” he says. “I will be involved.”
At Westlake, he coached the middle school robotics team through state competitions where they placed as high as second. During his stay at Harvard, Barker has volunteered at an after-school program in Roxbury through the David Walker Scholarship Program. Staying involved in low-income schools is a top priority for him.
“He’s a positive, spirited person,” Dalicia says. “He makes everyone happy, everything better. In society today, that’s what children need.”
Derrick Barker is already many things, and the future holds much more in store for him. He’s met every challenge and grown stronger. Tomorrow the senior faces yet another hurdle—The Game—and, if history gives any indication, one shouldn’t bet against him.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A heartbroken Harvard football team (6-3, 5-1 Ivy) will seek to release its frustrations from last weekend’s loss to Penn against Yale (4-5, 2-4) in the 126th edition of The Game in New Haven, Conn. this afternoon.
Coming off a loss that takes its Ivy League title hopes out of its hands, the Crimson and busloads of supporters will head to the Yale Bowl looking to end the season on a positive note.
“There’s a tremendous amount of pride on the line, there’s a tremendous amount of history and tradition,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy says. “For all those reasons, it’s probably the best thing that could happen to us after the loss to Penn. So we’re excited to play again. It’s tremendously important for our team, our program, and our university.”
The Crimson was undefeated in league play throughout the 2009 campaign until its matchup against the Quakers (7-2, 6-0) last Saturday. Harvard had aspirations for its third-consecutive Ivy League title, but it was denied after junior quarterback Collier Winters failed to cover the couple of inches necessary to reach the endzone late in the fourth quarter.
Bad weather played a part in the sloppy play, but the sun will shine on the Yale Bowl today when the two oldest Ivy League teams face off. The Crimson will hope for sunnier skies, as the team waits to hear the result from the Penn-Cornell game. As unlikely as a Quaker loss is, combined with a Harvard win it would give the Crimson at least a share of the Ivy title for the third year in a row.
The season also boiled down to The Game last year, when Harvard beat Yale, 10-0, to share the title with Brown.
On the other side, the Bulldogs are coming into the matchup with the intention of ending a two-game losing streak. It’s been a rough season for Yale, which began its conference campaign with a loss to the Big Red—the only Ivy win for last-place Cornell—but claimed a pair of league victories against Dartmouth and Columbia. But after suffering its latest losses to Brown and Princeton, the Bulldogs are now tied for fourth place with the Lions, Tigers, and Big Green. A win over Harvard would redeem a somewhat disappointing campaign after three consecutive winning seasons, including a 9-1 showing in 2007.
“Their team is better than the record reflects,” Crimson captain Carl Ehrlich says. “They’ve had a bunch of tough losses and they have a lot of talent. You know they’re going to come out with all they’ve got in a game like this, so we have to be ready.”
It will be a tough job for the Bulldogs, since the Crimson is coming into The Game boasting the second-best defense in the league and leading in scoring and rushing offense. Harvard’s balance stands in stark contrast to Yale’s ineffective offense—which ranks sixth in the league—and a defense that is second in points allowed.
Last year’s contest at Harvard Stadium saw the Crimson come out victorious after the Harvard defense and intense winds kept Yale scoreless. Junior Gino Gordon did the brunt of the work for the Crimson, carrying the pigskin for 168 yards and a touchdown on 39 attempts. A fumble recovery by Ehrlich with two minutes left in the game sealed the deal for Harvard, marking the team’s seventh win in the past eight years against the Bulldogs. The loss signaled the end to former Eli head coach Jack Siedlecki’s tenure and the start of a new era under sophomore quarterback Patrick Witt and head coach Tom Williams.
Witt, a Nebraska transfer, has grown into the starting role, throwing for 1,259 yards and eight touchdowns in shared time with junior Brook Hart, last year’s starter. While Hart briefly regained the top job at midseason, Witt has reclaimed the role and threw for 290 yards and a touchdown in last week’s loss to Princeton.
The Crimson will have to stop a resurgent Witt to pick up its eighth win in the last nine years and third straight in the rivalry.
“It’s an unbelievable experience, and nobody’s going to be thinking about losing to Penn,” senior linebacker Sean Hayes says. “Everyone, especially the seniors on the team, will be going out one last time on the field. So the game [last Saturday] is a tough pill to swallow, no doubt. But all eyes on Yale now.”
—Staff writer Brian Campos can be reached at bcampos@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last November, on a cold Saturday afternoon, a Harvard linebacker stepped up big. With the score 10-0 and less than four minutes remaining in The Game, Yale was threatening on the two-yard line. That is, until Eric Schultz ’09 burst through the line of scrimmage and laid a fumble-forcing sack on Bulldog quarterback Brook Hart, sealing a second straight Ivy title for the Crimson.
With Schultz and classmate Glenn Dorris ’09 getting all the attention—and much of the playing time—on last year’s linebacking corps, many of the then-junior linebackers spent the majority of the season on the sidelines. Only two of those juniors, Conor Murphy and Sean Hayes, recorded a tackle in last year’s game.
“You come in, you’ve just got to change your mentality,” senior Jon Takamura says. “Playing behind Schultz and Dorris...you have to find ways to contribute to the team any way you can. So I sort of thought, you know, I’m at least going to push those guys, try to make myself better.”
But this fall, the seniors’ turn finally arrived, and the class of 2010—Takamura, Murphy, Hayes, Nick Hasselberg, and J.B. Monu—has seized the opportunity.
“I waited three years to be able to play, and it’s hard because you have to keep the big picture in mind,” says Hasselberg, who has started every game this season after appearing in just one contest a year ago. “But when you get your chance—like I have this year—you take it, and you take it in stride, and you do the best you can. And it’s worth the wait.”
Despite losing two of the Ivy League’s best run stoppers, the Harvard defense hasn’t missed a beat, as the quintet of linebackers has stepped up to seamlessly fill the holes.
“The thing that really distinguishes us is that it’s a bunch of kind of no-name guys, and there’s always a little pride taken in that,” says Murphy, who started alongside Schultz and Dorris last season. “Nobody really knows [our] names—everybody’s always following Collin Zych and Carl Ehrlich. But it’s this group of guys that really holds the defense together, making calls, making plays, making tackles.”
Though Murphy has continued to be an important contributor, with 27 tackles and a team-leading five quarterback hurries in eight games, it’s a pair of breakout players—Hayes and Takamura—that has accumulated the most impressive stat lines.
Hayes’ emergence as one of the team’s top linebackers has been a long time coming. He started the first two games of his sophomore season before injuries caused him to take a redshirt season as a junior and see a decrease in action during his first senior season. Now back for his fifth year, Hayes is second on the team with 42 tackles and has started every contest for the Crimson.
“It’s tough at first, because it’s like, ‘Man, what happened?’” Hayes explains. “I was in here, I was the guy, and now I’ve got to sit behind and kind of take a back seat...We know that we’re players, good players, and we never really felt like we were not good enough or anything like that. We knew that this was going to be our year to shine, and I think that up to this point, we’ve moved up and done a real good job.”
Takamura has only started two games this season, but has exhibited a penchant for making big plays when it counts. He’s third on the team with 38 tackles, leads the team with four sacks, and scored Harvard’s only defensive touchdown of the season—a 60-yard interception return at Lehigh in Week 3.
Though the teammates joke about Takamura’s statistical success—“He steals sacks from Hayes,” Hasselberg jests—the Hawaiian is quick to share the credit.
“I would say that a lot of the success that I’ve had is because of the guys around me,” Takamura says. “A lot of the plays I’ve made is because of someone else sacrificing, Hayes or Hass.”
Rounding out the quintet is Monu, whose modest stat line—10 tackles and two QB hurries in nine appearances—is a victory in itself for a player who had never played linebacker when he arrived on campus.
“I never thought I was actually going to see the field at linebacker because I’d never done it in high school,” Monu admits. “I was learning, I was getting better, but I didn’t know I was ever going to be at that point...I said, ‘Well, if I’m never going to see the field at linebacker, well, I’m going to make sure I’m on special teams. That’s what I’m going to do, because I came here to play football.’”
Now, as the five linebackers prepare for their final game together, they know that they won’t be watching the action with the game on the line—they’ll be the ones expected to make that red-zone stop.
“It’s been so great to learn from Hayes, and to see Conor and Tak succeed early in their careers, and to see J.B. finally get his shot and just kill it once he’s been in,” Hasselberg says. “It’s something really special, and I admire these guys in so many ways...Yale’s our last opportunity to play together, and I really believe that it’s going to be a great one.”
—Staff writer Kate Leist can be reached at kleist@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They are the “heart and soul” of the team, according to Harvard coach Tim Murphy. They are the main reason why Harvard leads the Ivy League in both scoring and rushing offense. But you’ll never see them in the box scores and rarely see them mentioned in the headlines. They are the senior offensive linemen—John Paris, Ben Sessions, Alex Spisak, and James Williams—and each is happy to play the role of the unsung hero.
“I’ve never been a guy that wants to be in the limelight,” says Spisak, who made the switch from backup defensive lineman to starting offensive lineman last year. “The running backs know it’s up to you, the quarterback knows you need to do it, but the fans don’t. And that’s fine. We go to work every day, put in the extra time, watch the extra film, and nobody really knows that. When it boils down to it, we don’t need the glory.”
That’s because at the end of the day, the numbers do the talking. Behind the blocking of the offensive line, running backs junior Gino Gordon and freshman Treavor Scales have rushed for 547 and 449 yards, respectively. Senior running back Cheng Ho, who averaged 6.3 yards per carry before suffering a career-ending injury two weeks ago, never lost yardage on a rush. And, just as importantly, this senior group gives its quarterback plenty of time to find his receivers.
“Being able to let Collier sit back there and make all the throws—let Gino, or Treavor, or Cheng, or any of those guys in the backfield score touchdowns—it gets the O-line pumped up,” Paris says.
But things were not always so comfortable for the offense. Going into the 2009 campaign, few experts predicted that the Crimson would evolve into such an offensive force, especially having lost former quarterback Chris Pizzotti ’08-’09.
“Being 6’5, 6’6, Pizzotti had no problems seeing over the line,” Spisak says. “It was very easy for him to just sit back in the pocket and see downfield for throws.”
So when Coach Murphy tapped junior Collier Winters to be this year’s signal caller, the move provided a completely different look in the backfield.
“[Winters is] much more athletic than Pizzotti was,” Spisak says. “He’s much more like Liam [O’Hagan ’08-’09] used to be, where he can get out and make people miss and move with his feet. So we’ve been able to put in a lot more bootlegs, a lot more sprint out moving pockets to get him out, where he doesn’t have to get between the linemen.”
It didn’t take long for the experienced line to adjust accordingly. With his supporting front, Winters completed 137 of 246 passes and threw for 13 touchdowns—second best among Ancient Eight QBs—in his first year as a starter. Given the amount of time the scrambler and his offensive line could buy, Winters only tossed seven interceptions, fewest among Ivy League starters.
For the four linemen, their familiarity with each other played a large role in their rapid adjustment to the new system.
“Those guys have also given us great commitment, great leadership, and there’s a tremendous camaraderie in the group from having come up through the ranks together to be a unit for a couple years now,” Murphy says. “It’s just a very close group. It’s probably the toughest unit to replace next year for a lot of different reasons.”
But before Murphy can begin thinking about next year, there is still The Game to consider.
“I think going down to Yale, hopefully beating up on Yale a little bit, will be a pretty good way to call it a career, hang up the cleats,” Spisak says.
—Staff writer Dixon McPhillips can be reached at fmcphill@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
You never know what you have until it’s gone.
For senior wide receiver Mike Cook, these words reflect an injury-riddled junior football season.
But at last, in his penultimate season, Cook seems to be hitting his stride and making the most of the time he has left. Before he could truly excel on the field, though, the Harvard standout had to endure a number of setbacks.
Cook’s biggest challenge came last year during preseason when he tore his pectoral muscle.
“It was a really tough break when he blew out his pec,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy says. “He knew that was a six-month rehab, significant surgery. But he’s one of those kids that’s very committed.”
Although he missed the entire season due to the long recovery, Cook continued to attend practices in support of his team. Still, watching his teammates on the field only intensified his desire to get back on the gridiron.
“It was exciting to see everyone play and win, but it definitely took the wind out of my sail not being able to play,” he says.
And despite the grueling recovery, Cook never accepted his absence from the field as an excuse to let his responsibility to his teammates fall by the wayside.
Confined to a sling, Cook spent his rehab  working with a physical therapist to maintain his fitness during a medical redshirt that will allow him to be eligible to play again for Harvard next year.
Since his return to the field, Cook has followed through on his commitment to his friends and teammates, providing a key addition to the Crimson’s revamped passing game, led by new QB junior Collier Winters. Cook has 10 catches for 109 yards so far this season, along with a more creative role as the passer on a double-reverse—and he has loved every minute of it.
“Being out that whole season really put into perspective...how much I love to play,” he explains. “As soon as you lose it, you really realize how much you like it.”
But recovering from a torn muscle has not been the only factor to shake up Cook’s relationship with the team. The senior originally joined Harvard as a quarterback—the position he played throughout high school. But sophomore year, he was converted into a wide receiver.
The former field general’s mind wanders back to freshman year as Cook recounts one conversation he had with Murphy.
“We had Chris Pizzotti [’08-’09] and Liam O’Hagan [’08-’09] for at least two more seasons, it seemed like, so I remember going in and talking about making a contribution as soon as possible, and I thought that I could play receiver,” Cook recalls. “I proposed the idea, and he thought that it would be a good idea, so we tried it out coming into spring practice and it seemed to fit.”
Cook’s previous experience as a play-caller helped in his transition.
“I already knew the offense from playing quarterback,” Cook says. “And it helped because I knew what the quarterbacks would be looking for as far as getting open and scrambling, so there was a lot of stuff that was very conducive to playing quarterback and switching to receiver.”
And sure enough, his previous experience paid off. In 2007, Cook—then a sophomore—appeared in nine games for Harvard, logging time as the squad’s fourth receiving option in a deep corps of wideouts.
The newly-minted offensive weapon amassed 23 receptions for 239 yards and two touchdowns, in addition to 11 rushing attempts for 57 yards and another touchdown.
Cook proved himself as a receiver that season, and through the transition process,  his teammates recognized his tenacity and dedication to the game.
“He brings a lot of energy all the time,” captain Carl Ehrlich says. “Whether it’s 6 a.m. or in the middle of a game, he’s always focused. He’s a really smart kid and smart football player, and I think it shows on the field.”
Cook credits his coaches and teammates for keeping him motivated during his injuries. They kept  him up to speed on practices and plays, and Murphy would always encourage him by telling him to “keep his head up.”
Cook’s dedication and perseverance haven’t gone unnoticed throughout his football career, but along with his skills on the field, it is his character that will be most remembered long after his days as a Harvard wide receiver.
“I think the common denominator, the most important intangible that we look for in our players is mental toughness,” Murphy says. “And that can be obviously translated in a lot of different ways, but if you want to put it down to one, it’s the kind of kids that’ll never give up regardless of what obstacles and adversity they have in their lines. And Mike’s one of those guys.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It could only be a beautiful twist of irony that allowed Tom Hull to be a punter for Harvard.  His father, Michael Hull, a member of the 1972 Redskins Super Bowl team, was the player designated to block punts, the player meant to wreak havoc in the life of a punter.
But there is nothing ironic about the talent that both father and son possess, a similarity that binds punter and blocker.
“[Tom] is a dream come true for us,” Michael says. “Throughout his football career, he’s evolved into a wonderful player with so much natural ability. It’s a true God-given gift.”
The senior has been the starting punter for the Crimson since his sophomore year and has been part of two Ivy League championship teams.
“Tom’s one of the most focused guys I’ve ever been around,” captain Carl Ehrlich says. “He’ll be the first with a weather report, he’ll be the first to practice and the first to warm up.”
This focus is no doubt what enabled Hull to be the starting punter, tight end, and safety for his high school football team, while excelling in the IB and honors program.
When sifting through college options, the combination of athletics and academics was a significant factor, especially for the elder Hull.
“Tom was given a full-on academic challenge matched by a full-on athletic challenge at Harvard,” Michael says. “The true scholar-athletes are found at these institutions of higher learning.”
The California native found his experience at Harvard, particularly on the football team, worth the move.
“It was definitely a shock coming here from California,” Tom explains. “But I’ve met such quality guys from all over the country and have been exposed to all sorts of cultural backgrounds. The coaches are the best I’ve ever had and care about both the program and the players.”
As a punter, Hull has learned—or perhaps innately possessed—a mentality of preparedness and patience.
“Tom only gets five or six plays a game,” Michael says. “I’m in awe of his self-control and of his ability to perform like he does after waiting on the sidelines.”
“To stand on the sidelines and come in for one kick is the hardest part for me,” his son adds. “It’s tough for me not to get too pumped or too excited and over-kick the ball.”
The senior attributes much of his mentality to the example his father provided him.
“My dad was the one who taught me how to punt when I was little,” Tom Hull says. “He definitely has been my role model and mentor and has instilled me with the mental fortitude and work ethic needed to survive in football.”
Now as a senior, Tom is serving as the role model for his Crimson teammates.
“Tom has been playing a big part in providing guidance on the team this season,” Ehrlich says. “He’s ready to face any challenge...and is really stepping into a leadership role with the underclassmen punters.”
With just The Game left in the season, the Harvard squad needs this leadership, especially in light its the loss to Penn last Saturday.
But Hull remains positive despite the loss—which significantly diminished the Crimson’s chances for an Ivy title—and remains focused on the game ahead.
“Everyone says it is an easy thing to win, but you don’t really learn anything,” Hull reflects. “It’s how you cope with situations like these that show your true character and grit.”
Tom’s father echoed his thoughts, emphasizing that the loss against Penn takes nothing away from the success of Harvard’s season.
“We learn from our gains and our losses—it’s like life in sports,” Michael says. “You can win a national championship or a Super Bowl, but losses are where you attain the most understanding.”
As his final collegiate game looms before him, the younger Hull has his usual sense of preparedness.
“I feel nothing but confidence in the team for this weekend,” he says. “It’s tough to come back from a loss like that, but we have such a quality group of guys that I know we’ll still come out and fight to the very end.”
The Game will certainly be a fight, but as a seasoned punter trained by an experienced father and supported by a talented team, Tom Hull is ready to lend his leg to one last battle.
As his father says, “This guy’s got something special.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I guess the wheels of Harvard's bureaucracy turn faster than we all thought.  The much anticipated Ethnic Studies secondary field was just approved by the college’s Educational Policy Committee earlier today.
Ethnic studies, which the committee has defined as the study of “ethnicity, migration, indigeneity, and human rights.”
Beginning in the fall 2010, students will receive credit for any course they take related to those themes. Also, beginning next fall, current freshmen, sophomores, and juniors may apply for retroactive secondary credit in Ethnic Studies for courses taken in years past with an obvious connection to the ideas of ethnicity, migration, indigeneity, and human rights.
Hit the jump to find more.
Selected courses from the Law School, Kennedy School, Divinity School, and Education school will count, as will a host of FAS offerings ranging from some Social Studies seminars related to the concepts of race and immigration to English courses like John Stauffer’s new “Diffusions 62: Castaways and Renegades, Masters and Slaves.”
If you want Secondary credit in yet another field no one outside of 02138 will understand, Ethnic Studies might be just right for you. Have a look-see at the preliminary list of courses that count for credit.
Sections
Attention Harvard students:
You are cordially invited to the Dance Party with Pance Party this Friday, Nov. 20, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at…well...yeah…Yale. The party’s at Yale’s Commons, which basically seems to be a less-Hogwartsy Annenberg with a more cheerful kitchen staff.
Oh, come on. You know you want to go. It’s not like it’s that much more of a schlep once you’ve already manned up and gone all the way down to New Haven. There won't be any alcohol, but don't lie—you'll probably be drunk already anyway. And  admission is FREE.
Plus, the music at this first-ever Yale-sponsored Harvard-Yale fete is supposed to be fantastic.  Because, you guessed it, DJ Pance Party will be there!
If you don't remember (know) who exactly Pance Party is, here's a brief, eloquent introduction from Pance Party’s website: “Pance Party is fun at all costs, hyper-absurd, preposterous dance music expressed through innovative sounds, delightfully catchy leads, and face-melting bass—enough raw sonic energy to turn even the most negative Nancy into a raving lunatic on the dance floor.”
We at FlyBy could certainly use some raving lunatrickery—and we bet you could too.  See you there!
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTIONS APPENDED
In an unprecedented reversal following allegations of fraud and vote-tampering, the Undergraduate Council Election Commission decided to “de-certify” the results of the presidential election released today, pending further notice.
Election Commission Chair Brad A. Seiler ’10 announced his resignation concurrently with the release of the vote totals in the election, in an e-mail sent to the Undergraduate Council general e-mail list at 10:51 p.m. tonight.
An e-mail sent 45 minutes later to the same list from the official presidential e-mail address of the Harvard Undergraduate Council—ucpres@fas.harvard.edu—stated that there had been "an underlying concern about the validity of the voting process" throughout the election proceedings this year.The e-mail, signed by UC Vice President Kia McLeod '10, stated that UC Vice presidential candidate Eric N. Hysen '11 may have had access to the software that tracks the results of UC elections after receiving the necessary passwords from former UC Vice President Randall S. Sarafa '09 upon Sarafa's graduation.
The e-mail added that upon receiving the concern Seiler had originally reassured Election Commission members that they would all receive access to voting results to prevent any sort of tampering from going unnoticed, but that he failed to deliver on the assurance. It also stated that Hysen, prior to the election, had handled applications to the Election Commission, including that of Seiler.
According to the author of the e-mail, two election commissioners refused to certify the results after they came in because they "had reason to doubt their validity." The vote to decertify the election results came at 10:15 p.m, according to the earlier e-mail from Seiler.
E-mailed resignations followed from Election Commission members Daniel P. Robinson '10 and Emily E. Osborne '12 followed at 11:03 p.m and 11:09 p.m., between the Seiler e-mail and the e-mail allegedly from McLeod.
In a strange twist, McLeod e-mailed the UC general account from her personal e-mail address at 12:27 p.m., denying her responsibility for the earlier e-mail from the presidential address.
"I would like it to be known that I did not draft this email," McLeod wrote. "There have been complications with the EC and the presidential elections. These complications are being worked on and will be resolved. I know all of the candidates personally and would like to congratulate them on this extremely hard-fought campaign."
"Each candidate is honest and well deserving of the presidential or vice-presidential position," she wrote. "Eric Hysen is one of the hardest working members of the Undergraduate Council and I respect him greatly."
In the initial, reported tally, Johnny F. Bowman ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11 edged out George J.J. Hayward ’11 and Felix M. Zhang ’11 in the elections by only 45 votes.
At this time, it is still unclear when the official results will be announced by the Election Commission.
The votes were tabulated earlier this afternoon by the seven-member UC Election Commission after voting closed at noon, Seiler said.
After the first vote tally, Bowman and Hysen trailed Hayward and Zhang by 31 votes, Seiler said. The outsider ticket of Robert G.B. Long ’11 and David R. Johnson ‘11 finished third.
But under UC rules, first-place votes for Long and Johnson were then transferred to the second-listed candidate on each ballot.
Bowman and Hysen surged ahead after this recount, ending up with 1,826 votes to Hayward and Zhang’s 1,781, Seiler said.
Bowman and Hysen’s campaign focused on pressing the administration to make budget cuts more transparent and finding immediate, low-cost ways to improve student life at Harvard, such as putting many student services online.
CORRECTIONS
An earlier version of the Nov. 20 news article "BREAKING NEWS: Vote-Rigging Alleged in UC Presidential Election" gave an incorrect middle initial for the UC Election Commission Chair. His name is Brad A. Seiler ’10, not Brad T. Seiler ’10.
The version also gave an incorrect number for the initial reported vote margin between the two major tickets. In the initial, reported tally, Bowman-Hysen had a 45-vote lead over Hayward-Zhang—not a 46-vote lead.
The version also had an inaccurate title: "BREAKING NEWS: Vote-Rigging Alleged in UC Presidential Election." There were no allegations of vote-rigging, but rather concerns about the validity of the voting process. The title has been changed to reflect the inaccuracy.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Johnny F. Bowman ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11 won the Undergraduate Presidential Elections Thursday night in the closest race in UC history, according to Election Commissioner Brad A. Seiler ’10.
The official vote tally has not yet been announced. But according to Seiler, Bowman and Hysen edged out George J.J. Hayward ’11 and Felix M. Zhang ’11 by only 46 votes.
The votes were tabulated earlier this afternoon by the seven-member UC Election Commission after voting closed at noon, Seiler said.
After the first vote tally, Bowman and Hysen trailed Hayward and Zhang by 31 votes, Seiler said. The outsider ticket of Robert G.B. Long ’11 and David R. Johnson ‘11 finished third.
But under UC rules, first-place votes for Long and Johnson were then transferred to the second-listed candidate on each ballot.
Bowman and Hysen surged ahead after this recount, ending up with 1,826 votes to Hayward and Zhang’s 1,781, Seiler said.
Bowman and Hysen’s campaign focused on pressing the administration to make budget cuts more transparent and finding immediate, low-cost ways to improve student life at Harvard, such as putting many student services online.
Michael Zhang ’12 won a concurrent special election for Lowell House UC representation. That election was held following the expulsion of former Lowell representative Kevin F. Burke Jr. ’10.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Shit's hitting the fan at the Undergraduate Council.  We'll keep you updated, both here and at TheCrimson.com, as developments emerge.
10:59 a.m.
Today, The Crimson's print edition features two front-page stories on the drama: one chronicling the events of the evening, and the other exploring the e-mail signed but disavowed by UC Vice-President Kia J. McLeod '10. McLeod said in a subsequent e-mail that she had not written that original message, which implied that Eric N. Hysen '11 could have tampered with the election results. But Tamar Holoshitz '10, a former UC official, told The Crimson at 4:30 a.m. that McLeod had in fact sent the e-mail.
This is the first step in sorting through the puzzle behind last night's events: the three Election Commission resignations, the UC's failure to certify what was supposed to be a straightforward election, and the mysterious e-mail signed but retracted by McLeod. As we put together the pieces, we'll share what we know with you on TheCrimson.com.
3:39 a.m.
Now the bigwig's entering the arena. Outgoing UC President Andrea R. Flores '10 has addressed the election controversy in yet another e-mail sent over the UC open list.
Flores wrote in the e-mail that she was "saddened" by tonight's events and that she supports the election of Johnny F. Bowman '11 and Eric N. Hysen '11 as the next president and vice-president of the Council. She also wrote that the voting software had not been compromised, since Election Commission ex-chair Brad A. Seiler '10 had taken away Hysen's access to the voting software last Sunday.
But Flores added that her official UC e-mail address, ucpres@fas.harvard.edu, had in fact been compromised. She asked that all messages from that account be disregarded until further investigation.
After the Election Commission, which faced three resignations today, voted to decertify the election results, the UC executive board decided to ask the entire UC to certify the results of the election. While the Council could ultimately reject the results, Flores wrote that the members should "respect every vote cast" and confirm Bowman and Hysen as leaders of the next UC.
We're working on our complete coverage of the UC election controversy to give you the definitive rundown and analysis of tonight's events.  Check back later for more updates.
1:05 a.m.
The Crimson is preparing a massive Web update that will be posted online soon. Crimson news reporters Melody Y. Hu '11 '12 and Eric P. Newcomer '12 have been interviewing everyone at every level of the drama: presidential candidate Johnny F. Bowman '11, vice-presidential candidate Eric N. Hysen '11, former UC vice-president Randall S. Sarafa '09, and former chair of the Election Commission Brad A. Seiler '10. Stay tuned for the scoop.
12:51 a.m.
UC Vice-President Kia J. McLeod '10 has announced over the UC open list that she "did not draft" the e-mail that was sent from the UC presidential account, with her signature, about 40 minutes ago.
That original e-mail insinuated that vice-presidential candidate Eric N. Hysen '11 could have had the ability to rig the election.
In this second e-mail, sent today at 12:27 a.m., McLeod wrote:
"Each candidate is honest and well deserving of the presidential or vice-presidential position. Eric Hysen is one of the hardest working members of the Undergraduate Council and I respect him greatly. The issue is not the people but the process and I assure you that this issue will be dealt with. Any email sent out from the UC-Presidential account must be authorized by both the President and Vice-President of the Undergraduate Council. I sincerely regret any email sent without this consent."
11:58 p.m.
UC Vice-President Kia J. McLeod '10 just sent an e-mail over the UC open list alleging that vice-presidential candidate Eric N. Hysen '11 had access to the voting software used to tabulate the results. She also wrote that Brad A. Seiler '10, ex-chair of the Election Commission, had promised to provide the rest of the Commission with access to the software but failed to do so.
11:37 p.m.
The results of the long-awaited and hotly-contested UC election are in doubt as the UC Election Commission, the body in charge of administering the election, is embroiled in an internal struggle over the votes.
At 6 p.m. today, the Election Commission voted unanimously to certify that the Bowman-Hysen ticket had won by 45 votes. But at 10:15 p.m., the Commission de-certified the results by a 4-3 vote. Twenty-five minutes later, the Commission voted against certifying the results.
Now, three members of the Election Commission, ex-chair Brad A. Seiler '10, Daniel P. Robinson '10 (who is also a Crimson editorial writer), and Emily E. Osborne '12 have resigned, according to e-mails sent over the UC open list. We'll keep you posted as developments emerge.
Correction: Feb. 15, 2010
An earlier version of this post stated incorrectly that decision to certify the election results was passed to the general UC because three members of the Election Commission resigned. In fact, after the Election Commission voted to decertify the results, the decision went to the UC Executive Board, which voted to open up the decision to the general UC.
