Sections
If on the weekend of October 24, you happen to see many more alumni around campus than usual, don't worry: Harvard-Yale didn't come early.
Rather, Homecoming did.
If you're anything like FlyBy, at this point you're thinking: "Homecoming? Harvard? What?"
The explanation, after the jump.
With New Haven serving as the battlefield for The Game this fall, the Harvard Alumni Association has decided to come up with a different way to draw alumni back to the Yard.
Its solution --Homecoming -- is old news at many other campuses, but for Harvard, it will be a first.
In an interview with the Crimson, Reardon denied that the event was a fundraising effort in response to the economic downturn.
"The business is trying to get people interested, and you don't know what might result from that," he said. "Some would say it's friend-raising rather than fundraising."
Homecoming will take place on October 24, the weekend of the game against Princeton.  Apart from a barbecue and a tailgate party, the $20 registration fee will cover campus tours, admission to art museums and libraries, a movie screening, a glee club concert, and a public service lecture.
Sections
It has happened to virtually every undergraduate looking for an easy core, interesting elective, or fun foreign language course. You placed your trust in Foreign Cultures (insert number) only to find yourself betrayed, jaded, bested by the Q Guide. Or maybe you simply ignored the numerical rating—a three is better than average, right?
Never fear! With the add/drop deadline fast approaching—forms are due tomorrow, October 5th, to the FDO, your Resident Dean, or the Registrar’s Office—Flyby brings you “Courses Underachievers (Should) Escape,” or the CUE 2.0.
Read on for our list of courses you never should have taken in the first place, and bear in mind, Flyby has your best interests at heart.
1. Math 21a: Multivariable Calculus—Q Rating: 3.3
Flyby’s reason to drop: The 3.2 hour/week estimated workload is a gross underestimate for the average student.
 2. African American Studies 121: Please, Wake Up! - Race, Gender, Class and Ethnicity in the Early Films of Spike Lee—Q Rating: 3.2
Flyby’s reason to drop: This wasn’t your fault, poor Reader. The syllabus originally only listed two 4-6 page papers under coursework. But now (gasp!) Professor Jeyifo takes attendance, requires weekly web postings, and gives biweekly quizzes. It’s time to "Do the Right Thing" and drop this course. More ideas after the jump.
 3. Science of Living Systems 11: Molecules of Life—Q Rating: 4.7
Flyby’s reason to drop: The first midterm is Tuesday. It is not humanly possible to watch 13.5 hours of lecture videos consecutively. Maybe you should have taken this class more seriously.
 4. History 1330: Social Thought in Modern America—Q Rating: 4.8
Flyby’s reason to drop: Sure it got rave Q reviews, it might even be “the closest to an ‘intellectual journey’ that one may find” at Harvard (Q-response), but if given the choice between sleep and another Kloppenberg reading, you choose sleep, then give this course the boot.
If you dread personal confrontation, take a deep breath and relax—the Registrar’s office has your back. To drop a course you need not actually tell your professor his or her lectures just aren’t worth your time—simply plead/bargain/bribe a signature out of your freshman/sophomore/concentration advisor and drop your form off to your Resident Dean/FDO/Registrar’s Office.
“Na na na na, na na na na, hey heyyy goodbye…”
