Sections
One of the most underrated oddities of Harvard is its complete lack of a TV culture.  Go visit almost any other school, and televisions are a ubiquitous element of college life.  While we've found a way to make due without, and common room viewing has some charm, FlyBy wonders how much studying we'd miss out on if there were Law and Order marathons and VH1 countdowns available at any time of day.
But today is a day filled with compelling TV.  There are three major sporting events that you absolutely  do not want to miss.  Don't care about sports?  Does a beer and a game sound like an awful night to you? Not an issue--these events are worth your time as a conversation piece as much as they will be thrilling, whether or not the name John Salmons rings a bell or not.
The 135th Kentucky Derby (6:04pm) -- Known universally as "The most exciting two minutes in sports," The Kentucky Derby emphasizes the event in sporting event.  For this, its all about Southern hospitality (no, not that kind).  Put on your nicest spring dress, your finest jewelry, and, of course, the oh so necessary derby hat, and treat yourself to some sweet tea, mint juleps, and hopefully a little barbecue as you enjoy the action from Churchill Downs.  Most of the fun here will be viewing the elegant spectators around the track as they wait for the race to start.
The sport?  It'll be a fun one.  Can't really understand all the odds and all this betting talk?  Neither can FlyBy...we doubt you'll find more than one or two in the room who can even tell you the difference between place and show (those are names for finishing 2nd and 3rd, respectively).  Don't worry about that part...the announcer will harp about odds here and there, but the race will be the event.  One quick tidbit though: there's already been a ton of intrigue when this morning, race favorite I Want Revenge was pulled due to injury.  Expect the winner of the Kentucky Derby to win the second leg of the Triple Crown, the Preakness, but falter at The Belmont Stakes.  Remember Funny Cide, War Emblem, Smarty Jones, and Big Brown?  The entire feat hasn't been completed since Affirmed, in 1978
More, after the jump.
Game 7, Celtics/Bulls (8pm) - FlyBy really isn't a big fan of surrogate Boston fans.  While much more popular for the Red Sox, Harvard kids that come up here and all of a sudden think its cool to root for the Sawx and Pats and Celts are kind of annoying.  But indulge them...and watch Game 7 of an epic NBA first round series between the Celtics and the Bulls.
Heralded as potentially one of the best first-round series ever by famed Boston-bred sportswriter Bill Simmons after scintillating Game 1, the series has been just that: the single best first-round series ever.  It just got the record for most overtimes played in an NBA playoff series in history--in only six games.  It has played 7 overtimes, the previous record was 4.  Heroic performances and huge moments have been a staple in this series.  Game 6 alone included Joakim Noah's epic steal and dunk, Ray Allen's antics, which included several ridiculous shots and 51 points, and Derrick Rose's game-sealing block, which was one of the finer feats of athleticism FlyBy has ever seen.  This was all in one game, folks.  All games other than #2 include equally ridiculous and pressure packed moments.  You don't wanna miss Game 7
Pacquiao/Hatton Fight (9pm) - Head to one of the sports bars and hope one of them has this fight on along with the Celtics game.  Manny Pacquiao, the pride of the Phillipines, is currently considered the best pound-for-pound boxer in the game right now, after his victories over Oscar "Golden Boy" De La Hoya and arch rival Juan Manuel Marquez.  The underdog in this fight, Ricky Hatton, pride of Britain, has endured legions of fans with his brawler-style and charisma in the ring.  He's been a rising star in boxing, but needs to prove he's more than just a fluke after being absolutely obliterated by previous pound-for-pound king "Pretty Boy" Floyd Mayweather.
Speaking of Pretty Boy, who also reached the top with an impressive victory over De La Hoya, he's decided today was a great day to announce that he's coming out of retirement to fight Marquez.  A victory in the match today almost guarantees a big-time fight, and a huge payday with Floyd sometime early next year.  Most pundits will tell you Pacquiao should dispatch Hatton easily, and Mayweather will be the real challenge, but Hatton has more than a puncher's chance.
FlyBy admits this entire analysis was far too technical and sportsy and unless you love this stuff, you're probably bored.  There aren't too many non-sports reasons to watch the fight...unless you just really enjoy seeing people beat the crap out of each other.  FlyBy would mention its some pretty cut men at work, but neither Pacquiao or Hatton are very attractive.  Sorry.
Sections
If Google is our generation's equivalent of Coca-Cola, then Wolfram Alpha might just be our Mountain Dew.
At least according to John G. Ekizian, public relations consultant for Stephen Wolfram, an internet guru who dropped by Harvard Law School Tuesday to demonstrate his new product, Wolfram Alpha.
The technology, set to be released later this month, performs complex algorithms to generate the answers to users' questions.  From the demonstration, it looks like it's the kind of product that will save us time scrolling through pages of search results to find the information we're looking for.
But is Wolfram Alpha the newest rival to Google?  More on this, after the jump.
Apparently not.  Ekizian said today that the product is very different from Google, and is intended to complement, not compete with, existing websites like Google and Wikipedia.
"It won't be like Coke and Pepsi," he said.  "It's kind of like Coke and Mountain Dew."
Tuesday, at the University's Berkman Center for Internet and Technology, Wolfram showed examples of possible questions and answers that the technology provides.  Type in "Lexington, MA", and the product will generate population, weather, and information about nearby cities.  Type in "life expectancy" of a particular age group and there will be graphs drawn to match your request.  It's a "knowledge machine," according to Ekizian, and has already been called by one technology blog "really important and significant."
Wolfram is the founder and CEO of Wolfram Research, and has already made his name in the techie world creating Mathematica, a computational program that is widely used in engineering, science, and math fields.
Photo from Mdd/Wikimedia Commons
