News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Few freshmen are given the responsibility of handling the ball with the game on the line. Even fewer freshmen take the last-second shot for their team. But Brogan Berry wasn’t just any freshman.
Against Dartmouth on January 10, Berry lit up the floor, knocking down 20 points in the first Ivy League game of her career. But the then-rookie’s turnover on the final possession rendered the occasion sour.
A month later, Berry once again found the ball in her hands in the game’s deciding moments. Down two to Columbia, Berry did well to create her own shot, but her runner didn’t fall. Once again, Berry was left with only heartbreak.
The Columbia miss, which spun teasingly around the basket before rimming out, was a fitting metaphor for a season in which things just never fell perfectly into place for Berry and the Crimson.
But despite the two setbacks—along with the disappointment of losing the league title to Dartmouth in the last game of the season—Berry was awfully close to perfect.
She led the conference in three-point shooting percentage and finished second in assist-to-turnover ratio. At season’s end, she was unanimously named the Ivy League Rookie of the Year, and even earned an All-Ivy honorable mention.
“To be as poised as she was as a freshman, and to be such a statistical leader as a freshman, that’s really hard to do,” coach Kathy Delaney-Smith says. “I really think the sky is the limit for her.”
“I definitely think that every mistake is a learning experience,” Berry says. “You can’t dwell on previous mistakes, but you can use them as motivation and as a catalyst to move forward.”
But building upon last year could be harder without the presence of Emily Tay ’09, Niki Finelli ’09, and Katie Rollins ’09—all of whom graduated in the spring. Berry is one of only two returning starters for Harvard, and will have to step into a more senior role in only her sophomore season.
As if that weren’t enough, all of the change in personnel has led to the development of a new offensive system that Berry has had to learn. After averaging 12 points per game and picking up 100 assists over the course of the 2008-09 season, Berry could be excused for being slightly annoyed with the prospect of playing in a new-look system. But the Beavercreek, Ohio native isn’t bothered at all by the change.
“I love the new offense,” Berry says. “It plays to my strength and other players’ strengths. We are going to be pushing the ball a lot, and we have a lot of freedom. It will catch defenses off guard and lead to easy points for our team.”
The optimistic attitude is typical of Berry, who Delaney-Smith says is a coach’s dream.
“She’s all about basketball,” Delaney-Smith says. “That’s what’s so wonderful about her—she’s all business.”
Of course, it’s one thing to say all of the right things, and quite another to produce on the court. But for Berry, both seem to come naturally.
“She’s, if not our best shooter, one of our best shooters, and, if not our best penetrator, one of our best penetrators,” Delaney-Smith says.
That ability makes Berry a dynamic offensive weapon and helped her finish ninth in the league in scoring. But that was last year, when most opposing teams focused their gameplans around stopping Tay. Now Berry is the Crimson’s biggest threat at guard, and Harvard’s Ivy League rivals will be well aware of her capabilities.
So it’s a good thing for the Crimson that scoring is not all that its star sophomore can do.
In fact, it was primarily her court vision that led Delaney-Smith to start her at the point as a freshman a year ago.
“This year [Berry] is going to garner way more attention [but] the attention she gets will create for someone else,” Delaney-Smith says. “Her stats may not be as flashy as Emily Tay’s—or even her own—at times last year, but she will be a fundamentally sound, tremendous, reliable point guard.”
And Berry says she will have no problem dishing to teammates.
“As the point guard and floor leader, my goal is to make everyone else on the floor better,” Berry says.
Berry finished in the top five in the league in assists last year, and looks set to improve upon those numbers with Harvard hoping to implement a more run-and-gun style of play.
One aspect that won’t change with the new offense will be Berry’s lockdown defense. In her freshman season, she was often assigned to guard the opposition’s best player.
As the focal point on both sides of the ball, Berry was a large part of the Crimson’s success last year. This season, the do-it-all point guard will have to be even better if Harvard is to challenge for the Ivy crown.
But high expectations are nothing new to Berry.
“I’d say that even though there might be a lot of [external] pressure, I put a lot of pressure on myself too,” Berry says. “You can’t let the expectations get to you.”
“This is her team,” Delaney-Smith says. “She will be the starting point guard for this team for four years, and I don’t see that changing.”
—Staff writer Jay M. Cohen can be reached at jaycohen@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Still reeling from last year’s loss to Dartmouth on the final day of the league schedule, Harvard women’s basketball is determined to fill the holes that arguably cost it the Ivy title against the Big Green.
“We had some weaknesses on defense last year that we won’t have this year,” says junior co-captain Christine Matera. “We had the size last year and [Dartmouth] had the speed, and it ended up where the benefit was on their side.”
But in the 2009-10 season, these areas could serve as a good foundation for a team whose starting lineup is expected to be much more fluid than it has been in years past, especially at the forward spot.
“If you ask our team, there are no starters established yet, except for [sophomore point guard Brogan Berry],” coach Kathy Delaney-Smith says.
That depth may prove to be a strength for a team whose athletes bring diverse styles of play.
“[Junior co-captain] Claire [Wheeler] is probably our only power person, so if we feel power’s what we are looking for in a certain game, then she’ll start,” Delaney-Smith says. “If we need athleticism, then [juniors] Emma Markley and Jackie Alemany will start.”
Delaney-Smith is considering similar flexibility on the perimeter. The Crimson seems to be set at point guard with Berry, last year’s Ivy League Rookie of the Year, but Delaney-Smith is exploring different options, including giving Berry some time on the wing.
Meanwhile, Matera, sophomore Caitlin Rowland, and freshman Victoria Lippert are the candidates at guard to join Berry in the starting lineup. Rowland, who didn’t see a lot of playing time last year, could take on a lot more responsibility this year.
“We’re just thrilled with where Caitlin is,” Delaney-Smith says.
Lippert, a two time Cal-Hi All State Division III selection, is expected to make an immediate impact in her rookie season.
“She’s just a baller,” Delaney-Smith says of Lippert. “She’s great at slashing, she’s good on the offensive glass, and she’s just an aggressive player. Don’t mess with Victoria.”
To prepare itself for the wear and tear of Ivy League play, the team has scheduled games against talented non-conference opponents, including Boston College, which it faces in its season opener.
“BC has a very large post presence,” Rowland says. “We’re going to have to really focus on post defense, and the guards are going to have to pressure the ball handlers.”
A few trips are also on the horizon for the Crimson. Over Thanksgiving, the team will head to Colorado for the 23rd Annual Coors Classic, and Jan. 21 brings a tough matchup at Florida State.
But for Harvard, the focus of the season is league play which will begin on Jan. 16 in Hanover, N.H. in a rematch of the Crimson’s heartbreaking loss to Dartmouth last year.
“There’s always going to be a big rivalry when a team beats us,” Rowland says. “Of course we have extra motivation.”
With Dartmouth returning three starters from last year’s squad—including junior forward Brittney Smith, the 2009 Ivy League Player of the Year and 2008 Rookie of the Year—the Big Green is favored to win a third-straight Ivy title.
“Last year [Dartmouth was] tougher and faster in the post,” Matera says. “We’ll be better at matching up this year.”
Harvard’s contests against Dartmouth come at the beginning and the end of Ivy League play, but there are ample games to keep the Crimson occupied in between.
“Pretty much every team in the Ivy League can beat every other team on a given day,” Matera says.
The second game of the league schedule pits Harvard against the Columbia Lions in a test of the squad’s versatility. Just as the locations of Dartmouth and Columbia couldn’t be more different, the two teams have very different styles of play. The Big Green is very athletic and fast, whereas the Lions rely on the powerful play of junior Judie Lomax, who led the NCAA in rebounding last year with over 14 boards per game.
“She’s very strong, very resilient,” Matera says. “She’s a little bit different.”
Last year, Columbia defeated the Crimson, 74-71, in the teams’ first contest, but Harvard exacted revenge when it visited New York later in the season, defeating the Lions, 71-58.
Columbia brings back four of its starters and could make a run at the traditional contenders.
Also challenging the Crimson this season will be rivals Princeton and Yale.
“If [the Tigers] put it all together, they are dangerous,” Delaney-Smith says. “Yale probably has even more talent than Dartmouth.”
With new talents on the rise and the Big Green perennially lurking up north, Harvard will have no time to rest in a tough league schedule. Only if it takes care of business throughout the Ancient Eight slate will the Crimson’s final game against Dartmouth determine the Ivy League. And no revenge would be sweeter than for Harvard to knock off the Big Green for the Ivy title in Lavietes.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The spotlight shined on the Harvard men’s basketball team last winter when the Crimson soundly defeated No. 17 Boston College by 12 points, on the road, two days after the Eagles had defeated eventual national champion North Carolina. But Harvard couldn’t live up to the expectations of stardom, as the Crimson faltered in Ivy League play and the program’s fifteen minutes of fame all but expired.
This year’s team hopes to return to center stage, but via another route—an Ivy championship.
With first team All-Ivy co-captain Jeremy Lin returning and coach Tommy Amaker’s new cast of standout recruits set to hit the floor, Harvard has its best opportunity in years to win its first ever Ivy League title.
“Our goal since Coach Amaker got here is to win the Ivy League championship and advance in the dance,” co-captain Doug Miller says.
But such a dramatic turnaround from last season’s 6-8 conference record and sixth place finish will be no easy task, especially in a league in which the top two finishers from last season—Cornell and Princeton—return with their entire starting lineups.
“Our conference is always going to be challenging,” Amaker says. “We’re hopeful that we can show the world that we’re one of those kind of teams that will contend in our conference.”
Any hope the Crimson has of upsetting the traditional balance of power in the Ancient Eight rests on the shoulders of Lin, who has led the team in scoring the last two seasons.
But if Harvard seeks to improve on its sixth-place finish, the squad will need help from more than just Lin.
“Jeremy’s the face [of the program] but everybody plays his part,” sophomore forward Keith Wright says.
Wright, who logged significant minutes as a freshman after several frontcourt players went down with injuries, proved his worth, averaging eight points and 5.5 rebounds per game. This season, the Crimson is looking for more out of Wright, who shed 30 pounds in the off-season and may emerge as Harvard’s number-two scorer.
“He’s got a much better touch this year,” Miller says. “He’s our main low post threat on the offensive end, so we’re looking to get the ball inside to him and trust that he’ll finish.”
The Crimson will rely on its healthy frontcourt to improve upon its league-worst rebounding margin from a season ago.
Defense is also a major concern for a Harvard team that surrendered 67.4 points per game and posted the worst defensive field goal percentage in the conference.
“We’re changing our attitude,” says Lin, who finished 17th in the nation with 2.4 steals per game. “In the past we’ve been just been more focused on putting up numbers, getting a lot of points on the board, but this year we’re clamping down on that.”
Lin looks to get help on the defensive end from freshman point guard Brandyn Curry who, along with 6-7 forward Kyle Casey, leads a recruiting class that is slotted to play an immediate role on a team that features only four upperclassmen.
The Harvard newcomers will not only be expected to contribute, they will be forced to do so amid one of the Crimson’s most difficult schedules ever. Harvard will take to the road for consecutive contests against No. 12 University of Connecticut, Boston College, and No. 20 Georgetown on Dec. 6, 9, and 23, respectively.
“Maybe I’ve lost my mind [with the scheduling],” Amaker jokes. “We’re trying to upgrade it, and we may have gone overboard...but we have certainly wanted to feel like we’re going to go out and try to play some folks.”
These road matchups give Harvard ample opportunity to score a third victory over a top program in as many years, after defeating Michigan and Boston College the past two seasons.
“We like playing against big-name teams because you don’t have any pressure,” Lin says. “You’re just going out there trying to upset a big-time powerhouse.”
Along with the Crimson’s tough non-conference schedule, the Ivy League also presents no easy games. Eight of the league’s top-10 scorers from last season return to rosters that have been bolstered by highly-touted transfers and freshmen.
Any road to the Ivy League championship must pass through Cornell. The two-time defending league titleholder returns all its starters including last season’s Ivy League Player of the Year Ryan Wittman, Defensive Player of the Year Jeff Foote, and former Player of the Year Louis Dale, not to mention the reigning Rookie of the Year Chris Wroblewski coming off the bench. The Big Red has beefed up its bench by adding Kentucky transfer Mark Coury and UMass transfer Max Groebe.
But Harvard has proven it is more than capable of toppling the reigning Ancient Eight champions. In its final home game last season, the Crimson defeated Cornell 71-70, and Amaker’s players seem unfazed by the Big Red.
“We’re not too concerned [about Cornell],” Miller says. “We know what it takes to win in the Ivy League.”
Harvard gets its first shot at Cornell on Jan. 30, when the Crimson travels to Ithaca for its fourth league match of season.
Also certain to pose a challenge to Harvard in conference play are perennial Ivy League powerhouses Penn and Princeton, who have combined for 50 of 62 Ancient Eight championships.
Penn, led by junior guard Tyler Bernardini, looks to return to the top of the Ivy League standings after third and sixth-place finishes the past two seasons. Princeton, which ended last season tied for second place with an 8-6 record, returns a powerful guard combo of junior Dan Mavraides and sophomore Douglas Davis.
With newfound parity in the Ivy League—six teams finished within two games of each other last season—the Crimson cannot afford to take any nights off and still hope to finish in front of a Cornell team some analysts predict to finish the Ivy League schedule undefeated.
“Every night it’s like, you’re literally trying to play for the championship,” Amaker says.
While last year’s team proved it could play with the nation’s best, this year’s squad must show that it can play consistently.
“[Our goals are to] get better every day and take it one game at a time,” Curry says. “We think that by doing that we’ll definitely have a good chance of winning the Ivy League this year and the next four years.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A group of 15 partially clothed, blue-tinted men and women huddle together outside Canaday on a brisk November night, glancing anxiously at the horned figure who stands before them. They taunt the lone individual and mutter impatiently amongst themselves, anxious to begin the Wyld Hunt.
Suddenly, there is silence as the horde hails the emerging huntmaster. She steps forward, addressing the eager group, “Hunters! We gather here on this solemn night to slay this stag!” At her call to begin, they let loose barks, whoops, and hollers, sprinting after the young freshman.
He takes off through the yard, jumping bushes, circling buildings, and, when cornered for the first time, scaling a wall. When the hunters meet up with the stag once more they surround him by Boylston Gate, snarling at their prey as an onlooker stares, munching his popcorn. A minute later, the hunt is off once more, racing toward the river Houses.
As the chase winds through the streets of Cambridge, passersby look on with mixed expressions of confusion and amusement. Some howl along, some yell words of encouragement, but most respond with baffled smiles.
The pace slows from a sprint to a run to a jog, some hunters struggling behind the rest. Each time the stag comes close, however, the group pursues with renewed vigor, their barks return with full force. After twenty minutes, the stag tires. Trapped at the top of the steps of Widener, he makes feeble attempts to fight back. When a hole in the crowd finally appears, the weakened stag makes a meager break for it, taking off across the lawn.
At the steps of Memorial Church, he is cornered for the last time. The hunters close in, surrounding their prey with hungry eyes. They knock the stag down, appearing to rip at its fallen body. Satisfied with their kill, the hunters carry the stag off to the Canaday Common Room, ready for their feast. The inhabitants of Canaday B offer an appealing ice cream cake, however, and the freshman stag is left to be.
“NUNS ON ROLLER SKATES”
Meet the Harvard-Radcliff Science Fiction Association. You can call them HRSFA (they’ll laugh at you if you try the whole thing). The group’s Web site proudly claims that they “do bizarre things and confuse people” and the annual fall Wyld Hunt is no exception. Though its origin is disputed (some members claim it originated from a traditional boozer that fell out of favor and needed to be transformed into a more family-friendly activity; others contest it is based on a Union protest against the Confederates in 1864) the hunt itself has  changed very little.
At the first meeting of the year, prospective freshmen are asked if they would like to fulfill the position of the freshman stag with the tempting incentive of a waiver of the $8 yearly dues.  Last year’s stag becomes the huntmaster, and plots the course along with the current prey.
The night of the hunt, the hunters gather together, preparing for their “kill.” Some are shirtless or wearing kilts, all are painted in blue and eager to begin, taunts flying before they even step into the cold November night air. “I’m just afraid I might lose these guys,” retorted Pavel D. Shcherban ’13, this year’s freshman stag.
It may not be the average Harvard student’s idea of a Friday night but, for HRSFA, it’s one of the most exciting nights of the year. Jason P. Brodsky ’09, who was a stag as a freshman and happened to be in town on a visit, participated in his fifth Wyld Hunt this year. “I just like the reactions people give us. Last year we got, ‘Hey, is this a Sarah Palin thing, are you hunting a moose?’” said Jason. “I like seeing people’s expressions as we go by, it’s sort of like they’re seeing nuns on roller skates,” commented Betsy Isaccson ’12.
MYLDLY WYLD
It’s not HRSFA’s only “Wyld”  event however. With the spring comes the Myld Hunt, an event in which the members dress up in Victorian clothing and chase after a fox, finishing with tea and biscuits. “We do a lot of weird things spontaneously,” said Isaacson, “people got into the Mass Ave. intersection with ball gowns and a boom box once and ballroom danced every time that traffic stopped. Once a group went trick-or-treating with a door. So you would open your door to a door, potentially knock, and get candy.”
“All of Harvard’s a stage,” says Shcherban, and HRSFA’s play is about tribal paint, a pack of hunters, and a half-naked freshman.  Primal scream is about a month away, but these predators are already getting in touch with their Wyld side. Next time you hear a howl off in the distance late one November night, take off your shirt, throw on some paint, and join the hunt.
Sections
Bob Marley immortally said, “Don’t gain the world and lose your soul.” For most Harvardians, this piece of golden advice has been ignored for the siren call of the corporate world and its fat paychecks. However, with Wall Street in shambles and seniors desperately clawing for anything come graduation besides moving back into their parents’ basements, there seems to be a move away from the traditional I-Banking or consulting route toward the nobler frontier of social enterprise. Is this just a momentary fad that will fade into obscurity much like the Segway or going to class?  Or is it possible that students are finally heeding Bob’s wise words?
OFF THE TRACK
William F. Weingarten, ’11 and Petch Jirapinyo, ’11, Co-presidents of a Harvard student-run nonprofit, The Cambridge Microfinance Initiative (CMi), have noted that student interest in joining CMi has significantly increased in the last year. Though the group cannot directly offer loans to clients, CMi works with small business owners in the community to develop advertising strategies and business plans to increase profits. Weingarten and Jirapinyo claim that one of the most rewarding aspects of CMi is the opportunity to interact with members of the Cambridge community, including visible residents like the owner of the bookstand on Mass. Ave.
However, members have mixed reasons for joining CMi. According to Jirapinyo, only half of members appear headed in a financial track. ““Most people who join are interested in social enterprise. After graduating from CMi, many of our members go into microfinance and other social enterprises. The rest might assume more traditional career paths, including consulting and finance,” said Jirapinyo.
Both Jirapinyo and Weingarten are considering following a more traditional tech or consulting career route after college, but due to positive experiences garnered from CMi, they both hope to eventually return to the world of microfinance. “Even for people that try to go down the consulting path, if you’re going to get that sort of experience, then it makes sense to do it in a way that helps people,” said Weingarten.
On the international scene, Sebastien D.J. Arnold, ’10 and Simon Mahler ’10, are heading A Drop in the Ocean (ADITO), another microfinance organization that sends students to summer internships around the world in places like South America and Cambodia.
“Our main focus is to give Harvard students an opportunity to explore the world of microfinance, get a hands-on experience and see what the real world problems are, and to gain a better appreciation of it,” said Mahler.
According to Arnold and Mahler, members of ADITO are more interested in the experience of working in developing countries rather than for the ultimate goal of joining the consulting world. However, for Mahler, ADITO actually ended up encouraging him to consider the world of consulting when he otherwise may not have. Mahler stated that the experience gained from microfinance, such as preparing business plans for non-profits, is essentially what consulting entailed.  “ADITO is a great opportunity for people not completely convinced about what they want to do, and explore things they may not have thought about before college.”
Likewise, for Arnold, ADITO encouraged him to seriously consider the consulting world. “Essentially what I’ve been doing is giving advice to companies, and that is what consulting does,” he said.
CHANGE FOR A DOLLAR
In addition to microfinance groups, Havardians are also taking on the challenge of starting up their own social enterprise foundations.
Jason Shah, ’11, is the founder of INeedAPencil.com, the winner of the McKinley Family Grant in Social Enterprise in the most recent I3 Harvard College Innovation Challenge. Shah has been working on INeedAPencil.com, which offers high school students free SAT online prep courses, since his senior year of high school.  For Shah, his for-profit is something he intends to take on full-time after graduation. Shah doesn’t consider social enterprise as a new trend but something that’s always been around without the label.
“Social enterprise is a unique hybrid between learning practical business skills and effecting real social change,” said Shah, “For the interns this summer, working for INeedAPencil gave them the chance to work on a business plan […] But they also got the same rewarding sense that people get from volunteering. It’s a genuinely unique experience.”
For Christopher W. Higgins, ’11, founder of Friends of New Hope Ministries, social enterprise has become his life’s passion.
“There’s a real ethic of volunteerism in our generation. I’m not sure where this comes from, but I’m sure I’m not the only person interested in this at Harvard,” he said. Higgins spent two months abroad teaching English in Uganda for New Hope Ministries, an NGO founded and run entirely by Ugandans that cares for orphans and vulnerable children. Noticing a severe lack of funding resources, Higgins returned to the States in hopes of setting up a financial network to support the foundation.
“NGOs [and] charities, ought to be run like businesses, [with] the exception that the profit goes to help people,” said Higgins. “[But] there’s a tendency sometimes when you’re talking about charity to accept less than perfect results because our intentions are good. But I think at the end of the day this does a disservice to the people we’re trying to help. “
As an ROTC cadet, Higgins aspires to continue Friends of New Hope Ministries full time after he finishes his time in the army. He believes that, in the end, those who aspire to pursue social enterprise need to take on the job full-time.
“I don’t think you can make it work where people have a career and do social enterprise on the side,” said Higgins. “If you do a so-so job, oftentimes you can do more harm than good.”
Sections
Hips certainly didn’t lie as participants broke it down to Latin grooves at the Queer Students Association’s (QSA) inaugural queer ballroom dance class last Friday.The pilot class, proposed and instructed by Marco F. Perez-Moreno ’11 and Adrian L. Sanborn ’11, was hosted by the QSA in Adams Lower Common Room.Shoes were kicked aside as dancers prepared for the night’s salsa instruction. Couples spun and swung their hips to the lively Latin beat, following Perez-Moneno and Sanborn’s commands—“1, 2, 3, turn! 5, 6, 7, 8,” and  “watch those spaghetti arms!” Perez-Moreno, who has danced salsa for 10 years now, explained the event’s inspiration. “[The goal was] to give people the opportunity to dance within less restrictive gender roles,” he said. “Sometimes people want to get the chance to lead but don’t get to do that in most social settings.”“Usually as a male, you can only lead,” echoed John P. Santamaria ’11. “I enjoyed being able to both lead and follow.”The event, advertised to graduate students and alumni as well as undergrads, facilitated gender-bending ballroom dancing and created a social forum for Harvard-affiliated LGBT people of all ages. “The undergraduate community seems to have a lot more [LGBT social events]. Grad students are generally separate from that,” explained Xavier Rios, a graduate student in biophysics. Hardeep A. Ranu, an affiliate of the School of Public Health, was also grateful for the rare opportunity. “Its awesome to come to something like this in a queer space,” said Ranu, who attended with her partner. “And we always dance like crazy people at weddings, so we needed this.”The QSA hopes to continue hosting ballroom classes, given the success of the event.“We build queer community in a variety of ways—political events, parties, mixers,” explained QSA co-chair Marco Chan ’11. “It’s really important to have programming that is just as diverse as the queer community itself. An event like this fills a really important gap.”
Sections
As Humanist Chaplain at Harvard University, Greg M. Epstein has long promoted the message of Humanism: people can lead good and moral lives without believing in a higher being. His recently published book, “Good Without God: What a Billion Nonreligious People Do Believe,” has brought a new wave of attention to the topic, presenting a community-based and positive alternative to Atheism. Epstein argues for highlighting humanity’s potential for goodness as a whole, with or without God. FM spoke with the author to learn a little more about the book, his chaplaincy, and Humanism as a whole.
1. Fifteen Minutes: If you had to summarize “Good Without God” in one sentence, what would you say?Greg M. Epstein: I would say that “Good Without God” is a short definition of my life stance, of the life stance of Humanism, but only if the emphasis of good without God is not on the “without God” but rather on the “good”: on doing good, on living a good life for ourselves and for our loved ones, and for the sake of all human beings and for the sake of the natural world.
2.FM: They say that the writing process never ends, and instead we are always completing revision after revision. Now that your book has been published, are you ever able to get it off your mind?GME: It seems to be that no book could ever possibly be done, that you merely respond to a deadline in the most effective way you can, and you put it out there and then getting the book reviewed and read and blogged about and whatever is really the beginning of the further rewriting.
3. FM: I’ve read there’s another book or two in the works. Any tip offs about your next book project?GME: I decided ultimately to wait for this book to create some discussion before making a decision about how the next book should be framed. Because, I really do see this book as a conversation, and I don’t want to be the only person dictating the terms of that conversation. I think that the next book will be my response to some of the questions that this book is raising.
4. FM: A month-long advertising campaign promoting atheism in Manhattan subway stations with the slogan “A Million New Yorkers Are Good Without God. Are You?” was just launched in timing with your book. Why the focus on New York and no T ads?GME: There are about 20 more cities that are planning similar campaigns as the year goes on. Everywhere from big cities like Los Angeles and San Francisco to much smaller places like Idaho. Moscow, Idaho is running “Good Without God” advertising campaigns. So the point is really just to raise awareness so that people really begin to get a sense of the scale, the scope that we’re talking about when we’re talking about Humanism.
5. FM: I read that an American humanist Association’s “Good Without God” billboard was recently vandalized. How did you respond to this?GME: It’s sad to me that the billboard was vandalized. I think that it speaks to the fact that people really misunderstand what we’re about, and we’re not trying to vandalize anyone’s religion. You know, we are not trying to erase. What they did was they tried to blot out the word “without” and it’s kind of sad because they could have at least blotted out the word “out” and then they could have said millions of people are good with God, which I would have no disagreement with. In fact, if they had at least done that, then I would say at least the billboard was still correct, right? Because millions of people are good with God, and millions of people are good without God. And I don’t have any problem with that. So for future vandals, that’s just a suggestion.
Sections
The closest most Harvard students get to US Weekly-worthy celebs is through their guilty pleasure reading, but Lindsey E. Gary ’06, feels right at home in Hollywood. A successful art director, Gary’s designs serve as the backdrop for blockbusters like Pirates of the Caribbean II & III, Tropic Thunder, and Jurassic Park III. She found time between partying with Robert Downey Jr. and preparing for her next project, The Social Network, to revisit her Harvard days at Currier House and share her wisdom on the film industry.
1. Fifteen Minutes (FM): Welcome back to Currier. How did you feel about being “quadded” when you received your housing letter freshman spring?  Lindsey E. Gary ’06: (LEG): Actually as a freshman, I lived in Greenough—our whole blocking group did—and when we found out we were in Currier House, we just felt like the fates of Harvard were against us. We were always pushed to the extremities of the campus. But we soon learned that the other people who were also in Currier House were really awesome and we warmed up to the idea of being with cool people.
2.FM: You have said that you consider yourself living proof that you can do something with an Art History degree. What was the most valuable thing you learned in Sackler? And did you translate this knowledge from the classroom to the real world?  LEG: Well, I think one of the most valuable things I learned in getting my Art History degree was just research. You can have a lot of ideas but knowing how to find the material and sift through everything and how to channel your enthusiasm in an effective way—you know, I can usually come up with really great stuff really quickly and that’s really valuable. But what I think has been most helpful to me in taking my Harvard experience to entertainment has just been all the people that I’ve met at Harvard. I have such a great network of friends who are involved in so many different things that I often find myself asking lots of people lots of questions and you know my friends are my best resource.
3. FM: You’ve created sets for huge blockbusters like Pirates of the Caribbean II & III, Jurassic Park III, Tropic Thunder, Surrogates, and the upcoming Green Lantern. Which was your favorite experience and why?  LEG: Well Pirates is special because it was my first real big one, but Tropic Thunder was really special. We got to live in Kuai for three months and I felt really involved with that process and I made some great friends. So looking back it always brings a smile to my face to think about that experience.  FM: And you had a close encounter with Robert Downey Jr.?  LEG: The house that I lived in with three of the assistants on set—we had this amazing house with a huge yard and a barbecue and a gazebo and a hot tub and we would throw parties. And one time Robert Downey Jr. showed up and we were like, “What are you doing at our party?”
4. FM: You’ve worked on movies with Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Robert Downey Jr., and Justin Timberlake. Is this a coincidence or does your work conveniently land you next to some of the hottest actors in Hollywood? LEG: (Laughs) I don’t decide whether to take on movies based on the hotness of the lead actor...but it certainly doesn’t hurt.  FM: Also, we have to ask: Orlando Bloom or Johnny Depp?  LEG: Ummm, man. Johnny’s so sexy. Let’s just say that.
5. FM: What is the best and worst part about working in Hollywood?  LEG: The best part of it is that it’s very exciting and you’re surrounded by very creative, very interesting people. The hard part about it is that everybody works crazy hours, everything is really spread out—Los Angeles is not really a convenient city—so it’s a little bit more challenging to get together with friends. But it’s also beautiful all the time and you’re near the ocean so that helps.
6.FM: Your father, actor Tom Wopat, played “Luke” Duke on the 80s hit series, “Dukes of Hazzard.” Did you ever think about acting? Would your dad have been upset if you wore a pair of Daisy Dukes?  LEG: Yeah, about that. You know I think I was a little over-exposed to acting. My dad was an actor and my mom was a studio teacher so she taught all the kid actors. So, growing up, most of my best friends were actors so I always thought, “I can do whatever I want. I’m not going to be an actor.” But I do think dad would have objected to Daisy Dukes.
7.FM: Did any of your childhood friends become big stars?  LEG: I was the only child of a single mom so I hung out on set of Full House, Dick Tracy, Fresh Prince, Hook, all the time, so I was always at Full House, in particular. That was kind of a home away from home.
8. . FM: How did having both your parents in the entertainment industry affect your own in Hollywood?  LEG: I think I knew what I was getting into. I didn’t have grand fantasies of what Hollywood was like because I had grown up on set and I was very aware of the realities of the work, but it didn’t stop me.
9. FM: You decided to go to Harvard even though by that time you were pretty immersed in the design world and had the opportunity to study at some of the top design schools. How did you make that decision? Have you ever regretted it?  LEG: I do think it was a great decision. I have never regretted it. I didn’t want to go just to an art school. I think art is so great, but I really wanted to surround myself with people with all different interests and talents and passions because I believed it would help me grow and I believe it has.
10. FM: Your list of extracurricular activities (intramural crew, Crimson Key, TAPS, prefecting, HRDC shows, etc.) is quite extensive. How did you find time to do all these activities? Have they helped you prepare for your career?  LEG: Fitting in all the extracurriculars was always a challenge. But, you know, how do you find the time? The time finds itself. Everything happens, sleep kind of takes a backseat but I had an amazing time on Crimson Key and giving tours and running the tours and I think that all of the teamwork and balancing academics and other responsibilities. It’s all helped.
11.FM: Do you think you could still give a Harvard tour today? LEG: Absolutely.
12. FM: While at Harvard, you participated in designing the Cambridge Queen’s Head Pub. How did you envision the design and did it meet your expectations? Do you find yourself going back to enjoy the fruits of your labor?  LEG: The Queen’s Head was probably one of my greatest accomplishments, I’d say. It started off with the dream of having a pub in Loker Commons which at the time was just this terribly underused space. And there were a couple of times where we had to stand our ground and put up a fight to have it turn out the way we wanted it to turn out and the idea was to have a place where all students can go and really where the student history of Harvard is visible. And we wanted it to look like it had been in the basement of Memorial Hall forever and through the struggles I think that’s what we accomplished and I’m very excited to see it doing so well to this day. I have gone back a few times and enjoyed a glass of 1636. (Laughs) Or a stein of 1636. And we did beer tasting—we went to Harpoon to taste the beer that we were going to have as our beer. And I remember when we thought of the idea of all the steins on the wall so it’s a good place to be. And cheap.
13.FM: You are set to work on The Social Network, a movie about Facebook founder Mark E. Zuckerberg. He was a member of your graduating class before he left Harvard. Are you friends on Facebook?  LEG: No. (Laughs) I have a Facebook friend policy. I have to know you in the real world before I’m friends with you in the cyber world. So no. Unless I meet him and decide I want to be friends with him at some point in the indeterminate future.
14. FM: Any similarities and differences between Harvard and Hollywood? LEG: (Laughs) This is interesting. Yea, you have a lot of overachievers, a lot of people who think they’re going to change the world, and a lot of people who can work hard and focus but also understand the world at large, which I think is valuable.  FM: What about the drama? LEG: Oh man, there’s a lot of drama in Hollywood. And there’s a lot of drama at Harvard so that’s definitely another similarity. There’s a heightened sense of self-importance.
15. FM: And, a predictable last question, what are your plans for the future?  LEG: That’s the thing about working freelance from film to film is that you don’t really get to make plans for the future, which means that it’s all exciting and at the same time you don’t know what you’re going to do until you’re doing it.
Sections
They found me on an average stroll through Urban Outfitters. With no luck in the clothing department, I began mindlessly thumbing through the racks of neon sunglasses. One pair in particular beckoned me, though it was the plainest of the bunch: they were faux reading glasses with black frames and clear lenses. I pulled them on like armor. My metamorphosis had finally arrived. I was no longer the airhead, I was the coveted, feared, admired intellectual. I immediately bought them.
The glasses were more than just my latest accessory. They represented a long awaited solution to a decade-long internal battle that stretched back to one fateful day in seventh grade English class.
Miss Baker was the kind of English teacher who had cats. Lots of them. While she had her friendly moments, which included treating her students to stale, generic-brand candy leftover from Halloweens past, she was the kind of teacher who got some kind of pleasure from pouring salt in the hormonal wounds of her pubescent students.I fell victim to her sick game when I boldly disagreed with her evaluation of Scout in “To Kill a Mockingbird.”
“But what she really wants is her father’s approval, don’t you think?” I questioned, in an attempt to show her my genuine intellectual curiosity. Instead of encouraging my budding literary criticism skills, Miss Baker simply bristled: “Sometimes, you’re truly an airhead, Julia.”
Years later, I’m an English concentrator at Harvard. Boy, did I show her! But sometimes I wonder if my decision to concentrate in English, or maybe every decision I’ve ever made, has been an attempt to show Miss Baker that I’m not, in fact, an airhead. For the past ten years, I’ve been blindly guided by the deep need to prove the Miss Bakers of the world wrong.
Even though I’ve made it this far, I am nevertheless still irked by that horrible sense of insecurity that Miss Baker instilled within me. It’s a common enough theme at Harvard: no matter how confident their facade, most people don’t think they deserve to be here. An airhead like me certainly doesn’t.
For me, this insecurity results in a daily battle against the airheaded seventh-grade Julia. Note to self: appear brooding in English seminar even if have not completed reading. Note to self: Pamplona is for hipsters only, do not go there in workout clothes; hipsters don’t work out. The list goes on.
After ten years of constant suppression of my airheadedness, I was starting to feel the emotional wear and tear of this battle of attrition. That’s when the glasses found me, just in time.
I admit it. The glasses were entirely fake. I have 20/20 vision. But for several weeks, I wore those lenses almost every day. And I wore them with pride. Having the glasses encouraged me to go to Lamont to do work, as though I simply belonged there now that I had the right equipment. I relished the moment when, curled up in a chair on the first floor reading room, engrossed in George Eliot, I slowly removed my glasses with a nonchalant sigh and rubbed by tired eyes, before carefully placing the glasses back on my head and returning to my book. That act wasn’t just for my own twisted self-satisfaction; it was a means of communicating to all the other four-eyed intellectuals in the library that I was one of them. It was a way of saying, “I know the trials of the intellectual, for I am one, too.”
I began to pity other girls who didn’t have glasses. Ha! How could those pedestrian fools be taken seriously in the world of academia, I would think to myself, fogging my spectacles and gingerly polishing them with my scarf.
The wake-up call came like any other average epiphany. I was leafing through US Weekly, alone in the privacy of my room, when I found myself reaching for my glasses as though I actually, physically needed them to read. With my hands on the pair, ready to put them on, I suddenly stopped myself. What was I DOING? It instantly dawned on me just how absurd the whole experiment had become. I had literally tricked myself into thinking that I needed these fake glasses to read about Jessica Simpson’s latest weight gain.
I put the glasses away for good.
This moment forced me to see what I should have seen all along: Nobody cared whether I was an airhead or not, with or without glasses. Most people didn’t even notice them. How could they not have witnessed my transition from airhead to academic? Either they thought I was an intellectual all along, or they still think I’m an airhead.
While I no longer wear the glasses, I somehow can’t bring myself to throw them away. They’re a reminder of the bittersweet, adolescent sense of insecurity that took me a decade to overcome; and its nice to be reminded of ones triumphs. Plus, I might need them in case I ever run into Miss Baker again.
—Julia M. Spiro ’10 is an English concentrator in Pforzheimer House. She’s not a natural blonde.
Sections
It was Wednesday night, and the band members of White Noise were practicing in the cramped room in Eliot basement. With just two days until the Battle of the Bands at the Queen’s Head, the band, which won three years ago when its members were freshmen, was determined to take over again.
The concrete floor was a tangle of wires and a maze of amplifiers. Sergio M. Ramierez ’10 was tapping beats, M. Andres Camacho ’10 strummed tunes on his guitar, and Tomas (Tommy) Balcetis ‘10, the lead singer, stood in a light blue South Beach t-shirt, ready to belt into the microphone. After light-heartedly strumming out a rock rendition of the jazzy aria “Summertime”, the band members settled down to talk about their music.
“It’s like Nirvana with Radiohead overtones,” Balcetis explained.
“Tommy’s the one who determines the sound of these songs,” Ramirez said, but the band agrees that, “Old school metal” is the way to define it.
White Noise, formed four years ago, boasts Isaac S. Shivvers ’10 on drums, Or Gadish ’10 as the rhythm guitarist, Camacho rocking the lead guitar, Ramirez as bassist, and Balcetis as lead singer. They met as freshmen and dominated Battle of the Bands in 2006 with their song “Respect Lithuania”, which they sang again at the Battle of the Bands this year, in the dark, wood-paneled setting of the Queen’s Head.
“A lot of our friends showed up, and it was great,” Balcetis recalled.
Though competitor Daniel A. Masterson ’12 took the first place prize of $100, White Noise is keen on just performing and having a good time. “I don’t know about being professional, but all of us are gonna keep playing—that’s for sure,” Tommy said.
Sections
Look no further than the Adams Dining Hall for the showing of the man behind the one man show, “The Matt Show – Matt Corriel ’05 sings Matt Corriel ’05.”  Corriel, who will perform his one-man show in New York City on November 18 with the support of Harvardwood, serves as Adams House’s resident songwriter and tutor for the dramatic arts.  While he was not able to reserve a space to coincide with his exact birth date (November 12), Corriel’s tradition of performing a showcase of his songs every year on his birthday has stuck with him since his time as an undergraduate at Harvard. “It’s entertainment from behind the piano, I sing songs, I tell stories, but I would hate to think of it as a recital. In the spring of my freshman year, I did a ‘Greatest Hits’ show, because that’s just the kind of guy I am – you know, Greatest Hits at 18 – it was really ridiculous,” says Corriel. Now 27, Corriel is still driven by the desire to perform. He explains that his show is “a celebration” for his New York friends and family. Corriel has written five musicals since graduating, and has a sixth one currently in the works. He also shares his passion with the Harvard Arts community by teaching a co-curricular workshop called “How Songs Work” and serving as Director of Operations for the Freshman Arts Program.  “There are a lot of people at Harvard who think about things – they think about plays, they muse about musicals, they think about films,” says Alex B. Lipton ’11, who has worked with Corriel for the Hasty Pudding Theatricals. “But there are very few people who do. Matt Corriel creates. He writes songs, he composes. He inspires kids to make instead of talking about things.” Now preparing to go to law school, Corriel is not sure if this will be his last year as a resident tutor in Adams. He has issued a challenge to the resident poet, Zachary C. Sifuentes ’97, though, to write six works dedicated to Adams before the end of the year and make what he calls “some lasting contribution of art to the artsy house.”
Sections
In the current climate of dwindling job prospects and global economic meltdown, few can argue that what the universe could really use is a hefty dose of good old-fashioned awesome.Thankfully, the Boston-based Awesome Foundation for Arts and Sciences was assembled this June by, among others, several recent Harvard grads in order to help elevate any depleted levels of awesome in the world.  The organization, comprised of ten trustees, awards a monthly grant of $1,000 provided directly, no strings attached, to the person whose idea the trustees deem unequivocally “awesome.”Unlike the majority of grant organizations, candidates for the Awesome Foundation fund must only complete a brief online application. The form requires applicants to describe their idea; they are encouraged to not feel any pressure to spin their proposal in a humanitarian light.“We want to give people the freedom to say hey, this is just something really awesome we want to do,” says trustee Tim R. Hwang ’08. “They don’t have to hide from us because they think their idea is just really interesting.”Though the fund draws project plans as varied as humongous hammocks, gigantic geometric spheres made of foam, and an armada of eco-friendly river running pods, the trustees do have a loosely established method of judging applications.  According to trustee Matthew Y. Blake ’08, the foundation seeks crazy or eccentric ideas that have never been done before and that will catch the public eye and make an impact.“We aren’t going to give you a thousand bucks to build a sweet-ass thing in your living room and never show it to anyone,” says Blake.Josh Gordonson, a sophomore at MIT and the winner of October’s “Awesome Fellowship,” exemplifies the foundation’s desire to fund cool ideas—literally—with his cotton candy cannon proposal.“One day I got the idea, why does cotton candy need to come in a stick?  It should probably come exploding into your face out of a gun!” says Gordonson.  “With the grant, it will be enough to make a few guns, which is way more than I hoped for. I’ll be able to have a cotton candy gun fight, maybe even start polysaccharide warfare!”Although the Awesome Foundation does not claim to be your typical charitable endeavor, they believe their mission is exciting and worthwhile.“People who are working in the interest of the promoting of awesome in the universe are often neglected and do not get the support they should,” said Hwang. “We hope this is one small step in spreading the awesome.”
Sections
They may not be willing to admit it, but some kids landed in Cambridge dying to sport the cotton luxury of grey and crimson: the classy splendor of DHAs.
In prior years, these anonymous DHAs lovers—the aspiring athlete, the sweatpants junkie, the almost-girlfriend—have had to resort to mischief to nab their own pair. There are tales of DHAs disappearing from the laundry rooms, exes who refuse to part with this prized possession post break-up, and the simple borrowed-from-a-friend-and-never-given-back.
That era has come to an end.
Thanks to fall budget cuts, the funding for DHAs was transferred from general athletic expense to a team concern.
“We let each individual coach and team decide whether DHAs would be a good thing for them,” said Director of Athletics Robert L. Scalise.
However, when the equipment requests came back, many teams had decided to forgo funding for DHAs.
“As much as we all love DHAs, unfortunately they were not identified as items that made crew members row faster, softball players hit better, or tennis players rip more backhand winners,” said Robert A. Glatz ’88, executive director for Harvard varsity clubs.
At this point in the game, the Athletics Department decided to partner up with the Varsity Club to sell DHAs to students at the discounted price of $25 per item, as long as they were willing to trek to the Club office by November 6.
According to Glatz, the Varsity Club had about 700 students in their office last week with order forms.
Basketball captain Claire M. Wheeler ’11 said she is “indifferent” to the change.
“It’s actually nice, though, to hear this in a way, because there can be some negative attitudes towards athletes at Harvard,” she added. “Yet anyone who is going to buy DHAs on their own accord is actually going out of their way to be associated with athletes, not vice versa.”
But for her, DHAs should be more than about fashion.
“If you buy, you better show up to our games,” she said.
Sections
Revenge of the NerdsLast Saturday, as Harvard was battling Columbia in football and Cornell in hockey, a very different showdown took place in Cambridge.
Four hundred high school students from the greater Boston area gathered at MIT, armed with their pencils, for the second annual November competition of the Harvard-MIT Mathematics Tournament.
It isn’t math prodigies with buzzers facing off over trig identities, as the movies would have you think. The tournament consisted mainly of long tests—the General Test was 100 minutes long—that were taken individually and in groups.
After lunch, there were mini-events such as “Buzz,” “Rubik’s Cubes,” “DinoParmFish” and “Set,” which incorporated math in more creative ways. The tournament ended with the “Guts” round, which involved students running around and doing problems in groups of four to six.
According to Winston H. Luo ’12, one of the tournament’s directors, the goal is for the participants to have fun, but the actual problems, which are written by Harvard and MIT students, are serious business.
“I would give you an example, but the contest is in a few days, so I can’t quite do that,” he said on Wednesday.
But don’t expect to see a crowd of Jimmy Neutrons. In reality, according to Arvind Thiagarajan, MIT freshman and “Problem Czar” (the title reflects the monstrous task of compiling and editing all the problems), there’s more to these kids than just numbers.
“They tend to be really math-y and eccentric,” said Thiagarajan.
Take Seth Neel, for example. The high school junior from Rhode Island started doing sprints to prepare for the tournament.
“I got in physical shape. Body before mind,” he said. Neel described himself as an “aspiring rap artist,” before quickly taking it back. “Math is my passion,” he astutely said.
While they might be able to determine obscure probabilities and recite formulas backwards, these whizzes know how to lighten up.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: June 2, 2010
An earlier version of the Nov. 12 FM article "Revenge of the Nerds" incorrectly referred to Seth Neel as a junior at MIT. In fact, he is a junior in high school.
Sections
Only a Harvard professor could make eating chocolate look nerdy. David A. Edwards of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences has recently developed Le Whif, an inhaler that dispenses miniature molecules of zero-calorie chocolate. Interesting? Yes. Useful? Not so much. Let’s face it—what’s the point of chocolate if it doesn’t come in a pint of J.P. Lick’s or a Chocolate Decadence cake from Finale? We think Professor Edwards should show his school spirit and pump out some other products we’d rather Le Inhale—15 actually.
1) Rubinoff
Yes, it’s ten dollars, but so is a bottle of nail polish remover. Save yourself the freshman year trauma of pounding shots of acetone.
2) Caffeine
Time: 4:53 a.m. Word Count: 12. Lamont Café: closed.
3) Crack(berry)
Friends pestering you about ‘BBM’ing during dinner? Hiding in the bathroom to check your e-mail? Get your fix without turning into that guy.
4) Fresh Air
Lamont Café may have floor to ceiling windows, but that doesn’t mean you’re any closer to the outdoors. Comes in California Cool and Miami Madness for those planning on hibernating in the winter.
5) Felipe’s Burrito
For when it’s 1:59 a.m.
6) Liquid Courage
See Rubinoff
7) Hot Breakfast
If the houses won’t serve it up, someone has to.
8) Adderall
Hey, we’re not condoning drug use, but we have P-Sets and we have them now.
9) Airborne
Who wants fizzy, vomit-colored stuff in their water? Then again, who wants swine flu?
10) Niall Ferguson’s Shampoo
A deep breath of perfection.
11) SlimFast
See number 5. You want your parents to recognize you when you come home for Thanksgiving.
12) Mankiw’s Mojo
The Hot Turkish Girl knows what I’m talking about.
13) Drew Faust’s Powers of Seduction
You don’t get to be president of Harvard for nothing. Goodbye, Larry Summers.
14) Jungle Juice
When you just want to cut to the roofie-laden chase with those lovely Delphic boys.
15) Weed
Because you really need to control the smell since Kirkland went all NYPD Blue.
Sections
The point of “Rock Band” may be to let you reach stardom in your sweatpants, but count on Harvard to do what it does best: make this brutally competitive.  This past Saturday, many hopefuls who came out to the Harvard College Interactive Media Group’s (HCIMG) Battle of the Rock Bands found out that even virtual success is tough to win.
“There are a lot of really good bands in there,” said Jeff D. Nanney ’10, a Crimson Editorial editor.  Nanney and Peter G. Salas ’10, Andrew O. Okuyiga ’10, and Michael Y. Mi ’10 came out to compete as the team “Candlepin Slampiece”. They maintained that despite their estimated 12 hours a week of practice this year, they were still far from the top.
Worse yet, even more threatening competition lurked just on the horizon.  A group of guitarists, drummers, bassists and vocalists—all members of the heavy metal band “TiZrHf” from MIT—were barred from entry, but their brief presence affected the mood.  One of them was especially notorious.  “I’ve seen him at an MIT ‘Rock Band’ event.  He didn’t even have a single facial expression as he got 99 percent on expert”, said Yvette N. Saenz ’12.
Inside, however, the normal run-of-the-mill band drama continued.  Tomo Lazovich ’11, a Crimson IT editor, announced that he was quitting “The Quarky Bullfrogs” after their failure to get through a song.  “We were 99 percent of a one-hit wonder,” he said.
At the end of the day, though, the competition wasn’t really about just music, or cocaine, or money—it was about the art of gaming.  “In a lot of circles, games aren’t accepted as legitimate forms of art,” said Adam R. Gold ’11, president of the HCIMG.  At least to the screaming virtual crowds, those circles were dead wrong.
Sections
I admit that I was a little annoyed when I had to take Dunster Street instead of Holyoke Street so Jon Hamm could stand around and look pretty for the cameras, but I get just as annoyed when I can’t find my cell phone or my pillow falls off my top bunk. I face these obstacles on a daily basis—I think I can handle filming for a couple of weeks.
But apparently, Harvard disagrees with commercial filming on campus, even though the university claims to be so strapped for funding. The Spee was paid a rumored $25,000 for just a few nights of filming in their garden—not even the building itself—and the University can’t even find enough money to make some pancakes every morning? Prisoners get hot breakfast, and they’re not paying $50,000 a year.
If it costs $450,000 per semester to provide hot breakfast to undergraduates, what faster way to make money than allowing a couple production companies on campus? I’m more annoyed by the daily, “So, even if you’re one of the greatest presidents in US history, you can still get the shaft. HAHAHA,” that I hear tour guides yelling every single day than I would be by my class being moved so Justin Timberlake can act like a nerd in front of Emerson.
If the University is so worried about disrupting student life, maybe they could reroute (or ban) the tour group that gets in the way of my 11:05 dash from Straus to Sever every Tuesday and Thursday morning. Sorry I’m not sorry, Unofficial Tours—but those hats look stupid and I might be less bothered if you could pay $25,000 for disrupting the Yard.
Sections
Filmmaker Jennifer M. Taylor started off her career with no formal training and a lot of “common sense.” Now a pro, the director has won an award at the 2009 Aljazeera International Documentary Film Festival for her most recent work “New Muslim Cool,” which was screened at the Sackler Museum on October 10. In the film, she follows the life of Hamza Pérez, a Puerto Rican-American rapper and former drug dealer who found his faith in Islam. FM had a chance to hear her dish about music, the FBI raiding mosques after 9/11, and her love for sauerkraut.
1.
FM: Did you always know you wanted to be a filmmaker?
JMT: No, I did not. I thought I wanted to be a modern dancer. Then I got injured, and I had to find another career path and, ultimately it led me to filmmaking.
2.
FM: You’re not trained to be a filmmaker. Do you think that this made work harder?
JMT: I have very little formal training. Not necessarily. I don’t think...I was lucky. My first film project was with someone that went to film school, so I figured she could cover for the both of us. And I figured I could augment my co-producer’s formal training with my common sense.
3.
FM: You spent some time in Brazil and Argentina recovering from the dance injury. Any funny experiences while you were there? Do you speak Spanish?
JMT: Yes, and Portuguese. One time I was in Brazil, and my visa was expiring, and there was a soap opera I was really into, and I didn’t have enough money to stay...I just asked them if I could stay until the end of the soap opera. They thought it was so ridiculous so they said yes.
4.
FM: What inspired “New Muslim Cool”?
JMT: I knew very little about Muslims, so I thought the whole “clash of civilizations” paradigm needed some integration post-9/11 when we were suddenly being told that there was this entire religion out to get us, and that seemed a little odd to me...and I’m just naturally a very curious person. In the course of my original research I discovered that a lot of American Muslims are interested in pop culture...I decided to investigate hip-hop culture, which ultimately led me to meeting Hamza and Suliman [Hamza’s brother].
5.
FM: Are you still in contact with Pérez?
JMT: Oh yeah—as a matter of fact yesterday, he, Suliman and I had a brainstorming meeting with a media production company that we’re partnering with to create a video game. We’re looking at developing an interactive educational video game that would be oriented towards youth to help them learn about alternatives to drug dealing and street life.
6.
FM: What’s the biggest thing you’ve learned from working with Pérez?
JMT: Well, I think for me as a filmmaker the biggest thing I learned is that you as a filmmaker really can’t impose your narrative on somebody else. And when he and his community responded to that FBI raid [of their mosque]...they were saying that things were going to work out for them, and they were going to be better people. I had trouble comprehending that. You have to be super, super patient and sometimes go beyond your comfort zone to really capture the story.
7.
FM: When else did you feel outside your comfort zone while filming?
JMT: I’m not Muslim, and I’m not particularly religious, and sometimes towards the beginning of the film I would be the only person who wasn’t Muslim...I think what would ground me is that Hamza is funny and his brother and wife would remind me of my cousins.
8.
FM: So when you say that you can’t impose your narrative, did this lead to some compromise between your ideas and Pérez’s?
JMT: When they got raided by the FBI, I would have responded differently personally. I expected them to get a lawyer and be aggressive...that was the hard part for me to watch them not respond in that way. But they took a different path. He took a path that was looking inwards and taking some kind of spiritual improvement.
9.
FM: Where did you film?
JMT: The film was mostly shot in Pittsburgh. A little in New York, a little in Massachusetts, a little in Chicago, and a little in Oakland. I’d say 70 percent was in Pittsburgh.
10.
FM: The Pérez brothers light machetes on fire for a performance in the film. How did you feel about that? Were you there for that scene?
JMT: Oh sure, of course. I mean, I asked them to explain. When I first saw them perform and they had the flaming machetes, I was a little taken aback, and it certainly conformed to them and the image that they were from the ’hood, Puerto Rican, and America’s worst nightmare. When I first met them, I thought the flaming machetes were a little over the top. But as I got to know them, I realized that these men were just really funny and that they’re good showmen and they’re good at finding stage activities that will draw attention.
11.
FM: Music is an essential part of this film. How did you pick the soundtrack?
JMT: The soundtrack is almost entirely original music that was composed for the film. All of the instrumental music is composed by the composer, who is also my sound recordist...that was something we did together as artists to find music that would really match the film.
12.
FM: The film’s Web site has a clip of Suliman and Hamza Pérez doing a freestyle rap in a convenience store. Were they behind any of the music in the film?
JMT: Yes, some of the music. In the film, there are several sequences when you’re just seeing them perform their music.
13.
FM: Hamza Pérez experiments with Boricua (Puerto Rican) halal cooking. How is he as a cook?
JMT: That night that they cooked that dish, I think we missed it because our crew went away to eat.
14.
FM: Have you ever tried halal food? Maybe a hot dog?
JMT: Oh sure, and kosher hot dogs. And sauerkraut for sure. No question. And it’s good for you.
15.
FM: Have you been influenced by Islam or Muslim culture in any way since starting work on this film?
JMT: I always want to be very careful about saying Islam in a kind of abstract or total way because I can’t say necessarily that I know a lot about Islam. I’ve met people who are Muslim, but Islam is a very big religion. The people I have met who are Muslim have certainly influenced me to learn that there are many kinds of Muslims, just like there are many human beings and that there is something at the core that many religions and many ethical systems share, and that has to do with treating people well and doing good in the world.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Most successful college teams boast a few solid seniors to provide leadership and keep the team in check. The four seniors of last year’s Harvard women’s basketball team could do all this and more, and the Crimson rode these veterans to an 11-3 Ivy League record.
A loss to Dartmouth in the final game of last season took away the squad’s hopes of an Ivy League title, but Harvard received a berth in the NIT. The Crimson was unable to overcome St. John’s in the first round, and that 83-60 loss brought two campaigns to a close—the team’s season and the careers of its four seniors, leaving behind a very young Harvard team.
The normal chain of leadership would be for the team’s juniors to come back the next year as seniors and take the reins for another title run. But here’s the catch: there were no juniors on last year’s squad. That means that this year’s leaders for the Crimson will be its four juniors: Jackie Alemany, Emma Markley, and co-captains Christine Matera and Claire Wheeler.
“We’re very young,” Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith says. “I’ve never had a team this young, and they are dramatically different than any team that I’ve had in a while with regards to their potential.”
With the graduation of perennial All-Ivy guard and co-captain Emily Tay, Harvard—and particularly its junior class—needs to take up the leadership and court dominance that Tay so effortlessly accomplished.
Tay’s classmates, Katie Rollins and Emma Moretzsohn, provided a daunting presence in the paint. Rounding out the talented 2009 class was co-captain Niki Finelli, who could score in bunches when she had the hot hand.
“We have some pretty big shoes that we have to fill,” Markley says. “It’s kind of scary that we’re filling these leadership roles a year early, but it’s really exciting.”
Though it may seem intimidating to be thrust into such an important role so soon, the squad’s junior class seems confident that it will be able to make the adjustment fluently.
“We’ve kind of changed the dynamic of our team,” Wheeler says. “We have better chemistry now. The upperclassmen have done a really good job of setting the tone, being tough, and bringing the competitive desire to win.”
“That’s what happens when a player like Emily Tay leaves,” Delaney-Smith adds. “There’s a whole host of players that say, ‘We need to step up,’ and they do.”
The Crimson’s junior class understands the task that lies ahead of it. The players are confident in themselves and their teammates, and they are  certain that they have what it takes to get the job done this season.
“We all have different strengths,” Alemany says. “[Wheeler] is a legitimate post player. She’s got the size and the strength. She’s a great defender, and she’s a very effective communicator. [Markley] is our scorer. She’s our go-to girl. She can score 20 points in a matter of minutes. [Matera] is a pure shooter. We all work very well together.”
For the class of juniors, the cream of the crop is Markley. The athletic forward led the team in two categories last season, averaging 14 points and seven rebounds per game. Markley was fifth in the league in scoring and sixth in rebounding as a sophomore and should take over as the team’s primary scorer this season in Tay’s absence. Opposing teams have needed to pay attention to Markley since she arrived two years ago after transferring from Princeton, and the Ancient Eight will do well to keep an eye on the quick, slashing junior once again.
Wheeler, Delaney-Smith noted, is the team’s primary power player this year. At forward, she will be important when her team needs some size in the paint. Alemany, who is considered by her teammates to be a defensive terror for opponents, rounds off the three-junior rotation down low.
That leaves Matera as the only guard in her class. A confident shooter from long range, Matera made a third of her 123 three-point attempts as a sophomore. She is a player who leads both vocally and by example, and earned the co-captain’s role after playing in all 29 of the Crimson’s games last year.
“[Matera] doesn’t let herself work less than 100 percent,” Wheeler says. “She has no problem holding her teammates accountable, which is absolutely necessary for a successful team.”
While the gang of four is a year early in the usual evolution of leadership, it’s not a year short. Each junior has played crucial minutes during her first two seasons in crimson and white, and Harvard took its push for an Ivy title down to its final game in both seasons. In its freshman year, the Class of 2011 tasted the sweetness of a league crown but had to share it. Last year, it experienced the bitterness of giving up a chance at the championship to Dartmouth in the season finale.
This year, these juniors are ready to restore the Crimson’s position as outright champions, and they know all the work that they have to do to see that goal through.
“We’ve been able to learn many things that have prepared us for our role,” Alemany says. “We’ve come a long way since freshman year.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It may have clinched the outright Ivy League title last Saturday night, but the Harvard women’s soccer team is going into this weekend’s match as the underdog. The Crimson (9-6-1, 6-1 Ivy) will take on No. 7 Boston College (15-3-2, 7-3-1 ACC) tomorrow at 4 p.m. in Newton, Mass. in the first round of the NCAA tournament.
The winner of the game will play either Boston University or Connecticut on Sunday.
“We’re obviously playing one of the best teams in the nation, and it’s going to be a monumental challenge for our team,” Harvard coach Ray Leone said, “but we’re looking forward to that.”
The tournament’s No. 2 seed in the region, the Eagles have proven to be a difficult opponent for the Crimson. They beat Harvard earlier this season, 4-1, and have won four out of the last five matchups between the teams. But the Crimson players are focusing on the stakes of tomorrow’s game, not the past.
“It’s great for us to go into this tournament as the underdog,” co-captain Lizzy Nichols said. “We have absolutely nothing to lose, and on the other hand, BC has a lot to lose.”
While it may not have much to lose, Harvard is going into the playoffs with the momentum of a strong regular-season finish. The Crimson claimed the Ancient Eight championship in a 2-1 overtime win over Columbia, boasted a 8-1 record in its final nine games, and put together a six-game win streak through the end of October.
After a rocky start to the year—Harvard had only one win in its first seven games—its recent success has been the direct result of a season-long process.
“We have just developed a lot as a team,” Nichols said. “We’re a little bit more mature at this point in the season, and we know our strengths just a little bit better.”
Harvard’s defensive prowess will certainly be tested against the Eagles’ powerful offensive play. Boston College accumulated an outstanding 50-10 advantage in goals on the season and reached the semifinals of the ACC Tournament last weekend.
“50 goals is enough for most teams in three seasons,” Leone said with a laugh. “They got it in one.”
21 of those goals have come thanks to a pair of sisters—senior Gina and freshman Victoria DiMartino—who both play forward for the Eagles. The siblings accounted for three of the team’s four goals against the Crimson this September.
The Boston College attack proved too much for Harvard to handle in the non-conference match, as the Eagles racked up a 26-4 shot advantage. Despite Crimson junior Katherine Sheeleigh scoring the first goal the Eagles had allowed all season and senior goaltender Lauren Mann making 12 saves, Harvard couldn’t come up with the win.
The Crimson is expecting a similarly tough performance from Boston College tomorrow.
“It’s definitely going to require a lot of very strong defense,” Nichols said. “Everybody will have to play a very important role, but team defense is something we’re definitely going to be focusing on.”
Leone agreed that Harvard’s defense will be crucial, but said that the team needs to focus on its own play in order to succeed.
“It’s just about when we have the ball, keeping it better,” Leone said. “[Boston College] is such a great attacking team that you don’t have the ball very much, so when you do have it, you try to keep it.”
Sheeleigh is Harvard’s leading scorer with eight goals, five assists, and 28 shots on goal. Sophomore Melanie Baskind comes in a close second with six assists and four goals, two of which came in last weekend’s victory over Columbia. The Crimson also has five more players with multiple goals on the season.
Harvard’s offense and defense will need to play at the top of their games in order to take down the Eagles, a team many recognize as one of the best in the country.
“I mean, they’ve only lost to two teams this whole season,” Leone said, “North Carolina and Florida State—top 10 teams in the nation, basically.”
But the Crimson players remain confident in spite of the hype.
“BC’s a great team, no doubt about it, “ Nichols said. “But they’re definitely a beatable one, and we’re going to do everything we can to stay in this tournament.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A bus will bring fans to the NCAA Regional Cross Country Meet at Franklin Park on Saturday. But if you’re anything like Dan Chenoweth, you’ll get there faster by running.
The junior became the first Crimson runner since 1995 to win the Ivy League Heptagonal Cross Country Championships two weeks ago at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. This weekend, Chenoweth is looking to qualify for the NCAA Championships for the second year in a row.
“You do everything you can to qualify,” Chenoweth said. “Make sure you take care of business. The goal isn’t necessarily to win.”
Last year, he took 42nd at NCAAs, but he took eighth at the Pre-National Invitational this fall.
“It’s not going to be a cakewalk,” Harvard coach Jason Saretsky said. “He’s ready for a good hard effort to get to the next level.”
Also looking to make a return to Nationals is junior Claire Richardson, who placed 144th at the meet a year ago. Last weekend, the junior took sixth at Heps, following an all-Princeton top five.
“[Claire’s] got the talent that it takes [and the] hard work that it takes,” Chenoweth said. “She’s shown that she can step up. [This weekend] it’s going to take strong performances from all the girls, and I think we’ll see that happen.”
While Richardson is something of a staple at the top spot, the rest of the Crimson scorers have traded places throughout the season, and there has been competition for a spot in the top seven.
“It’s a competitive year just to make that top seven,” Saretsky said. “They’ve all done a great job and have earned that spot.”
This level of depth throughout the team helped the women achieve a second-place finish at Heps, their strongest finish since 1995.
“The make of a great team is interchangeable parts,” Saretsky said. “[We have] seven young ladies who are ready to go out there and on any given day can go out and help this program.”
Some of these runners have made waves individually, such as freshman Sammy Silva, who won the Iona Meet of Champions in September.
But for the most part, it’s the pack mentality that has helped the women’s team succeed.
“My best friends are the people I run with,” junior captain Jamie Olson said. “We run really well together and we run well because we run together.”
The men have not had the same team success, and finished sixth at Heptagonals.
With captain Chas Gillespie out for the season with an injury, the team has relied on a young group of runners to back up Chenoweth.
“It’s been heartening to see we’ve got young guys willing to step up,” Chenoweth said. “Ideally, we’d have the old guys who are really experienced, but you have to get experience somewhere. In three years we’ll have a really great team.”
While this season may not give the young squad an opportunity to advance to nationals as a group, the team is looking to sneak up on people at NCAA Regionals.
“We want to beat some teams that we didn’t beat at Heps,” Chenoweth said. “Usually we’ve been able to get a couple of teams we didn’t get in the season.”
The NCAA Regionals will also give the women another chance to prove their merit. Though Richardson won’t get another crack at Princeton’s top five, she will have plenty of talented runners testing her mettle.
“[Claire’s] got a little fire under her,” Olson said. “She wanted to do a little better at Heps than she did.”
If the women do hope to earn a national berth, the familiar setting of the race can only help. Boston University is hosting the meet at Franklin Park, the Crimson’s home course and a frequent site for practices.
“It’s great to be on our home course,” Saretsky said. “We train there, we practice there. Our kids know the course really, really well.”
The last time Harvard competed at Franklin Park in the Harvard-Yale race on Oct. 2, both the men’s and women’s teams emerged victorious. Chenoweth and Richardson led the way with their individual wins, and the women had their largest margin of victory since 2001. The meet also featured something cross country runners don’t always enjoy—fans.
“[Fan attendance] is a really great motivation,” Olson said. “It makes it that much more fun.”
Certainly, the Crimson would like to have the same success against the entire region that it had against the Bulldogs, relying once again on the friendly crowd for motivation. Although similar domination may be unlikely, surprises and upsets in cross-country races are not unheard of.
“You can’t know what’s going to happen on a given day,” Richardson said. “You take care of what’s in your control. That’s my goal—to do what I can.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Beneath the hype of ESPN features and Around the Horn shout-outs, this is what celebrity looks like:
Wake up. Go to the gym. Train with former NBA head coach Bob Hill. Hit the weight room. Head back to the gym. Shoot roughly 500 jumpers. Repeat for six days. Even God rested on the seventh day, but this is gameday in the San Francisco Bay Area ProCity Summer League. Suit up for the South Bay Spartans.
Play ball.
“That’s all I did,” co-captain Jeremy Lin sheepishly says about his summer.
At first glance, it wouldn’t be obvious that Lin is a basketball star. The only Asian-American player in the Ivy League, Lin is tall but not towering, athletic but not overpowering. His talent comes from countless hours spent in the gym meticulously honing his craft.
“Jeremy is our hardest worker,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker says matter-of-factly. “[He’s] a passionate, dedicated basketball player—it’s why he’s grown to become one of the better players in the country.”
For Lin, dedication and passion never take a vacation.
“The idea of working 12 months a year to get the team better is what he’s brought to the program,” observes co-captain Doug Miller. “A lot of people are buying into it.”
After a tough preseason practice, sophomore Andrew Van Nest confides, “[Lin] was hurt today—his ankle—and he still wanted to do everything. He fought the coaches to let him play…It’s that kind of leadership that makes someone else…work harder. “
The payoff from Lin’s hard work is obvious. Last season, he was the only player in the NCAA to finish in the top 10 in his league in every statistical category. Lin led the Crimson with 17.8 points, 5.5 rebounds and 4.3 assists per game. His play earned him special recognition from ESPN’s Fran Franschilla as one of the most versatile players in college basketball.
With his multifaceted game, what can you learn from Lin? Freshman guard Brandyn Curry laughs at the question.
“When I first got here I never guarded a player like that,” he says. “I’ve learned a lot just by watching him, talking and playing with him…small tips about how to get into the lane and see the floor, the defensive angles.”
“Last year, when I came for prefrosh weekend I remember we were playing pick-up,” freshman guard Christian Webster adds. “He took me aside and told me some things to do on the floor, and I was like, ‘Yeah, I’d never looked at it like that.’ That just shows why he’s such a good player.”
The national media has taken notice. Lin— who was first team All-Ivy a year ago—already has been recognized in ESPN, USA Today, and SLAM Magazine among other outlets. Ivy League basketball enthusiasts widely consider Lin to be one of the frontrunners for this season’s Player of the Year award.
Yet Lin dismisses the attention.
“We’re still trying to figure out why we have so much [media] exposure when we’re doing so badly in the Ivy League. It’s ironic,” he says. “We just want to win the Ivy League. That’s all that everyone is focused on.”
For Harvard to challenge Cornell—the reigning league champion—the Crimson will need Lin at his best.
Lin’s emphasis over the summer on better ball-handling and extending his range make it difficult to project his capabilities, but based on his statistics last season, Lin is in striking distance of the top five in points, assists, blocks, and steals in all of Harvard history.
“He’s certainly established himself as one of the best who’ve played here,” Amaker says. “The best way of solidifying any of those types of individual moments, awards, achievements would be if he can have our team do something that no Harvard team has ever done.”
“We all know what that is,” Amaker adds coyly.
The elusive Ivy League title.
“I don’t have any personal expectations,” Lin says, brushing off all the accolades awarded and awaiting him. “As a team, we’re expecting to win the whole Ivy League. We want to hang a banner, and that’s what we expect to do.”
—Staff writer Timothy J. Walsh can be reached at twalsh@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Nov. 7, the House of Representatives passed by the slimmest margins the most sweeping progressive legislation since the Johnson Administration. The Affordable Health Care For America Act was passed by a meager five votes, the ayes coming in at 220 and the nays coming in at 215. Passage was made possible by an eleventh hour amendment proposed by Democratic Representative Bart Stupak of Michigan that forbids health insurance companies from covering abortions for any individual whose insurance is subsidized by taxpayer dollars. We lament that such a reactionary amendment was required for the passage of this landmark bill, but we also recognize its political necessity.
If the Stupak Amendment is to survive into the final version of the health care bill—after the separate House and Senate bills are reconciled in conference—it would decrease the number of insurers providing coverage of abortions for women, since virtually all insurers would have an incentive to partake in the insurance exchange for individuals eligible for federal subsidies that the bill establishes. All insurance policies bought via this exchange would be prohibited from covering abortions in order to uphold the principle of the 1976 Hyde Amendment forbidding the use of taxpayer dollars to fund abortions.
The Stupak Amendment, like the Hyde Amendment before it, is an outrageous curtailing of lower income women’s right to choose. As Democratic Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut stated it, “What they attempt to do here is just ban coverage, totally ban coverage, and that is a different mindset than maintaining current law. There’s people that don’t want to respect that reasonable approach.”
While pro-life advocates are entitled to promote their cause of banning all abortions, it is unjust to render abortions luxury procedures by making them only accessible to those able to afford insurance without government subsidies or those whose insurance is publicly subsidized and who are willing to pay for abortions out of pocket.
Furthermore, while this amendment was politically imperative in the House, it could prove to be a Pyrrhic victory for Democrats and proponents of health insurance reform should the resurrection of the abortion question scuttle reform efforts in the Senate. Prior to Stupak, the controversy surrounding a potential public health insurance option was the primary cause for concern for moderate Democrats in both chambers of Congress. Now, however, abortion has also been added to the list of potential reasons for moderates to vote against the legislation, complicating reform’s chances of passing in the Senate.Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, who is considered to be the most conservative Democrat in the Senate and one of the primary “swing votes” whose whims shall dictate the fate of health insurance reform, said that “you could be sure I would vote against it” if the Senate bill does not contain language as strong as Stupak’s on the issue of publicly funded abortions.
Democrats Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, likewise, have also called for anti-abortion measures in the Senate bill, while Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, who is pro-life, has yet to come out in favor or against such an amendment. On the other hand, if the bill is moved too far to the right, it could begin losing support on the left. NARAL Pro-Choice America President Nancy Keenan, for example, has said that she “is not going to stand for a bill that has this kind of language in it,” referring to the language of the Stupak Amendment.
Even in the House, the amendment garnered only an additional six to ten votes, hardly proportional to their cost. Nonetheless, without those six to ten votes, the bill would not have passed, and, as President Obama put it, “this is a health care bill, not an abortion bill,” and in that vein, it must be recognized that reforming America’s health care delivery system is worth whatever reversible price must be paid to enact the required legislation.
Efforts to enact sweeping health care reform date back to the presidency of Harry Truman, and attempts have been made under presidents ranging from Richard Nixon to Bill Clinton, whose disastrous failure to enact reform in 1993 resulted in the Republicans regaining control of the House of Representatives for the first time in four decades. The House’s passage of health insurance reform thus marks the farthest that the reform effort has ever come, for which we congratulate Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her pragmatism and extraordinary political acumen.
Not only did the speaker demonstrate the savvy that garnered her the speaker’s gavel in the first place by wrangling the votes to pass a bill whose epitaph pundits had been composing since the notorious town hall protests of Congress’ August recess, but she also, as columnist Camille Paglia wrote for Salon, “conclusively demonstrated that a woman can be just as gritty, ruthless and arm-twisting in pursuing her agenda as anyone in the long line of fabled male speakers before her.”
However, the process of creating the legislation Pelosi worked so hard to pass is less than perfect and in dire need of reform. The fact that few legislators had actually read the contents of the House bill prior to its passage and the sheer haste of the bill’s composition are detrimental to our system of governance. Legislation that as impactful and permanent as this ought to be carefully deliberated upon and debated, not hastily patched together to meet artificial deadlines.
This imperfect process lends itself to unnecessary politicization and the abuse of earmarks so rampant in Congress. One example of this includes the $10 billion allocated in the House bill for unions, a political earmark that has no place in a bill devoted to reforming our health care delivery system. Another example is the Stupak Amendment. The bill that the House passed is historic and should be considered a major victory, but it would be a tragedy for the Representative’s Stupak’s language to survive into the final version of what would be President Obama’s greatest domestic achievement.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Living history.” The concept had always seemed to me a rather empty one: a hollow phrase, to be invoked only by nostalgic museum retrospectives, ghostwritten memoirs by former first ladies, and parents straining to persuade the kiddies that Grandpa’s still worth talking to. (“Ignore the drool, he can tell you all about Iwo Jima!”)
A moment during a history lecture freshman spring, however, convinced me that this cynical take required revision. In the midst of an involved foray into the thickets of semiotic schemata, the professor paused to question the class: Did we know that the French founder of structural anthropology was—remarkably—still alive? A rapid bout of mental math assuring us that this was in fact possible, the statement made quite an impact. In a sea of Saussures and Sartres, the mausoleum of dead white men that European intellectual history inevitably erects, the bespectacled ethnographer’s continued existence traced out an impressively unbroken line from the heyday of 1950s social research to what had until then looked to us like a totally distinct present.
Claude Lévi-Strauss passed away at last a little over a week ago, eleven months after his 100th birthday. In France, his death has been marked by all the mourning one would expect for a national legend, with the president and foreign minister offering up grief-filled tributes to a “visionary” and “humanist.” Here in the U.S., media reactions have been more muted: a faithful reflection of our general domestic indifference toward the intricacies of Gallic theory. (That the anthropologist shares his name with the most American of institutions, a denim manufacturer, lends his fate something of a surreal twist; a Google image search intersperses pictures of primitive art with links to purchase boot-cut flares.) Yet Lévi-Strauss deserves a moment of genuine recognition and remembrance—his life, if perhaps not completely successful in the ways he would have hoped, suggests the rich possibilities open to a perpetually questing mind.
It’s true that in many ways, Lévi-Strauss was the artifact of a much different world. His great legacy is structuralism, the idea that universal patterns of thought—most notably, the desire to create myths—underlie all human activities. Though that take may not be in vogue today (even in the ‘70s, one Cambridge University professor wrote that “despite his immense prestige, the critics among his professional colleagues greatly outnumber the disciples”), there’s something to admire in the impulse to see everything as intimately connected. Not least among the view’s merits was the respect it generated amidst the cold stone and rarified air of mid-century academia for cultures not one’s own.
Despite numerous expeditions to study peoples as foreign as the Nambikwara tribe of São Paulo or the policy apparatchik of Washington D.C., though, Lévi-Strauss himself remained consummately European. “Every man carries within himself a world made up of all that he has seen and loved; and it is to this world that he returns incessantly, though he may pass through and seem to inhabit a world quite foreign to it,” wrote Chateaubriand a century earlier, an author whose "Voyage en Italie" Lévi-Strauss had read and quoted.
Such self-consciousness is on clearest display in Lévi-Strauss’ lovely travelogue-cum-memoir Tristes Tropiques. Indeed, Lévi-Strauss’ own work can be divided into two categories: Tristes Tropiques, and everything else. Cherished as a formative influence by many established anthropologists, the slim volume sets down in pearlescent prose all the bittersweet joys of the profession, absent in Lévi-Strauss’ more detached volumes of scholarship. This elegiac tone evolved into outright pessimism as he grew older; in one of his last interviews he flatly states that “the world on which I am finishing my existence is no longer a world that I like.” Part of this had to do with the ascendance of Derrida & Co., who gradually replaced his universalizing tendencies with their more fragmentary perspectives. In a sense, Lévi-Strauss lived out the greatest tragedy that can befall a philosopher: that of surviving long enough to watch his own ideas crack.
Yet his sense of wonder never abated. Describing his first brush with Anglo-American anthropology after a cloistered education at the Sorbonne, Lévi-Strauss wrote that: “My mind escaped from the closed circuit, which was what the practice of academic philosophy amounted to: made free of the open air, it breathed deeply and took on new strength. Like a townsman let loose in the mountains, I made myself drunk with the open spaces, and my astonished eye could hardly take in the wealth and variety of the scene.” Until the very end of his life, he battled base functionalist explanations for society in favor of grander, more overarching constructions.
In the end, Lévi-Strauss is best immortalized by the title of one of his greatest books, “La Pensée Sauvage.” “Pensée” translates literally as “thought,” but in its secondary meaning it can also signify a kind of flower. Lévi-Strauss combined both of these ideas in his own person—the unruly directions in which his thought bloomed speaking to a consuming intellect at once exquisitely savage and fiercely beautiful.
Jessica A. Sequeira ’11, a Crimson associate editorial editor, is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Yelling at officials occurs at all levels of sports, from little league to the World Series. Whether your father loses his temper on the bench outside the field or ESPN analysts disagree with the positioning of the umpire, there has never been a serene era of officiating in baseball—or any other popular sport. However, this year’s baseball postseason and World Series was unique in the level of dismay at the umpires’ calls, with numerous alleged blown calls and speculation at how entire series could have been altered were it not for faulty judgments. One of the biggest factors fueling these debates is the increased amount of video technology and instant replay.
While instant replay has been in existence since around the beginning of televised sports, the recent change in its usage that has led to its place in a new professional sporting movement has been the abundance of cameras used to cover a single game. Instead of a mere six cameras at a football game, or one in front of and behind home plate, there are now hundreds of cameras around stadiums and arenas, allowing TV providers to show many different angles an important or spectacular play.
This movement shifted when the leagues themselves began to use these scores of cameras to review close or critical calls made by officials, most notably by the National Football League. After several highly publicized examples of officials making incorrect calls, the league instituted an instant replay official in 1986 to monitor each play. In the current format, head coaches have the ability to challenge the ruling of two different plays during a game that they feel video replay would give evidence to support a change of result. Whichever way the call eventually goes, most teams—and more importantly, fans—are pleased with the results. Professional basketball has followed suit with instant replay review used for determining shots at the ends of quarters. This has been welcomed without much controversy as well.
Baseball is different. While in most sports the actions made are straightforward to call, such as players keeping their feet inbounds or shots going in before the buzzer sounds, every single play in baseball requires an umpire’s personal call: Ball or strike, safe or out. While baseball has a rulebook and a defined strike zone, it is easily the most subjective thing in sports. Any player can tell you that no two strike zones of an umpire are the same. Thus, this problem was one that so far could not be broached by technology; the instant replay of a pitch makes no difference to the umpire calling that pitch. This also changed with TV coverage of baseball games with “strike zones” where simulated grids of the batter’s strike zone were placed next to the image of the batter on the screen in order to diagnose whether or not called strikes and balls were accurate to the computer model. Considering these models’ validity or lack thereof, there now seems to be a way to have computers call the one thing that has always been governed by humans.
Does it matter if Major League Baseball adopts a computer system to call its balls and strikes? While this could bring us closer to a fairer, purer game, it may—more importantly—prove to elucidate our society’s opinion on the fallibility of humans and the perfection of machines. Similarly, more important situations are occurring in terms of robotic surgery and computer operated cars, where the responsibility given to the human hand is fading. Although these innovations may offer better results for these previously human controlled tasks, the importance of the person in these situations must not be overlooked. For every surgery that takes place, it is the bedside manner that the computer cannot offer, the insight of the driver to slow in a school zone, and the umpire to manage the players of the game.
Umpires and referees have never been the most endearing figures in sports, but we must respect them for making definitive judgments based on the information they have gathered, and for striving to maintain the integrity of the sport. That quality is superior to standardizing the calls of a game. Cameras and computers may very well improve the consistency of balls and strikes—or any other sporting act—but we cannot underestimate the importance of the human element that represents the work ethic and face of the games themselves.
The trend of increasing instant replay consultation for unclear calls will continue in professional sports of, but more trouble may come from the case-by-case nature of its implementation rather than the umpire’s original decisions. The high tech camera may be able to say exactly what part of the strike zone the curveball hits, but it will never be able to regulate the complexities of organized competition and professional athletes. Referees may keep instant replay up their sleeves, but it’s their efforts that will keep the games going.
Marcel E. Moran ’11, a Crimson associate editorial editor, is a human evolutionary biology concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This week marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. As we recognize the historic occasion of East Germany’s opening, America quietly completes construction of its own wall. The southern border barrier between the United States and Mexico covers 670 miles of southwestern desert between Mexico and the four states it borders. Like the Berlin Wall, the border wall is emblematic of much more than just a boundary between countries. Cutting indiscriminately across ecologically-priceless land, it has become a symbol of governmental disregard for environmental protection.
The Bush Administration began the project in 2006 as the most recent attempt to stem the tide of illegal immigration, and it now nears completion; at 630 of 670 miles completed, Obama shows no signs that he intends to halt construction of the final portions. Humanitarians and budget hawks have blasted the wall as ineffective and enormously costly. With a final price tag of more than $4 billion and $6.5 billion in estimated maintenance expenses over the next 20 years, the direct, measured costs alone are immense. However, to discuss the project’s environmental impact, one must recognize the systematic neglect of environmental laws that occurred during its construction.
The Real ID Act of 2005 allowed the Department of Homeland Security to construct infrastructure along our nation’s borders with immunity from all government laws and regulations. Using the power granted under this act, the Secretary waived the impact assessment requirements of both the Endangered Species Act and National Environmental Protection Act. Thus, the border wall’s construction—which took place on some of the most ecologically valuable land in the country—went ahead without any consideration of its impact on the native species that call this area home.
Not surprisingly, this wall has wreaked havoc on the ecosystems of the area. It cuts off migration routes for species such as the Sonoma Pronghorn, already endangered, whose population has crashed to as few as 31 individuals. If congress had not exempted the border patrol from the ESA, this damage would have been sufficient to stop or dramatically alter the construction plans. Instead, building the wall has categorically ignored environmental damage and, as a result, threatened the survival of the only known pair of breeding jaguars in the United States.
Are environmental concerns sufficient reasons to stop this construction? Perhaps not. There are severe economic and social costs to unchecked illegal immigration. However, the wall should not have received blanket exemption from environmental regulation. The Obama administration claims it will step up to the plate to combat global climate change, yet their silent acquiescence to the destruction of the southwestern desert throws this commitment into question.
These may seem unrelated and, thus, some might understand how the Administration can separate climate change policy from broader environmental concerns. Their logic: Climate change is a global threat while the wall only damages a small section of desert. However, this view ignores the reality that the southwestern desert is a globally unique and important biosphere recognized by both The Nature Conservancy and the United Nations. Indeed, the wall threatens the San Pedro River, one of TNC’s eight “Last Great Places” in the world. Climate change is an issue so large that addressing it will entail broad behavioral changes—this, in turn, requires a new environmental consciousness. We cannot flip a switch and fix climate change, as it remains too pervasive for easy solutions. Only by considering the environmental impacts associated with all of our actions can we to truly address this global crisis.
Endeavors like the border wall demonstrate very clearly that this new consciousness does not yet exist. Unfortunately, this project has not occurred in isolation. The U.S. Navy conducts sonar testing that has little practical benefit but inflicts proven, lethal affects on marine mammals. Until the government shows a willingness to seriously consider environmental costs in all its decisions, the commitment to fight climate change is little more than empty words.
The fall of the Berlin Wall 20 years ago signaled a sea change in international policy and kick started a period of unprecedented global openness. While the border wall does not have this same public resonance, stopping its construction would be a first step toward creating a new environmental consciousness within the U.S. government. This sea change would prove no less significant than that which occurred after the fall in Germany. The last 20 years have seen international barriers shrink on an unprecedented scale; the next 20 must see environmental consciousness of the same scale.
A. Patrick Behrer ’10 is an economics concentrator in Eliot House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The ideal 2009-10 season for Harvard men’s basketball would involve continued progress towards the team’s the ultimate goal of wearing the Ivy crown.
But for three particular Crimson players,  it’s about something else, too. It’s about the comeback.
Although much of the hype heading into this season has been focused on co-captain Jeremy Lin and the team’s freshmen, the Crimson would be remiss to overlook a different core of performers making a return to the court. Three Harvard big men coming off injuries—a sophomore and two seniors—may very well steal some of the attention from their more heralded teammates if they meet their personal expectations.
“What we do isn’t always recognized in the stat book—boxing out or setting picks—but everything we do is important for the team,” senior Pat Magnarelli says.
The return of Magnarelli, sophomore Andrew Van Nest, and co-captain Doug Miller represents a radical shift from last year’s roster, which by necessity relied on rookies and emphasized speed over size. This year, the Crimson can look to the trio to bring more balance and experience to the floor.
“It’s always tough when you have a really young team like that to try to get it going on the offense and defense,” Magnarelli says. “There’s a bunch of good leadership this year.”
Magnarelli, Van Nest, and Miller have set their sights on more tangible goals as well.
“As the big men, we say that we want to be the best rebounding team in the Ivy League, both offensive and defensive,” Magnarelli says. “We were eighth in the league in rebounding last year and our goal is to be number one.”
But these returning players’ potential impact will hinge on their ability to stay on the court. Even before last season started, Van Nest and Magnarelli went down with season-ending shoulder and knee injuries, respectively. Miller lasted until the conference schedule began, but with 10 games left he succumbed to a broken metatarsal in his right foot, forcing him to sit for the remainder of the season.
This year, Miller—who is not a pure scorer—will contribute with  physical and efficient post play. The 6’8 forward shot 70 percent from the field last season to go with 6.1 points and 3.6 rebounds per game. But statistics do not capture Miller’s defensive prowess or the attitude he brings to the court.
“[Toughness has] kind of been one of our weaknesses over the years,” Miller says. “[We] don’t want to be the weak link this year and...get pushed around in the Ivy League season. And our goal is to avoid that at all costs and start pushing other people around.”
Miller, who saw playing time last year in place of Magnarelli, will now get a chance to play alongside his classmate. After missing a season and a half, Magnarelli finally gets a chance to show the dominance he flashed in the beginning of his sophomore year. In 2007-08, the forward boasted a shooting percentage of .580 and averaged 10.8 points and 6.3 rebounds per game before a knee injury ended his campaign prematurely.
Last season, his return generated much excitement—excitement which turned to disappointment just days before the start of the season, when Magnarelli was sidelined with another knee injury. After receiving a tendon implant to stabilize the joint this offseason, the 6’7” senior is ready to hit the court once again.
Van Nest represents another boost to a front line that will provide crucial size and strength during Harvard’s run at the Ancient Eight title. Last year, Van Nest entered the Ivy basketball scene as one of the key pieces of coach Tommy Amaker’s recruiting class. But a bad rotator cuff and subsequent surgery sidelined the talented big man, and he spent the season in dress clothes on the bench. Unlike Miller and Magnarelli, the 6’10 Van Nest lacks statistics and playing time at the college level, but his size and skill set—especially his three-point shooting ability—make him a huge asset for the Crimson.
A successful comeback for these three players will provide Harvard with healthy depth relative to the eight-man roster that closed out last season. Failure could mean another shallow bench and inexperienced team. For Miller, Magnarelli, and Van Nest, establishing a dominant post game for Harvard will involve much more than simply staying healthy, but the ultimate goal is simple.
“Win,” Van Nest says. “Rebound for our team. If they happen to miss, put it back in there for them—just whatever we can do to win.”
—Staff writer Emmett Kistler can be reached at ekistler@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The day has finally come. Donning his crimson and white, he begins that fateful trek across the river.
All of his training and preparation have come to this, and he knows that upon entering that stadium, he will be amongst the ranks of the great men and women that have come before him.
Today is yet another day that he will serve John Harvard.
This is the life of a Crimson superfan.
While there are a handful of school-spirit aficionados sprinkled throughout Harvard’s hallowed halls, the superfan is an elite individual that takes sports-watching to a new level.
This select category is more exclusive than the Porcellian, therefore a quick comparison between normal fandom and its enhanced version is necessary.
A fan goes to a sporting event. She claps along to the “Defense” and “Let’s Go Harvard” cheers, wearing her Crimson Crazies shirt proudly.
She hums along to the Harvard fight song, but her knowledge of the actual words probably stops with the beginning line.
In contrast, a superfan is an event himself.
In addition to the basic chants, he comes up with such favorites as “Nuts and bolts, we got screwed!” What parts of him that are clothed are in crimson and white, yet don’t be surprised to hear him yelling out every “Illegitimum non Carborundum” of “10,000 Men” with little on but body paint.
But with frequently-empty stands and a student body that often chooses Lamont over Lavietes, what inspires these school-spirited outliers to enter the ranks of superfandom?
Surprisingly, the answer is often empathy.
“We know what it feels like to have an empty gym,” said junior women’s basketball captain Claire Wheeler. “A packed gym helps—you can feed off of the energy from the people in the stands.”
The women’s basketball team, which finished 11-4 in its conference last season, often had to endure a visitor’s section that was louder and fuller than its own student bleachers.
Wheeler and her team have worked to prevent a similar fate at many of the Crimson football team’s high-stakes games, transforming from players to spectator superheroes.
“When we’re there, we act unified,” said Wheeler, whose teammates are frequently spotted using their stomachs as a human poster. “When someone acts crazy, it’s like a fever that rushes through us.”
Superfandom flows through the veins of other students, as well.
The men’s lacrosse team has been known to strip and chant “No-tee O.T.” when the Ivy League champion women’s soccer team enters overtime, and roommates and friends of the men’s soccer players are likely to be the best hecklers in Cambridge.
In addition, at this year’s Halloween football game, Harvard’s trouncing of Dartmouth may have been less memorable than a new, unknown mascot, who consistently appeared on the Jumbotron completely hidden in a suit of crimson spandex.
One renowned pair of superfans have sadly left the Harvard undergraduate community, leaving basketball fans wondering who will take the place of the infamous “whiteboard guys.”
This pair of 2008 Harvard football alumni, Matt Schindel and Andrew Brecher, made a name for themselves not only by being two of the only students to attend more than one Crimson basketball game.
Their main claim to fame was the whiteboard they brought with them to each game that served as a constantly-changing poster and source of visual heckling.
“I went to a lot of games back then,” Schindel reminisced of his time as a Harvard superfan. “[Superfandom’s] really important in terms of just showing support, and especially in a small place that doesn’t get many fans, you can hear everything.”
Harvard may never be able to turn sporting events into the social scene they are on other campuses or see filled stadiums of crimson-clad undergraduates during a game that isn’t synonymous with blacking out.
However, as crimson-spandex guy and the women’s basketball team have showed, superfandom at Harvard is both possible and appreciated.
With scores of sporting events this weekend—men’s soccer takes on Penn for the Ivy League title, football battles the undefeated Quakers for a its share of a three-peat Ancient Eight crown, and men’s and women’s hoops kick off their seasons—the choice is simple. Put down that Life Sci 1a book, grab some face paint and get across the river—that’s what the curve is for anyways.
—Staff writer Alexandra J. Mihalek can be reached at amihalek@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A talented, lightning-quick point guard on Harvard women’s basketball. A beauty-pageant winner, community spokesperson, and role model in Los Angeles. These seem to be descriptions of two individuals with two very different lives. Well, not this time.
Junior Lindsay Louie is likely the only Harvard student who can inspire and teach cultural values to multiple groups of kids in her hometown of Los Angeles, Calif., then hop on a plane and break the ankles of dozens more back in Massachusetts—all in a span of 36 hours. And she does it fairly regularly.
This past Sunday morning, Louie—who doubles as Miss Los Angeles Chinatown 2009—was hosting L.A.’s Little King and Queen Contest, a mini-pageant for five and six-year-olds that educates them in Chinese culture. By Monday afternoon, Louie was back in Lavietes Pavilion, sans makeup and plus knee socks, working on fine tuning her game for the upcoming season.
The Miss Los Angeles Chinatown Pageant, which enjoys a rich 46-year history of past Queens, is run by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce of Los Angeles. The event is heavily sponsored by both local and international businesses, and is a fundraiser as well as a venue for displaying Chinese culture. Additionally, Louie will represent L.A. at the Miss Chinese International 2010 pageant.
Louie decided that both of her passions—acting as an ambassador for the Chinese community back home, and being the best basketball player she can be—deserved full commitment and attention. So, after winning the pageant this past winter, Louie and Crimson head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith decided together that Louie would be ineligible for her sophomore season. She practiced with the team, but did not travel or suit up for games. She flew coast-to-coast regularly, as the Miss L.A. Chinatown role required a large commitment in the months following the Chinese New Year.
“I wasn’t able to be the best Miss Chinatown I could be while still making Harvard basketball my one priority,” Louie said. “It wouldn’t be fair to either organization.”
This year, Louie has decided to rededicate herself to the sport that she grew up loving.
“I told [the Chamber of Commerce of L.A.], ‘this semester, I have to play basketball at Harvard’,” Louie said. “I can’t wait to play basketball again.”
The Crimson is excited for her return, as her skill set and instinctive court awareness make her a great asset.
“She’s really important,” Delaney-Smith said. “She has an ability to do things effectively on the ball that should help our team out. She’s very quick, she’s very nasty. She can beat anyone anytime she wants.”
“One of my biggest strengths is being a good on-the-ball defender,” Louie said. “I can get really annoying.”
Though she practiced with the Crimson and stayed active throughout her sophomore year, Louie is well aware that she has her work cut out for her.
“I haven’t played an organized game of basketball in a year and a half,” she said. “Coming back to Division 1 basketball is a challenge physically, but will be a challenge mentally too. I just need to make sure that I think to myself, ‘I’m playing at Harvard for a reason; there’s a reason I’m here even though I’ve taken a year and a half off.’”
The strength and conditioning coaches put together a challenging off-season workout for Louie, and she is training hard for her return to the NCAA.
Louie’s role this year will be integral to the success of the team. She will be backing up sophomore point guard Brogan Berry, who is a centerpiece for Harvard’s offense. Not only will Louie act as a spark plug off the bench, igniting the offense when the Crimson needs it most, but Delaney-Smith believes that Berry and Louie can do significant damage on the floor as a tandem.
“We would like to play Brogan a little at the two, with Louie at the one,” Delaney-Smith said. “Lindsay can penetrate against anyone, and kicking to Brogan for the shot is something quite nice.”
This season, the Crimson’s gameplan is more geared towards athleticism and speed than in years past. Fans can expect more quickness, more attacking, and more tenacious defense—all of which are changes that should fit Louie’s game perfectly.
Though she is an exemplary individual in her community and a beauty queen by definition, Louie is determined to prove herself on the team this winter. Motivated to succeed on the runway or the hardwood, skeptical defenders may find themselves on crutches.
—Staff writer Justin W. White can be reached at jwwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The future of Crimson men’s basketball has arrived.
Though last year’s group of freshmen—Harvard coach Tommy Amaker’s first recruiting class—came in with numerous accolades and high expectations, they did not overwhelm the competition. Battling injuries and illnesses that limited their effectiveness, the rookies turned in a solid, rather than spectacular, first season. Capitalizing on the Harvard brand name, Amaker and his staff outdid themselves with another high-quality batch of recruits. The members of the class of 2013 will make an immediate impact this season, not to mention form a sound nucleus for the next four years in Cambridge. “It was a good recruiting class,” says Dave Telep, the Scout.com national recruiting director. “I think every one of those guys has the capacity to contribute early.”
The newcomers have embraced the responsibility of turning around the only Ivy program never to win a league title. “I love the fact that we get to make history at Harvard,” point guard Brandyn Curry says. The players, many believe, have fallen into place. “I think the program has enough talent in it to win the Ivy League right now,” Telep says.
Any discussion of the incoming freshmen must begin with Kyle Casey. A local product—he started three straight years for Brimmer and May School in nearby Chestnut Hill, Mass.—the 6’7 forward provides the Crimson with immense versatility on both ends of the floor. Able to impose his will by posting up small players, Casey can also take defenders off the dribble or drain shots from behind the three-point line. New England Recruiting Report describes him as having “the body of a forward with the skill set of a guard.” The focus of Casey’s initial development will be taking advantage of his size down low before moving him to the outside. “We envision him being a post and perimeter [player],” Amaker says, “but right now he’s more locked into learning the post area. Hopefully as we keep moving forward with his progress, he’ll play both.”
Perhaps Casey’s most welcome attribute is simply his athleticism—something Harvard has long been lacking. Fortunately, the new member of the Crimson has it in spades, as his vertical jump of 38 inches and multiple slam dunk contest victories (footage available on YouTube) indicate. “[The] guy, because he’s such a gifted athlete with great rise and great bounce, is going to present a lot of problems for guys in the Ivy League,” Telep says of Casey.
He should also shore up Harvard’s main weaknesses—defense and rebounding. Casey averaged five blocks per game as a senior to go along with nearly 20 points and 12 rebounds per game. Having spurned schools such as Stanford to join the Ivy League, Casey has been predicted by numerous publications as the favorite to win Ivy League Rookie of the Year. “He does things no one else on this team can do,” star co-captain Jeremy Lin says. Avoiding injuries will be key, as Casey has already sustained a mild concussion in the preseason.
The other Harvard rookie projected to take home some hardware of his own is Brandyn Curry. Tapped to be the league’s newcomer of the year by Yahoo! Sports, the 6’1 Curry was ranked by Scout as the 22nd best point guard in the nation—and the second-best player at his position in the state of North Carolina. “Consummate leader,” Telep labels him. “I think Brandyn Curry’s an All-Ivy League point guard someday…He has a great capacity to lead a team.”
A skilled lefty scorer and distributor of the ball, Curry is heralded as Harvard’s floor general of the future. The Hopewell High School graduate averaged 15 points, six assists, and three steals a game during his senior season to lead his team to a 29-1 record. He chose Harvard over Pennsylvania, Stanford, and William & Mary.
According to Amaker, Curry is capable of playing either guard position. Expect him to push fellow backcourt inhabitants, Lin and sophomore Oliver McNally, to see the floor. But playing time is the last thing on his mind. “I’m just worried about doing the role [Coach Amaker] gave me and learning the system,” he says. That shouldn’t take too long. “Ridiculously high basketball IQ,” Lin says of the freshman. “He has a natural feel for the game, and that’s pretty rare.”
Highly touted coming out of high school, Curry and Casey will be thrown in the mix right away. “Those guys are mid-major guys who signed in a low-level league. We expect big things out of them,” Telep says. But by no means is the class of 2013 a two-man show. The headliners are joined by a talented trio of classmates.
The Maryland Gatorade Player of the Year, Christian Webster should see the floor quite a bit as a freshman. “A wing, who I think, in time, plays a big role at Harvard,” Telep says of the 6’5 member of the Washington Post All-Metropolitan team. Current Harvard sophomore Max Kenyi and Amaker were both former All-Mets—the former in 2008, and the latter in 1982. Webster’s father played in the Capital Classic that year with Amaker.
Described by ESPN as having “very impressive athleticism and quickness,” Webster will be expected to provide an offensive spark as a slasher and shooter. “He has a knack for making outside shots and scoring the ball,” Amaker says. According to Andy Luther, his coach at Landon High, Webster was his league’s leading scorer and rebounder for three years. “He did just about everything you want your best player to do—and then some,” Luther says.
A high-character leader on and off the court, Webster took his program from six wins his sophomore year to achieving its first Washington Post Top-20 ranking in more than a decade. He comes to Harvard with hopes of catalyzing a similar turnaround. “He went from being the best player on a really bad team, to…one whose role was shared a little better on a championship team,” Luther says. “I think he sees a lot of that as a possibility…at Harvard. He can certainly help do some of the things that have happened here at Landon.”
Webster is joined in the backcourt by Dee Giger, a 6’6 shooting guard from the Christ School in North Carolina.  A sharpshooter with impressive length, he’ll be expected to spread the defense and knock down shots from the outside. “At that height—I’d suspect, in the Ivy League, there’s probably not a ton of 6’6 guards. He’s going to have the ability to shoot over a lot of guys,” says David Gaines, Giger’s high school coach. “As a fit, I think coming out of high school, he had a pretty nice skill set.”
He also knows how to compete and win. Giger was an integral part of a prep powerhouse that took home several state championships,and played with multiple future Division I recruits, including a pair of freshmen at Duke. “He’s been challenged day in, day out for three years here,” Gaines said. Giger was the first recruit of the group, having committed early in July 2008.
Texan Jeff Georgatos rounds out the class. Having turned down several other Ivies to come to Cambridge, the 6’8 forward will be a vital piece in upgrading the Crimson frontcourt. Georgatos is an aggressive post player who also has the ability to knock down the outside shot. “He can finish with both hands; he’s got excellent footwork; he can rebound the basketball,” says his coach from Episcopal School of Dallas, Corey Henderson. “Probably the best thing he does is shoot the ball…whether it’s on the block with a turn-around jumper, [or] out on the perimeter.”
Coach Amaker has preached the imperative of paying respect to one’s elders, and the freshmen have heeded the message. “You take a back seat and listen to what the older guys are telling you to do, because they’ve been through it, and they actually know what they’re talking about,” Casey says.
But with only four upperclassmen on the roster, the Crimson will need its young talent to earn some respect of its own. “We’re here for a reason—we came to play,” Webster says. And that reason is clear.
“Ultimately we want to start off winning the Ivy League and advance in the NCAA…and make Harvard a basketball school,” Casey says.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng  can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Lice. Those nasty, hard to kill, infectious little creatures haunted your elementary school days. The memory alone must be making you genuflect for a match book to burn those suckers.
Well, you might want to calm down. Richard J. Pollack, a research associate with the Harvard School of Public Health, says that head lice (Pediculus capitis) just aren't that big of a deal. And your elementary school principal, well he is probably among the ranks of school administrators nation-wide who overreact about these harmless creatures.
FlyBy picked his brain yesterday (pun intended) about this bold assertion.
Pollack estimated that on average there is one child absent from school from every elementary school in the country everyday due to the diagnosis or misdiagnosis of head lice. "Oh and I think that's conservative," he said.
Pollack, who said he and his colleagues have screened over 10,000 school-children, characterized most of what people hear about the creatures, which live in the human head, as bunk.
“As far as I can tell head lice does not impart any advantage to a child. There might be who knows," Pollack said (emphasis added). While he conceded it is "wild speculation" to suggest the head lice may be beneficial, he strongly emphasized the absence of any demonstrated health risks associated with head lice.
So call up your teacher who embarrassed you in front of your 3rd grade class and tell him how wrong he was.
Follow the jump to find out the facts surrounding head lice and to learn more about them than you ever expected to find interesting.
Here is is a list of myths about head lice provided by Pollack.
— They're incredibly prevelent and easy to aquire.
— Head lice are a symptom of poor hygiene.
— Head lice are a sign of poor parenting.
— They can transmit dangerous pathogens.
— As to the myth that head lice can be transfered via combs or hats, Pollack said he and his colleagues tried to do it in the lab and they were unsuccessful. “We can’t say it never happens, we can say it’s not very frequent,” he said.
In addition to the "hysteria" that surrounds an infestation, often the presence of lice itself is misdiagnosed.
Children playing in the sandbox aren't the only ones likely to be misdiagnosed with an infestation—it happens "not infrequently" to teenagers and college students too.
“You could essential use a coin as your soul mean of diagnosis and you would be right more often than it’s done in schools,” Pollack said. "That should boggle the mind."
Pollack maintains a page on the School of Public Health's website explaining head lice. Pollack, whose research includes other bugs associated with diseases such as mosquitoes, bed bugs, and tics, considers himself the "nemesis" of headlice.org, an organization that seeks to fight the parasitic insect.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Johnny F. Bowman ’11 and his running mate for Undergraduate Council President and Vice President, Eric N. Hysen ’11, have secured the first two endorsements of the 2009 election season from the Harvard College Democrats and the Harvard Republican Club, kicking off a scramble for the seal of approval from the College’s largest student organizations.
The ticket garnered a third endorsement from the Environmental Action Committee last night.
George J.J. Hayward ’11 and Felix M. Zhang ’11 also received endorsements last night from the Black Students Association, the Association for Black Harvard Women, and the Organization of Asian American Sisters In Service, but the endorsements of the two largest Asian American student organizations, the Asian American Association and the Chinese Students Association, remain outstanding.
Each year, UC candidates flock to the largest political and cultural organizations on campus in an attempt to lock up the votes of their members, but UC President Andrea R. Flores ’10 said that based on her campaign experience, this strategy may fail to produce the expected results.
“Student group endorsements are a great way for student groups to get in touch with the UC,” Flores said about the campaign.
“But student group endorsements don’t equal votes necessarily.”
She added that the two groups would need to actively reach out to students in order to gain more votes.
“Both platforms are similar,” she said. “I think it’s going to depend on the get-out-the-vote strategy.”
Hayward-Zhang campaign manager Brian T. Ru ’11 said he felt optimistic about the endorsements the ticket has received.
“Endorsements are critical because we’re running a campaign that is focused on student groups,” Ru said about the early successes.
“We’re reaching out to a lot of groups that haven’t been reached out to before.”
With the balance sheets tied between the two tickets—both have garnered three of the six endorsements thus far—the campaigns are eager to break the deadlock with a number of large endorsements on the horizon.
“We have collected some of the biggest endorsements thus far, endorsements of student groups who have consistently predicted the winner of the UC elections,” said the Bowman-Hysen Campaign Manager Ashley M. Fabrizio ’11.
“[But] this election is unlike previous years in that its not just about student groups or social space or room reservations—though they are very important.”
Outsider ticket Robert G.B. Long ’11 and David R. Johnson ’11 released an e-mailed press statement on Monday announcing that they would be declining invitations to participate in any UC presidential debates. in the upcoming future.
“We perceive that these debates will only reiterate the ossified power structures that our opponents will claim to mitigate,” said the statement, which also protested the fact that the presidential candidates would presumably sit behind a table.
Breaking with the precedent set by her predecessor Matthew L. Sundquist ’09, Flores will offer her endorsement to one of the tickets in the next few days, according to a source close to the president.
—Staff writer Melody Y. Hu can be reached at melodyhu@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Adolescent obesity is strongly associated with increased risk of multiple sclerosis later in life, according to a recent Harvard School of Public Health study that analyzed data from more than 200,000 women over a period of 40 years.
The study, published online on Nov. 9 in the journal “Neurology,” found that women ages 18 to 20 who were obese had more than twice the risk of developing MS—a degenerative disease of the nervous system in which the immune system attacks the brain or optic nerves and that currently affects more than 400,000 people in the US.
This is the first study to articulate an association between obesity and MS, according to the researchers.
“We have shown a previously unidentified risk factor for MS,” said Tanuja Chitnis, an assistant professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School and a co-author of the paper. “The results may have implications for reducing obesity in adolescence, which is certainly a big concern today.”
According to the researchers, a surprising finding was that the results showed a significant link to increased MS risk only from obesity during adolescence, but not during childhood or adulthood.
“It suggests that during adolescence or early adulthood, there may be a critical window for development of MS,” Chitnis said.
Kassandra Munger, a research associate at HSPH and the lead author of the paper, had previously conducted a study linking low levels of Vitamin D to increased MS risk.
Since obesity is known to be linked with lower levels of Vitamin D, the researchers decided to investigate the link directly.
The study suggests that several factors influencing obesity could be responsible for the increased risk of the autoimmune disease, including low levels of Vitamin D and the inflammatory chemicals secreted by fatty tissue.
Further research needs to be conducted to confirm whether the association can be extended to males and people of other ethnicities.
“Based on this study in women, it is not clear whether the same would hold true for teenage boys,” said the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in an official statement on the study.
“The authors comment that while a strength of this study is the large sample size, the reliance on ‘self-report’ is a limitation.”
Data used in this study was obtained  by the researchers from the Nurses’ Health Study and Nurses’ Health Study II, which are run by Harvard Medical School and Harvard-affiliated hospitals and laboratories.
—Staff writer Helen X. Yang can be reached at hxyang@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before coming to Harvard Business School, Christina D. Hruska flew Air Force reconnaissance missions over Iraq. Matthew A. Isenhower served as a force protection officer on a Navy destroyer. David C. Crabbe led Marine transportation units over explosive-lined roads in Anbar province. And Melissa A. Hammerle gathered tactical intelligence for the Army in Baghdad.
While many students enter Harvard Business School after jobs in large corporations, consulting, or finance, about 60 students—three percent of the school—come from careers in the military.
“We’re a tight knit group,” said Hruska, who is the chief financial officer of the Armed Forces Alumni Association, the main military organization on the HBS campus. “In this day and age where wars are part of the military experience, that ties us even closer together.”
LEARNING TO LEAD
After deployments to Iraq in 2005 and from 2006 to 2007, Crabbe began to consider what he wanted to do after leaving the Marine Corps. He had effectively been in the military since enrolling at the United States Naval Academy in 1999 and was looking for a change, he said.
After looking at several companies, his focus shifted to business school, Crabbe said. One executive and former military officer that he met recommended HBS. Crabbe said he realized the school was a good fit because, above all, it has a stated goal of educating leaders.
“People from the military have been shaped by different things,” said Deirdre C. Leopold, HBS managing director of MBA admissions and financial aid, in an April interview. “We like to consider ourselves a transformational experience. Some military people have already had one.”
While there is no preferential treatment of military applications, Leopold said, veterans tend to provide robust answers to questions about leadership.
In his first deployment to Iraq, Crabbe led a unit of 45 marines as a motor transportation platoon commander. At dark every other night, Crabbe’s unit would leave friendly lines in dozens of trucks laden with supplies, sometimes driving all night to reach their destination. The threat of roadside bombs, mortars, and sniper fire was constant, Crabbe said.
“You’re 23 years old and kind of thrown into the fire,” Crabbe said. “You have high stakes decisions, high stress, and not nearly as much information as you’d like. It’s something you have to do.”
A ‘STARK CONTRAST’
After flying missions across the world during seven years in the Air Force, Hruska decided to change careers. She spent a year doing engineering research before deciding to apply to business school. She said she was drawn to the supportive group of veterans at HBS.
In addition to herself, Hruska’s 90-person section has two other military veterans: a former Army Ranger and a former aide to General David H. Petraeus, commander of U.S. Central Command, according to Hruska. The other nine sections also have about three veterans each.
In class discussions, Hruska said, the military voices bring a unique perspective that students with different backgrounds appreciate.
“Everybody stops. You could hear a pin drop,” Hruska said of when her fellow veterans speak. “Their experiences are in stark contrast to what everyone else has done.”
Other students said that they especially appreciate the veterans’ contributions in leadership classes.
“Most of them have been leading groups since graduating from college,” said Erik J. Lampe, a first-year business student. “They lend the class a good point of view.”
SUPPORTING ROLE
Scott A. Snook, an associate professor of organizational behavior at the Business School and a West Point graduate, serves as an informal mentor to students who are making the transition from military to civilian life.
Several years ago, Snook began what he called “Scott’s Thursdays,” a weekly gathering when ex-military students could come to talk.
“It was a way to connect more closely with students,” Snook said, adding that sessions would often overflow his office and last for hours.
The administration also strongly supports the school’s military community, according to Matthew K. Ahlers, a former submarine officer and co-president of the Armed Forces Alumni Association.
Ahlers said that the school’s leaders pushed for Harvard to participate in the federal government’s Yellow Ribbon program, which provides funds to allow veterans to continue their education.
Veterans can also receive financial aid through dedicated Business School fellowships, such as the Timothy T. Day Marine Corps Entrepreneur Fellowship that helps pay for Crabbe’s time at HBS.
“I couldn’t think of a more veteran-friendly business school,” said Isenhower, the Navy officer who also served in the military’s worldwide command center beneath the Pentagon. “It’s a great opportunity and a great time to be here.”
CELEBRATING VETERANS
To honor veterans both within and outside HBS, hundreds of business students gathered last night on the HBS campus at the annual Veterans Ball. Former officers mingled in the crowd in their formal uniforms, and students viewed a display of body armor, helmets, and medals that their classmates had worn on deployments overseas.
Several students said they attended to support their friends and section-mates who were veterans.
“I’m happy with the outpouring of support HBS shows its veterans,” Crabbe said. “They really respect what we’ve done.”
—Staff writer William N. White can be reached at wwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Act on a Dream, a student organization that advocates for the legal rights of undocumented student immigrants, held its inaugural event of the year on Tuesday night with a film screening of the Emmy-award winning documentary, “Made in L.A.”
The film chronicles the struggle of three illegal Latina immigrants who filed complaints against a group of garment sweatshops in Los Angeles in 2001. They alleged that the companies—which manufacture clothing for the distributor Forever 21—subjected them to labor violations ranging from underpaid 12-hour workdays to unsanitary work conditions.
Their three-year-long struggle culminated in a large legal battle against Forever 21 that made national headlines.
In the discussion that followed, leaders from the handful of student groups represented—Fuerza Latina, Latinas Unidas, the Latino Political Coalition and RAZA—emphasized that the film should be an inspiration for their mission on campus.
“This film struck home for me in terms of the quintessential Latina working towards her future. I kind of saw my mom there,” Adrián Aldaba ’12, president of Fuerza Latina, commented.
But Act on a Dream’s External Relations Chair, Stephanie Delgado ’10, was quick to stress that immigration issues affect every student on campus, regardless of where they come from. “The immigrant is everyone,” she said. “If we really want to make a difference, we have to be united, not just as Latinos but as a community.”
Since it was founded last year, Act on a Dream has attempted to rally the Harvard student community together in support of the DREAM Act or the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act. The legislation was first introduced in Congress in March 2009, and seeks to allow illegal immigrants who are high school graduates to apply for conditional permanent residency in order to pursue higher education or join the military.
The United States Census Bureau estimated that in 2000, 65,000 undocumented students graduated from US high schools, and would qualify for conditional permanent residency under the DREAM Act.
In May of this year, University President Drew G. Faust publicly threw her support behind the Act in a letter to federal lawmakers. Harvard currently provides financial aid to students regardless of their citizenship.
According to Melissa Tran ’10, President of Act on a Dream, Harvard’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” financial aid policy gives undocumented students the opportunity to attend the college. “Not a lot of people know that there are undocumented students at Harvard. Our idea is that they’re just as American as us.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Republican gubernatorial candidate Charles D. Baker ’79, the likely contender against incumbent Gov. Deval L. Patrick ’78 in the upcoming race, spoke to students Tuesday night at an event hosted by the Harvard Republican Club, highlighting the nascent campaign’s young voter outreach.
Wearing a dark blue tie and golden American flag pin, Baker emphasized the inefficiency of the essentially one-party state of Massachusetts.
Baker’s supporters believe that, as the former CEO of Harvard Pilgrim Health Care,  his experience in a corporate position will help him to better manage the state’s budget.
Colin J. Motley ’10, the president of the Harvard Republican Club, said that while Baker may have trouble garnering initial support, he is a qualified candidate.
“He is really the type of guy to focus on the nuts and bolts, the financial issues that are important to families and students, and I think he has the right ideas on those issues,” Motley said.
“I have an unprecedented amount of confidence in his dealing with those kinds of issues.”
Baker said he hopes to focus on fixing current financial problems, rather than investing time in designing new changes.
He also noted the stagnant job market in Massachusetts, as well as the need for more public disclosure of health care costs in order to foster an informed and efficient discussion on health policy.
“He is the real deal, a guy who can really turn the state around,” said Kyle Armbrester ’07, Baker’s chief information officer.
But Baker admitted there is still work to do to build the campaign into a larger organization.
“The biggest challenge is generating enough visibility and name recognition,” he said.
Baker emphasized the use of social media in his campaign, primarily targeting young supporters through popular Web sites such as Facebook and Twitter.
Armbrester, who also heads the IT and online campaign for Baker, highlighted his candidate’s accessibility, a key strategy in the campaign. According to Armbrester, Baker personally responds to Facebook posts and friend requests. He also noted that Baker’s Facebook wall is unregulated.
“I think our big challenge is that we want to make it as open as possible to connect as many people as possible,” Armbrester said.
“We really want to start a conversation throughout the state, staying focused and getting as many people involved as possible.”
Baker began with an informal survey of the demographics of the audience, resulting in a discovery that out of the about 50 students in the room, only about three students were, in fact, Massachusetts voters.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dozens of students and former civil servants gathered on Tuesday night to listen to former senior advisors to the late Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56 discuss their experiences with the senator’s contributions to education.
Each of the four panelists, speaking in Askwith Hall at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, spoke about different projects that they were involved in and they all said that the senator was very easy to work with.
Robert Schwartz, the academic dean of the GSE who was moderating the event, said that while Kennedy was involved with health care reform, his “education legacy” is equally notable.
“If you actually look at the record of his life over the last 15 years, he’s made an enormous impact on creating an education policy and framework,“ he said.
Schwartz added that one of the reasons why Kennedy, the third longest-serving senator in American history, succeeded in bringing about reform was that he drew heavily on his Harvard connections and often invited experts from the University to act as his advisors.
Nick Littlefield, a former staff director and chief counsel for Kennedy on the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, described Kennedy as being “obsessed with school reform”.
“He launched the juggernaut of education legislation that I think affects everybody all the way through their lives in America even today,” he said.
Clayton Spencer, the Vice President for Policy at the University, worked with the senator on direct lending from the government to students in need. She said that the program saves the government money and enables more students to pursue higher education.
“It’s great that you have [schools like] Harvard... but it’s not so great if you can’t afford to go there,” she said. “Education has to be the engine of opportunities.”
Spencer also spoke about Kennedy’s personality.
She said that his sense of humor made him “a blast to work with.”
“Life is about fit, and Senator Kennedy was meant to be a senator,” she said.
The other two panelists were Ellen Guiney and Danica Petroshius, who both worked closely with the senator on Goals 2000, a project focusing on standards-based education reform, and the No Child Left Behind Act, respectively.
The event attracted a number of individuals who have worked in public service as well as many students at the University, including Elizabeth B. Epstein, a graduate student at the GSE.
“He’s the most influential education leader of our time,” she said. “I’m here to hear what other people have to say about him in memoriam.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For many Harvard students, Veterans Day meant an extra day to catch up on sleep and work. But this year, several Harvard administrators, students, and graduates marked the occasion with a special ceremony in Memorial Church, recognizing the 16 Harvard alumni—the most of any university besides the service academies—who have received the Medal of Honor.
Military service has a long history at Harvard—thousands of Harvard alumni have served in the U.S. military and about 1,200 have lost their lives in war. Currently, there are 150 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan studying at Harvard.
Yesterday’s service—hosted by the Harvard Veterans Alumni Organization—was filled with men and women in uniform who had served or are currently serving in the military.
In his opening address, Reverend Peter J. Gomes reminded those in attendance of the initial purpose of Memorial Church.
“We are very much aware of the sacrifice of our youth for our country,” Gomes said. “This church stands in the middle of the Yard as a perpetual reminder of the sacrifice they gave.”
The church—a gift to the University from alumni—was dedicated on Armistice Day in 1932 to the memory of those who gave their lives in World War I.
It has since grown to include memorials for Harvard students who gave their lives in the wars that followed.
General George W. Casey, chief of staff of the United States Army and another speaker at yesterday’s event, noted that his father’s name is on one of the church walls, honoring him for his military service in the Vietnam War.
“The history of our freedom has been bought through the selfless service and sacrifice of the men and women we honor today,” Casey said in defining the significance of Veterans Day. “Our country is lucky to have people that believe in the values of our county and are willing to fight for them.”
Following Casey, President of the Harvard Veterans Alumni Organization Thomas Reardon ’68 presented the plaque with the names of the Medal of Honor recipients.
The plaque will remain on Memorial Church’s wall.
University President Drew G. Faust remarked on Harvard’s dedication to service, explaining that soldiers from Harvard have “fought across two centuries and around the world.”
“As current and future students enter Harvard’s gates, I hope they will be instilled with a sense of obligation, service, and citizenship,” Faust added.
A handful of current Harvard students were present for the event as well.
“Maybe most Harvard students aren’t aware of the commendable achievements and sacrifices past Harvard students have made for our country in the military,” Benjamin B. Wilcox ’13 said.
“We should be proud of this—it is inspiring.”
Andrew P. Howe ’12 agreed, saying that he was “honored to be part of a university that pays so much tribute to service.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Foundation presented its 2009 Humanitarian Award to Captain Chesley Sullenberger, who orchestrated the stunning landing of commercial flight 1549 on the Hudson River in January after the plane’s two engines lost function mid-flight.
All 155 passengers on board were saved by Sullenberger’s actions in what was dubbed by the media as the “Miracle on the Hudson.”
Sullenberger was lauded by speakers including the Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes, Harvard Foundation Director S. Allen Counter, and Undergraduate Council President Andrea R. Flores ’10, who all recognized the captain for his calm heroism under the most intense of circumstances.
In his opening remarks, Gomes declared Sullenberger’s story as a reminder that “heroes do exist.”
Flores went further in her speech, praising the pilot’s “selfless heroism” and calling his story one that had “inspired the world.”
“In doing what he loved, he became a hero in his own right,” she said.
Despite overflowing praise from Gomes, Flores, and others, in his brief remarks, Sullenberger sought to graciously downplay the magnitude of his heroism.
Sullenberger began his remarks by expressing his admiration for the University as “a temple of learning,” and joked that he wished that he had not needed to go to such great lengths to get here.
“Something about the event has captivated people...it has given them hope and reminded them of their own potential for good,” he said.
In his remarks, Sullenberger insisted on the role that teamwork played in averting that potentially devastating crisis, and he emphasized his life’s ideal of building his reputation one day and one interaction at a time.
After being called an “American hero” in Gomes’ introduction, Sullenberger demurred, choosing instead to offer a different interpretation.
“A hero chooses to put himself in danger—this was thrust upon me,” he said.
Sullenberger joins the ranks of past recipients, including United Nations Secretaries General Kofi Annan, Boutros Boutros-Ghali and Javier Perez de Cuellar, as well as Nobel Laureates Desmond Tutu and Elie Wiesel, and actor Denzel Washington.
The Din and Tonics, an a capella group on campus, provided a musical tribute and presented Sullenberger with a pair of the Din and Tonics’ signature green socks. Flores offered a Harvard sweatshirt and mug on behalf of the student body.
Sullenberger closed his speech with a thoughtful question to the audience.
“At the end of our lives we will not concern ourselves with counting money or toys accumulated...we will ask ourselves: did I make a difference?” He added, “I hope for all of you, the answer is ‘Yes.’”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard senior Layla Amjadi ’10 challenged White House officials to develop a more specific plan for Sudan in a meeting in Washington, DC on Tuesday.
Acting in her capacity as the student director of Students Taking Action Now: Darfur (STAND), a national student anti-genocide coalition with a chapter at the University, Amjadi said the meeting indicates that the student group has been recognized as a “legitimate, real voice.”
The White House invited Amjadi, along with Save Darfur’s Executive Director Jerry Fowler, to meet Tuesday afternoon with Special Envoy to Sudan Scott Gration and Samantha Power, the National Security Council’s Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs.
The invitation came after Gration could not attend the “Pledge 2 Protect” conference on Sudan, convened by STAND last weekend.
The group’s fundraising coordinator Emily K. Cunningham ’13 said the fact that Amjadi was invited to such a high-level interview shows how powerful the larger student anti-genocide movement has become.
STAND members were asked to vote online to select five questions Amjadi would ask Gration and Power.
Members voted for Amjadi to ask the two administrators about issues ranging from how the administration would increase specificity and transparency to when people in refugee camps might be able to return home and how genocide might be prevented in the future.
“It is a good sign the administration is reaching out to us,” STAND communications director and George Washington University senior Sean Redding said. “But we have to make sure they know we are not just doing it for [public relations].”
The meeting, which was streamed live on STAND’s Web site as well as the White House Web site, generated many responses on STAND’s Twitter and Facebook pages. Most people expressed disappointment and called Power’s and Gration’s responses vague.
“I think one of our biggest frustrations is how unclear this administration has been and how behind the scenes they have been [about Sudan policy],” Amjadi said. Many STAND members campaigned for Obama last fall and are now frustrated with the administration’s lack of initiative in Sudan, she said.
“I was hoping for more specific explanations of how [the administration] would implement the Sudan Policy Review,” Cunningham said.
White House officials often say they cannot share more information about their plan for Sudan because certain items are classified, Amjadi said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Members of Harvard’s physics department have created a quantum gas microscope that allows atoms to be observed individually at a temperature of five billionths of a degree above absolute zero.
This isolation of individual atoms is the first milestone in a project that was started about four years ago by assistant professor of physics Markus Greiner. Until now, scientists have only studied these atoms in bulk.
This is the first useful quantum information system to be developed. Theoretically, a super-computer could perform similar functions, but even a very large, complex computer would only be able to handle information of about 17 atoms.
“This field is exciting because it allows [us] to look into long-standing problems in new ways with comparatively simple setups,” Simon Foelling, one of the researchers, wrote in an e-mailed statement. “Also, the progress is tremendous which makes it an exciting field to be in—there is always something new.”
Greiner and his team simulate the system through “optical lattices”—three-dimensional crystals formed by lasers.
By observing atom behavior through the high-resolution microscope, hundreds of atoms in the lattice can be viewed. In the cold environment, the atoms behave according to quantum mechanics.
Their work, which is conducted at the Harvard-MIT Center for Ultracold Atoms, is interdisciplinary, according to Waseem S. Bakr, one of the researchers and a graduate student in physics.
“This research is at the crossroads of two different fields—physics and solid state research,” Bakr said.
The center has been one of the most successful labs in this field of research, Greiner said.
Bakr simulated their work with M&Ms, gummy fruit snacks, and a foam egg carton. The M&Ms were spread out on the foam carton and represented atoms, and the gummies were impurities.
The scientists explained that the microscope will allow the team to create a lattice “egg carton” made of lasers in order to observe individual atoms, the M&Ms, without impurities, the gummies.
Eventually scientists will be able to use this information to explore the physics that results in high temperature superconductivity or magnetism.
According to Bakr, often researchers stumble upon new materials like superconductors.
“This will allow us to try to understand the microscopics of these materials and ‘designer matter,’ not discover them by accident,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Sexual innuendos, fossilized jokes (get it?!), cheating on your boyfriend in front of your boyfriend, Ivory Tower Season 7 comes back with a bang…well, not quite, only if the boyfriend hadn’t interrupted.
The Season Premier titled “You’re Not In Kenya Anymore” marks the return of Rob Foster after a year abroad, only to find Dartek (who?) rave all over campus and the girl of his dreams dating Dartek (again, who?). Well, sorry bud, trends here in Cambridge moves fast. But hey, at least you kissed the girl before Dartek did. Boy, talk about drama!
The plot is somewhat soapy, with poor Rob clearly sexually frustrated – fossilized rhinoceros penis and two beetles copulating for a thousand years in copal? – must’ve had a tough year in Kenya. But what captured FlyBy’s eyes was Mel, the girl-next-door, the loyal best friend, the one you call up at 3 AM in the morning to tell her about all your girl troubles. Well, she’s clearly got her own set of woes this time.
Readers, stay tuned for the next episode and analysis on FlyBy!
Sections
The same people that brought you ShuttleBoy—before theweird call in thing—rolled out a new websiteHarvardMaps in conjunction with the Undergraduate Council today. The site, part of the CS 50 network and created by CS 50 Professor David Malan, is an attempt by the UC to begin streamlining room reservation systems in all the Undergraduate Houses and other locations across campus.
“Until today, there’s been no centralized place to find room reservation information for different buildings.” wrote Eric N. Hysen ’11, a UC rep and one of the compliers of the program. “We hope this will begin making it easier for students and student groups to reserve rooms for their events.” He added, “We’ll be working to expand on this with a searchable database of rooms on campus…our long term goal is a fully online, centralized reservation system for all buildings.”
Follow the jump for more on how the site works.
The site looks like any other map of Harvard’s campus because they were all created by CS50 with the sameinterface, but when you search for an item and then hit “enter” or click on your desired location, a bubble pops up identifying that location, with links for “website” and “room reservations.” The former links to the building’s main website (if it exists) and the latter links to the room reservation procedure page on that building’s site.
Fun surprise: if a building has a wikipedia page, the application will excerpt it to feed your wiki-obsession!
Like most UC innovations, this isn’t a perfect system. One still has to go through the several web pages to actually reserve a room, but FlyBy thinks its a start. “It’s an important start to solving the problem with room reservations on campus,” wrote Hysen. “Long term, the UC is pushing for a centralized online system to do the actual reservations.”
This site is one of a number of recent innovations the CS50 department has rolled out this year. Other gems include HarvardMaps for those of you know need a little navigational help, HarvardNews, and the slightly less gem-like but much appreciated HarvardEvents.
Never one to pass up a teachable moment, Malan says that the sites’ datasets are integrated into students’ final projects.
So reserve away, Harvard. We know you're dying to!
