News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Winter Olympics less than two months away, the US women’s hockey team is set, and three Harvard skaters will be making the trip to Vancouver.
Angela Ruggiero ’02-’04, Julie Chu ’06-’07, and Caitlin Cahow ’07-’08 are among the 21 players on the Olympic roster, which was released Thursday.
The Harvard alums have each been to at least one Games previously, with Ruggiero, a defenseman, a veteran of every American squad since women’s hockey became an Olympic sport in 1998.
Chu, a forward, made the team in 2002 and 2006, while Cahow, a defenseman, played for the US in 2006.
The Vancouver Games begin on Feb. 12 and the American team opens preliminary play on Feb. 14 against China. The US will enter the Olympics with a No. 1 world ranking, having won the last two world titles.
The Americans’ main rival in Vancouver will be Canada, the two-time defending Olympic champion. Jennifer Botterill ’01-’03 and Sarah Vaillancourt ’08-’09, both Olympic veterans, are competing for spots on the Canadian roster.
Ruggiero, Chu and Cahow will face off against the ECAC All-Star team—including Crimson skaters co-captain Cori Bassett, senior Anna McDonald, and junior Kate Buesser—in an exhibition game on Jan. 3 at Quinnipiac.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's six days until Christmas, and unless you're in LifeSci 1a, LPS A, Chem 30, or one of the other classes with an exam Monday (hey, no one said being a pre-med would be easy), there's only one thing on your mind: you want to get the hell out of here.
But it turns out a blizzard-like storm might keep you stuck in Cambridge. Mayors Mayor Thomas M. Menino and E. Denise Simmons City Manager Robert W. Healy declared snow emergencies in Boston and Cambridge, and flights and buses are being cancelled left and right. Find out if your travel plans were affected after the jump.
Buses
BoltBus - All buses today are cancelled.
Greyhound/Peter Pan - All buses today are cancelled.
Megabus - All buses leaving Boston for New York today are cancelled.
Trains
Amtrak - Amtrak's not posting any service alerts or passenger service notices on their Web site, and several routes—including Boston-New York, Boston-Chicago, and Boston-Washington, D.C.—have not indicated any expected deviations from their scheduled departures.
Airlines
Many airlines have issued waivers if you want to reschedule flights leaving tomorrow, regardless if the flight is actually delayed or cancelled. Click the links to be taken to the airline's flight status portion of the Web site.
Continental Airlines - Many flights leaving today morning from Logan Airport have been cancelled.
Delta Air Lines - You can reschedule any flight today with no charge as long as the plane leaves no later than Friday. Several flights tomorrow today have already been cancelled, including many flights leaving to New York, Washington and Delta's hub, Atlanta, before 5 p.m.
JetBlue Airways - You can reschedule any flight today with no charge as long as the plane leaves before Monday. Many flights that leave tomorrow this morning have already been cancelled, including flights leaving to New York, Washington, Houston, and Los Angeles.
Southwest Airlines - You can reschedule any flight today with no charge as long as it leaves within two weeks. Check their Web site for specific travel information.
United Airlines - If you bought your ticket on or before Friday, you can reschedule any flight today with no charge. Check their Web site for specific travel information. Many flights have already been cancelled.
