Sections
Dorm: Pennypacker
Hometown: The ATL
Relationship status: Single
Three words that describe you: Paisley panda grandpa
Hottest trait: This is a terrible question, do I have to answer this one? Haha then definitely my southern accent. Definitely. Ya’ll.
Claim to Harvard fame: Muumuus
Best part about becoming a sophomore: HOUSES!
Fastest way to your heart: Give me things with cinnamon in them. And walks.
What you miss most from the ’90s: OMG Sock’Em Boppers! OMG.
Your Gossip Girl crush: Blair, obviously.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Diane Paulus ’87—the recently-appointed
Artistic Director of the American
Repertory Theatre,
which operates out
of Harvard’s Loeb
Drama Center—
was nominated
Wednesday for a
prestigious Tony
Award for her direction
of the musical
“Hair.”
“I had always
been a ‘Hair’ fanatic.
I had grown
up listening to the cast album and always
wanted to work on the show,” Paulus said.
When asked by the Public Theater in New
York City to direct the musical, Paulus
said she “was totally excited about taking
on the project.”
“Hair” was written in the 1960s by
James Rado and George Ragne, with musical
composition by Galt MacDermot. It
follows the story of “The Tribe,” a group
of politically active, long-haired Greenwich
Village friends whose rebellion
against the conservatism of their parents’
generation leads to struggles with racism,
sex, and war.
After its debut, the show morphed
from an off-Broadway avant-garde production
to Broadway’s first rock musical
that invited audiences on-stage for the
finale.
“‘Hair’ exemplifies what I believe theater
should be. It’s about a true community
of performers and audiences,” Paulus
said. “I would look at what I’m doing with
‘Hair’ as the general vision that I want to
bring to the A.R.T.”
The sense of communication between
actors and audience shines throughout
the Broadway performance, said Jordan
A. Reddout ’10, one of 50 students who
traveled to New York City in March on an
Office of Fine Arts-sponsored trip to see
“Hair.”
“Every five or 10 minutes, the actors
on stage would sing or yell or direct some
of their lines at us,” Reddout said. “At one
point, I think they even stole an [audience
member’s] hat.”
According to former president of the
Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club Alison
B. Kline ’09, Paulus’ tenure at the A.R.T.
has thus far reflected a similar emphasis
on interactivity.
“She cares a lot about the community
and the audience. For her, it’s not just
about staging a play and bringing an audience,”
Kline said. “It’s about connecting
with the people that the play’s trying to
bring in.”
Prior to her Tony nomination for
this musical, Paulus’ productions have
garnered several Off-Broadway Theater
(“Obie”) Awards.
Paulus graduated Phi Beta Kappa
from Harvard with a B.A. in Social Studies.
As an undergraduate, Paulus said that
she was very involved in the drama scene
and regularly attended productions at
the A.R.T., an experience that she called
“deeply inspiring.”
“Hair” has been nominated for a total
of eight Tony awards this year, including
Best Actor and Best Revivals of a Musical.
The 2009 ceremony will be held on June 7.
—Staff writer Manning Ding can be
reached at ding3@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cabot House Allston-Burr Resident Dean Mya M. Mangawang will step down from her post this summer following a tenure that many students have characterized as polarizing. 
Mangawang—who served as resident dean for only a year—announced her resignation in an e-mail to the Cabot list yesterday, writing that she leaves her job with “mixed emotions.”
“As your dean, I have attempted to model a way of being that practices and promotes critical thinking, active and respectful questioning, and honest exchange as essential personal and professional values,” Mangawang wrote. 
She also wrote that her decision to step down reflected a commitment to these values, though she refused to comment further about the reasons for her departure. 
Several Cabot students interviewed yesterday said they were disappointed with Mangawang’s performance as resident dean.
The students were granted anonymity after asking that their names not be published to protect their relationship with members of the House community.
One student said that Mangawang had exhibited “a mild unspoken distaste” for Cabot students during her time as dean. 
And according to some, Mangawang’s strained interactions were not just confined to students. 
One of the Cabot students, who is familiar with the dynamic between the two administrators, said that Mangawang and Susan Bourneuf—the long-time Cabot assistant to the resident dean—had a rocky relationship during Mangawang’s tenure as resident dean. 
      Bourneuf, who also plans to leave her post after this academic year, declined to comment on her relationship with Mangawang.
Bourneuf said she has accepted the administration’s retirement incentive package, which allowed staff members over 55 years of age with at least 10 years of service as of June 30 to voluntarily choose early retirement. 
“Although I like working at Harvard, it seemed like a good offer that Harvard was giving us,” Bourneuf said.
Bourneuf said she is unsure about what the College plans to do with her position in the future.
“Mya has been a strong presence in the House and a forceful advocate for our students,” wrote Cabot House Master and Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris in an e-mailed statement. “We are sorry that she is leaving, and we will miss her.”
Eric P. Newcomer contributed to the reporting of this story.                          —Staff writer Lauren D. Kiel can be reached at lkiel@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to the results of a poll
conducted last week of more than 1,700
Harvard undergraduates, nearly 62
percent of respondents support the official
recognition of the Reserve Officer
Training Corps as a fully supported student
organization by the University—a
move that would reverse a 40 year-old
Harvard policy.
The poll—sponsored by the Harvard
Republican Club—reflects the opinions
of roughly a quarter of Harvard’s undergraduate
population, and cuts across
all bands of the political spectrum:
54 percent of
respondent self-reported
as Democrats,
while 19 percent
identified
as Republicans
and 27 percent
as independents.
Official recognition
for
ROTC could
help facilitate
transfer of
course credit for ROTC classes taken at
MIT, allow financial support from Harvard
for cross-registration, and mean
the removal of language in the student
handbook that says military and ROTC
policies excluding openly gay people are
“inconsistent with Harvard’s values.”
Although Colin J. Motley ’10, president
of the HRC, said that the poll was
certainly vulnerable to some “self-selection
bias,” he said it remained a valid
barometer for the campus’ sentiments.
“It shows that faculty opinion is really
out of touch with student opinion,
but more importantly it shows student
support for the cadets and midshipmen,”
Motley said.
Shawna L. Sinnott ’10, a Marine
ROTC midshipman, said she believed
the results showed that the current
generation is better able to distinguish
individual ROTC members from the
political issue of “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell”—the controversial policy that
bars openly gay individuals from serving
in the armed forces.
“Just the fact that it was being discussed
was a big step, more so that they
were engaging intellectually,” Sinnott
said. “I think a lot of us have felt that
we’ve had a lot of individual support
from students throughout our time
here at Harvard, but it always seems like
the public eye is against us.”
The HRC poll follows a week-long
campaign in April to gain recognition
for ROTC on campus, with Motley noting
that a similar poll on Columbia’s
campus led to full-scale dialogue between
students and faculty members
on the policy.
But critics of the poll said that none
of the advocates of ROTC’s recognition
have made
public gestures to
fully address the
issue of non-discrimination
and
officially condemn
the DADT policy,
saying that without
openly condemning
DADT, only
one side of the issue
is actually being
examined.
“I think they’re
conflating their political
objective with the opinion of the
student body,” said Queer Students and
Allies Co-Chair Marco Chan ’11, who
nonetheless praised the actual exercise
of the poll as a valuable means of promoting
discussion.
Motley said that the policy’s exclusion
from the GOP platform has prohibited
the HRC from taking an official
position on DADT, while Sinnott
said that ROTC cadets find themselves
bound by military free speech policies
that require them to be “apolitical.”
The University’s current position on
ROTC was first established in 1969 in
response to the storming of University
Hall by students protesting the Vietnam
War.
The University now does not recognize
ROTC because of the military’s
DADT policy, which the University says
is in conflict with its anti-discrimination
policy.
—Staff writer Edward-Michael Dussom
can be reached at emdussom@fas.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For Anthony P. Dedousis ’11, Jeopardy!
was simply a TV show that “everyone
in America over age of 65 watched.”
But last night, the Leverett sophomore
helped the show reach out to
viewers in a younger demographic, as
he represented Harvard on the Jeopardy!
College Championship as one of
15 college students nationwide selected
this year.
Dedousis appeared on the show
against two students—one from
Princeton and
one from Rice.
But his incorrect
answer on the
“Final Jeopardy”
question eliminated
him from the
tournament.
Dedousis’s path
to Jeopardy was
relatively straightforward,
he said.
Encouraged by Jonathan Hawley
’10—who competed in last year’s college
tournament—Dedousis took the
online exam last October and was then
called for a second round of rigorous
group interviews in mid-November.
Since only the students accepted for
the show are contacted, Dedousis said
he had forgotten all about Jeopardy!
as the months went by—until Spring
Break, when he was notified.
“I don’t remember hearing much after
that. I was so excited,” he said, adding
that his high school did not even
have a quiz bowl team. “It took all I had
to not to scream like a moron in front
of everyone on the bus.”
As surprised as Dedousis was about
being selected to compete, his friend
Peter G. Bacon ’11 said that he was “not
at all” shocked.
“Anthony is incredibly bright…as
soon as he told me he was trying out for
Jeopardy, I could see him on the show,”
Bacon said.
Dedousis—who had never been to
California before—said that he arrived
excited to meet the other contestants,
explore Los Angeles, and, of course, see
the host Alex Trebek.
According to Dedousis, his nervousness
peaked right before his round.
“I was bordering on hyperventilation,”
he said. “The people powdered
my face, again.”
Dedousis said his nervousness diminished
after
walking on stage,
and as he focused
on the game—and which camera
to look at.
“A million
thoughts were going
through my
head,” he said.
“It’s finally real!”
Faced with
categories such as
“Literature” and
“Only One Vowel,” Dedousis moved
into first place after correctly answering
a “Daily Double” in the second half
of the show.
But Dedousis’s lead was short-lived.
After incorrectly answering the final
question, his score plummeted, leaving
him in last place and eliminating
him from the preliminary round of the
tournament.
Though the show only lasts for half
an hour, Dedousis said that his experience
was “one of a lifetime.”
“I now have a story that I can tell for
the rest of my life over dinners,” he said.
—Staff writer Helen X. Yang can be
reached at hxyang@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Albert H. Gordon ’23, Harvard’s oldest
living alumnus and a generous donor
to the University,
died in his New York
home on May 1. He
was 107 years old.
Gordon is the
namesake of the
Albert H. Gordon
Track and Tennis
Center and the
Albert H. Gordon
Professorship of
Business Administration
at Harvard
Business School, and served a six-year
term on Harvard’s Board of Overseers—
the second of the University’s two governing
boards.
“He was without a doubt the largest
benefactor of the Harvard track program,”
said cross country and track director
Jason S. Saretsky.
Gordon, who ran freshman track at
Harvard, remained a fitness enthusiast
throughout his long life. He was the oldest
participant in the London marathon and
continued to travel to work four times a
week until he was 105.
“Even at the age of 105, he was still
very sharp and very on top of things,” said
Sartesky, who visited Gordon at his Manhattan
home in 2006. “Mr. Gordon just
had something about him that was very
charismatic and personal.”
Gordon graduated cum laude from
Harvard College in 1923 with distinction
in economics, and was also a Crimson editor.
He graduated third in his HBS class
two years later, according to The New
York Times.
Gordon arrived on Wall Street in time
for the 1929 stock market crash. After
leaving his first job at Goldman Sachs,
Gordon purchased the stock brokerage
firm Kidder, Peabody & Co in 1931 and
led the firm through the Great Depression.
Gordon transformed the company
from a struggling financial institution
into what Forbes magazine called “a minor
powerhouse” in 2005.
John C. Whitehead, former chairman
of Goldman Sachs, described Gordon to
Bloomberg as “a famous business-getter.”
“Work hard and never give up—those
were very valuable lessons I learned from
trying to compete with him,” Whitehead
said.
Gordon served as the CEO of Kidder
until 1976, and worked at Deltec Asset
management LLC until 2006.
Today, one of the main roads into the
business school is named after him.
Throughout his long life, Gordon
continued to give back to his alma mater.
He served as the President of the Harvard
Club of New York, the chairman of the
Harvard College Fund, and was on the executive
committees of the Harvard Varsity
Club and the Friends of Harvard Track.
“All his life, helping people out and
giving away money have been his favorite
things,” Gordon’s grandson John Roberts
told the New York Road Runners club,
where Gordon sat on the board of directors.
“It’s incredible how he’s always looking
for new ways to challenge and improve
himself,” he said.
Gordon was born on July 21, 1901 in
Scituate, Mass. He is survived by three
sons and two daughters. All three sons
participated in varsity sports at Harvard.
—Staff writer Manning Ding can be
reached at ding3@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Seventy six percent of students offered a place in the College’s Class of 2013 have accepted, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid told The Crimson on Wednesday in a preliminary release of admissions statistics. This number does not include students who have chosen to defer admission a year, nor does it include students who will later be admitted off the waitlist. Dean of Admissions William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said this year’s yield could even rise slightly above last year’s 78 percent once waitlist spots are offered, attributing the high figure to the College’s financial aid program, which the University has pledged to honor despite an “unprecedented economic downturn.” According to Fitzsimmons, the number of families who contacted the financial aid office to ask about financial aid doubled this year. Fitzsimmons said that even from early data, it is clear that the incoming freshman class will be the most socioeconomically diverse Harvard has seen. The fraction of students in the class receiving financial aid could be as high as 65 percent, compared to approximately 60 percent this year. “Given the economic downturn, the yield could have plummeted. The fact that it remained high is enormously encouraging, it is a measure of the strength of Harvard itself and the effectiveness of the financial aid program,” he said.The admissions office has determined that yield rates were equal among those students who qualified for financial aid and those students who have not. The number may even be slightly higher for the former group, Fitzsimmons said, which he said demonstrated that “financial need would not deter people from coming here.” The Class of 2013 will also be the most racially diverse in College  history—with Black students composing 10 percent of the class and Latino students composing 9.5 percent. Yield for Black students was almost 71 percent, up from last year’s 64 percent, and 66 percent for Latino students (the number for last year was unavailable). The first round of waitlist deliberations will run from today until the 19th. Fitzsimmons said that “at least 85 if not more” will be taken off the list in the coming weeks, as the office is still waiting to hear from some admitted students. The admissions office aims to have all decisions out by July 1, Fitzsimmons said. He added that it is possible that students admitted off the waitlist will begin hearing as early as today, but more should find out by the middle of next week. The number of students admitted from the waitlist will depend in part on the number of students who choose to defer their offers of admission for a year.So far, 31 students have elected to defer, a number that the admissions office expects to rise. This number is usually between 30-50 students and does not seem to be affected by any particular variable, Fitzsimmons said, though he added it was possible that the bad economy could cause fewer people to defer this year.—Staff writer Jillian K. Kushner can be reached at kushner@fas.harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the Harvard Coop is a haven
for books that encourage intellectual
discovery, the bookstore is once again
trying to limit access to its pricing information.
On Feb. 4, Barnes & Noble Inc.,
which manages the Coop bookstore,
sent a cease and desist letter to BrunoBooks.com CEO Jesse Maddox, threatening
legal action unless the Web site
stopped taking textbook information
from the Coop’s site.
BrunoBooks—a service operated
out of Brown University—collects textbook
information from stores at various
colleges, including the Harvard Coop,
and allows students to compare prices
against those of online vendors. Last fall, BrunoBooks merged with the similar
Harvard-based service CrimsonReading.
org, which was founded by Tom D.
Hadfield ’08 and Jon T. Staff ’10 in 2006
to help students find cheaper textbooks.
The cease and desist letter claims
that “Brunobooks.com misappropriated
and infringed Barnes & Noble’s rights in
the Copyrighted Database by removing
the Copyrighted Database from the
Harvard Web site and placing it on the
Brunobooks web site.”
According to Coop President Jerry P.
Murphy ’73, the “copyrighted database”
that the letter refers to includes book
titles, as well as used and new textbook
prices. But Maddox says Barnes & Noble’s
claims are unsubstantiated, since
this information is in the public domain
and cannot be copyrighted.
The Coop’s Web site lists textbooks
by departments and courses, and also
includes publisher and edition information.
“We aggregate all that information,”
Murphy said. “We don’t want people to
take advantage of the fruits of our labor.”
Though he acknowledged that the
actual titles and prices of the textbooks
were probably not protected by copyright
law, he said that he opposed competitors
taking information from the
Coop’s Web site.
Though Murphy
said that it is
“absolutely fine”
for students to jot
down numbers
from the Coop for
their own price
comparison, he
said that individual
consumers’
actions differ
from BrunoBooks
“wholesale, electronically
scraping
all the information
from the Web site.”
A HISTORY OF TENSION
The cease and desist letter was not the
first legal encounter between the Coop
and textbook price comparison services.
In Sept. 2007, the Coop called the Cambridge
Police Department after employees
from CrimsonReading—who were manually
writing down textbook ISBN numbers
in the Coop—refused to leave the
store. But the police made no arrests, and
three affiliates of the Berkman Center for
Internet and Society later denounced the
Coop’s actions in a Crimson editorial, arguing
that CrimsonReading had not violated
copyright law.
“[W]hile copyright law might prohibit
students from dropping by with scanners,
it doesn’t stop them from noting what
books are on the shelf and how much they
cost,” wrote law school professor John G.
Palfrey ’94, visiting Berkman fellow Wendy
M. Seltzer ’96, and Angela Kang, then a
second-year law student.
After this incident and the subsequent
backlash, the Coop backed down and
CrimsonReading
continued compiling
textbook ISBN
numbers from the
store.
“The Coop
started looking the
other way,” Staff
said.
Beginning this
past fall, BrunoBooks began taking
information from
the Coop’s Web
site rather than
the store itself. But rather than turning a
blind eye to BrunoBooks’ practices, Barnes
& Noble’s cease and desist letter is now threatening to press charges against what Staff calls an “analogous action.”
EMPTY CLAIMS?
Maddox said that the Coop’s current
claims against BrunoBooks closely resemble
the 2007 incident involving CrimsonReading,
and that the only difference is
that the book titles and prices are now being
taken from the Coop’s Web site instead
of being manually copied down in-store.
He said that there was still no legal
basis for Barnes & Noble’s claims against
BrunoBooks.
Legal experts from the Berkman center
agreed.
“I think Barnes & Noble is deliberating
misinterpreting the law,” said Seltzer,
one of the authors of the 2007 editorial.
“They’re claiming broader protections
than the law would give us.”
According to Seltzer, who read the cease
and desist letter, copyright law only covers
the selection and arrangement of factual
information and not the information itself,
such as textbook titles and prices.
“From what I’ve seen, I don’t think
there’s a basis for a legal claim,” she said.
Though the letter said that further legal
action would be taken if BrunoBooks did
not respond within seven days, Maddox
said that Barnes & Noble has not followed
up on its threats, although three months
have passed.
“It just shows the emptiness of their
claims,” he said. “This is just another instance
of a big corporation trying to bully
a small startup on the basis of false legal
claims.”
Maddox said that BrunoBooks is not
planning to respond with legal action of
its own, and is simply hoping that Barnes
& Noble will retract the letter.
Staff—who is still involved with BrunoBooks
on the Harvard campus—said
that the company plans to obtain textbook
information from the Coop’s Web site
again in the fall semester.
“We’re going to continue doing what
we’ve been doing and what we’re legally
entitled to do,” Staff said.
—Staff writer Liyun Jin can be reached at ljin@fas.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Economist Marc J. Melitz will return from Princeton next year to a Harvard Economics Department short on faculty. Melitz—a former associate and assistant professor at Harvard who now teaches in Princeton’s economics department and Woodrow Wilson School—is well-known for his work on international trade.“He’s been the most influential international trade economist since Paul Krugman,” said economics professor Pol Antràs, who worked with Melitz during his time at Harvard.Melitz’s influence on the study of international trade began with his graduate thesis at the University of Michigan. In that paper, he built a conceptual framework for international trade that focused on decisions of individual firms and their entrance into the market. Melitz’s firm-level approach to international trade has provided a way to predict aggregate trade flows, which Antràs said “have been confirmed in the data and were highly non-intuitive given the frame of models that we used to work with.”That approach is now “the current workhorse model in international trade,” Antràs said.Melitz arrived at Harvard in 2000, where he remained until receiving a tenure offer from Princeton.As an associate professor at Harvard, Melitz taught the intermediate level Economics 1010a: Microeconomic Theory, as well as Economics 1535: International Trade and Investment. He said he plans to teach 1535 next year and 1010a in coming years.The addition of Melitz will help maintain current course offerings in a department with one of the highest student-to-faculty ratios in the Facultyof Arts and Sciences. In the past year, the department has faced a shortage of faculty, leading to the cancellation of smaller courses like Junior Seminars. Department Chair James H. Stock said that with the addition of Melitz, the department’s size “will be approximately constant for this year.” Course offerings are unlikely to see much growth because of FAS financial restrictions on visiting faculty and because some faculty members are on temporary leave to work in Washington under President Barack Obama.Melitz was offered the position at Harvard two years ago, before the financial crisis and FAS constraints on new hires, Stock said. Melitz said he waited to accept the offer in part because of family considerations.His decision to leave Princeton to join the Harvard economics department highlights the rivalry between the two departments—two of the best in the nation.“Obviously this is going to tilt the scale somewhat,” said economics Professor Elhanan Helpman, who also specializes in international trade. “They took him from us, so we are entitled to take him from them,” he said.—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu. —Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For most women at Harvard, Friday
nights are a predictable affair. Around the
Square, women clad in flashy jewelry and
short dresses head to final clubs or room
parties to dance with men.
But last month, a few Harvard women
left this Friday night scene and boarded a
bus to Wellesley, and a world where women
replaced their dresses with lingerie, leather,
and studs. One daring woman left her top
bare other than rainbow suspenders covering
her nipples, while another dressed as a
condom.
The school’s annual Dyke Ball, one of
the largest gatherings of lesbian college
students in the Boston area, is a striking
example of Wellesley’s vibrant lesbian culture.
But at Harvard, lesbian events as high profile
as Dyke Ball are unimaginable. The
school’s queer female community—often
overshadowed by a more recognizable gay
male population—is far less visible and internally
divided between athletes, activists,
and a more alternative crowd.
And while some are pushing for the
community to become more prominent
and cohesive, internal rifts have so far
hindered such efforts to bring Harvard’s queer women together. 
‘A STEREOTYPICAL IMAGE’
The college admissions office often
touts the school’s diversity, showcased by
a wide array of ethnic organizations, religious
communities, and groups such as the
Harvard College Queer Students and Allies
(QSA), an umbrella group for students of
different sexualities and gender identities.
But queer women seem to stay under the
radar. Like most other campus communities,
they have an organization, Girlspot,
which functions as an exclusively social
group for queer women.
Despite this, multiple freshmen claimed
they had not met or did not know a single
lesbian at Harvard, while all of them said
they knew gay men.
Some queer women were surprised by
this assessment, since they make no effort
to hide their sexual orientations.
Blessing T. Oyeniyi ’10, the chair of
Girlspot, jokes that when she introduces
herself she says, “Hi, I’m a lesbian. My
name’s Blessing.”
And Emily A. Owens ’09 freely answered
questions about the lesbian community in
the packed Darwin’s café on Cambridge
Street.
According to Michelle C. Kellaway ’10,
students on campus don’t realize when a
woman is gay, so the community remains unrecognized.
“People are looking for us to be
quite visible in some recognizable way,”
Kellaway says. “Most people have a stereotypical
image of what gay women
look like and this doesn’t hold for our
community here at all.”
Oyeniyi eschews the butch lesbian
stereotype, instead wearing formfitting,
feminine clothing and playing
with her long hair as she talks. Even the
Girlspot Web site defies societal expectations
with a neon pink background.
Unless one dresses to match the
butch masculine stereotype, Oyeniyi
says, it is difficult to distinguish queer women from straight ones.
‘HIPPIE VEGETARIAN’
Through Girlspot, Oyeniyi organizes
parties and social events where
queer women can bridge the gaps that
seem to divide them.
She splits the community into three
camps: the politically active, the athletes,
and the “more hippie Co-op vegetarian
lesbians.”
Rower Elizabeth C. Elrod ’11 agrees
with this characterization, distinguishing
the “super liberal” crowd from the
athletes and the Co-op women.
And although some women cross
these divisions (for example, Rosenberg
is chair of the Trans Task Force,
a member of the Dudley Co-op, and a
former varsity fencer), many say there
is little interaction between the groups.
“I find it quite rare when I see an
athlete come over to my sector of the
world,” Kellaway says. Kellaway counts
herself among the politically active and
is former co-chair of the QSA.
Multiple women say the only events
that bring the entire community
together are showings of The L Word,
a drama on Showtime about a group
of lesbian women. When new episodes
were shown on Sunday nights, Girlspot
would host a screening in the basement
of the Women’s Center.
Kellaway says she sees more queer
women together at The L Word showings
than at any other gathering on
campus.
“Why would I go even though I
think the show is atrocious? It’s because
it’s so much fun to watch in a big group
of people,” Kellaway says.
The show’s final episode aired last
month. And even though the divided
community may no longer come
together to watch The L Word, the
group is intertwined through personal
connections—friendships, hook-ups,
and ex-girlfriends, for better or for
worse.
‘NINE TIMES OUT OF 10’
Indeed, these divisions largely
dissolve when it comes to romance
because the lesbian community is too
small for people to date exclusively athletes
or liberals. Many queer women say
they all know each other.
Rosenberg says she recalls her friend
going on a date with someone last year
and saying, “God, it has to work out,
because she’s the only queer female
athlete left.”
Many feel frustrated and limited
with the small dating pool on campus.
“Think about it: if I see a woman
on the street, nine times out of 10 she’s
going to be straight,” Oyeniyi says,
joking that sometimes she has to “turn”
straight women.
But the queer women’s social scene
is not unified either. A few women
regularly take advantage of the Boston
nightlife, going to lesbian nightclubs
and queer parties at nearby colleges.
Kellaway went to queer parties off campus
nearly every weekend during
her freshman and sophomore years,
and says she feels uncomfortable at
Harvard room parties she has been
attending this year.
But Elrod only went to a lesbian bar
in Boston for the first time this year.
Usually, she spends weekend nights
with her heterosexual friends, going
out to final clubs and dancing.
“I feel like there’s a lot of lesbians
who avoid final clubs,” she says. “If it’s
Saturday night, I go out and embrace
what’s going on.”
Owens says she devotes most of her
time to the black community, instead
of Girlspot parties, lesbian bars, or final
clubs, and was able to find her own support
network of queer women of color.
‘REALLY MALE AND REALLY WHITE’
Owens emphasizes another dividing
factor within the queer female community
and the gay community in general:
race.
Rosenberg also focuses on the difficulties
of being a queer woman of
color. Although she is white, Rosenberg
talked at length about how religious
and ethnic identities intersect with the
queer community.
Owens says race was a large part of
why she never became involved with
the QSA, then known as the Harvard-Radcliffe Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian, Transgender,
and Supporters Alliance.
“I perceived the BGLTSA as a really
white organization,” Owens says. “And
really male, but mostly really white.”
Owens responded to the perceived
lack of racial diversity by co-founding
BlackOut—a confidential group for
queer black students.
The QSA changed its name early
last month from BGLTSA. When the
name change was proposed over the
BGLTSA-open e-mail list in February,
the list exploded with passionate debate
about the use of the word “queer.”
As the thread grew to over 50
e-mails, some vaguely accused the
organization of being focused on gay
men.
“I don’t perceive it as particularly
inclusive of, say, women, or trans
people, or even those who identify as
queer,” Rosenberg wrote in an e-mail to
the list in February.
Current co-chairs Marco Chan ’11
and Rogelio J. Mercado, Jr. ’10 say the
name change was intended to make the
organization more inclusive.
Owens acknowledges that the QSA
has been very gender-integrated, and
Kellaway says that when she was cochair
of the organization, the board
had representatives from every race.
“I wouldn’t say that there are more
gay white men in the BGLTSA,” Kellaway
says. “I would say their voices are
heard more often.”
Oyeniyi says the QSA extended an
offer for Girlspot to become part of the
QSA umbrella, but she declined, wanting
to stay focused on queer women.
Unlike the QSA, which hosts panels
and organizes political rallies in addition
to throwing parties, Girlspot is
exclusively social.
REPAIRING THE RIFTS
Without The L Word, Girlspot is
revamping its strategy for unifying
the community. The organization is
becoming more structured and more
official.
Oyeniyi expanded the board to help
her with organizing events and finally
opened a Girlspot bank account.
Oyeniyi plans to bring Harvard’s
lesbians together by throwing more
parties and hosting dinners.
But with such deep rifts in the community,
it remains to be seen if Harvard
could ever host an event to rival Dyke
Ball.
—Staff writer Danielle J. Kolin can be
reached at dkolin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard University Police Department said yesterday that it is not planning to close its Allston substation as a result of University-wide budget reductions—even though a HUPD sergeant seemed to suggest at an Allston construction management meeting Wednesday night that Harvard was considering such a move.While HUPD is holding preliminary discussions to examine a number of potential cost-saving measures, “the safety and security of the people on our campus is HUPD’s primary concern” and will not be affected by budgetary changes, said University spokeswoman Lauren Marshall.But at Wednesday’s meeting of the Construction Management Subcommittee for the Science Complex, Richard Mederos, HUPD’s sergeant of community policing, said closing the substation was on the table due to budget cuts, although officers would continue to patrol the area and maintain security. The issue was first raised by local resident Edward A. Kotomori, who said he heard about the possibility from people near the Science Complex construction site. Joyce Radnor, another local resident, said she interpreted Mederos’ comments as suggesting that the substation would likely close. She and Kotomori said at the meeting that they were concerned that the lack of a substation would lead to slower police response times in the neighborhood, and Michael F. Glavin, deputy director for institutional development for the Boston Redevelopment Authority, said that the University should provide a detailed security plan if it were to close the substation.Medero could not be reached at his home last night for comment, and Stephen G. Catalano, a spokesman for HUPD, declined to comment beyond the University’s statement.‘FOOLISHNESS OR HYSTERIA’?Recent media coverage has drawn attention to Allston’s rat infestation, which some locals say was created by the excavation for Harvard’s Science Complex. But University and Boston officials as well as other local residents maintain that the rats long precede Harvard’s construction and say that the recent reports have unfairly characterized the situation in the neighborhood.“The sensationalism and mythology around this...has stuck this issue with Harvard,” said Kevin A. McCluskey ’76, Harvard’s director of community relations for Boston, at Wednesday’s construction management meeting.The University and the City are planning to address the rodent issue by providing local residents with tough plastic trash containers by the summer’s end to prevent rodent proliferation—not as a result of “any of this [recent] foolishness or hysteria,” McCluskey said at the meeting, but rather because it represented a “general quality of life issue” that Harvard felt it should address in accordance with its long-term partnership with the City. While many residents contend that the rodent infestation results from irresponsible trash disposal practices, John Walsh and Tim McHale, longtime area residents, suggested that another explanation could be that some neighbors routinely rummage through street-side trash collecting bottle deposits, tearing open bags and leaving a trail of trash for rats in the process. —Staff writer Peter F. Zhu can be reached at pzhu@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Most departure e-mails go something like this:
Dear Community,
I'm so sad to announce I'll be leaving. You're all so wonderful. I can't imagine life without you, but it's time to move on.
- Name of person departing
But yesterday, Cabot residents got a departure announcement from Resident Dean Mya Mangawang that rather broke the mold. And evidently the odd-sounding missive may have had a back story, with one student saying Mangawang exhibited “a mild unspoken distaste” for Cabot students. We're not sure we can do it justice with a summary, so check out the full text, after the jump.
It is with mixed emotions that I have decided to announce formally that as of June 30th, I will no longer serve as the Allston Burr Resident Dean. I believe this decision will allow me to direct my energies more deliberately and productively to my family, friends, and scholarly pursuits.
As your dean, I have attempted to model a way of being that practices and promotes critical thinking, active and respectful questioning, and honest exchange as essential personal and professional values. I believe this decision only reaffirms my steadfast commitment to these non-negotiable principles.
May you be well and sincere in all that you do.
Mya M. Mangawang
Allston Burr Resident Dean
Sections
With its 35-20 win in overtime against Winthop,  Leverett now has the 2009 IM Football Championship in the bag.  But even such a stunning victory might have been quickly forgotten if not for LevSPN, the YouTube channel dedicated to Leverett sporting and musical events.  Featuring videos covering everything from swimming to singing to stand-up comedy, LevSPN  forever immortalizes the heroic efforts of Leverett students.
More on LevSPN, after the jump.
Charles T. James, a junior Gov concentrator, created LevSPN in February.
"I got the idea on a whim to do kind of a SportsCenter feature," said LevSPN creator Charles T. James '10.  "I came up with a logo and a name as kind of a joke."
But after receiving positive feedback and realizing that he enjoyed making the videos, James said he decided to do LevSPN more consistently. Since its launch in February, he has produced over 40 videos.
"It's now something that I do once a week or once every couple of weeks," he said.  James sends the link to the videos over the Leverett email list, and he said he thinks that the videos have helped increase interest in IMs.
"A lot of people are very psyched about individual recognition," he said, "because if a person plays well they deserve to be featured for what they do."
And for those conerned that the IM season is drawing to a close, James said he plans to continue LevSPN's coverage next year.
Fast Facts about LevSPN:
Most viewed: "Leverett Housing Day" with 2,610 views
Second most viewed: "LevSPN Highlights: Vol XIII" with 264 views
Number of subscribers: 3
—Photo courtsey LevSPN
