Sections
As you may have read earlier this week, The Washington Post recently named Jeremy L. Haber, a joint J.D./M.B.A. student at HLS and the B School, as one of its four remaining finalists in the newspaper's "America's Next Great Pundit" contest.
Unfortunately, the Internet has voted, and Haber came in fourth, receiving about 7 percent of the vote in the seventh round. Legal tabloid Above The Law has reported that Haber chalked up his loss to difficulties balancing the competition with his schoolwork.
Still, fourth ain't half bad at all, especially out of an applicant pool of 4,800 and a group of ten editor-selected finalists, which included Nobel Prize-winning physicist Burton Richter, former assistant secretary of commerce Darryl Jackson, and Council on Foreign Relations expert Lydia Khalil.
What prize could attract such talent and generate such competition? Why, gainful employment, of course: 13 weekly columns to be published either in the Post or online for a total salary of $2,600. And who says you can't get get a job in the print media these days?
We'll leave you with Haber's columns and blogs from the competition in order to facilitate your current procrastination.
Sections
Two things are certain at Harvard— free food and e-mail.
The two are coming together in the form of a new list: freefood-open.
Derek M. Flanzraich '10 created the Harvard email list about a week ago. It is meant to be a place where campus groups can advertise their events that offer free food and hungry students can find out about said events.
Flanzraich said he thought about the idea while reading posters in Sever with a friend. He said he saw posters advertising free food.
But, he said, "The only people who ever hear about these things are the people in the groups themselves." More after the jump.
Now there is a solution. There are already 108 people in the email list and a few advertisements for free food have already gone over the list, according to Flanzraich.
"I think it was perhaps not the most ideal time to start it just because of Harvard-Yale," he said. "I have no question it will pick up."
The list's about page reads:
"In a world where free food is everywhere, but participation at your event is scarce...
In a world where delicious ethnic food is open and accessible, but you never hear about until it's over...
One list seeks to be the fix to your hunger pangs, pad thai desires, and pizza hankerings.
That's right, this list: freefood-open.
SO ENJOY.
WITH ONE RULE:
1) All emails must be sent with the following subject structure: FOOD TYPE - DAY OF THE WEEK - TIME - PLACE
(example: DUMPLINGS Wednesday 5-7pm Pfoho Hastings Room)"
Sections
In the wake of the UC election controversy, third-place finishers Robert G. B. Long '11 and David R. Johnson '11 are ringing the bells for a "hot, sticky revolution."
In response to last week's disputed election results, mysterious resignations, and false accusations, the Long-Johnson campaign issued a statement (ostensibly borrowing heavily from the language of Thomas Jefferson) that called for "students of Harvard" to "man the [figurative] barricades!"
Find out more after the jump.
“Dear revolutionaries of Harvard,” they wrote in an e-mail. “As we write to you, our democratic system is  in a state of crisis. The ridiculous shenanigans of the UC Election Commission and senior leadership prove that the current system is as incompetent as it is oppressive."
 
The only thing, they continued, that can "cleanse the campus"  is "glorious, vigorous Long Johnson action." 
"To paraphrase Jefferson, the tree of liberty from time must be refreshed with Long Johnson," they wrote. 
In an interview with FlyBy, Long said, “We sent the e-mail because we want Harvard students to have  their long johns on, and be prepared for anything." Especially, he added, in Harvard's dangerous political climate—which he believes has unfairly tarnished the reputation of vice-presidential candidate Eric N. Hysen ‘11.
“I think  all the candidates have been honorable and respectable,” he said,  “and this can’t be good for the UC’s credibility.”
But not to worry. In a suggestive clarion call (the kind we have come to expect from this campaign), their e-mail proclaimed, "it is not too late to ride Long Johnson to victory."
