News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Undergraduate Council’s election-season controversy finally over, the UC took measures last Monday to repair the damage in its wake.  A majority of the council voted to officially censure Vice President Kia J. McLeod, marking an appropriate end to a debacle that undermined the legitimacy of both the Election Commission and the UC. We congratulate the body for recognizing that McLeod’s actions “violate[d] ethical standards,” and hope that it takes strides to avoid further election confusion in the future.
The UC’s decision to censure its vice president was bold and unprecedented—but necessary nonetheless. Since it passed major internal reforms in 1995, the UC has never censured one of its members. Thus, we applaud the council’s use of this constitutional provision despite a lack of precedent. It provided the proper forum to show disapproval for McLeod’s actions, which included authorizing an inappropriate email that was sent from the ucpres@fas account. The message’s premature and unproven accusations were distributed in negligence of UC and EC procedure, generating confusion and uproar that harmed the reputation of those named—and the entire council. The UC’s official slap-on-the-wrist was the right course of action to address McLeod’s “abuse [of] the power of her office.”
The decision to make this censure public provides a bookend to the council’s most talked about issue this semester. The verdict against McLeod was a crucial step for the UC, allowing it to move forward with other business and try to rebuild legitimacy. An internal censure would have done little to clarify the UC’s stance in regards to the email, and was therefore an insufficient option. Although questions about the institution’s credibility remain, especially in regards to elections, it was important for the UC to recognize its own failures, mitigating the damage that had already been done.
We hope that the UC will remain proactive in ensuring that a similar situation does not happen in the future.  To avoid such debacles, the council should strive for a less divisive election process. Specifically, the UC should take measures to decrease the involvement of EC members in presidential and vice presidential campaigns. While looking to the past and reprimanding those at fault is important, the UC must commit to avoiding this situation in years to come so that representatives can spend their time on business that the student body has elected them to carry out.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Voice’s ‘Harvardfml’ message board is one of the most fascinating projects I’ve seen in my time here, one that serves to express more about the Harvard undergraduate community than Yardfest, The Game or Ec10 combined. Whether or not the intention was to provide a new mechanism by which to examine life here, or just act as a local application of the popular fmylife blog, is irrelevant to me. By this point, Harvardfml has been around long enough that we can begin assessing its effects on Crimson culture. I like to think of my many hours spent sifting through posts as a kind of procrastinatory self-anthropology, and I invite you to join me on this misanthropic safari.
The Harvardfml blog serves a function similar to the desperate and anonymous scribbling found on bathroom walls. It speaks to students’ need to be heard without exposing themselves to the potential embarrassment or shame of doing so publicly; it reflects an undergraduate culture constantly connected to the internet, and at once deeply atomized as a result. The blog serves as an outlet in which students can vent misfortune, hilarity, depression, anger, and intrigue all at once. Often it seems like posts arise from the need to express something desperately, or even just to admit to the world that a sentiment or event exists.
Posts about Annenberg, CS50, Wig-A girl, and the k-pop loving Turk are all relevant, and a testament to the community Harvardfml has slowly been shaped by, but the necessity of anonymity characterizes our campus tremendously. This is not to say Harvardfml is a precise methodological tool by which to evaluate campus life, but its explosive popularity cannot be ignored. The blog is confessional. “I only got in because my dad’s a donor. FML.” “I lost my virginity in the Delphic basement. FML.” “The Adderall is not working. FML.”
These are sentiments that cannot be publicly expressed, but find a way to make themselves known to other people despite it. “Due to the fact that I must now share a bathroom with 5 other people, I am no longer bulimic. Instead of throwing up, I no longer eat. Hello anorexia. FML.” Harvard, apparently not unlike Yale, BU, MIT, Wellesley and other schools which have also started local fmylife blogs, are social bodies in which there is a growing community around the fact that a lot goes unsaid. But it is being said anyway—if in an untraditional way that corresponds to how our social networking occurs on Facebook, our music is shared over LastFM, and our collaborative efforts happen in real-time on the Google-docs we manipulate in private.
Indeed, though much of the press about Harvardfml has been negative, pointing to its posts as evidence of privileged Harvard students’ self-centered or isolationist tendencies, the blog offers evidence of a shared experience students go through together. The fact that there are reoccurring characters in the posts, that there are statements made that go unchallenged, and that the blog itself reflects what is being talked about on campus are all evidence of cohesion. Anyone who has visited the site more than once will have learned that CS50 is hard, but that there is an attractive TF. In the days after Halloween, there was a storm of posts about Heaven and Hell. This cohesion extends to the language blog-writers use— each university blog has its own common points of reference. Our ‘Yard’ is Yale’s ‘Commons,’ our ‘Ec10’ is MIT’s ‘HASS.’ The existence of these clusters of meaning is curious in a forum that is at first glance made up of sad or lonely atoms.
This is why the body of distress and anxiety that is HarvardFML cannot simply be dismissed as irrelevant—every community has its own normal state, around which good and bad become dependent on the shared conditions, and websites like HarvardFML reveal the status quo. “I am a closeted gay man in a final club. FML,” reads one post, expressing a sentiment that betrays the particular heteronormativity and final club atmosphere at Harvard that those outside our community might not have have experienced. The distress expressed is not negated simply because the writer is part of a disproportionately privileged organization. Instead, problems like these brought anonymously before the Harvard community, deserve that we confront them as a community.
Zachariah P. Hughes ’12, a Crimson editorial editor, is a social studies concentrator in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, President Barack Obama reminded the Iranian government of his end-of-the-year deadline for Iran to enter negotiations regarding its nuclear program, and the International Atomic Energy Agency Board of Governors passed a resolution calling on Iran to suspend its nuclear activities.  The Iranian regime responded to these overtures with a flat rejection and an aggressive promise to build an additional 10 enrichment plants.  In response, the administration is reaching out to Russia, China, and our European allies to win support for tough new sanctions at the United Nations Security Council at the beginning of the new year.
In this context, the Harvard community is challenged to consider what role it might play in helping to avert an international crisis.  Many of us were inspired this past spring by the pro-democracy rallies in Iran, many of which were initiated and directed by students and other Iranians of our generation.  How might the Harvard community, a premier American university, stand up for the rights of those Iranian students who have risked their safety by challenging their own regime?
We should call on President Drew Faust and the Harvard Corporation to consider a targeted divestment from companies doing business with Iran’s energy sector.  Divestment should not be considered lightly, but today it is a necessary tool.  The Iranian regime oppresses its own people, it is the largest state sponsor of international terrorism against innocents, it has threatened genocide against its neighbors, and now it is charging forward with a nuclear program despite a global consensus in peaceful opposition.  There should be an exceedingly high standard to meet for divestment, but today Iran certainly meets that standard.
We are at a critical juncture in efforts to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons capability.  Iran has rejected a proposal to ship its low-enriched uranium out of the country for further processing and is refusing to meet the main requirement of the international community—the long-overdue suspension of its enrichment of uranium.  Since Iran imports up to 40 percent of its refined petroleum, curtailing its access to fuel might have a severe impact on the Iranian economy, forcing the regime to suspend its nuclear program and open the door to relief from sanctions.  As President Obama has said, “If Iran does not take steps in the near future to live up to its obligations, then the United States will not continue to negotiate indefinitely, and we are prepared to move towards increased pressure.”
More than three quarters of the House of Representatives and the Senate have already cosponsored the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act, which the House will vote on next week.  This bill seeks to leverage private market forces by making companies choose between doing business with the United States or with Iran.  In October, the House overwhelmingly passed the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act by a vote of 414-6 (one of the bill’s original co-sponsors was Harvard alum and Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank).  This bill authorizes state and local governments to divest from companies investing in Iran’s petroleum and natural gas sector or doing business with Iran’s nuclear industry.  Since these companies are already liable for sanctions under the Iran Sanctions Act, states have a fiduciary responsibility to consider the financial consequences of holding stock in them.
Nearly twenty states have already passed legislation divesting their state pension plans of any foreign company that invests more than 20 million dollars a year in Iran (there are 19 such companies).  Scores of municipalities and labor unions are beginning to follow suit.  Given today’s economic climate, it is financially prudent for Harvard to divest its holdings from companies that could soon be the target of American and international sanctions.
In October, the Student Government Association at Morehouse, the nation’s oldest liberal arts historically black college (and Mr. Bennett’s alma mater), formally requested for their institution’s endowment to divest from companies doing business in Iran’s energy sector.  Richard Fulton, a student signatory to the letter, declared in an editorial that the motivation behind the letter was “in order for the voices and concerns of Morehouse students to have real resonance in the various human rights and national security debates of our time…Iran’s march toward nuclear weapons poses an immediate threat to global security.”
We should be inspired by the students at Morehouse to follow suit here at Harvard.  The Harvard Corporation has acquiesced to student pressure to divest in the past.  In 1989, a campaign of three students ultimately led Harvard to divest from tobacco companies.  In 2005, Harvard became the first university in the country to divest from Sudan, choosing to sell its holdings in PetroChina after two undergraduate students started an online divestment petition.
President Faust should look into this matter and contact the relevant companies in which Harvard holds investments, asking their intentions with regard to Iran.  We must ensure that at the moment of a great international moral crisis, Harvard is on the right side of history.
Alexander Chester and Darrell J. Bennett, Jr. are third-year students at Harvard Law School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Personal sins shouldn’t require press releases? Problems within a family shouldn’t have to mean public confessions?
What planet has Tiger Woods been on for the past 10 years? It’s almost as though he’s speaking another language. “Although I am a well-known person and have made my career as a professional athlete, I have been dismayed to realize the full extent of what tabloid scrutiny really means. For the last week, my family and I have been hounded to expose intimate details of our personal lives. But no matter how intense curiosity about public figures can be, there is an important and deep principle at stake which is the right to some simple, human measure of privacy. I realize there are some who don’t share my view on that.”
Some? Try the entire western hemisphere. And anywhere else with Twitter access. We live in a broadcast culture. Branding isn’t just for cattle anymore; now, it’s an ongoing process of self-publication. You don’t have to be a personality to have a persona. I have several personae, and I can entertain myself for hours staring at a good wallpaper.
From email to Twitter to Facebook, we all exist in quotation marks. There’s Alexandra Petri, but there’s also “Alexandra Petri,” my edited self, who thinks in complete sentences under 140 characters. We want everyone to know all the things we are eating, drinking, thinking, and suffering. Even if we don’t want to attach our names to them, there are plenty of anonymous forums—try HarvardFML or Texts from Last Night. The loss of privacy is just the price you pay for the vague sense that someone out there is interested in the fact that you just ate a pot of steamed noodles and watched a Bruins game. If Tiger were on Twitter and had been sending out things like “Mistook another equally skanky-looking blonde for my wife! This keeps happening and I doubt that it will end well,” “Elin’s chasing me out of the house,” or “Whoops! I hit a tree! FML,” nobody would be so upset now.
The tradeoff was always clear. If you want to be famous because you do something well or badly, be it singing while fat or hitting balls of various shapes and hues, you have to be prepared to divulge. We live in the age of the chronic overshare. Recently, the pop artist JoJo tweeted something about how she hadn’t bathed in a while and felt bad for the people she was sitting near on the plane. No one batted an eye. I have close friends who send me similar emails, often during the dinner hour. I send angry messages back suggesting they hire new publicists. The problem is that only some of us have the right publicist instincts while all of us are forced to self-publicize.
Our problem with Tiger is not the cheating. 2009 has been quite the year for well-publicized falls from grace, from Governor Sanford flying to Argentina to pursue his “hopelessly impossible situation of love” to whatever was going on with the Gosselins. The problem is his unwillingness to spill. Governor Sanford meandered through all kinds of elaborate metaphors and discursions about South Carolina wildlife in a lengthy press conference, and everyone loved it. But now, Tiger, enmeshed in an ever-expanding tangle of women, maintains an ominous silence, and we feel gypped.
Tiger’s outdated notion of some inherent right to privacy is something most of our generation has already given up for lost. By giving everyone access to everything about ourselves, we can create the illusion of closeness. And not just with people we actually know! Also with strangers, friends of high school friends, and that guy named Trevor Quack who friends everyone. No one has to hound most of my friends to expose intimate details of their personal lives. Just follow them on Twitter. We all dream of a world where our personal sins will require press conferences. But instead of being grateful and embracing the opportunity to share all sorts of excruciatingly personal information, Tiger is now threatening to leave the country.
Tiger needs to realize that he’s living the new American dream. He was also living the old American dream, the dream where you’re extremely wealthy and talented and sleep with lots of inexpensive-looking blondes, but the new one is what counts. This is the dream where people are forcibly, convulsively interested in learning all about you and everything you’re doing. “What’s your latest project?” they ask. “Well, I was thinking about eating some noodles,” you say. “Riveting!” they respond. “I can relate to that! I also related to those different noodles you ate earlier.” Who needs privacy when you can have people in other states and countries who want to know what you ate for breakfast?
The desire for attention has become a primal need along the lines of food, water, and clothing. And if Tiger doesn’t want it, he should quit being so good at golf. There are thousands of people with less interesting lives ready to pick up his slack. Next time I commit a personal sin, I’ll happily throw a press conference. Someone’s got to do it. Our public awaits!
Alexandra A. Petri ’10 is an English concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Lights, camera, Allston.
Allston Brighton Arts Bridge, a new non-profit organization founded by four recent graduates of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, is giving local youth a chance to take command behind the camera.
The program offers a documentary filmmaking class called “My Allston Brighton” that teaches local youth filmmaking techniques.
TIES TO ALLSTON
Allston Brighton Arts Bridge was originally conceived as a part of a class at HGSE. The founders were able to transform their fantasy assignment into a functioning non-profit due to a grant from the Harvard Allston Partnership Fund. “I think a big thing for the four of us is that we are fundamentally doers, not just talkers,” said Kimberly L. Dawson, one of the four Allston Brighton Arts Bridge founders.
The program’s mission is to improve arts education and build community in the Allston Brighton area. It is part of the University’s larger effort to aid these communities as it works to expand into them.
Harvard’s Allston Initiative, the group that administers grants to projects such as Allston Brighton Arts Bridge, initially prepared the town for the several new buildings that were slated for construction in Allston as Harvard continues its expansion. Due to the economic downturn and numerous cuts in the University’s operating budgets, however, most of these projects have been delayed.
“I think it’s been very difficult for the Allston Brighton community to adjust to the idea that Harvard was coming, and then to adjust to the idea that they were not coming, or at least not as quickly. I think it has left some wounds,” said Steve M. Seidel, the professor of the class in which the founders prepared the project that led to Allston Brighton Arts Bridge. Seidel is also a member of the organization’s Board of Directors.
By interacting closely with the community and remaining receptive of new ideas, the Arts Bridge directors hope to build ties not only between Harvard and Allston, but also among town residents themselves.
“We’ve approached all of this work from a place of listening. We don’t pretend to know the answers, but we want to help these people find answers,” said Dawson.
ABOUT MY ALLSTON BRIGHTON
The Arts Bridge documentary class, “My Allston Brighton,” teaches local teenagers how to use video equipment and guides them through the process of creating their own documentaries about the community.
With the program featuring guest artists from several areas of the film industry, such as director and filmmaker Austin de Besche, participants have a wide range of role models and skills from which to draw.
“The challenge is getting kids in the room” said Angelica A. Brisk, one of the founders of Arts Bridge, and the head teacher of “My Allston Brighton.”
Currently, she said that between nine and 15 students attend each week.
“I’ve gotten hooked on filming since coming to this class,” said 13-year-old Lucero U. Price. “They just make it really fun and interesting.”
Price hopes to create a documentary that features local people’s perspectives on various subjects by the end of the course. Other potential topics for films include a look at the refugee community in the area and a profile of a local tattoo parlor.
THE FUTURE OF ARTS BRIDGE
Looking toward the future, Arts Bridge hopes to offer many more classes, not only to teenagers, but also to younger children, adults, and senior citizens.
While Arts Bridge currently holds classes in a local library, the organization’s leaders intend to find a permanent space of their own.
“Within five years we hope to have a strong physical presence in the neighborhood, which we don’t have yet,” said Maura T. Gattuso, another founder and director.
For now, the “My Allston Brighton” class is focusing on fulfilling what the organization’s leaders perceive as a significant need for arts education. They hope that the program will help students think creatively and allow them to view the places around them in a whole new light.
“A lot of times we don’t think about the stories that we have to tell in the places where we live,” said Brisk.
Sections
It may have been a thrill for Harvard undergrads to have a little bit of Hollywood in their backyard this past year, with film crews blocking off Dunster Street and celebrity sightings in CVS. But Harvard's relationship with tinsel town doesn't end where the set begins. To coincide with the release of “Bright Star,” the new romantic film about the great 19th century English poet John Keats and his love interest Fanny Brawne, Harvard’s Houghton Library has launched a new exhibit. The display, titled “John Keats and Fanny Brawne,” showcases some of the few relics of a romance that fans have long been left to wonder about.
Houghton already holds one of the largest collections of Keats’ correspondence, including 13 of his 39 surviving letters to Brawne. “It just seemed with the movie coming out, I thought it would be nice to do something topical,” said Houghton curator Leslie Morris.
A STAR-CROSSED LOVE ON DISPLAY
The Keats room is a permanent feature of the Houghton Library, as a constant ode to one of the most popular English poets of all time. Although Keats died at the age of 25, he left a lasting impression, not just with his poetry, but also his personality. Keats scholar Professor Jack Stillinger said, “He had a short life and not too much in terms of outward events, but we have his letters and see he was an attractive character, a nice guy. That connection makes him more valuable.”
While the exhibit may be small in size, it is a powerful testament to a passionate relationship manifested through letters and tokens of affection.
Much like Keats’ own tragically short life, the Keats room is remarkably beautiful but modest in size and decoration. The small room’s rich oak walls are lined with Keats’ works, a monument to his prolific writing. His words more than his life dominate the room, but along the walls hang heirlooms of Keats’ love and life, revealing new insights into this charming figure. These personal letters casts the enormous literary figure in a different way. “They’re funny—like some of his earlier poetry,” said Heather G. Cole, assistant curator of modern books and manuscripts. “A lot of his later poems are about death. It is nice to see him in a lighter attitude, and also what may have inspired him.”
A much more personal side of Keats is revealed at the new Houghton display, which includes two of Keats’ original letters to Brawne. Even through a strong plexi-glass case and after 200 years, Keats’ cursive seems to stream off the page. Without a scratch or crossed-out word, his letters speak to a passionate and sometimes humorous rapport with his beloved, whom he often addressed as “My dearest girl.” Keats wrote in one letter, “If illness makes such an agreeable variety in the manner of your eyes I should wish you some time to be ill.”
A lock of Brawne’s hair, a silhouette of her shapely figure, and other intimate artifacts commemorate a relationship that was only revealed to the public long after both had passed away. So few items remain of their love affair that there are no extant records of Brawne’s correspondence. A romantic until his death, Keats was buried with his letters from Brawne, leaving fans and researchers to only speculate about her role in the relationship.
DRAMATICIZING THE ROMANCE
With only written records from one side of the romance, the crew behind “Bright Star” had the challenge of making the movie into a story that encompassed both halves of the romance. In terms of research, “You only have his letters to Fanny. You don’t have much of Fanny from which to work,” explained Morris. But the film, which has opened to critical praise for both its story and its commitment to historical accuracy, has created a romance much from Brawne’s perspective, a voice that has remained largely silent for so many years.
Researchers for “Bright Star” used some of the same letters at Houghton to construct the scenes of dedication and love shared between Keats and Brawne in the English countryside. Even in the film, Director Jane Campion chose to let Keats’ prose take center stage. “Jane’s number one mantra throughout the pre-production process was to keep the visuals simple,” said the film’s cinematographer Greig Fraser said in an email interview. “I’m sure this was largely in part to allow the audience the full luxury to be able to bask in the poetry on screen. Keeping the visuals simple, served to amplify the message of each of Keats poems.”
Evidence of this cinematography is found in one of “Bright Star”’s most passionate scenes when Keats and Brawne read the poem “La Belle Dame Sans Merci” to each other. Houghton’s inscribed copy of Keat’s poem, “Lamia,” to Brawne certainly alludes to the possible ways the two romantics expressed their love through prose.
COMMERCIALIZING KEATS
Scholars often worry whether a major motion picture distracts or taints an author’s works. Stillinger, who has written and edited multiple books on Keats, said the new attention to the poet has only had positive effects. “All this attention, all the reviews, all the people seeing it—it’s a great boost for Keats and the study of English poetry,” he said. “I don’t think many people outside of the undergraduate community would [otherwise] read his works.”
People seem to be excited to come to see these romantic vestiges from one of the world’s most treasured poets. The exhibit has already earned a buzz, with so many anticipated guests that it will be moving to larger showcase area in Houghton this month.
Asked why she thinks so many people are drawn to the “John Keats and Fanny Brawne” exhibit, Coles said, “Love letters are things people respond to. They’re more accessible.
I think it personalizes the individual. Here’s an old book—it’s hard for people to connect to it. If you say here is a love letter he gave to his neighbor, it humanizes him. For people who live 200 years later, it is something they can connect with.”
Sections
Recently, it seems that our campus been a magnet for Hollywood A-listers, but it wasn’t until last week that one of them decided to truly slum it like a college kid by ditching the usual four-star accommodations for a walk-through in Winthrop.  Best known for his roles on “L.A. Law” and “Sex and the City,” award-winning actor, producer, director, and humanitarian Blair Underwood spent last week roaming campus as the Office for the Arts’ Artist in Residence, co-sponsored by the Harvard Foundation. And though he may have played a hotshot lawyer on “L.A. Law,” this time it was FM’s turn to cross-examine. Underwood comes clean about breaking into the industry, raising kids in Hollywood, the trials and tribulations of being one of People Magazine’s “50 Most Beautiful People,” and living in a dorm as a 45-year-old celebrity.
1. Fifteen Minutes: What advice would you give to students who aspire to pursue a career in the performing arts post graduation?
Blair Underwood: The one thing I would say to you is [that] there is always a dual conversation to be had in terms of a career in the arts.  There is a conversation in regards to the arts themselves and the craft and the work and there’s a conversation on the other track about the business and the industry itself. The methods that I like to share with most individuals who plan to pursue the arts as a career is to constantly and consistently follow and work on the craft as an artist.  You also simultaneously have to be an entrepreneur now more than ever because of the new media and technology, because you can indeed create your own film almost on your cell phone.
2. FM: Because of your portrayal of the compelling attorney Jonathan Rollins in  the dramatic series “L.A. Law,” you were invited to visit Harvard Law School where you briefly met President Obama when he was serving as the President of the Harvard Law Review.  Could you tell then how successful he would become?
BU: The fact that my character on “L.A. Law” was the president of the Law Review was completely serendipitous.  Nobody knew of Barack Obama at that time. I have to say, even just meeting him, what I take away from here every time I come to Harvard is just truly how bright and hungry and intelligent and curious and insightful and bold the students are and inspiring to me.  Of course I saw it in him, but I see it so often on this campus.
FM: Given those experiences playing an attorney, do you ever wish you went to law school, a very popular postgraduate choice for many Harvard graduates?
BU: No, that has never been a desire of mine.  I think I get a lot of the benefits of playing one on TV without actually going through all the hard work.
3. FM: You attended Carnegie Mellon, where you were trained in musical theatre. Was Broadway your ultimate goal in college?
BU: I’d tell you even then and now I wanted to do it all. I just didn’t want to limit myself. Broadway was a particular goal. It was a goal but not the ultimate. I still haven’t done Broadway. I’ve done Shakespeare in the Park. Theater is my first love, but with all things, as you age and you mature, you just have different experiences. The idea of going there every night and recreating this character every night is not appealing to me now.
4. FM: You’ve been around the campus quite a bit, chatting with students in different Houses and dining halls. Have you observed anything unusual or funny about Harvard or Harvard students after spending some time here?
BU: The Winthrop room I’m in now is much bigger than when I was in college. I’m learning about some of these traditions like the primal shout—primal scream. But I have to say—this isn’t funny—but I’m so inspired by these students. As Shakespeare said, by the vitality and youth, but also the vitality of youthful hopes and aspirations. It’s hard times economically for the world, so to be around you students and to see and feel and interact with that sense of tomorrow and the future and hope is exciting.
5. FM: Anything you regret not doing while in college or that you would do differently if you had the chance to go back?
BU: I don’t have any regrets because it worked out okay, [laughs] but if there is anything I could change or add, it would be probably studying psychology. I definitely have considered possibly looking to get a degree online. I can’t do it now because of life and time commitments, but it really is the very thing that made me want to become an actor—the study of and the fascination of human behavior and human interaction.
6. FM: Once you land a part, do you have a specific routine for how you ready yourself for the role?
BU: In the broad strokes, I take what is written in the script—it’s called the givens, what they give to you—and fill that out in terms of intellectual knowledge of what is needed in very basic terms. In other words, the basic general, rudimentary idea of what that is. Then you start filling out the emotions and the layers of the character, the heart and soul, the blood and guts, which is my favorite part. And some characters are different. I did a mini-series called “Mama Flora’s Family” and in that I had to age from 16 to 50. I had a lot of makeup on, of course. What you need to bring that kind of character to reality is much different than something that is closer to you and your age and how you walk and talk.
7. FM: You have had many well-known roles in TV shows such as “L.A. Law”, “Sex and the City,” and “In Treatment”, as well as movies such as “Rules of Engagement”, “Gattaca”, and “Full Frontal”. What has been your favorite role?
BU: There are a couple, but one of my favorites was a movie I made called “Just Cause” with Sean Connery and Lawrence Fishburne. It was after a seven-year run on “L.A. Law” playing a good guy basically. That character, I played a serial killer pedophile who was on death row for the murder of a child. A bad guy.
8. FM: A lot of Harvard students are worrying about the lack of jobs in this uncertain economy.  However, it’s always this kind of economy for an actor who’s starting out.
BU:[laughs] You’re right! It absolutely is.
FM: Did you ever consider a more secure career choice?  Were you ever a “starving artist” and what was your first job out of college?
BU: I never considered another career choice, but would I have if I had been forced to? Yes! You gotta eat at a certain point. I was very fortunate in that I started working very early when I moved to New York in January of 1985. My first job then was “The Cosby Show.” I had one word, one line, so pretty much it was a walk-on, but it really opened up a lot of doors.
9. FM: What has been your favorite part about the Hollywood experience?  What do you like least about it?
BU: My favorite part is to have had a career in Hollywood because it was a dream of mine to go to Hollywood and be able to work—that’s a blessing, that’s a gift. The worst is [that] it’s such a pivotal period of transition for our industry because of new technology and trying to understand how we should monetize it and how to share the profits of that and see how we actors fit into that. It’s harder to make a mark in the industry today than it was 20 years ago.
10. FM: During your impressive career, you’ve received numerous prestigious awards and nominations commending not only your exceptional talent but also your humanitarian efforts. And let’s not forget back in 2000 when People Magazine bestowed you with the highly coveted honor of being named to their 50 Most Beautiful People list.
BU: Marietta, no you didn’t.
FM: Yes, yes we did. How does it feel to be the object of desire for so many?
BU: I have no idea, Marietta. How does it feel? Oh God. I don’t know, I never have an answer to that.  I should have an answer for that. Listen, it could be worse. I could be called worse.
11. FM: What is the craziest thing a fan has ever done for you?
BU: I don’t get a lot of crazy, which is great. I prefer it that way. Grabbing where one should not be grabbing, in public especially. Is that vague enough?
12. FM: Is it difficult raising kids in Hollywood? Do your kids ever push you to take them to certain events or premieres?
BU: I don’t think it is ever easy raising kids anywhere. But [Hollywood] has its own unique challenges. I constantly am telling them they grow up in a bubble. It’s incumbent upon my wife and I to give them a certain sense of the real world and giving back. Every once in awhile, they want to go somewhere. I took my son to the premiere party of the “Star Trek” DVD release, something I would not usually go to, but he’s a big fan. The day before, I took my daughter to the premiere of “The Princess and The Frog” because she loves Disney.
13. FM: You’ve had some controversy surrounding you in the past.  Did the criticism bother you?
BU: Criticism never really bothers me because if you do something against the grain you’re always going to have people who don’t understand it and be resistant to it. If you’re an artist, you either learn to deal with it and not let it sweep you away or not. You gotta be true to who you are.
14. FM: You were an “army brat” and have lived in many places.  Do you prefer the East Coast or the West Coast?
BU: As an army brat, you learn to make wherever you are work. I’d have to say I prefer the East Coast and its essence and its history. There is a certain East Coast vibe in reality and focus of life and education that is very different from the West Coast.
15. FM: You’ve produced a series of books, have your own production company, directed and acted.  What’s the most difficult for you and what’s your favorite? What’s next?
BU: The most challenging is probably, now, directing. I love it, I just haven’t done a lot of it. Next, I guest star on a show called “The New Adventures of Old Christine.” I am shooting that next week. Beyond that, our production company is always raising money to turn the book series that I have into films. We are producing some reality television and creating hopefully something called a vook—a video book. It’s basically taking the experience of a digital book and adding a visual short video vignette component to the digital experience. Thus vook, video book.
Sections
Life after calendar reform includes holiday parties, final papers, and secret snowflakes. Oh, and exams before Christmas. Thanks, Harvard! In between hours of studying at Lamont, take some time for a nightcap...or a daycap. Or a mid-afternooncap. FM gives you the lowdown on where to find the best holiday drinks in the Square.
1.  Noir (1 Bennett St)
Known for its creative drink menu, this swank bar at the Charles Hotel won’t disappoint.  Seasonal favorites include “My Favorite Brunette,” a mix of buttered bourbon, Stoli Vanil, apple cider, simple syrup and fresh lemon, all for the ultimate reading period indulgence.  Don’t have an exam until next week? While you’re at it, knock back a “Noir’s Boudoir,” a cocktail of Stoli Vanil, espresso, Godiva Mocha, Kahlua, and cream. Tastes like Christmas.
2.  Grendel’s Den (89 Winthrop St)
For beer lovers, Grendel’s offers a variety of holiday blends including “The Christmas Beer,” a 25-ounce Affligem Noel. Unfortunately, this dark beer, replete with a delicate array of spices, isn’t going to fit in your Christmas stocking.
3.  Daedalus (45 ½ Mount Auburn St)
Everyone knows that Daedalus is the new Lamont, and what’s a library without coffee? Order the Jameson and Bailey’s Coffee, served with a dollop of fresh whip cream before hitting the books.
4. J.P. Licks (1310 Massachusetts Ave)
Everyone likes a little ice cream in their alcohol. We mean, alcohol in their ice cream. Get a scoop of eggnog before you finish that final paper.
5.  Crema Café (27 Brattle St)
Maybe you are writing a list of New Year’s resolutions. Maybe they include (but are not limited to) the following: 1. Sleeping in your own bed at least five nights in a row; 2. Sleeping in a bed; 3. Sleeping. Maybe you quench your Christmas thirst with a non-alcoholic drink at Crema Café with a Mexican hot cocoa, like Felipe’s Hot Chocolate. (Editor’s Note: Maybe this is our New Year’s resolution list).
6. Your Dorm Room (Insert Address Here)
Impress friends this holiday season with some eggnog around the fire, or at least around the empty fireplace. For novices, try a  pre-made eggnog mix. Get in Chem concentrator mode and mix the following: one quart eggnog mix, four ounces of brandy, four ounces of rum, a pinch of cinnamon, and a pinch of nutmeg. Serves six regular people and one member of the Delphic.
Sections
Donning a tight pink shirt, a graduate student squirms through an application interview for her post-doctorate program of choice. Her hands anxiously fidget with her pen and her speech is littered with “umm’s.”
In spite of the pervasiveness of such interviewing downfalls, “people are unaware they are exhibiting these behaviors,” said Laura S. Malisheski, Assistant Director for Ph.D. Advising at the Office of Career Services.
This scenario was part of an interviewing workshop led by Malisheski and Assistant Director of Career Services, Counselor for GSAS Students and Ph.Ds Amy E. Sanford last week in conjunction with Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (HGWISE).
Going through the basic dos and don’ts of the interview, Malisheski and Sanford stressed the importance of dressing appropriately and navigating the conversation to an applicant’s strongest attributes. Malisheski and Sanford also addressed how to handle salary negotations.
“The content for this workshop evolved out of feedback from HGWISE members. People felt like being a woman was a detriment when they went into interviews.” said Erin E. Boyd, a graduate student in physics and treasurer of HGWISE, “We want to make it clear that being a woman is not a detriment.”
Acknowledging that the skills taught in the workshop could apply to both men and women, Malisheski noted that “upspeak”—a speech pattern in which one ends a sentence with an upward inflection, making it sound like a question—is more common among the female population.
In addition to addressing this issue, the workshop advised how women should respond to illegal questions about their marital status and plans for having children.
The workshop emphasized that in today’s economy, having strong interviewing skills and being able to present oneself effectively to potential employers is essential.
“If you don’t sell yourself, the next candidate will,” said Sanford.
Sections
Hermione would not approve! At the HPC Xmas party, one VIP guest was overhead using some language that would merit howler. When she called a certain twin (which one? doesn’t matter) a name that rhymes with witch, she showed her true colors as a diva. Seems like the vodka went straight to her underaged head. Good thing her driver wisked her promptly back to Brown...Someone was naughty this past weekend when they got a little too frisky on Santa’s lap, causing Mrs. Claus to get her panties in a twist. Mrs. C. proceeded to get wasted on eggnog and slap an innocent elf...Two presidential individuals were caught in a raunchy DFMO. He stole the key to her heart with his dorky sense of humor...Being desperate on this campus just got that much easier with Harvard’s own version of Missed Connections, IsawyouHarvard.com, launching this week. Whoever wrote the “my little croissant” entry should just give up. The back of your head is ridiculous.
Sections
If there one’s thing I believe—besides the fact that the music video to Taylor Swift’s “You Belong with Me” is a reflection of the souls of 95 percent of girls—it’s that the world needs more Ivy League porn.
For those of you who spent last year in high school or under a rock, Matthew M. DiPasquale ’09 tried to rectify this, venturing out naked on the Weeks Footbridge with only a self-timed camera (or an incredibly, incredibly intrepid photographer) and a desire to deliver the pale nakeds to the masses, artsy HBomb be damned.  I loved the ensuing magazine, if only for his hilarious self-interview and his AP test score boasts, for me two porno must-haves.
Now DiPasquale is back with, to my surprise, some naked company and a new issue.  I know this is standard porn justification, but really: please read it for the interviews.   One of my favorite moments is GSD affiliate Andrea Smith’s thanking porn for “allowing her to quench her desire in a safe way.”  Quench away, Andrea! The only thing dangerous about this spread is that precarious male-female pose on page nine.
Unsurprisingly, the gem is again DiPasquale’s self-interview.  Alongside before and after pictures of himself from last year—the boy’s met a gym and some tanners—he writes that by “August 2010, I plan to naturally improve my vision to at least 20/20, fall in love, and live with my amazing, loving friends & family in nature, peace & abundance in a warm climate next to a lake in a cozy log cabin.”  Any man that can fix his own eyes by sheer will power and find a log cabin in a warm climate—he’s OK in my book.
I’m going to wait to throw out my contacts, since I’m pretty sure the key to perfect vision does not lie in the pages of Diamond.  Still, if you’re looking for a way to procrastinate in Lamont over the next few weeks, download this issue and man up about the looks you’re going to get from passersby.  There’s no shame in hilariously awkward nudity.
Sections
Fifty three Dunster Street is a pleasant, quiet establishment in Harvard Square, full of warmth, family, and hungry, chattering freshmen. I know what you’re thinking: where’s HUPD? Don’t worry—the class of 2013 actually got personal invites from Dean Thomas A. Dingman himself.
Last Wednesday, the Dean of Freshmen opened up his home to students from Straus, Lionel, and Pennypacker. On the small talk agenda were the end of fall classes, finals, and the transition to spring semester, but the items on the menu seemed to be the real crowd-pleasers.
“Would I be a little naïve if I thought they only came for the conversation?” says Dean Dingman, who offered Pinocchio’s, chocolate-covered strawberries, and other non-Annenberg treats.
However, most freshmen seemed genuinely interested in meeting the dean and appreciated the escape from dorm life.
“You get this idea that administrators just live at Harvard, but he has a house and a wife and everything—he’s a real person,” says Laura E. D’Asaro ’13, a Straus resident. “It’s kind of like elementary. You imagine your teachers never go home.”
“Given its place on campus, it would be a missed opportunity not to get as many freshmen in here as possible,” says Dingman, who also hosts cooking lessons and other events at his house.
Caitlin N. Lewis ’13 of Pennypacker is also a fan of the location. “I like the view of ’Noch’s out the window. I’m sure he enjoys the drunk teenagers on Friday and Saturday nights.”
Other students, however, aren’t feeling love from the administration. “I set foot into FDO once and just to inquire if I could borrow a projector,” says freshman Samuel E. Milner ’13, “The answer was no. I haven’t been back.”
Nevertheless, with the Dean greeting freshmen with a “Hi! Welcome! How are you!” and his wife passing around homemade cookies, it’s hard not to believe you’re one of the Dingmans.
Sections
We know you’ve got brains, but do you have brawn? Drew, FM has some front-row tickets to the gun show and we want to see your goods. Besides, it’s about time you engaged in some behavior as masculine as your wardrobe. Just don’t carried away and break your arm.
Sections
N. Gregory Mankiw, Robert M. Beren Professor of Economics
What are some of your favorite holiday traditions?
My family enjoys musical theater and we will sometimes go down to New York and take in a couple of plays...I’m an early-to-bed, early-to-rise kind of person. I rarely make a big deal out of New Year’s — I almost rarely stay up until midnight.
What was the best Christmas gift you’ve ever received?
My first child was born four days before Christmas. She must have come home a day or so before Christmas. That was definitely a special Christmas for us.
What’s your favorite carol or movie?
I love “It’s a Wonderful Life.” It’s a movie I never tire of watching. I was appalled that a few freshmen in my seminar had not seen it. I think it’s a movie everyone should watch before coming to college, at least once.
What do you want for Christmas this year?
I am a hard person to shop for because I don’t have tremendous material desires. My wife replaces my clothing as she sees it wearing out.
Steven Pinker, Johnstone Family
Professor of Psychology
What are your holiday plans?
I am retreating—what I’ve done for each of the last four or five years is retreat to a place I have back in Cape Cod. I always have some sort of writing project, like a book I’m doing this year...We go for walks on the beach, bundle up and go for bike rides. If it’s not too cold, we go kayaking.
What was your most memorable New Year’s?
December 31, 1999: I was in New Zealand. I was one of the first to see the coming of the millennium. We were also among the first to know that disaster wasn’t going to strike because of the Y2K bug. I knew it was going to be a bunch of nothing. I could confirm—in fact I called my relatives to tell them that the planes didn’t fall out of the sky, the electricity didn’t fail, ATMs didn’t stop working.
What’s on your Christmas list?
Being Jewish means that Christmas is not a big deal. We’ve managed to avoid the whole gift thing, which is great. We don’t have to spend weeks shopping for gifts people will throw out. I know I sound like Scrooge. Bah humbug. I love latkes, but we kind of worry about all that oil so we don’t always make latkes.
Do you have a favorite holiday, then, if Christmas and New Year’s aren’t a big deal for you?
I’ve come to like Thanksgiving even though it was not a big deal in Canada at all. It’s an acquired tradition when I moved here to Cambridge...We spend it in Truro, where the pilgrims landed before they came to Plymouth. They anchored in Provincetown and they sent out a party that found water and corn in Truro. They thanked God when they should have really thanked the Indians.
Sections
As I slump into my office chair on an average Monday, I catch it out of the corner of my eye—a pulsating red light. It’s summoning me, beckoning me, pleading with me to check my voicemail. I spend all afternoon trying to avoid it, taking care of other trivial tasks until I can resist no longer. I dial the number.
“You have...17...new messages. To listen to your messages, press—”
*BEEP*
The familiar baritone comes on.
“Hi, it’s 5:30 on Thursday, and how about some ranger cookies and devil’s brownies? I haven’t gotten more than two hours of sleep in three months.”
“Hi, it’s 7 on Friday, and what does Clifford think of Howie Carr’s column on national searches? Did you know that Pandit is Indian-born?”
“Hi, it’s 2:30 on Saturday, and I just told Malcom my favorite line about Henry Kissinger.”
“Hi, it’s noon on Sunday, and later I’ll be breaking out the cotton and the gorilla.”
And so on.
The voicemailer’s barrages remind me on a regular basis of one of the most unique, amusing, and sometimes frightening aspects of my job—I regularly come into contact with more crazy people than probably anyone else on campus. Not “crazy like a fox” people, not people who are “a little off-kilter,” but people who are genuinely, certifiably out of their gourds. Drew Faust probably gets more of their messages than I do, but I bet she doesn’t read all her own mail or check her own voicemail.
For some reason, crazy people dig The Crimson. (I’ll avoid the obvious jokes.) The voicemailer is far from my only deranged friend.
There’s the guy who sent a collage of photos, newspaper clippings, and paragraphs of text extolling the virtues of “Froggy the Gremlin,” who, as far as I can tell, was a precursor to Kermit the Frog for TV shows in the 1940s. Apparently, “in a puff of smoke, Froggy appeared, laughing, hopping from side to side, that fixed and evil grin on his face.” I encourage you to Google around to find out more.
A certain woman called my cell phone once a week over the summer, always with the same opening.
“Hello, is this Max Child?”
“Yes...”
“I have to talk to you about a huge, huge story. In fact, it has the potential to be the biggest story in the history of The Crimson.”
In fearful, hushed tones, she would go on to describe a food safety bill working its way though Congress that threatened to thrust the country into martial law. I did a little fact-checking, and the bill was indeed real. The martial law part...not so much.
The “biggest story in the history of The Crimson,” device, however, got a lot of use from a wide range of crazies. In fact, as advice for future Crimson sources, I will dish out this warning: the more you emphasize how “big” a story is, the more likely it is that you are in fact just an unhinged person with an agenda.
Also, if your letter is stamped “THIS LETTER WAS SENT FROM A MASSACHUSETTS CORRECTIONAL FACILITY,” odds are your credibility has taken a hit before I open it.
One of my favorite letters came from a guy who was deeply concerned about Harvard’s budgetary situation. He took it upon himself to provide 13 pages of concrete recommendations for how we can all scrimp and save, including having all students brush their teeth more often so as to avoid the long-term costs of serious dental work and cavity fillings. I should have forwarded that one to Dean Smith.
Some of my correspondents have moved into the digital age. One set up an e-mail address named “crimson editor” at “plymptonstreet” for the purposes of spamming me and others on the staff with important news updates. For example:
“Just to show that I am not being hypocritical, when Lance Bass came out and JT dissed him, I spoke out on behalf of The Crimson staff. JT came to Cambridge to give a private show and apologize in person.”
Another one friended me on Facebook. I did not accept.
Then there are those who convey their message more directly—by walking in the door of The Crimson and talking the ear off anyone who will listen. I usually have to gradually walk them out while entertaining discussion on topics like whether or not Obama will be disbanding the U.S. military.
In the end, it’s kind of refreshing to have the opportunity talk to people who are really, really out there. It keeps me grounded with anyone who’s not completely off the reservation. Also, it gives me a good comeback when people say their friend or roommate is “insane.”
“Oh, you want to know insane? Well, I know a guy who worships a 60-year-old frog puppet...”
And I’m certainly not trying to stop the crazies from perusing The Crimson. Anything to boost readership, right?
—Maxwell L. Child ’10, the President of The Crimson, is an economics concentrator in Lowell House. FM received this endpaper from a Massachusetts Correctional Facility.
Sections
When Andre U. Akpan ’10 donned the whites of the U-20 U.S. National Soccer Team for the first time, he was a member of a squad composed nearly entirely of professionals. He started against Haiti and scored three goals, one on a header. That summer, he played in the U-20 World Cup in Canada, helping the U.S. advance to the quarterfinals. At this point, he had played with and against some of the best soccer talents in the world. He had also just finished his freshman year at Harvard.
Today, Akpan is the outgoing co-captain of a Harvard squad that reached the Sweet 16 in the NCAA Tournament, its most successful postseason in 30 years. He is the Crimson’s all-time leader in scoring with 127 points (a measurement of goals and assists) and tied for first in most goals scored (47). The man with whom he shares the spot, the late Chris Ohiri ’64, also happens to be the guy after whom the soccer field is named.
But superstardom started slowly, in Akpan’s case. “I played in the YMCA league when I was around four, and my dad always used to tell me that I hated it. I used to skip around and not pay attention,” he says.
Coming into college, however, he was a highly touted recruit out of Grand Prairie, Texas, having been named a “Top 100 Freshman to Keep an Eye On” by College Soccer News prior to the season.  Even still, it took some time for Akpan, who was accustomed to wearing cowboy hats and boots, to settle in. “Andre actually came into preseason freshman year a little chubby. He didn’t exactly finish the fitness test,” writes co-captain Brian D. Grimm ’10 in an e-mail. “I think he ran the two-mile Cooper in around 19 minutes. But when it came to games,” Grimm adds, “it was clear Andre had a knack for scoring and a hard work ethic.”
As a team, the class of ’09 notched up 52 wins, two Ivy League Championships and appearances in the postseason in each of their four years.  Akpan played a major role in this success, scoring 12 of the team’s 32 goals this season.
Akpan’s last collegiate goal came at the expense of Monmouth University during the second round of the tournament, a beautiful shot to the back left of the net. But Akpan hopes to continue scoring, from now on as a professional. “Hopefully the plan is to find somewhere to play professionally, anyone who would pay me to play,” Akpan says modestly. The senior, who took five classes for two semesters and studied abroad one summer, is graduating early to be a full participant in the Major League Soccer SuperDraft, where he is very likely to find a job.
But Akpan will be missed at Harvard, both on and off Ohiri Field. James E. Rees ’12 remembers Akpan going out of his way to spend time with him and fellow underclassman Timothy P. Linden ’12 outside of practice. “Maybe he was just pretending to have fun when he came and hung with Tim and me,” Rees laughs, “but as an upperclassmen he really did everything he could to make sure the young guys felt like they were part of the team and were having a good time.”
Sections
Coming to Harvard, brilliant scholars, star athletes, talented virtuosos, and innovative humanitarians aren’t necessarily a rare find. Yet between freshman move-in and spring Commencement, certain students manage to become campus icons. FM presents our annual list of Harvard’s 15 most interesting seniors, profiled below:
Andre U. Akpan: The Athlete
Nworah B. Ayogu: The Connector
Trevor J. Bakker: The Humanitarian
Jonathan S. Brito: The Renaissance Man
Rachel A. Brown: The Artist
Darryl L. Finkton: The Humble Scholar
Charles F. Gillespie: The Runner
Heba El Habashy: The Fashionista
Windsor G. Hanger: The Glamor Guru
Kai-Cheng Ho: The Inspiration
Dara A. B. Johnson: The Personality
Eva Z. Lam: The Politician
Elizabeth S. Nowak: The Globetrotting Activist
Ezekiel O. Smith: The Maverick
Winston X. Yan: The Entrepreneur
Sections
CORRECTION APPENDED
In Igbo, “Nworah” means “Child of the Community.” For Nworah B. Ayogu ’10, the name seems especially fitting.
In the Lowell Dining Hall, Ayogu meets with students from his engineering class, working on a project that lets patients in developing nations self-diagnose via text message. He stops, every few seconds, to wave to a friend or chat with a classmate. He seems to know everyone. And he doesn’t even live in Lowell House.
The Currier House resident rattles off a list of extracurricular activies: First Class Marshall, Political Action Chair for the Black Men’s Forum (BMF), Chair of the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations, First-Year Urban Program Leader, and Institute of Politics Fellow. He has also stepped with the BMF, danced in Ghungroo, directed Cultural Rhythms, mentored high school students, and served on the Undergraduate Council, among other things.
Oh, and he’s trying to cure cancer.  The biochemistry concentrator, who is a student in the secondary field in Health Policy, experiments with using viruses as cancer therapies for his senior thesis.
“He has learned above and beyond what he needs to for classes,” says his thesis advisor, Samuel D. Rabkin, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School, with whom Ayogu has worked for in the lab for about a year.
“He is clearly intelligent, very inquisitive, and has broad interests,” Rabkin says. “But he’s also very personable and nice to be around. If he knows something that someone needs help with, he’ll never hesitate to help out.”
“Of course he’s technically the most popular kid in our class,” blockmate Derek M. Flanzraich ’10 says, alluding to Ayogu’s position as First Class Marshall.  “But so many people respect him because he’s always there for them.”
“He’s always that guy who walks into a party and immediately it’s amped up, or who’ll drop everything for an entire afternoon to help you switch your concentration,” David F. Boswell ’10, another blockmate, says.
Caleb L. Weatherl ’10, who is also a Crimson editorial editor, remembers a time when Ayogu convinced the BMF to co-sponsor a Lincoln Day dinner with the Republican Club, of which Weatherl was previously president.  “It was the most successful Lincoln Day dinner in recent history thanks to him—and he’s a Democrat,” says Weatherl.
On paper, Ayogu might sound very serious, but he does not hesitate to admit that he is a Disney movie and musical theater buff, that he collects swords because of a childhood love of Lord of the Rings, that he spends a fair amount of time playing video games and procrastinating on Gchat, that he does have some Miley Cyrus in his extensive iTunes collection, and that yes, he calls his mother every day.
Future plans include medical school, but Ayogu swears that one day, before he graduates, he will record his Currier-inspired album of Quad-related remixes to sing on the shuttle. His version of Lil’ Wayne’s “Lollipop” brags about the Quad’s lack of roaches. “The Quad. It’s coming,” Ayogu says.  “And you thought Jay-Z was hot.”
And after a tangent about Disney’s “The Princess and the Frog,” Ayogu pauses. “Basically, I’ve figured out the meaning of life,” Ayogu says. “One, be happy, and two, make other people’s lives better. And that should be one in the same.”
CORRECTION
An earlier version of the Dec. 11 magazine article "15 Most Interesting seniors 2010: Nworah B. Ayogu" incorrectly stated that Caleb L. Weatherl '10 is currently president of the Harvard Republican Club. In fact, Weatherl is a former HRC president.
Sections
CORRECTION APPENDED
When Trevor J. Bakker ’10 shares the intimate details of his extensive work on human rights, he often speaks with his hands, never once breaking eye contact. He attributes his eloquence to his previous experience in theater and competitive speech.
“I feel like that’s a part of my life that has given me self-confidence and presentation ability,” he says.
On campus, he’s active in the Harvard College Human Rights Advocates, co-president of the Harvard College Defense Against Genocide, and he directed the Soldier Testimony Project. Bakker says he discovered his interest in human rights during high school while participating in extemporaneous speech contests, of which he was the Michigan state champion three times. Every round, Bakker would have to choose one of three topics, and he found himself gravitating towards human rights issues. “When the Darfur question came up I would always pick that,” he says.
“I remember coming to Harvard and thinking about getting involved in speech and debate,” says Bakker, but he ultimately chose a different direction.
“This is performance, and these are good skills to know,” he says, referring to competitive speech. “But if you’re really concerned about the things you read in the news, you have to stand up and do something.”
A social studies concentrator focusing on human rights and conflict, Bakker spent the past two summers abroad conducting research for his senior thesis. In 2008 he observed the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, and in 2009 he studied the Special Court for Sierra Leone. His research focuses on the benefits of making international criminal law more accessible to the communities actually affected by rights abuses, noting that this was the case in Sierra Leone, but not with the ICC.
Although Bakker is uncertain about his future—he is currently considering obtaining a law degree or a Ph.D. in economics or political science—he seems sure that he wants to integrate academic research with solving problems in human rights.
“I worry that the academic side can lose sight of ever implementing the ideas it generates and that the activist side doesn’t always have the same research capacity,” he says. “So I’d want to find something that’s at the center of these.”
Despite his accomplishments and his ambitions, Bakker is also quick to deflect credit from himself, and he often drops the names of others involved in these organizations. “I think the best work is done collaboratively, and the college environment doesn’t always teach us to work collaboratively,” he says. “Extracurricular activities have been so meaningful to me during my time here. There’s definitely an element of competition at Harvard that dissolves when you start working on human rights issues.”'
CORRECTION
An earlier version of the Dec. 11 magazine article "15 Most Interesting Seniors 2010: Trevor J. Bakker" incorrectly stated that Bakker founded the Solider Testimony Project. In fact, Bakker did not found the project, though he was its first director.
Sections
When Jonathan S. Brito ’10 approaches you in his DHAs, the first word that comes to mind is “jock.” With a solid frame and confident walk, Brito looks more likely to spend his day carbo-loading for a track and field meet than working through abstract math problem sets in the library. Ask him to explain “A Universal Degree Bound for Rings of Invariants of n Point Configurations Modulo Torus Actions,” and that stereotype quickly disappears. But his understanding of the theorem shouldn’t come as a surprise, considering that he proved it this past summer with two professors in a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program at the University of Michigan.
Brito claims he is simply “alright at math,” having started with Mathematics 1b during freshman year. “I went to a public high school where the highest math is [AP Calculus AB],” said Brito. “But the stuff that I do, I can’t imagine doing in high school. With abstract math, a lot seems applicable at first and then at some point the numbers go away—I haven’t seen one on a pset since sophomore year.”
Brito recalls having stumbled upon REU by virtue of his own laziness, after the deadlines for finance and consulting internships had passed. He worked in an apartment, not an office, and he reported to his two supervising professors twice a week. “It’s a lot of trial and error,” said Brito. “It was frustrating and stressful, and some days you just don’t feel like doing the work. But it feels cool to have your name on a theorem.”
When he’s not powering through p-sets, Brito is putting 25 hours a week into his long jump. The star athlete at Malden High School walked on to Harvard’s track and field team freshman year. An impressive list of injuries has accumulated over his college career, including pulled hamstrings, a flipped disk in his lower back, and tendonitis in both knees, but he refuses to stop competing, and he still feels that the sport has contributed to his personal growth.
“I learned that you can’t blame others for your own injuries,” said Brito. “I also started with these crazy ambitious personal bests; now I appreciate all the work that goes into achieving them.”
And although self-motivation and independence seem to be Brito’s defining qualities, his easy affability means he’s no cloistered math nerd or out-of-touch jock.
“He’s a very introspective person,” said Justin R. Gerrard ’10, Brito’s blockmate. “He analyzes things logically but, at the same time, balances his quantitative side with being a really nice guy and friend who’s always there when you need him.”
Sections
Rachel A. Brown’s ’10 first music venue was her bathroom. Her first audience was her MacBook. When she first began recording herself singing and playing guitar, she says a secluded hiding spot was the only kind of performing environment that she felt comfortable with. A lot has changed since then.
Her own father, Neil Brown ’74, had never heard his daughter sing until a few days before she left for college. He admits to being flabbergasted the first time he listened to her voice on the  iPod she’d handed to him. “I was just literally dumbfounded. I never had the idea it was anywhere in her,” he says.
These days, Brown’s talent is no longer a secret. “Last semester, junior year, I started going to open mics in the area and I was terrified,” says Brown.
On a family vacation in Bermuda this past summer, Brown found herself at an open mic night at a lounge called Chewstick. This night ultimately led to something much bigger. The people at Chewstick loved her breezy, lighthearted singing and lyrics. They invited Brown to return to Bermuda in July to perform at their annual musical festival Beachfest. Brown opened for R&B sensations Robin Thicke and Mary J. Blige, catapulting her into a world of musical superstars.
Brown identifies this concert as one of her favorite performing experiences. “It was just really moving, I’m on the beach singing ‘Bermuda’, and I can hear the ocean I’m singing about. This was the first time I heard some of my songs really come to life,” says Brown.
After Beachfest, she was invited to perform in the Bermuda Music Festival in October. This time, she opened for John Legend.
Brown, herself, is a legend in the making. Her forays into music began when she purchased a guitar during her gap year after high school. But her creativity was alive and thriving long before that. “I was always into making stuff,” she says. “Ever since I was small, no matter how it manifested itself, I would make something.”
“She is very, very self-taught,” says her father. This is evidenced by the expansive range of her artistic ventures, from producing mini magazines at the age of 14 to silk-screening her own clothing.
As a Visual and Environmental Studies concentrator, Brown’s focus is on film. She is currently creating a documentary for her thesis that captures the excitement and intrigue as three fashion designers prepare to showcase their collections. She brings the same charisma to her work that she exudes when singing.
“Rachel is some wonderful combination of quiet and exuberant. She’s extremely attentive to the things going on around her and that’s true both in the classroom and in shooting,” says her thesis advisor Professor Robb Moss.
Her friend, Robert B. Niles ’10, who first met Brown in Annenberg freshman year, explains how this creative drive extends into her daily life. Niles says that Brown “calls herself ‘the enforcer’ because she makes things happen.”
Post-graduation, Brown aims to channel her energy into film and music. She describes her songs as “kind of mellow, sort of beachy, just want you to feel good.” Clearly, Brown could be described the same way.
Sections
Today, despite seemingly unbeatable odds, Kai-Cheng Ho ’10 leads the charmed life of a high-achieving student and star running back on the football team.
“A lot of people—coaches, teammates and family—have helped me throughout my life. I wouldn’t be here without their support,” says Ho. “If you were to tell me six years ago that I’d be playing football at Harvard, I’d say you were crazy.”
Born in Taiwan, Ho was 12 years old when his father lost an eight-year battle against cancer, and his mother was institutionalized for illness shortly thereafter. Adopted by a sympathetic aunt, Ho arrived in the United States at the age of 13, unable to speak English and never having played football. “He’s a great example of the human spirit,” says Coach Tim L. Murphy, Head Coach for Harvard Football. “What are the odds that a kid who lands in the United States basically as an orphan with no money or language skills ends up as a Harvard football player?”
Despite his relatively compact 5’10 and 190-pound frame, Ho has proven to be a force on the football team.
“He’s like the Tasmanian Devil,” says Murphy.
Disadvantaged by his size and a late start to football, Murphy attributes Ho’s success to a combination of natural ability and hard work. “He’s one of the hardest working members on the team,” says teammate and blockmate John A. Paris ’10. “He has a true passion for football and he loves it.”
The Game in 2007 marked Ho’s breakout performance as an athlete, when the then-sophomore led the Harvard team to a surprising 37-6 victory. While a foot injury suffered during a scrimmage earlier this fall has ended Ho’s college football career, the economics concentrator remains active as a promoter of American football overseas. “I really want to start a league in China,” says Ho. He stars in an episode of a reality show called “NFL Blitz,” which is produced by NFL China and is scheduled to air the week before the Super Bowl.
Off the field, Ho is also known for his expressions of energy, enthusiasm, and kindness.
“He’s about as loyal as they come,” says blockmate Jeremy S. Lin ’10, himself an athlete on Harvard’s basketball team. “He’s willing to run through a brick wall for all of his friends.” Lin noted that recently Ho, who had an interview in New York, rearranged his return flight to make it in time to support the men’s basketball team in the game against Rice University.
Aside from being a valued friend and esteemed athlete, Ho—who donned a grass skirt and won a prize for his hula dancing during last spring’s Hawaiian cultural festival, “Luau”—is known by his friends for some of his quirkier qualities. “Along with dancing, he is very talented at eating an absurd amount of Chinese food,” says Lin. “He’ll easily eat two full overflowing plates of dumplings.”
With accomplishments ranging from promoting football abroad to dancing the hula, Ho says that he takes nothing for granted. A true team player, he hopes other Harvard students can adopt a similar perspective.
“Always remember how fortunate and privileged you are to be at this great place,” says Ho. “But never forget the people who have helped you along the way.”
Sections
Most people know Dara A. B. Johnson ’10 as one of the founders of La Vie, the newest female final club on campus and an organization that has made huge strides in just one year. In a social scene dominated for years by an exclusive group of a few clubs, La Vie has already started to rival the likes of the Bee and the Isis.
Close friend Chase Russell ’11 cites his first time meeting Dara as a testament to her outgoing nature.
“We were both in the Quincy dining hall, and she looked at me and said, ‘Boy, what are you doing alone? Come sit with me!’ I thought she was crazy and fun and was excited to become part of her craziness,” recalls Russell.
Despite her assertive personality and outgoing reputation, there is much more to this entrepreneur than fierce social skills. Born in Ibadan, Nigeria, Johnson spent most of her earlier years there until she moved to England for high school. As a freshman in Canaday, Johnson felt different from her peers, and although she was involved in a slew of activities, including minority recruitment for the Harvard Republican Club and Christian Impact, she certainly felt the weight of adjusting to Harvard life.
“When I first got to Harvard it was difficult for me, because it was a very different environment. I was black, but I didn’t feel like I was from Africa, nor was I African-American. People would ask me, ‘Why are you Nigerian with an English accent?’ It was weird always having to explain myself, and I was constantly feeling a need to conform to something or to be somebody,” explains Johnson.
Johnson persevered and went on to establish a name and a place for herself on campus. Initially an economics concentrator, she ended up switching to African and African American Studies and went on to found Project Unveil in Nigeria this summer, which uses theater as a tool for social change to help girls from low-income families develop a passion for learning.
“Once when I was in a salon in Nigeria, I witnessed a lady beating up a little girl who was her maid and only nine years old. This shocked me, and I didn’t know how to respond. Then she came in with a DVD titled ‘Jennifer’ and went from beating her maid to hugging her in a matter of minutes. This scene made me incredibly interested is this culture of maid-servant relationships,” Johnson recalls.
“I did some research and found that a lot of girls were dropping out and becoming servants with the ultimate goal of acting.,” she says. “So I founded Project Unveil to encourage these girls to move from being ambivalent to education to becoming passionate about it through theater.”
In addition to theater, Johnson has been executive producer for Eleganza, fundraising over $60,000 for the show and even donating $10,000 from her own pocket. Working on the show fueled her interest in fashion even more, and Johnson is currently working on establishing her own fashion line. “It’s called Bonheur, like my middle name,” explains Johnson. “But my friend said I have to change it because it sounds like bone her…but I want it to be clothing for the sexy professional female worker.”
As if that weren’t enough, Johnson also sings and is recording on her own album, which she describes as an eclectic mix of country, pop, soul, and alternative.
Johnson’s motto for herself—and the club she founded—is “la vie en rose.”
Sections
It wouldn’t be difficult to pick out Chas F. Gillespie ’10 from the crowds of flashing sneakers and long legs at a cross-country meet. His distinctive get-up, like a “NBA: Stay in School” baseball cap—discovered in a summer job’s Lost and Found pile—along with his 14:01 minute 5K—3rd best in Harvard history—set him apart from the pack.
Plus, with a distinctively impressive beard that grows icicles (literally) when he runs outside in the sub-20 degree weather, the captain really isn’t easily mistaken with his other cross-country teammates.
However, he says he has at times been confused with one particular cultural icon who redefined the term “cross country” for many Americans.
“I was running back to the locker room and there was a football game, so there were police officers out controlling the crowd,” he recounted. “One of them stopped me and said, ‘Come here, you know who you look like? Wilson? Was it Wilson? You know, the Cast Away?’”
After completing his sophomore year at Harvard, Gillespie embarked on his own Forrest Gump-like trek across America. Instead of packing up his things and boarding a plane to his hometown of Wilmette, Illinois, Gillespie and two friends decided to set off on a two-week, 1,000 mile plus bike trip back home from school. They paced about 90 miles a day through six states on mostly side roads, starting at 6 a.m. every morning and riding until dark with lunch breaks for peanut butter and honey sandwiches.
“It was a lot of small towns, so we would go to the town square with our bikes. People would talk to us and often they would invite us to sleep in their backyard,” Gillespie explained.
He wore a plaid shirt, tie, and biking shorts for a full two weeks. Prior to the trip, he had been growing out his hair for a few months to equal the length of his regular beard. Right before embarking, he cut it into what his teammate Daniel J. Chenoweth ’11 called “the most impressive mullet he’d ever seen… The hair flowing out the back paired with his protruding beard was just ridiculous. It was pretty hard to take him seriously for a while.”
If life is like a box of chocolates, Gillespie’s got a million different flavors.
As part of Harvard’s Arts First Celebration last spring, he performed a show as a one-man band entitled “The Concert for Dogs.” Gillespie, who plays piano and harmonica and sings, says he wears a robe whenever he writes music and that all of his songs are dedicated to Pallas Athena. His songs range from “A song about a dragon under investigation by the FBI for grand arson to a song about being in love with Julie Andrews.”
He performs often in Eliot House, wooing his fans with lyrics like: “Like in a painting, let’s go out to an x-rated picnic.”
While he pokes fun at his “extracurricular world-changing snacktivities” and exciting hobbies by citing them as “witchcraft, telekinesis, and ESP,” in truth, Gillespie is incredibly modest about his accomplishments.
“He has an incredible knowledge about a really diverse set of topics, but he won’t try and impress you with it. A guy with so many gifts and so much knowledge could easily be stuck up or a jerk, but Chas isn’t” says Chenoweth.
Then again, it’s pretty tough to be cocky with a mullet.
Sections
In two weeks, when other students will be recovering from exams and final papers or catching up on episodes of “Glee,” Darryl W. Finkton, Jr. ’10 will be on a plane to Ghana. Once there, he will continue his work on a self-sustaining water supply program that he developed with a friend freshman year.
At Harvard, Finkton and a Quincy House roommate, Sangu J. Delle ’10, have raised over $50,000 and enlisted the aid of about 50 Harvard students and professors to create irrigation systems, boreholes, latrines, and hygiene education programs in communities in Uganda, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Ethiopia.
Finkton was recently awarded a Rhodes Scholarship and plans to pursue a Master of Science. in global health, and later an M.B.A. while at Oxford. Med school plans are in the works. He is also a two-year member of the varsity basketball team, the co-founder of the College Bound program, a neurobiology concentrator, and a member of The Phoenix S. K.
But his road to Harvard was an unlikely one.
Finkton was raised in a single parent household with three older siblings in Indianapolis. He attended over 15 different schools—more than one school a year, on average—before he entered college.
And at Harvard, Finkton has started a college information program called College Bound, that aims to convince students in the local Roxbury community that college is something that should be on their radar screen.
“We tell them they should think about funding their college education,” Finkton says. “How can they prepare now?” And he has a work ethic that would make any advisor at the Bureau of Study Counsel swoon.
“I have a dry erase board,” he says. “I have my day mapped out for every half hour.” He schedules lunch dates in the dining hall, and when he will go out with friends. The system allows him the flexibility to dedicate time to his non-profit work and other extracurricular commitments.
“He is chill and funny and easy going,” says Finkton’s girlfriend, Alexandra L. L. Almore ’12. “He is also passionate, hard-working, and intelligent. He doesn’t come off as a know-it-all or haughty.”
Finkton’s mother works at the information desk at a hospital, and she said that people have stopped to offer their congratulations. “People from church were telling me they were going to pray for him and pray for his success and how proud they are of him.” She said Darryl went out in the world and did what he needed to do to make a good life for himself. “I can’t get the words out, all I can say is thank you and I am just so proud of him.”
She is making a scrapbook of newspaper clippings documenting her son’s success. “I want to show my grandkids, and say ‘Look, look at everything your dad has accomplished in life.’”
Sections
When she’s not in transit between New York and Boston or running from Kirkland to class and back, Heba el Habashy ’10 has her hands full with a business project that she hopes will launch her full-time involvement in the fashion industry.
Her Web-based service—TheCultivate.com—is el Habashy’s most recent brainchild, the outgrowth of an idea that first came to her around May of last year. The service is meant to connect up-and-coming designers with trend-conscious wholesalers and buyers to bolster local fashion markets.
“I think the inspiration for it was that I don’t really like the industry side of [fashion]; I have a much deeper connection with the creative side of it,” says el Habashy, an effortlessly elegant figure in her knee-high boots and gold bangles.
After completing summer internships at Dior and People’s Revolution, a brand marketing and consulting firm, el Habashy had garnered plenty of fashion industry experience, helping editors prepare layouts and push certain brands and trends while learning the ins and outs of the merchandising world.
Her summer and term-time involvements led el Habashy to see what she describes as “the need to foster greater creativity” in the fashion industry.
TheCultivate.com is her response to that need: the service will feature the collections of not-yet-established designers—usually five to seven years out of design school, according to el Habashy—in an online store that will collect demographic information from customers and redistribute that information to wholesalers and buyers for boutiques.
The hope is that smaller boutiques will become better informed about trends popular among their demographic, and younger designers will have access to an otherwise less available market.
El Habashy and her colleagues—two close friends who are also from Harvard—have initially selected designers through word-of-mouth research, professors at design schools, and fashion writers and editors to identify under-the-radar creators who would benefit from participating. In the future, TheCultivate.com team plans to create an application process for designers.
According to el Habashy, the feedback thus far has been excellent.
“They e-mail me every now and then for updates,” she recalls, laughing. “They really feel like ‘this is what we need.’”
El Habashy, a native of Cairo, says that growing up in a family of antique collectors and art enthusiasts nurtured her passion for aesthetic expression. Although her family has mostly been involved in politics, her experiences travelling the globe have fostered an appreciation for fashion in all forms.
For a woman who’s been involved in everything from Eleganza’s on-campus production to the scheduling of India’s fashion week, bringing two ends of the fashion industry into greater dialogue feels like a natural step. After graduation, el Habashy plans to work full time for the Web site, which will launch in late spring or early summer, for at least a year.
“My dream would be to have TheCultivate.com be successful and be able to reach out to those designers who are so talented and who a lot of people would want to wear but who just aren’t known,” she says.
Sections
When Eva Z. Lam ’10 arrived at Harvard, she was amazed not by the beautiful architecture or brilliant students, but by her bathroom in Thayer. Coming from an underfunded public high school in Milwaukee where toilet paper was scarce, Lam was awestruck by Harvard’s never-ending supply of TP. “I got here and was like, this is incredible!” she jokes.
But this simple luxury represented a more troubling aspect of her transition to college. “There’s a big disparity between where I come from and where most of the kids here come from,” she explains. While Lam feels that she received a strong education, she says many of her high school classmates fell through the cracks of the public school system.
As a social studies concentrator in Leverett, Lam studies urban education in the United States. She is writing her thesis on cultural competency: preparing educators to teach students from different ethnic backgrounds.
Through Harvard’s Undergraduate Teacher Education Program, Lam will be certified to teach high school upon graduating. “I’ve always been a talker and a nerd and teaching combines that,” she says. But before diving into the world of education, Lam will pursue master’s degrees in comparative and international education and comparative social policy at Oxford next fall as a Rhodes Scholar.
Lam is humble and down-to-earth, a product of her unpretentious Midwestern roots, but she speaks with a sense of authority. An accomplished debater in high school, Lam shifted her attention to politics upon arriving at college, campaigning for Obama and becoming president of the Harvard Democrats. “I decided that I didn’t want to talk about politics anymore; I wanted to do politics,” she says.
Lam says she is particularly interested in the double-bind faced by female politicians. “Either you are effeminate and you’re too weak to be a leader, or you project strength and confidence and you are not behaving the way people want you to behave as a woman,” she explains, though she says that she did not particularly feel this bind during her time as president of the Harvard Democrats.
“I don’t think she envisions herself as a woman succeeding in politics or playing the political game...she sees herself as herself,” says Judy E. Fan ’10, Lam’s roommate since freshman year.
It is striking that Lam’s friends, teachers, and family members confidently predict that she will someday become President of the United States. According to Martha L. Brown,  Lam’s mother, her inbox was filled with congratulations to the future President following news of Lam’s Rhodes Scholarship. “She doesn’t take herself terribly seriously,” she says. “She’s an excellent listener, a diplomatic person, and is just really well-liked.”
As Lam prepares for her first long-term experience abroad at Oxford, she reflects on the many parts of Harvard that she will miss. “The toilet paper still remains miraculous,” she says. “I may actually steal some and take it with me.”
—Samantha L. Connolly
Sections
Fastidious, creative, and brilliant: these are the three words that Winston X. Yan’s close friend and business partner Alexander G. Bick ’10 would use to describe the Adams resident. As a member of the Varsity Sailing Team, a co-founder of the start-up Rover, and a researcher at a lab attempting to create smaller and less expensive MRI machines, this physics major certainly seems to live up to such descriptions.
Rover, which brings travel information and guidebooks straight to your iPhone, was inspired by a travel experience after his freshman year with Bick.
“I was working north of London and he was working in France and we decided to meet up in London. We were using the ‘Let’s Go’ guides, and we were literally ripping pages out of these guides because we didn’t want to take the whole book with us,” he says. “We thought, ‘Could we put this information into something smaller, like a phone?’”
Their pragmatic idea ended up winning them first place in the I3 Innovation Challenge, a contest organized by Harvard Student Agencies, The Technology and Entrepreneurship Center, and The Harvard College Entrepreneurship Forum. They received a cash prize and, more importantly, support from HSA. With this help, Yan and his team have been expanding the company, and they plan to broaden the iPhone app’s scope even further after they graduate.
In the long term, Yan hopes to apply to an M.D./Ph.D. program. “It’s a big focus in my life to do something that’s good for people, and something that’s helpful for society,” he says.
The co-founders’ close friendship and dedication to their project is evident from their enthusiasm. Bick describes Winston as a director who leads by example. “At every point, Winston’s always trying to come up with a bigger and grander vision,” he says.
Despite his serious business experience, Yan has a comic side. Along with his and Bick’s successes together, they have also had a few mishaps. Alan C. Palmer ’11, a fellow member of the sailing team, remembers Yan and Bick tipping over their boat two years ago on the first day of practice. “Our coach was yelling at them,” he recalls. “That’s how I got to know their names.”
It doesn’t seem like playing a varsity sport, running a company, and working to advance medicine have forced Yan to mature at all. “I think that the peak of my maturity might have been when I interviewed for Harvard,” he says, grinning.
Even with his accomplishments and his future prospects, Yan is humble about his talents. “To be honest, I’m not brilliant. I’m not that genius physics person that can just sit around and know everything,” he says. Maybe so, but that sure hasn’t stopped him before.
Sections
Elizabeth S. Nowak ’10 practices what is called aggressive modesty. When asked a question about one of her humanitarian aid trips to Africa or sub-Saharan adventures, she tends to respond with a question to avoid talking about herself. Stories like how she instructed Sudanese midwives in newborn resuscitation and spent nights in Kenya defending her room from murderous swarms of locusts only come out in passing.
“She thinks everyone else is more interesting because they are the people about whom she really cares, not so much herself,” says Ayodeji B. Ogunnaike ’10, Nowak’s boyfriend.
From being a FUP leader to playing soccer to leading ESL classes to being involved with the Seneca, she seems to be actively engaged with the people and community around her.
This is impressive for someone who seems so likely to be continents away in her future. Nowak was first hooked by the pull of Africa when she was a young child and her father brought home a National Geographic CD of African music. Growing up in East Aurora, a small town outside of Buffalo, NY, this was a thing of rarity. “Where I live is pretty isolated and white. My parents made an effort to expose us to cultural things,” she says.
From that moment of first exposure, she was pretty much Africa bound. In the summer of 2004, she went to Ghana with the American Field Service. She returned in the summer of 2008 to set up a Youth Center for Peace in rural Sierra Leone. In between the two projects, specifically to help forward her Africa interests, she chose Harvard—where she is now an African and African American Studies concentrator pursuing a secondary in Chemistry.
Nowak has balanced pursuits both inside and out of the undergraduate bubble. Independent of the College, for example, she joined the Division of Global Health and Human Rights at Massachusetts General Hospital. This past summer she traveled to Sudan with Brett D. Nelson, a pediatrician at MGH. Originally brought along to coordinate logistics and gather data, by the end she was teaching courses in newborn resuscitation.
“She was very well received,” says Nelson. “She’s extremely personable, and the nurses loved having her there to teach them.”
But she made equally good use of the opportunities she found in her classes. In the fall term of 2008, she took Engineering Sciences 147: “Idea Translation: Effecting Change through the Arts and Sciences.” Then, in the summer of 2009, she took her final project for the class—a vertical farming system designed to help the urban poor in Africa, called “vertigrow”—to Kenya, and she plans to continue work on it between graduation from Harvard and medical school.
But of course Nowak doesn’t make a big deal of these plans. Just a small town girl living in an African world.
Sections
Two summers ago, Windsor G. Hanger ’10 flew home to the city of Asheville, North Carolina and helped her sister, mother, and stepfather build a barn on their farm. When reminded of this story, Kelsey G. Hanger, Windsor’s little sister, laughed. The experience was enjoyable, Kelsey and Windsor both agreed, but Kelsey expressed doubt as to how much she and Windsor actually contributed to the construction.
“She might have helped hammer in a nail or two,” Kelsey joked.
While she may not be a master barn-builder, Hanger more than makes up for it in the incredible range of talents she has developed over the years. From beauty pageants to entrepreneurship, the History and Science concentrator has a lot more on her mind this year than her senior thesis.
Hanger’s activities this summer epitomized her range of interests and talents. She divided her time between internships at OK! magazine and in Bloomingdale’s marketing department. Hanger co-founded Her Campus, a web-based publication geared toward college-age women. To top it off, she also competed in the Miss Massachusetts 2009 competition.
“She’s always doing something,” her sister said.
Hanger, who has been competing in pageants since high school, placed in the top ten for the Miss Massachusetts competition. She also won the Miss Miracle Maker Award for raising the most money for the Children’s Miracle Network.
While Hanger’s experiences in pageantry have attracted attention over the years, she has recently become better known for her achievements in business, rather than beauty. Last year, along with Annie Wang ’11 and Stephanie M. Kaplan ’10,  Hanger founded Her Campus, which was a winner in the i3 Innovation Challenge, a Harvard business plan competition. “She’s clearly very passionate about Her Campus,” Wang said. “She’s really good at public outreach and forming business partnerships.”
Hanger said Her Campus has exposed her to a new level of knowledge in accounting, law, and marketing. Her previous experience in marketing was as the executive editor at Freeze magazine, where she started the Mr. Harvard Freshman contest. She explained that this marketing experience helped her see that her passion lay in business, a realization that lay the groundwork for the direction she is taking today.
Hanger’s path has wound in many directions since her days growing up in Asheville. While Hanger’s interests have shifted over the years—in high school she thought she wanted to be an actress, and pursued the idea of being premed at Harvard—last year, Hanger switched her concentration from Human Evolutionary Biology to History and Science and set the goal of going to business school.
“It’s been fun watching her path,” Kelsey said.
Next spring, when Hanger graduates with the class of 2010, she has yet another choice of which direction to take.
Right now, she is considering accepting a job offer from Bloomingdale’s or working full time at Her Campus. Although she is excited for the future, Hanger said she will miss the energy and work ethic exemplified by people at Harvard.
“Being surrounded by passionate, hardworking people has been really wonderful as far as pushing me to grow,” Hanger said. “That’s one thing I’m really going to miss, being around people so excited about life.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Cambridge City Council meeting determined on Wednesday that Plympton Street will keep its name.
Former Mayor of Cambridge Francis H. Duehay ’55, who had been leading the campaign to change the name to “Halberstam Street”—in honor of journalist David L. Halberstam ’55—for the past 15 months, decided to rescind his proposal after Harvard alumni voiced their disapproval to him.
“It took us awhile to understand the attachment that the current students and alumni have to the name ‘Plympton,’” said Duehay, who thought of the following alternative only a month ago.
Duehay proposed naming a “park” after Halberstam instead. The park—which would be named “Halberstam Square,” should the full committee pass the proposal—is the unnamed, triangular enclosed area located on the median at the intersection of Linden and Mount Auburn Streets.
Halberstam, a former Crimson managing editor who later won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of Vietnam, was killed in a car accident in San Francisco in 2007.
In the original petition to change Plympton Street to Halberstam Street, Duehay wrote that “changing the street name to Halberstam would go a long way toward commemorating the high standards of journalism that David stood for.”
The former editors of The Crimson who attended the meeting were generally in favor of the new proposal.
John G. Wofford ’57, a former Crimson president, said that the timing of the park’s naming falls in line with the 45th anniversary of Halberstam’s book, “The Making of a Quagmire: America and Vietnam.”
Wofford said he was glad that “the proposal transformed a controversial idea into something that could receive widespread support.”
“We’re very excited that David Halberstam is still going to be honored and memorialized in Cambridge,” said Maxwell L. Child ’10, the current Crimson president. “Many generations of Crimson editors have fond memories of their time at 14 Plympton Street, and we felt to single out just one and change the name would not do justice to the hundreds of great writers that have passed through this building.”
The council members agreed to pass a favorable recommendation to the full committee, and a vote should take place before Dec. 21 to see that the naming comes to fruition.
Philip M. Cronin ’53, a Crimson trustee, told Duehay that he would receive support from the trust for funding a plaque and a ceremony commemorating Halberstam and the naming of the new park.
“He is the brightest star in the pantheon, and he died a tragic death,” said Vice Chair of The Crimson’s Graduate Board Francis J. Connolly ’79, “and certainly it is appropriate to find ways to honor such a distinguished journalist.”
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People President Benjamin T. Jealous urged a group of aspiring attorneys to use their influence to enact social change at a lunch event at Harvard Law School yesterday.
Jealous reminded the law students to use their influence to serve the public interest and to remain aware of the social conditions around them.
“Part of your role as lawyer is to look for the laws and the amendments that exist and look for the language that will garner the greatest consensus,” he said. “You have to see the constitution as a living document, so you can insure a better future for this country.”
Jealous talked about his experience as an organizer and activist, advising law students about the importance that the public plays in major civil rights cases.
“Those of you who want to change the world should know the court of public opinion is paramount,” he said. “Public law is much more influenced by public opinion than they’d like to admit.”
Jealous also discussed the revised and expanded purpose and vision of the NAACP with his audience.
“Whenever I’m asked to speak, especially at law schools, I try to stress the impact that young lawyers can make and the nature of the times, in which we need to fight for human rights as well as civil rights,” Jealous said.
During the question and answer segment of the talk, Akosua K. Goode, a second year Law School student, asked Jealous what the biggest threat is to the continued existence of the NAACP.
“Human mortality is the biggest threat,” Jealous answered jokingly. “Fewer and fewer younger people are joining the NAACP. Most members are under university age or around retirement.”
Jealous went on to say that the NAACP is currently working to rebalance the age make-up of its membership by restructuring the organization and attracting members through marketing.
Audience members said that they found Jealous’s talk educational.
“As a member of Harvard’s NAACP chapter, there have been few opportunities to interact with those who are involved on the national level, so it was great to find out where the organization as a whole is heading,” said Clayton W. Brooks III ’10.
“It was refreshing to hear what Jealous had to say,” said Jarell L. Lee ’10. “I’m constantly surrounded by students, so it was great to meet and learn from someone who is a role model.”
The event was organized by the Harvard NAACP chapter’s President James A. Nortey and Vice President Toby R. Merrill, who are both students at the Law School.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The current H1N1 outbreak in the U.S. may be much less severe than originally anticipated, according to a recent study conducted by researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health and the UK Medical Research Council.
This is the most up-to-date study that attempts to quantify the impact of the H1N1 virus, the impact of which has been steadily decreasing in severity since it first hit the U.S. this April.
“The overall message of this study is that, though individuals should still take cautions, the overall impact on our society is fortunately less severe than the upper end of what we thought was possible,” said Marc Lipsitch, one of the study’s authors and a professor of epidemiology at HSPH.
Lipsitch heads the HSPH Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, established this September to research infectious disease, track their outbreaks, and make information more available to policy makers and the public.
Using data collected from the city health departments of Milwaukee and New York City from April to July this year and from the Centers for Disease Control, the researchers obtained a ratio of deaths to H1N1 cases.
Using two different methods of calculation, the researchers determined two mortality rate estimates, with the higher measure reaching one death out of every 2000 cases, which is about four to ten times less than initial projections.
“Both estimates were in the low ranges of what the CDC originally thought was possible,” Lipsitch said.
The H1N1 virus is still quite a serious public health threat, Lipsitch said, but he added that the study’s results could be helpful for health officials in better gauging the necessary resources and precautions needed to combat the virus. For example, these results could be used to justify decisions not to close schools in large numbers.
“It is important not to make an incredibly costly, large-scale response that would have been disproportionate to the scale of the threat,” he said. “It was right to be cautious early on, but backing off slightly may be appropriate.”
Soheyla D. Gharib, the chief of medicine at Harvard University Health Services, said she has seen a slight decline in the number of students coming into the clinic with flu-like symptoms. She added, however, that the downturn could be due to the beginning of reading and exam period, when students are often too busy to visit UHS.
In light of the study, Gharib said that it is possible that the CDC could downgrade the H1N1 virus’s threat level to seasonal flu status or to relax procedural guidelines.
“But until then, Harvard will continue to follow CDC guidelines to manage the outbreaks on campus,” Gharib said.
The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health and was published online on December 7, 2009 in the journal PLoS Medicine.
—Staff writer Helen X. Yang can be reached at hxyang@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Johnny F. Bowman ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11 were sworn in as the new Undergraduate Council President and Vice President last night, nearly three weeks after the results of November’s scandal-riddled elections were re-certified by the Council.
Former UC President Andrea R. Flores ’10 praised Bowman’s unique energy and personality.
“He is going to make the UC experience incredibly fun and really bring new life to the group,” Flores said. “It will definitely make people see that the UC really is a student group and make people see that we don’t take ourselves too seriously.”
In his first presidential statement to the UC, Bowman—who said he initially had aspirations to become a comedy writer—chronicled his three unsuccessful attempts to “comp” the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine.
“I realized that comedy writing was taking away from what I really loved—the Harvard community,” Bowman said.
Bowman then turned his attention to the ways that he could improve student life by first joining the Student Labor Action Movement and eventually the UC this fall.
UC Vice President Eric N. Hysen ’11 lauded the Council for its numerous recent accomplishments, but he also articulated his hopes for further improving the Council during his tenure.
“It’s time for us to mature as an organization...time for us to move past the petty personal politics that have plagued the UC for too long,” said Hysen, who was absolved of accusations of voting fraud during the controversial presidential elections in November.
In her farewell address, Flores had nothing but praise for the 28th Undergraduate Council.
“[This year’s] Council has finally figured out how to get things done,” Flores said, citing achievements in projects such as UC constitutional reform, room reservations, ad board reform, and ethnic studies.
She also offered her advice to help the Council continue its work.
“I don’t think we will ever be a popular organization, but that does not mean we cannot be an effective organization, one that tries its hardest to do the best for students,” said Flores to the UC. “People may accuse you of being too political, but never let them accuse you of not working hard.”
Kia J. McLeod ’10, who was censured by the Council last week for her involvement in the election scandal, reflected positively on her tenure as Vice President in her speech. She emphasized her continuous “commitment to making the Undergraduate Council more relevant to all aspects of student life,” and her prominent role in the creation of the UC TKTS initiative, which lotteries free event tickets to students.
“I have exhausted my position to its maximum potential,” she said. “I am so thankful for the opportunity to serve students in an official capacity.”
Bowman ended his first meeting as the new UC President, and the last meeting of the semester, with a shake of his green maracas—a gift from Flores that was intended to represent his comparatively relaxed leadership style—and a gleeful “Meeting adjourned!”
—Staff writer Melody Y. Hu can be reached at melodyhu@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Boston University graduate student Joel Tenenbaum will pay a $675,000 fine to the Recording Industry Association of America for illegally sharing music online unless a court rules to reduce the fine in a subsequent trial.
The judge issued an injunction against Tenenbaum, preventing him from sharing music but refused to issue a gag order intended to prevent Tenenbaum for advocating piracy on his private Web site.
The suit, which was filed in 2008, is only the second claim against an alleged file sharer that has gone to trial and has not been settled out of the courtroom.
Derek E. Bambauer ’97, a former fellow of the Law School’s Berkman Center of Internet and Society, said that Charles R. Nesson ’60, a Harvard Law School professor and Tenenbaum’s attorney, is most likely going to challenge U.S. District Judge Nancy Gertner’s ruling, which states that Tenenbaum’s file sharing is not covered under fair use laws.
“Fair use is a question that ought to be resolved by a jury,” Bambauer said. “How much Joel [should] have to pay...seems out of proportion for the damage that he actually caused.”
Bambauer said that Tenenbaum’s defense could have presented a more “robust” argument for the application of fair use law, partly by utilizing more economic data and statistics.
According to Bambauer, fair use law is ambiguous, in part because “there is a disconnect between what feels free and what is actually free.”
But in recent years, the RIAA—an organization that represents recording industry distributors—has taken an aggressive stance against unlicensed file sharing. According to RIAA spokesperson Cara A. Duckworth, the RIAA has settled over 10,000 suits since 2003, collecting between $2000 to $3000 from each plaintiff.
“This is about appreciating music and all the people who work hard to make it,” she said. “It may just look like a digital file on your computer, but there are dozens and dozens of people who work behind the scenes to bring that song to your ears.”
Though Bambauer said he believes that the law should be changed if it is a law that nobody can understand, he said he sees a future to file sharing that would not involved illicit activities.
“[File sharing] is efficient, it’s robust, it’s sort of disaster proof,” he said. “Don’t share music or movies. Do use it to share things that are legal—your photos, your homework, Shakespeare.”
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard will halt construction of the Allston Science Complex indefinitely in early spring 2010 after the structure’s foundation is completed but before the building becomes ready for tenants, according to a letter sent by University President Drew G. Faust to the community early yesterday afternoon.
The move, approved Monday by the University’s highest governing body, leaves uncertain what form the science complex will take and casts confusion on the construction timeline of an expansion already plagued by delay and resident concerns.
The Harvard Corporation's decision, which comes just months after the University announced that its endowment dropped an unprecedented 30 percent last fiscal year, was based on the “altered financial landscape of the University, and the wider world,” which “necessitates a shift away from rapid development in Allston,” according to the letter.
The pause follows Harvard’s announcement in February that it would slow construction of the Science Complex while it examined various options and timelines for completing the project. At the time, Allston residents criticized the University for slowing construction while Harvard-owned properties in the neighborhood sat vacant.
The Allston Science Complex is the first component of Harvard’s ambitious 50-year plan to construct an extension of its campus across the Charles River and was intended to serve as a hub for stem cell research and interdisciplinary science. Faust’s letter stated that the delay in construction would “in no way slow Harvard’s significant momentum in the life sciences.”
Even before Thursday’s announcement that the slowdown would soon come to a halt, construction delays had created difficulties for some Harvard scientists, as it became clear that promised space in Allston would not be ready on schedule. In particular, stem cell researchers who had planned on moving into the Allston Science Complex were instead relocated to laboratories in Cambridge, displacing Molecular and Cellular Biology faculty and causing tensions with administrators.
The letter emphasized that the University would continue its “commitment to a program of active stewardship of Harvard properties.” Faust’s letter announced a new plan for Harvard’s presence in Allston, consisting of three phases—“property stewardship and community engagement; campus planning and greening; and campus development.”
The first phase will involve leasing out 100,000 square feet of Harvard-owned property in Allston that had previously been reserved for “construction support.” It will also work to make its properties more attractive by “investing in upgrades and improvements” in the properties it currently owns.
Additionally, the University will extend short-term lease contracts and encourage real estate brokers to “reach more potential tenants for Allston properties.” Faust also emphasized that this first phase will involve the continued development of the University’s public service programs in the neighborhood, which include the Harvard-Allston Education Portal, an education partnership between the University and Allston Public Schools.
The second phase of development in Allston will involve greening the community, for instance through the completion of Library Park—a public park for the neighborhood.
General campus development in Allston, the third and final phase of the new plan, will occur “as resources allow and only after a targeted evaluative process that will begin next month.” The process will be led by a new guided Work Team “with expertise in design, urban planning, business strategy, real estate development, and public policy,” according to the letter. The committee will include Peter Tufano, senior associate dean for planning and university affairs at Harvard Business School, Bill Purcell, director of the Institute of Politics and former mayor of Nashville, TN, and Alex Krieger, chair of the department of urban planning and design at the Graduate School of Design.
“President Faust asked us to help the University think through its opportunities in Allston and we enthusiastically agreed,” wrote Bill Purcell in an e-mailed statement. “We are looking forward to getting underway, and to developing options and recommendations for Harvard’s campus development, as well as for strong and lasting engagement with the Allston-Brighton community.”
University Executive Vice President Katharine Lapp said that it was too early to say what sort of timeline the new Work Team would follow.
“It’s premature to give you any sense of timing, but I can say that we will see a more sequenced approach towards development,” Lapp said.
She emphasized, however, that the new plan for the complex would come in “months, not decades.”
“The Work Team will be fully populated in coming weeks, and the expectation is it will be getting underway with discussions and putting our work plans together and agendas together starting right after the 1st of the year,” Lapp said.
While Lapp said that it was “premature” to talk about concrete recommendations the Work Team could consider, she mentioned that the University might consider “co-developing” the Science Complex with other institutions.
“We don’t have any preconceived notions of what partners or approaches would be the best for us, but what we do know is that it has been a very successful strategy for many universities and institutions across the country, and it is something we need to explore,” Lapp said.
—Peter F. Zhu contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATION APPENDED
Just six hours after the University’s announcement that it will halt construction on the Allston Science Complex, tensions ran high last night at a community input meeting regarding the relocation of the Charlesview Appartments, a concrete cluster of 213 low-income housing units located near the Business School.
As part of a land swap deal with Harvard, the Charlesview Board of Directors plans to move residents out of the current structure—which is near Harvard’s long-awaited, and now further postponed, Allston Science Complex—in an effort to further development in the neighborhood. Relocated Charlesview residents are expected to be given space in other yet-to-be constructed, housing units on land in the neighborhood currently owned by the University.
The 2007 land swap agreement was intended to allow the University to consolidate its Allston land holdings while giving residents new housing and amenities.
But the redevelopment plan has caused tensions in the neighborhood, with residents concerned that the blueprint did not fall in line with the neighborhood’s overall aesthetic.
In response to these concerns, David Hancock, the project manager for redevelopment, proposed a new architectural plan for the complex. The redesign included a reduction in building heights throughout the sites, but it increased the number of plots that will ultimately serve as sites for the apartment units. The new plan also included more retail space along Western Ave., and it decreases the amount of parking available near housing units.
Additionally, Harvard’s Director of Community Relations for Boston Kevin A. McCluskey ’76 announced at the beginning of the meeting that Harvard will ensure that at least 10 units of market-priced housing will be built on the Brookline Machine site, which was a major point of contention at the previous community meeting. According to a statement released by Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications Christine M. Heenan, the plans for the Brookline site were finalized on Wednesday night at a meeting between President Drew G. Faust and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino.
Regarding the redesign, McCluskey said that Harvard was “very proud” of the progress that has been made with the Charlesview project.
“This has been a very constructive conversation and now has led to a good proposal and one that all of you have had a lot of input in shaping and improving,” he said.
But many of the residents present at the meeting did not think that the redesign adequately addressed their concerns.
Allston resident Tim McHale proposed a ten-point plan to improve the current design. The proposal included allowing space for backyards in the housing units and moving a McDonald’s to make room for a more attractive plaza on Western Avenue.
“We want more of a neighborhood feel,” McHale said.
The Boston Redevelopment Authority will hold an open meeting next Thursday, during which they will review any revisions to the Charlesview design and vote on whether or not to give the Charlesview Board a permit to begin construction.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
CORRECTIONS
An earlier version of the Dec. 11 news article "Harvard Amends Charlesview Plans" incorrectly stated in the headline and elsewhere in the piece that the University was changing its plans with regards to the Charlesview Apartments. In fact, the plans in question were those of the Charlesview Board of Directors.
The article also incorrectly stated that Harvard had plans to destroy the Charlesview complex. In fact, though residents expressed concern about the possibility of such a move at last nights meeting, the University has not finalized any plans to do so.
CLARIFICATION
The article also may have incorrectly implied that Charlesview residents would be relocated into Harvard-owned buildings in Allston. In fact, though the land where the residents will be relocated is currently owned by the University, it will be exchanged with the Charlesview Board as part of a land swap agreement.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In what may be an early sign that the budget is recovering, Faculty of Arts and Science Dean Michael D. Smith announced yesterday that he would end the salary freezes placed on faculty and staff last December.
In an update on FAS finances, he also guaranteed a 3 percent increase in graduate students’ stipends and assured concerned professors that funding for Harvard College Libraries would not be further reduced.
These increases in spending come despite a $110 million FAS deficit—a budget estimate that has not been updated since Smith announced it on September 15.
According to Smith’s e-mail yesterday afternoon, faculty and staff members will be eligible to receive a 2 percent “merit-based salary increase.”
Whether a faculty or staff member receives a “merit-based salary increase” depends on the feedback an individual receives in departmental evaluations.
Salary increases of up to five percent were common during the flush years that predated the economic crisis, according to Bill Jaeger, director of the Harvard Union for Clerical and Technical Workers. But last year, faculty and nonunion staff members did not receive a salary increase due to the freeze.
Though the additional two percent is less than salary increases before the financial crisis, Classics Professor Richard F. Thomas said he thinks it may be “intended to send out a message,” indicating that “economic recovery is something that seems at least to be a possibility.”
NO FURTHER LIBRARY LIMITS
In the past few years, Harvard College Library has been forced to lay off staff members and limit growth in collections, as it seeks to reduce its budget for 2010 by $12 million in spite of increasing costs.
Last month, the report from the Task Force on University Libraries recommended that the university restructure its “labyrinthine” library system and suggested that it could no longer hope to retain a fully comprehensive collection.
But yesterday’s letter reassured faculty that the implementation of task force recommendations would not be associated with continuing cuts to library funding.
“The hemorrhaging will at least stop, and we can be very grateful for that,” said Thomas, who last week co-authored a letter with over 100 other faculty members to Smith and other University administrators calling for greater library support.
Smith told The Crimson that the decision not to cut the library budget further was not a direct response to his colleagues’ appeal.
Nancy M. Cline, the head librarian of HCL, sent a message out to library staff acknowledging that the library will continue to face financial pressures that prevent the refilling of positions left open in the wake of cost-reducing measures.
“While it affords the Library some relief...it does not remove the careful constraints under which we are working,” Cline wrote in the e-mail.
SLIM STIPEND INCREASE?
In addition to maintaining the current size of GSAS, the letter guarantees that graduate students will receive a 3 percent increase to their current stipends.
Facing a tighter budget last spring, the graduate unit of FAS enrolled 10 percent fewer students than in previous years, according to GSAS Dean Allan M. Brandt.
But Brandt said that the increase in stipends will help reassure current and prospective students about the financial state of the graduate school. “The rise in stipends will...make Harvard very competitive in our efforts to recruit the most talented students,” Brandt wrote in an e-mail to the Crimson.
An economics graduate student who asked to remain anonymous said that a 3 percent increase in his stipend would translate into an extra $600. He said that the additional support will help with groceries, but he was less confident in its ability to draw new students.
“Six-hundred bucks wouldn’t convince anyone to go to Harvard,” he said.
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Arriving at Harvard from Kenya his freshman year, Leonard C. Kogos ’12 traded in his sandals and shorts for snow boots and long underwear.
Kogos’s host mother—a former resident of Kenya—took it upon herself to assimilate Kogos to his new environment by taking him shopping for winter clothes.
Kogos’s experience is one common to many other freshmen who come to Harvard from far away locales and try to adjust to what is literally a much colder college life.
Some international students like Kogos—as well as some students who live in the U.S. but far from Cambridge—are taken under the wing of the Harvard Freshman Host Family Program. Coordinated through the Freshman Dean’s Office, the program pairs freshman with local college alumni who share their academic and personal interests in order to help ease the students’ transition into University life.
FINDING THE RIGHT FIT
Incoming freshmen apply to receive a local host family in the summer prior to their freshman year. Participation is open to all freshmen and is especially encouraged for international students, according to Christina McFarlane, assistant to the dean of freshmen and coordinator of the Host Family Program.
After assignments have been made, freshman students and host families receive each other’s contact information. Host families—which usually contain at least one Harvard alum—are expected to take the initiative to reach out to their first-year students prior to the students’ arrival in Cambridge.
Hosts and students are introduced to each other for the first time at the beginning of the school year during an event hosted by the Freshman Dean’s Office.
For the past two years, McFarlane has worked closely with both host families and freshman students to design matches.
“Every student fills out an extensive application, where they answer questions about their personal and academic interests,” McFarlane said. “I take all of their responses into account and review the applications to ensure that each pairing is a good fit.”
The program seeks out host families by directly approaching University affiliates and sending additional letters to local alumni during their respective reunion weeks to invite them to serve as hosts for freshman students.
“We always ask interested graduates, friends, and colleagues—in addition to reunion classes—if they want to help welcome first-year students to Harvard,” said Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67. “This program has been growing, and we know from testimonials that host families make the freshman year experience much richer, simply by inviting host students for home-cooked meals or introducing them to the community.”
RECIPROCAL REWARDS
Participants in the program said both sides of the equation have been rewarding.
Marco Chan ’11 was raised in Vancouver and currently lives in China. Even as a junior, he continues to maintain a close friendship with the host family assigned to him freshman year.
“Host families have been a great resource for a lot of students because it can be a challenging transition from high school to college and from their hometown to Cambridge,” Chan said. “I feel like it’s made the difference for me because my host parents are objective observers who are removed from your daily life but live in the community and know what Harvard is like.”
“It’s rare to have people like that available to advise you,” he added.
Chan said that his host family also helped introduce him to various areas of Boston during his freshman year and hosted him for Thanksgiving break during his sophomore year. He said that his host family members are among the people in Boston that he feels the closest to.
In her move from Singapore to Cambridge, Charlene Neo ’10 had a similar experience with her freshman year host family, with whom she still corresponds regularly.
“Words can’t express the gratitude that I have towards them,” she wrote in an e-mail.
Neo said when she came to Harvard as an international student, she had a difficult time adjusting to the American schooling system and dealing with homesickness.
“It was not an easy transition, coming to a place with top-notch students and faculty,” she said. “I was afraid, rather intimidated, and often worried.”
During her sophomore year, Neo was diagnosed with compartment syndrome—a condition that can lead to muscle death or nerve damage—and was bedridden for nearly two months. During her time recovering at University Health Services, Neo’s host parents visited her frequently and brought her food and drinks.
“They would check up on me every so often, and were always there if I needed any help,” she said.
Kevin J. Mulcahy, a host parent whose wife was a Harvard alumna, said the “most gratifying aspect” of the relationship is witnessing students’ growth over the course of their college careers.
“One of the reasons we enjoy this is when you’re dealing with your host students, you are dealing with people who are emerging as young independent adults with their own perspective and views,” Mulcahy said.
THE FUTURE AND BEYOND
Sorina Codrea ’12, who participated in the Host Family Program during her freshman year, questioned the relevance of the host program due to the recent adjustments to the academic calendar, which now includes over a month-long January Term break.
Codrea said that host families may have been more important to students last year when the two-week-long winter break was not enough time for many students to return home.
But McFarlane said that while the Office of Financial Aid provides a travel stipend for students receiving significant financial assistance to travel home over J-term, she did not anticipate the new academic calendar detracting from the relevance of the host family program.
Regardless of the changing schedule, for some host families and their students, the benefits of the program are clear.
“We fulfill some of the roles that parents cannot due to the distance or other constraints,” host dad Andrew C. Compaine ’81 said. “To be able to be a witness to these formative years has been a great honor and really enriched our lives.”
—Staff writer Barbara B. DePena can be reached at barbara.b.depena@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Those of us who still live in a cave use the FAS Webmail application to check our e-mail may have noticed that we now have the option to try a brand spanking new interface. This "FAS Beta" is, we will admit, slightly spiffier and simpler, but apparently, its only purpose is to improve security while FAS IT performs a great e-mail migration over the next several months.
According to Noah S. Selsby '95, senior client technology adviser for FAS IT, FAS Beta is not a full-fledged new version of FAS Webmail, but rather a temporary upgrade while FAS IT moves student FAS accounts to Mail2World, the company behind the "@College" domain. Faculty and staff accounts will be migrating to Microsoft Exchange, a process he says is estimated to take eight months.
Meanwhile, FAS IT has included shiny new features for users to enjoy in FAS Beta during this transition period. Some of these include the removal of Webmail-based email filters (apparently works better now), better foreign language support (¡bueno!), an improved address book (better for stalking), and better support for attachments and HTML messages (make emails bigger and brighter).
As for the spam problem that occasionally occurs when e-mails are forwarded to Gmail, Selsby says the current proposed solution is a feature that forces @College to keep copies of all emails that are forwarded instead of automatically deleting them.
FlyBy assumes this means we will have to keep checking all of email accounts periodically until the flight to freedom is complete.
Sections
Cold weather has been kind to Harvard  quarterbacks. First, the Crimson had Ryan Fitzpatrick ‘05, who has  emerged as the starter for the Buffalo Bills this season. Now, Chris  Pizzotti '08-'09 joins the ranks, as he signed with the Green Bay Packers on  Tuesday.
“I’m pumped,” the 2008 Ivy League  Player of the year said. “I couldn’t wait to get started.”
Pizzotti had been trying to make it  onto the New York Jets’ roster at the beginning of preseason, but  the Jets chose to take Mark Sanchez and Kellen Clemens instead. Perhaps  it was a blessing in disguise. New York has stumbled to a 6-6 record,  with its record putting it in a three-way tie for third in the AFC Wild  Card Race. Green Bay has posted an 8-4 record and currently leads the  race for the NFC Wild Card.
“Both [New York and Green Bay] have  been great experiences,” Pizzotti said. “The organization here is  a little more laid back. They let the players take control, give you  a little more freedom. We work really hard, but people out here have  a lot more free time.”
After Pizzotti had been cut from the  Jets, his agents had been talking to different teams trying to get the  Harvard grad a tryout.
The Packers decided to give him a chance.
“I did a workout for them a couple  months ago,” he said. “They told me ‘stay in shape. If anything  happens, we’ll let you know.’”
Pizzotti arrived in Wisconsin on Monday  at 3:30. He signed with the team on Tuesday.
“Everything’s been going really  well,” he said.
As a member of the practice squad,  Pizzotti’s role is to work with the third-string defense.
“You do whatever they tell you to  do,” he said. “[Practice players try to] show the coach that we’ll  work our butts off, we’ll do whatever it takes.”
If the 2008 Walter Payton Award Finalist  hopes to move up the ranks and ultimately earn a starting job, he already  has a ready-made role model in Bills’ starter Fitzpatrick.
“Ryan’s been doing a great job,”  Pizzotti said. “They know a guy from Harvard can play. It’s a tribute  to our coaching staff. They’ve done an unbelievable job.”
Fitzpatrick started a total of three  games in his first three seasons in the NFL. The past two seasons, he  has started 17.
Who’s to say that Pizzotti won’t  be able to make similar progression?
In the meantime, the two-time Ivy League  Champion is excited to be a member of the Green Bay Packers.
Sections
It’s not uncommon for freshmen to  exit Annenberg feeling like they’ve left a time warp (where did the  last two hours just go?  Ah, lost to that stained-glass refectory  forever).  But at yesterday evening's Study Break with University President  Drew G. Faust (sorry Drew, Larry was a better dancer: see left, with the original caption) and Dean Thomas A. Dingman ’67, students entered a parallel  universe of chocolate crepes, hot apple cider, and….a dance floor  waiting to be thronged with freshmen letting off Reading Period steam.
The tables, bedecked in light lilac  and navy tablecloths, were parted to the side, making way for a large  rectangular space in front of a DJ.  The décor and setup combined a classy dinner party  vibe with the feel of the frosh First Chance Dance, making for a slightly  different mood than your average Brain Break.
Students lined up to sample potato  skins, rolls, hamburgers, and sliders at one table and eagerly crafted  their own crepes at another.  Inside the cafeteria’s great wooden  doors were platters of fruit and cheese, with a batch of Chex Mex thrown  in for good measure.  And of course, the most important beverage  of the evening lay in wait where the grill is normally situated: hot  cider.  Mhmm.
President Faust mingled and greeted  the class of 2013 for a long while, introducing herself at various tables  along with Dean Dingman and the Yard Resident Deans.  At around 10:10  pm, after President Faust had departed, the DJ cranked up the volume  and the lights suddenly dropped to a dim glow.  A giggle-infused  murmur fell over the crowd.  It was time for Brain Break gone wild.
“My favorite part was when I saw  Dean Dingman warming up to one of the songs,” said Jose A. 'Arturo' Villanueva ’13.  “He wasn’t completely dancing but he was feeling the  groove.”
Hundreds of freshmen  facing their first slew of exams, many of them locked in libraries for hours early in the day, now full to the brim with chocolate syrup, let loose.  Despite the rather unexpected timing for a dance  party, the floor was only empty for a few minutes before a few brave  souls dared to take center stage.
With songs like “Party in the USA”  by Miley Cyrus, “Single Ladies” by Beyoncé, and “Down” by Jay  Sean to propel them, attendees witnessed an impromptu dance battle. (Editor's note: Hell yes, you young, supple, eager freshman show-offs.  Bring it on.) More after the jump.
Freshmen break-dancers Richard Huang '13  and Konlin Shen '13 started it out with some playful face-offs, but when Felix de Rosen '13 and Ryan C. Cutter '13 joined to make it a  four-way dance off, it really got ugly.  There was breaking, moon-walking,  frequent recurrences of the worm (forward, backward, slow, fast….),  hat spinning, headstands, gliding, and a near-disastrous chair collision,  among many other memorable moves.
“It was awesome being able to mix  something as modern as break dancing with something as classical as  Annenberg,” said de Rosen.  “The floor was  a little slippery for breaking, though.”
Winston S. Waters II ’13 added that  letting loose in the ‘Berg made the dining hall seem more “homey”  for the freshmen.
“I danced until the very end when  they made us leave,” Deisy Y. Ruiz ’13 said.  “I think we  should do it once a week.”
