Sections
ARUSHA, Tanzania — In the 10 days I've been living in Arusha, Tanzania, I've felt pretty much cut off from the Western world. No Internet, no TV, no radio—heck, even real indoor plumbing is a luxury. But while I've been in the city this past weekend, one person has made me feel completely at home—Michael Jackson.
Until Friday morning, as a group of 20 international volunteers, we didn't have any inkling of what was going on at home. No idea that Hillary Clinton had broken her arm, or how Obama's health-care initiative was going. But as we gathered for breakfast at our orientation site Friday morning, people periodically rushed in, clutching their cell phones, exclaiming, "Michael Jackson died!" —the one piece of news their parents thought important enough to share via text message from the U.S. Suddenly, home felt a whole lot closer.
When we got in the dalla dalla to drive into town, "We are the World" was playing on the radio. When we showed up at Masai Camp, a local club, on Friday night, we arrived right in the middle of a Michael Jackson tribute. Even the Tanzanian local papers have entire pages dedicated to the coverage of his death. And though it initially seemed funny that, of all the news to make its way halfway around the world, it was the death of a pop star that found its way here, it fits right in with Tanzania's perception of American culture.
Our Tanzanian teaching partners, mostly university students, all have songs from 50 Cent and Ne-Yo on their cell phones. They count down the days until films like Angels and Demons are released at the theater in Arusha. One of the guys carries a not-so-secret torch for Hannah Montana. I never would have expected to be singing along with an Avril Lavigne song while bumping down an African highway, but these little things make up a common language that reaches even to the furthest corners of the world.
Kate Leist '11, a Crimson associate sports editor, is an organismic and evolutionary biology concentrator in Adams House.
Sections
Have a burning question? Well, if you happen to be in the Square this summer, and you happen to write said question on a notecard, and you happen to insert said notecard into the box attached to the Wheel Questions art installation on Brattle St. near Chipotle and Eastern Mountain Sports, then Johnny Monsarrat just might have an answer for you.  Actually, he will definitely have an answer for you.
Wheel Questions began in Monsarrat’s backyard rock garden in July 2008, after he was inspired by The Love Guru—a Mike Myers film that received a whopping 14% approval rating on rottentomatoes.com (clearly quality)—and felt the idea was “too cool not to do it.”  Now, it’s a fully-fledged, touring, interactive art project: Passerby contribute questions via notecards and Monsarrat answers them on the back, displaying the cards on a black cylinder for the world to read.  The mastermind behind the project estimates he’s received 2,000 queries at this point, and was quick to note that this bests postsecret.com. More questions after the jump.
Flyby’s burning question for the man with the answers was: What makes him qualified to be the man with the answers? While the Wheel Question website calls him a life coach, Monsarrat explained that he has “all the qualifications of Dr. Phil: none.”  This left FlyBy confused—because being a life coach actually requires certification.  But, ultimately, Monsarrat does have a reason for insisting that he alone answer questions submitted to the Wheel: Otherwise, he said, people would probably destroy or vandalize the cards, adding, “Someone might make fun of others or tell them to turn to God,” which isn’t what he’s going for.
Whether or not Monsarrat is always right, he’s definitely always committed. To date, he’s put in about $1,600 and 1,000 hours of time, and hasn’t received any donations.  FlyBy wonders how buying notecards could cost so much money.  That’s art for you.
Monsarrat’s most memorable question? In the first week, he received a card that said “I’m afraid of life in its full essence.”  After that, he thought “Boy, this is going to work. People are going to get this.”
FlyBy’s favorite questions submitted on the Wheel? “Are you single?” “What will you be when you grow up” (written in 5th grader printing), and the ever-hostile “Who do you think you are?”
Photo Credit: Alan C. Chiu/The Crimson
