Sections
We were on to Peggy Noonan before she even started her IOP study group, when we reported on her hilarious syllabus, frequent misspellings and all.
Now, thanks to a tipster for Gawker, we can peer deeper than ever inside the inner machinations of Noonan’s complicated mind. These study groups are supposed to be off the record, but apparently the vultures in other parts of the blogosphere could not obey the rules. However, we straight-laced Harvard journalists are more than happy to share their illicit reporting.
Peep some of the more savory quotes and episodes after the jump.
Here’s how Gawker’s tipster found Noonan: “A couple of times she spit onto her brown vest and pretended it didn't happen…After she completed a thought, she'd pause and smile, staring at the air in front of her, reflecting on her impeccable delivery and overreaching wisdom. She used baseball metaphors more than twice.”
Some choice selections from the tipster (in fairness to Noonan—how much did those unscrupulous folks at Gawker massage this stuff?):
"I'm not a brain surgeon. You have to be a professional. I did my best and I didn't kill anybody. I can't remember what the point of my answer is."
"My study group is about being a person who thinks things and believes them and turns them into words that convey thoughts and feelings."
"I wasn't sure I could wear mascara every day. One should dress. One should wear mascara when one can."
"I wasn't sure I could stay awake all day. This is one of the major stresses of life—making sure you can stay awake all day. I happen to think sleep is one of the most important things in life. Trying to wake up, trying to fall asleep. I don't know why I'm talking about this."
"It's not a faux pas to love your country. Its history. Its traditions. Love it. Bring that love into the world. Share it and the world looks at you and says, ‘Oh, I get it!'"
"You Have To Let Your Freak Flag Fly."
Photo courtesy Happyme22/Wikimedia Commons
Sections
If Medical School Professor and Professor of Sociology Nicholas Christakis, the co-author of the new book Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social Networks, sat with your friends in Pfoho, where he is the House Master, he could tell you a lot about yourself—how likely you are to become obese, and maybe even whether you would be an efficient choice for a flu vaccine.
Earlier this year, Time magazine named Christakis one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Connected’s co-author, James Fowler ’92, an associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego, provided the first evidence of the positive “Colbert bump” in polls for politicians appearing on the Colbert Report.
The book has received favorable reviews in the press, and popular Harvard Professor of Psychology Daniel Gilbert raved about their new book: “We think we are individuals who control our own fates, but as Christakis and Fowler demonstrate, we are merely cells in the nervous system of a much greater beast,” he wrote. “If someone you barely know reads Connected, it could change your life forever.”
More on fat, flu, and Facebook after the jump.
The book combines years of the research by the authors with other studies to support its ideas. One of their most striking findings—from a large study that began in 1948 in Framingham, Massachusetts—is that obesity is greatly determined by social networks (some other researchers have questioned this interpretation). According to Connected, “If a mutual friend becomes obese, it nearly triples a person’s risk of becoming obese.” Because of imitation and shared expectations called “norms,” even friends who are 1,000 miles away produce this strong effect. But don’t get ready to dump your friends just yet—people who do are even more likely to become obese, the authors found.
Your social networks, and in particular how popular you are, may also affect how good a candidate for a flu vaccine you are. Vaccinating an entire population may be less efficient than choosing people at random, asking them to name their friends, and then vaccinating those friends. The friends are likely to come into contact with many people, so vaccinating them might do the most good, the authors argue. "You can achieve the same level of protection for the population at one-third the cost doing an intervention like this," Fowler said, according to CNN. He and Christakis hope to do a preliminary experiment monitoring the spread of the H1N1 virus on a college campus.
Social networks are powerful, but, the authors argue, online sites do not seem to be increasing how many close friends students have. In a study of Facebook pages at an unnamed university, students traded posts and photo tags with six and seven people, not far from sociologists’s estimate that people have four to six close friends in real life.
The British anthropologist Robin Dunbar estimated that humans would have social groups of around 150, and Fowler said that the average Facebook user has about 110 friends on the site, which fits the relatively small groups humans evolved in. He and Christakis found that there is a “Three Degrees Rule”—networks are influential to point of the friends of a friend of a friend, but not very much beyond that.
So, next time you order another late night burger at the grill, think of all the people you are affecting. And next time you meet a few potential friends, hike with them to Pfoho to seek the advice of House Master Christakis.
Photo courtesy Nicholas A. Christakis/Wikimedia Commons
Sections
Harvard received an A- on the annual College Sustainability Report Card for the fourth year running, outpacing its Ivy League peers on such measures of greenness as "administration," "investment priorities," and "shareholder engagement." The report, first published in 2007 by the Sustainable Endowments Institute, aims to identify universities that have embraced the sustainability ethos outside the classroom. Under its grading scheme, Harvard hasn't improved much, unlike some of the Ivies—but neither has it gotten worse at going green. We're looking at you, Columbia. (Falling from A- to B in a single year? Really?)
According to the ratings, Harvard's greenest accomplishments include a variety of renewable energy generators, a rate of only 15 percent of faculty and staff driving to work alone, and investment in renewable energy companies. Every scoop of squash served in the dhalls contributes another point toward this coveted grade as well—SEI noticed that 35 to 70 percent of the University's produce was grown locally.
Of course, SEI found fault with Harvard's endowment management practices, grading the University a C on endowment transparency. Apparently, Harvard makes endowment holdings "available only to trustees and senior administrators." By this parameter, Harvard will have to settle for being just above average—a scathing C-.
All things considered, though, kudos to the REPs, the Office for Sustainability, and everyone else for making us greener. Just no more squash.
Photo: The Harvard Crimson/Rachel M. Douglas
Sections
This is basically the episode FlyBy’s been waiting for since we first started watching The Office way back in high school. And OMG. IT WAS THE BEST THING EVER. We laughed. We cried. We winced. We love The Office all over again. Find out why after the jump.
Recap
In this two-part, hour-long episode, the entire office heads to Niagara Falls for Jim and Pam’s wedding (finally!). Various things go wrong—Michael failed to make a reservation and has to sleep in the ice room, Pam’s conservative grandmother finds out she’s pregnant and threatens to leave the wedding, Pam has to drive Andy to the hospital when he tears his scrotum while trying to do the splits, etc.—and Pam gets upset because she feels like the wedding has been usurped and ruined. (We feel for her.) So Jim takes her to get married privately on a boat before they return to get married again for their zany guests.
Best Jim-and-Pam-Are-Ridiculously-Cute Moment
When Pam gets distressed because she tore her veil, Jim cuts off his tie and tells her, “Now we’re even.”
Cue the high-pitched squealing. We're in love with Jim again!
Best Nod-to-Pop-Culture Moment
The wedding party breaks out into a choreographed dance (a la the JK Wedding Entrance Dance). We’re glad they ignored Jim and Pam and went ahead with this. Especially because it prompted this gem from Jim:
“I bought the boat tickets the day I saw that YouTube video. I knew we'd need a backup plan. The boat was actually plan C. The church was plan B. And plan A was marring her a long, long time ago. Pretty much the day I met her.”
Dwightism of the Day
“Pam is constantly throwing up because of the pregnancy. If she eats something the fetus doesn't like, she is screwed. It's amazing: a three-ounce fetus, is calling the shots! It's so badass.”
Hooray for the return of classic Dwight! Runner up moment: when Dwight tells us he got Jim and Pam a turtle cooking kit (including a live turtle).
Office Gossip
Pam’s best friend Isabel hooks up with Dwight, who later gives her the cold shoulder for making love like a dental hygienist/country bumpkin.  (What was she thinking?)  Lucky for her, this relationship doesn’t seem to be going anywhere.
But what’s this? Michael with Pam’s mom? Not as gross as Creed and Meredith, but…wow.
Overall Rating: SO GOOD. We love Jim. Enough said.
Sections
Modernist composer John Cage may have passed away in 1992, but his organ composition "Organ2/ASLSP (As SLow aS Possible)" lives on: the current performance of it in Halberstadt, Germany, is slated to finish in 2640. Cage, whose other works incorporated radios, conch shells, and cactuses, enthusiastically broke down almost every existing preconception about what did and did not constitute music. In the process, he paved the way for later experimentation. In order to commemorate the centennial of Cage's birth, musical institutions around Boston are celebrating his daring work with several upcoming concerts.
 
New England Conservatory
In addition to hosting several concerts of Cage's work, the New England Conservatory is also holding a talk about Cage's time in Boston and Cambridge. Led by NEC piano chair Bruce Brubaker, the talk will be on October 26.
October 30: "Cheap Imitation"
November 7: Music of John Cage
December 11: "Cartridge Music"
 
Boston Athenaeum
As part of the Athenaeum's fall concert series, pianist Aaron Jackson honors Cage's legacy by performing selected piano works.
October 17: "In a Landscape" (1948) [FC] & "One5" (1990)
October 20: "Etudes Australes", Book I
November 17: "Etudes Australes", Book II
December 1: "Etudes Australes", Books I and II
