Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
A Yale sophomore died last Sunday.  Andre Narcisse '12—an Exeter graduate and aspiring Economics concentrator of Haitian descent—dreamed of someday becoming a Wall Street executive. Yale police officials do not suspect foul play.  Yale College Dean Mary Miller told the Yale Daily News that it would be premature and inappropriate to speculate, but added she is hoping to address concerns about alcohol and drug use on campus.
A freshman at Princeton is suing the university during midterm season, after her request to receive extended time on exams because of her learning disabilities was denied. She argued that poor midterm exam grades freshman fall would cause her “irreparable harm.” FlyBy sympathizes but thinks she should chill out.
More after the jump.
Yale's business school has surpassed Harvard Business School in placing their students in full-time jobs within three months of graduation. It now stands at number one among the country's business schools. Penn's Wharton School, however, has suffered more, with only 83 percent of graduates securing full-time jobs, as opposed to 95 percent for the graduating years from 2005 to 2008.
Stanford stem cell researchers are poised to receive $52 million from California's stem cell research agency.
A 32-year-old horticulture graduate student at Cornell died unexpectedly.
And two Yale dining hall workers also passed away suddenly.
Sections
Ever wish there was a way to get a workout, eat less, save water, and cut through the pre-Ec 10 tray return lines in Annenberg all in one fell swoop?
Green ’13ers Isabella Wechsler and Michele Zemblyeni have a proposition for you.
These two, along with the food subcommittee of the eco-friendly freshman group Green ’13, dreamt up the “Trayless Challenge,” currently underway in the hallowed halls of Annenberg. To reduce food waste and save water, Green ’13 is encouraging students to go trayless for a week or two and then fill out a survey to see how rewarding—or painful—the experience was. Get some of the feedback after the jump.
“I love traylessness!” Lilian Alexander ’13 said.  “I still get my fair share of food, I get extra exercise walking back to get my drink, I zip through the lines—and I’ve gotten really good at balancing stuff.”
But not all of the 93 freshmen who have filled out the survey thus far have been quite as enthusiastic.
“Traylessism is the opiate of the masses; it will lead to the immediate decline in Harvard's taste and decency if this is absurd trend is not countered head-on,” one of the anonymous survey commenters said.
This critic may be concerned with the inconvenience of making multiple trips to the sometimes anxiety-inducing entrée line, the danger of carrying hot plates, or may just be lazy—all of which were mentioned as turn-offs by a handful of tray-advocates in Annenberg.
But the Green ’13 movement has found plenty of supporters as well—some who are trayless through and through, and others who are recent converts.
“People might complain for a little bit, but they forget after a while, and anyway, the moment someone brings up how energy-saving it is, most people can't keep up their arguments,” another anonymous comment said.
Wechsler and Zemplenyi aren’t trying to force students to give up deeply embedded habits, just open their minds to helping the environment and see where the new lifestyle leads them, they said.
“Just try it sometimes,” Zemplenyi said.  “It’s always good if a little more water is saved and a little less food is wasted on a conveyer belt.”
Though they said no major changes are really possible until next year, the two should perhaps keep an eye on some of their more vehement opposition.
“Please don't try to change the policy of providing trays for students,” one survey-answerer wrote.  “Or I will hunt you down.”
Freshmen can test out the trayless challenge and fill out the survey here.
Sections
Feeling lethargic in your too familiar dining house tonight?  Have you figured out that the Bagel Bites meal plan (pizza in the morning, pizza in the evening, pizza at supper time) isn't for you. Looking for an adventurous meal for five bucks?
Check out the annual African feast hosted by the Harvard African Students Association (HASA) happening right now in Ticknor Lounge in Boylston Hall. The potluck, prepared by HASA members themselves, has already begun and is scheduled to last until 8 p.m.
Food from all corners of Africa will be available, all in the company of vibrant HASA members and friends. African-infused music will accompany your delicious meal. Welcoming both old and new tasters of African cuisine, this event is sure not to disappoint.
“My tastebuds are buzzing with expectation,” said a HASA member, packing her bags quickly in Lamont Café as she rushes over to Ticknor.
Hurry over because HASA has planned to catered for only 100 people.
“This is set to be my best feasting experience this year,” said Rumbi Mushavi, enthusiastic HASA member and sophomore in Eliot House.
FlyBy has heard enough. We're heading over right effing now. See you there!
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons/Daletronic
