Sections
It was about as big as a White Castle slider patty. It was crowned with the bright yellow of poached quail egg and a magenta flower.  It was a calf's brain, and I was about to eat it.  My brain quest began early—several weeks before, when I was trying to think of the most ridiculous offal I could consume. Testicles came to mind, but I could not find a restaurant that served them. So I turned to brains instead, locating KO Prime (90 Tremont St., 617-772-0202), a swanky steakhouse that served cerebellum.  My friend Will and I arrived early, hopping off the Park Street T stop and making a short walk to the dimly-lit steakhouse. We seated ourselves on some stools near the window and contemplated the menu. Alas, the only calves brains on the men was presented as a quiche, with pancetta, hazelnuts, and fiddlehead tomme. If I was going to be eating brains, it might as well be distinctively brainy. I wanted to be able to distinguish one lobe from another. I wanted to see all the nooks and crannies which once held the simple, grass-eating thoughts of a calf awaiting slaughter. Fears of mad cow disease would not stop me. (Swine flu, maybe.)  In Spain, they make brain burritos. I wanted, however, to be converted at the high end.  I decided to go out on a limb and asked our waiter if the chef could make something more “brainy” than the quiche. He came back with good news—the chef would create a special appetizer just for us.  The chef came out to personally present us with the creation, a brain with a poached quail egg, on top of a layer of fava beans and morels, and anchored with a layer of toasted brioche. He poured a tiny pitcher of spring pea soup at the base. This was no normal, Fear Factor gross-out brain. This was haute brain.  The waiter came over for a peak and declared, “Hell yeah!”  It was time. My knife cut through the gray matter (actually, it looked like a turkey burger) like it was room temperature butter. I speared that, a bit of brioche, and dipped it in the soup. I put it in my mouth.  Strangely, bliss.  Brain has very little flavor on its own. It is soft and melts in your mouth like a particularly good cut of fat. The flavor came from the other elements of the dish, with the brioche crucial in giving it any textural heft. Will and I enjoyed ourselves thoroughly, marveling at how well each element of the dish worked together. Our only criticism was that the brioche disappeared too quickly. By the end, I ate a large chunk of brain without supporting actors, feeling a little queasy since it was a particularly stringy, evocative portion.  I suggested that the chef put bull testicles on the menu. “Come back in a month,” the manager told me, after reporting the chef’s excitement. He promised he would personally send me an e-mail. I’ll be back.
Sections
Want to know where you'll be staying for Commencement (assuming you didn't have the good sense to flee campus as soon as finals wrapped up)?
The College, as usual, has been slow to inform, but the Dorm Crew Web site's got you covered. Check out the full listing and find out where you have to schlep all your stuff here.
