News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
FINAL—CRIMSON 42, WHITE 140:00—Saxon throws a pick to J.B. Monu and time expires. Thanks for tuning into this Crimson rout of the White.0:30—With time wearing out, the questions looming at the beginning of the game still remain. Who's going to be the quarterback??3:01—Devin Saxon in at quarterback now for the Crimson.4:23—Pick by Nico Amaro, returned 60+ yards for a touchdown. Part-time announcer/usual Harvard tackle James Williams calls it, "Touchdown, 160!" CRIMSON 42, WHITE 145:19—Simpson threads the needle to hit Pilconis.5:52—With Sarkisian now anchoring the second line, Simpson is now at the helm of the first.9:24—Alex Sarkisian in now at quarterback for the White squad. Sarkisian is a rookie out of Valparaiso, Ind. 9:54—Gadson, newly promoted to the Crimson squad, runs two yards to complete the touchdown. CRIMSON 42, WHITE 7FOURTH QUARTER0:00—Third quarter ends, and we're still sitting on a 35-7 Crimson lead. You have to wonder about the depth of the Harvard defense that this game is not a closer game. The Crimson squad is Harvard's first line and the White is second line, and this is shaping up to be a blowout.0:32—Winters airs it out to Chrissis, who should have brought it down. Winters follows with a pass to Gadson, but Winters was definitely a good yard over the line of scrimmage. Gotta love the laxness of the spring game.1:51—Well-placed pass from Winters into the hands of Chrissis.3:00—Demetrius Gadson runs up the line and just bowls over his defender.3:40—Just as I finish the previous post, Winters hits Adam Chrissis for a nice pass.5:00—The quarterbacks have resorted to scrambling, unable to hit their targets at wideout.9:13—We've moved to ten minute quarters in the second half, and Harvard's definitely not playing with most of its star players. Gino Gordon's just chilling on the sidelines, Luft, as I already mentioned, is up here in the press box, and a lot of the usual targets at receiver—Levi Richards, Chris Lorditch, Mike Cook—have yet to be heard from.THIRD QUARTER0:00—As halftime comes, not much doing here. In the distance, we can see the lights of Fenway. 16-11 Sox over Yankees in the 8th.0:58—Winters airs it way over his intended receiver.1:39—Simpson is having a hard time anticipating his receivers. Brad Hinshelwood has decided that the best option would be a super-hybrid of Winters and Simpson.2:34—Winters scrambles for 12 yards and a touchdown. CRIMSON 35, WHITE 74:27—Unanimous pick for the Chik-Fil-A Name of the Week goes to Blaise Deal, a freshman from Glendale, Ariz.4:54—Hull's punt goes straight up, maybe gets 30 yards before going out of bounds. 6:24—Collin Zych drops the kick reception and gets crunched when he finally gathers it up.6:34—Another bad snap bounces off Winters hand into the hands of Ho, who decides to run up the middle for a 27-yard touchdown. Former Sports chair and football beat writer Brad Hinshelwood shares witty banter with Matt Luft about you diagram that play. CRIMSON 28, WHITE 77:13—Short punt by Thomas Hull nearly botched, but Crimson comes up with it.8:40—High snap from Scott Fritz causes big loss, sets up 3rd and 28 situation for White squad.9:31—Ho runs up the middle, met with little resistance, gets the touchdown. Long's kick is good. CRIMSON 21, WHITE 710:05—Crimson goes for it on 4th and 1, hand off to Cheng Ho, who busts up the left side to get down to the 25-yard line.SECOND QUARTER0:00—Despite relentless blitzing from the Crimson defense, Simpson scrambles and hits Alex Mathlete in the right corner for the touchdown as time expires. Long's kick is good. CRIMSON 14, WHITE 70:57—"Secret World of" Alex Math has made a couple nice receptions to get the White squad down to the 5.3:18—Alabama native Alan Reeves carries the ball up the middle for 8-yards. A quarterback in high school, Reeves seems to be on the Mike Cook route, listed on the Harvard roster as a wide receiver.3:24—Not a lot happening here in Soldiers Field. But it sure is a nice night for football. Oh, and Thomas Hull just kicked a pretty sloppy punt.4:05—Winters drops back and airs it out to Iannuzzi, who can't come up with the pass.4:12—Muffed punt reception by Iannuzzi.8:21—Pressure coming from the White defense, Winters makes a nice screen pass to Iannuzzi up the middle for about 28 yards.9:50—Pick by Anthony Spadafino returned for a touchdown. Matt Luft apprehensive to punch a button on the scoreboard machine, "Wait, was that score Crimson or White?" He ultimately went with Crimson. So CRIMSON 14, WHITE 010:03—Matt Simpson is quarterbacking for the White squad and not much happening here. Though Demetrius Gadson is carrying the ball, and that's a new name.10:31—So it looks like the offense is always in Crimson, defense always in white, which, for the purposes of this blog, is going to be confusing. We'll just stick with the Crimson and White as I already had it.10:42—While the teams meet before the next kickoff, I'll take this time to note that hoss wide receiver Matt Luft is sitting just down the bench from us up here in the press box, manning the scoreboard.10:42—Winters drops an easy touchdown pass into the hands of Iannuzzi, Patrick Long's extra point is good. CRIMSON 7, WHITE 011:39—Collier Winters starting at QB for the Crimson squad, and Cheng Ho makes an impressive 43-yard run down to the 8-yard line.11:49—A nice kick return by a healthy Marco Iannuzzi. Looks like his collarbone is holding up fine.T-3:00—Roughly 200 people in the crowd made it out here for the annual intrasquad spring game between the Crimson and White. This game should be interesting and will hopefully answer some pressing questions, namely who the heck is going to be Harvard's starting QB next year?! Stay tuned for continuing coverage.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Barbecues are fantastic (gotta meet the ethnic group!).  A Capella groups always give a great show.  Improv comedy nights show the lighter side of our fellow students.  And tonight, you'll have the ability to fake like Harvard has a sweet party scene.
But please, there are some parts of Harvard you ABSOLUTELY SHOULD NOT SHOW your prefrosh.  FlyBy would like to point an accusatory finger at these student orgs for even thinking of putting on these events...but they're happening, so the onus falls on you all, prefrosh hosts, to make sure that under no circumstances you bring your prefrosh to these events:
Veritas Financial's "What is Finance" Panel
Today 4-5 pm, Emerson 305
AMBLE's "Finance and finale’s " 
Sunday, April 26th
at 1:30 pm
Science Center, 2nd Floor Room 221
Business or politics?
Finance or finale’s?
How about both.
Harvard College Entrepreneurship Forum (HCEF) presents... "Idea Generation"
FlyBy understands the need for these clubs to start up their recruiting efforts (Speaking of that, come to The Crimson for tours, Sunday 1-3pm!).  However, the kids are going to have four long, hard and painful years to think about these things.  And goodness...entrepreneurship?  No, prefrosh, not everyone here has a startup on the side.  Only like 20% of us.
Sections
Alright pre-frosh. Here begins your tutorial. Keep up, we're going quick. We've all been there. Some of us are actually there quite frequently. Drunk, smashed, f***ed up, and really really hungry. "But where," you ask, "shall I ever go to fulfill my gustatory needs?" Don't worry, FlyBy's got you covered even if your "super busy," "super" self-important host doesn't. The scoop, after the jump.
The Market — Though expensive, the Market boasts an impressive array of healthy food and unexpected late night sandwiches. The only 24 hour eatery in the vicinity, FlyBy has made the trek there many a long night, sometimes with varying success. Not the best drunk food, but try the Chicken Parmesan sandwich or the Cheesesteak if you find yourself three sheets to the wind in this Brattle Square jump off. Warning: do not screw with the random homeless people. It's never as funny as you might think, and sometimes it ends quite badly.
7-11 — The last resort of a desperate man, 7-11 can fulfill all your drunken needs, though you'll probably regret it. From that pack of cigarettes to those horrible nachos or, God forbid, the taquitos, 7-11's got you covered with it's 24-hour service.  Warning: While you may run into your fair share of stoners here satisfying their slurpee and ice cream needs, don't even think about asking for rolling papers. It won't be well received.  Location: corner of JFK and My. Auburn, where all the bums hang out.
Pinocchio's — Oh yea, you'll want to go to Nochs. You, however, won't be the only one. Nochs is always packed on the weekends until closing at 2, since students can't keep their grubby little hands off the fat, doughy Sicilian slices—especially after a few drinks. Nochs is often rated one of the best pizza places in Boston, so don't expect to get a seat in there or anything, but if you're needing a little grease and bread fix, it's probably worth the wait. Warning: no credit/debit card purchases for less than $7.50. That's 4 slices (2 for $5) or 3 and a drink. You don't want to eat that much. People will think you're a fat fat fatty.  Location: uhhhh...just ask somebody.
Subway — Let FlyBy paint this picture for you.  You’re out, you’re at a party, you’re boozing it up like you just don’t care (which you don’t, because you were at Princeton earlier this week, and you liked it better anyway.)  Right.  And then all of a sudden you do care, because you’re going to be sick.  You jettison the contents of your stomach into your host’s toilet, and then you’re hungry.  Oh yeah, it’s also early, because you went out hard.  If you’re in this situation, Subway is the place for you.  Located in the Garage at the corner of Dunster and Mt. Auburn streets, it’s only open until midnight on Fridays and Saturdays, and it’s had some problems with chip theft since it opened this winter, but neither of these drawbacks change the fact that the five-dollar foot-long fills you like nothing else.
Kong — Hello, intrepid traveler.  You’ve been out doing it big with your idiot host and his roommates, and now you want to finish it the right way, with some sketchy Chinese food.  Stagger on over to the Hong Kong on Mass Ave, ignore the bouncers at the door (you’re not trying to drink more, for God’s sake, just get some freaking food.)  Then cram youself in and order up some beef with broccoli.  This place stays open right through 2 am.
Felipes —  This Mt. Auburn establishment is a Square staple.  It’s open until 2, only takes cash, and boasts the legendary super-burrito—which actually isn’t that super, but it’s all the same at this time of night.  Plenty of your blasted brethren will be lined up for a bite when you get there, so savor the kinship.  And try to pick up one of the women who just made their way across the street from the Fox or the Spee.  Delicious.
Photo from Landii/Wikimedia Commons
Sections
Hey, prefrosh! As this uncharacteristically gorgeous Saturday afternoon winds down, you’re probably wondering what you should do on your first night at Harvard. Should you follow your new prefrosh bffs to Eleganza? Should you drunkenly explore upperclassmen room parties? (Not that FlyBy is suggesting this, unless you’re an international and/or preternaturally old prefrosh.) Or should you forget Harvard Yard altogether and instead venture into Boston (something that we wish we did more often)?
If you’re feeling a little overwhelmed by the possibilities for tonight, FlyBy’s here to help. In making this important decision, you can find a lot of guidance by looking at who you are, what you want, and most obviously, what you accomplished in high school. So, whip out your resumes, prefrosh—the night is young! You tell us what you did to get into Harvard, and we’ll tell you what events to hit up tonight.
How did you earn a place in Harvard 2013? If you…
• Played the starring role in every musical put on by your drama department, check out the Freshman Musical, Recall! (Agassiz Theatre, 8 p.m., $5). The premise is beefy enough: the son of a meat factory owner falls in love with a vegan girl. There’s also The Quad, which is advertised as an original rock musical (Loeb Ex Theatre, 11 p.m., free). It’s unclear what the show’s actually about, but it seems angsty enough.
• Performed at Carnegie Hall, try Premiere, a Harvard Ballet Company production dedicated to new pieces (Harvard Dance Center, 8 p.m., $7). Probably not worth it unless you’re into dance, but if you are, it’ll be a good show. If opera’s more your thing, head to The Fiery Furnace, an original opera that retells a biblical episode (Adams Pool Theatre, 8 p.m., free). Sounds intense, but there is a reception afterward that promises to expose you to opera opportunities at Harvard in case you’re interested.
Find your personality/party fit after the jump.
• Served as concertmaster/mistress for your state’s youth orchestra, put some swing in your Saturday night with Classics and Swing: Music of American Composers (Lowell Lecture Hall, 8 p.m., free for prefrosh). Or try to get student rush tickets to the Boston Philharmonic Orchestra’s performance tonight (Jordan Hall in Boston, 6:45 p.m. for pre-concert talk, $8 with high school/college ID). Click here for more info.
• Volunteered extensively at your place of worship, you might be interested in the Islamic Society Spring Dinner (Quincy Dining Hall, 8:30 p.m., $5), where there will be Iraqi and South Asian foods. But be sure to come in cultural attire. You can also join in on the Havdalah on the Charles (meet at Harvard Hillel, 8 p.m., free). There will be food!
• Ranked nationally in a varsity sport, show off your muscles on a rock climbing wall at the Bouldering Bash (Lowell House A Entryway Basement, now til 1 a.m., free).  Sponsored by DAPA as an alternative to drinking, we at FlyBy might prefer the drinking... but maybe you're more active and in-shape than we are.
• Served as president of a high school multicultural/ethnic society, check out Buon Appetito: HIAA Italian Cooking Night (Hilles Conference Room 220, 6-8 p.m., free as far as we can tell). Hurry over now for real Italian antipasti! Also, stop by the Early Action party, hosted by the Latino Men’s Collective (Adams Dining Hall, 10 p.m., $7). Get there early to grab some glow sticks (we assume they’ll be handing them out).
• Won the Siemens Competition, go watch The Space Between (Loeb Mainstage, 8 p.m., $8), a play about Caltech professor Richard Feynman. It’s also a chance to hobnob with some MIT kids, who get in free tonight.
• Charmed teachers into writing you glowing letters of rec, you’ll appreciate the jokes in the Immediate Gratification Players show (Fong Auditorium in Boylston, 8 p.m., free) and the Harvard College SUCS Stand-Up Comedy Blowout (Science Center C, 7 p.m., $3).
• Modeled for Teen Vogue, check out Eleganza (Harvard Basketball Center, 8 p.m., $12). It’s a steep price, but it might be worth it to check out what’s behind all the hype. If it’s anything like last year’s, the show will be a little odd, but then again, we at FlyBy don’t really know anything about fashion anyway.
• Wrote a personal statement about your unique obsession with punk music and leg warmers, head to the 80s dance (Leverett Dining Hall, 9 p.m., $5 until 11 p.m., $7 after). This is a classic Harvard event that will make you nostalgic, time after time.
• Founded the gay-straight alliance at your school and/or discovered a star, come to Fusion, a “celestially themed dance party” hosted by the Queer Straight Alliance (Currier Bingham Solarium, 10 p.m., no price indicated). There’s a pregame if you go early.
• Chilled out…wait, what? Yup, prefrosh, there are some kids here who didn't seem to have done anything particularly special in high school, yet they still made it here. They’re great. Maybe you’ll met some of them at the Quincy Grille Games Night (Quincy Grille, 10 p.m., free unless you want food), where you can unproductively spend your time playing Jenga, Settlers of Catan, Uno, and more. There’s even a chance to win free scallion pancakes or potstickers.
Photo courtesy of Liface/Wikimedia 
