Sections
Yawn. FlyBy just watched the latest episode of The Office (“The Promotion”) and it was thoroughly unremarkable. Don’t get us wrong—we LOVE The Office. But this week’s episode seemed like filler material. Didn't you think so? See our evaluation after the jump.
Recap
So Jim has officially joined Michael as co-manager and Dwight is pissed. Really pissed. He spends the rest of the episode trying to foment a revolution to oust Jim (who, granted, has kind of been a self-righteous jerk lately). Meanwhile, Jim and Michael struggle to figure out how to distribute the cost-of-living raises fairly—since, due to budget cuts, there isn't enough money to go around.
Best Michael-is-a-Five-Year-Old Moment
Michael turns a conversation about toilet paper into a conversation about planets because of a certain homonym for Uranus.
Best Michael-is-a-Sweetheart Moment
Michael gives a noticeably deflated Jim his own “World’s Best Boss” mug. Then they sit back and drink gin as the rioting employees pound on the door.
Dwightism of the Day
“People are starting to notice how terrible Jim is. It's great. Eventually they'll rise up and revolt. My only hope is they do it sooner rather than later. If people here were our founding fathers, the Revolutionary War would've been delayed 10 years. Because Stanley Washington was napping. And Phyllis Hancock was still signing the Declaration. And Kevin Jefferson was distracted by a butterfly.”
Oh, Dwight. You were definitely not at your ludicrous best today. Your last line saved you, only because we think the image of Kevin being distracted by a butterfly is hilarious… and so plausible.
Office Gossip
Creed: “Hey why haven’t we ever, uh…”
Meredith: “We have.”
WHAT!? Is this going to be a new thing!? We did not need that image of Creed and Meredith. Could there be a more disgusting office hook-up? Gross. Gross. Gross.
In other news: Looks like Kelly and Ryan are together again. Andy went from believing he is gay to believing he is incestuous. And Jim and Pam’s wedding is next week! (Did you know they have their own wedding blog?)
Overall Rating: Mediocre. There were a few funny moments, but the overall storyline (which isn’t actually resolved) left us as dissatisfied as the employees who were denied raises.
Sections
Did you know that there is an economic crisis going on?  FlyBy has been living under a rock for the past year, but thanks to the latest episode of Grey's Anatomy, we've discovered that not even our love/hate relationship with the residents at Seattle Grace is immune from budget cuts.
Last week's season premiere gave us a glimmer of hope that, for once, all would be well in the twisted world of Seattle Grace, but news of the forthcoming merger with rival hospital Mercy West reminded us that if Meredith's life isn't screwed up, something else needs to be.
Since the Chief is obviously too distressed to explain the merger to the hospital staff, FlyBy thought we'd step in and help with the streamlining.  So, without further ado (and after the jump), here are FlyBy's Budget Cut Recommendations for Seattle Grace:First to go-- Izzie's wig.  As Christina so aptly pointed out, she looks like a Stepford Wife--plus, we think the post-chemo peach fuzz makes her look hardcore.  Prediction: Wig will be gone next week, Izzie's hair will grow just enough to look rocker-chic, and teenage girls across America will chop off their hair.
Awkie interns. Yes, we know medical students need training and Seattle Grace is a "teaching" hospital, but let's get real--the Chief isn't cutting Lexie, and the other interns are just taking up valuable oxygen that could be healing patients.  Prediction: Megan won't be the last intern to get cut, but a few annoying and incompetent ones will somehow survive the merger.  Lexie will cry more.  And more.
Dermatology.  This wing of Seattle Grace has been underused as of late, because everyone is just so damn happy.  FlyBy recommends either cutting the lemon-infused water completely, or making everyone miserable again so that this sanctuary can serve its real purpose.  Prediction: Dermatology will be forgotten, and everyone's skin will still look fine.
With these cuts underway, FlyBy feels confident that Seattle Grace/Mercy West can invest its resources in other necessary programs.
Number one-- creating a new specialty for Christina.  Cardio is obviously off the table, and seriously-- she'll make the kids in peds cry more frequently than she'll fix them.  FlyBy recommends finding something for her to do before she starts comparing more things to the Holocaust.
Psych services.  We understand that paranoid schizophrenic in this week's episode should probably get first priority, but FlyBy believes that the residents might be equally benefited.  Therapy made Meredith happy and it's working its magic on Christina and Owen-- perhaps if Lexie was less high-strung, there would be fewer incidents of her tripping, falling, crying, and being covered in donor blood.  On second thought, we can't fix everyone at Seattle Grace--FlyBy does need someone to laugh at.
Finally, more baseball and beer.  It's a magic combination that makes even Christina happy, and is fully endorsed by FlyBy.
Sections
There was an article in the New York Times yesterday called “The Dating Game for the Ivied and Pedigreed.” We think a better title would have been, “Ivy League Students and Wannabes are Romantically Desperate, Snobbish Airheads.”
Basically, there is a special club that you—solely by virtue of your soon-to-be-earned Harvard degree—may join some day, when you inevitably find yourself alone and unloved in Manhattan a few years down the road. It’s called the Ivy Plus Society (the “Plus” is for schools that aren’t officially Ivies but are also kind of cool… you know, like Stanford or something). If you’re looking for that rare someone who’s as smart, good-looking, socially graceful—and most important, as well-educated—as your Ivy League self, then this is the club for you.
Yes. We know. If you aren’t wincing yet, you will, after the jump.
We at FlyBy recognize that people are attracted to those who are like them. Some of us might even admit, maybe sheepishly, that this Ivy Plus Society idea has some merit—if you’re looking for a significant other (or, okay, “business contact”), it’s not unreasonable to take advantage of an opportunity to meet a number of arguably accomplished people who immediately understand all your references. So we’re not saying we’ve never been guilty of elitism—but must we be so proud of it?
Ben Pike, a 2006 Georgetown graduate, was settled into a copper-colored sofa in the back of Gates lounge. He said he hoped to meet New York women who were more than merely gorgeous. “I’ve been in the city three years and dated girls who are legitimate models, and that gets old,” said Mr. Pike, who works in private equity. “I have high standards. I’ve met people who are really smart but don’t have it together socially, and people who are fun but may not offer more mentally.” The total package, he explained, is tough to find.
Oh, the woes of being a brilliant, wealthy, persnickety New York male. Sorry those "legitimate models" weren't intelligent enough for you.
And even though there’s no “Ivy Plus police” at parties to ban those who didn’t graduate from elite schools (Jessica W. Anderson, who founded the first Ivy Plus in Southern California,  is quoted as saying, “If you’re hearing about the events, you’re probably connected to this academic community and we certainly welcome you to attend.”) and no membership fee to block people economically, we have to say, there’s still definitely an element of douchebagery:
A couple of guests were called out for not having gone to Ivy Plus universities, she said, and one gentleman began rattling off his other accomplishments.
“The guy went to, like, Illinois,” she said, trying to recall the college.
“I don’t remember,” she added. "But his friend kept saying, ‘You’re not even a plus.’ ”
