Sections
It's the weekend, and midterms are winding down, so FlyBy thinks it's time for another round of Around the Ivies.
Harvard has been ranked as the #1 school to become a snob, the #2 school to meet a future spouse, the #2 school to make connections, #2 for "gourmet cuisine," (what?) the #3 school where you will go broke, #4 prettiest campus, and #6 most politically active in the recent rankings released by College-Admission-Essay.com. Somehow Harvard doesn't make "The Top 10 Schools That Are More Intense than a Pressure Cooker," while Duke and Stanford are ranked #4 and #5.
Yale opened a new cancer hospital and research center on Thursday—a blow to Harvard's ambitions, now that it has grown increasingly likely that Allston may not host a stem cell research center after all.
Harvard will play against 24 other schools at the Quidditch World Cup today at Middlebury.
Former Harvard president Larry Summers spoke Thursday at Penn. Though the Pennsylvanian doesn't say much about what Summers actually said, it notes that Summers said that the "major story of our times” will be the rise of developed countries. Though FlyBy was not there, we're pretty sure Summers was referring to developing countries like China and India.
More Ivy League news after the jump.
Princeton's undergraduate council will hold a re-vote for vice president, and their elections manager has resigned. The elections manager had misspelled the names of two of the VP candidates, so they did not receive campaign-related e-mails in the week running up to the election. Their photos and personal statements were finally posted online two hours after voting began, but one of their names still ended up being misspelled on the ballot.
Education Secretary and Harvard graduate Arne Duncan spoke at Columbia's education school on Thursday, calling for reform at education schools across the country. With Obama and Summers avoiding Harvard, why Duncan too?
Cornell's 64-member Board of Trustees has gathered at Cornell this weekend for one of their four meetings of the year. Apparently portions of their meetings are open to the public? The Harvard Corporation, on the other hand, has just seven members who meet privately once a month.
President Obama has declared swine flu a national emergency.
A car killed a homeless man on Church Street on Friday night in New Haven, near Yale. He was 38.
Sections
The news from Gawker is that 62-year-old novelist Salman Rushdie, who is famous for his womanizing, has discovered the Harvard vixen: he's "out on the town" with Min Katrina Lieskovsky ’03, 27. And they've been flirting on Facebook.
Rushdie's novel Midnight's Children won the Booker Prize in 1981 and in 2008 was named the best of all Booker Prize-winning novels in the illustrious British prize's first 40 years. Not content with simply writing, Rushdie, who is a master conversationalist, has also acted in movies, and made a cameo in Bridget Jones's Diary. In 1999, he had an operation on tendons in his face to enable him to better open his eyes, perhaps to the detriment of his ravishing look of manly semi-consciousness. But his sharply angled eyebrows and goatee still create an image of a pensive rogue.
Rushdie was famously the subject of a fatwa requiring his execution issued by Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Recently, he has argued for greater rights for Islamic women. In 2006, when British Leader of the House of Commons Jack Straw criticized the wearing of the niqab, a veil that covers all of the face except the eyes, Rushdie supported him, saying his three sisters would never wear the veil, and adding: “I think the battle against the veil has been a long and continuing battle against the limitation of women, so in that sense I'm completely on [Straw's] side.”
The main character in Rushdie's Booker Prize-winning novel Midnight’s Children, Saleem Sinai, has been called his most beloved character and is often identified with Rushdie himself. Saleem struggled with a magical “snot-nose, cucumber-nose,” as well as impotence. More greatness post-jump.
Rushdie's dashing appearance, feminism, and complex literary personae would seem to make for an interesting romantic life. And Rushdie is famous for his womanizing. He has been married four times, most recently to supermodel and Top Chef host Padma Lakshmi, from 2004 until 2007, when she ended the marriage. Since then, he has been linked to the Indian model Riya Sen and actress Pia Glenn. Rushdie’s father was a University of Cambridge-trained lawyer turned businessman, and Rushdie himself studied history at King’s College, Cambridge. Now Rushdie has fallen for the American Ivy League voodoo. According to Gawker, he now with Min Katrina Lieskovsky ’03, a half-Hungarian and half-Chinese former religion concentrator who wrote her senior thesis on the Khmer Rouge genocide in Cambodia, studied the intersection of anthropology and literature and biology, loved traveling, and dreamed of being Angelina Jolie’s assistant doing UN work in Cambodia. “I can’t think of anything that make her anything like other people. I don’t know if she has any human traits really,” her blockmate Jennifer L. Nelson ’03 told the Crimson way back when. “She has a really interesting mix of spontaneity and excitement, but also depth,” said Johanna E. Lanner-Cusin ’03. “She brings a lot of things together.” Min said that she “would just love to hang out [in Cambodia], hang out with movie stars but help land mine victims, too” because “there’s too little glamour in volunteer work.”
These days, according to Gawker, which borrowed liberally from the Crimson archives for her college story, Min is continuing to develop her interests in literature and anthropology as a “Writing and Ethnographic Marketing Consultant.” And she’s still glamorous. She dates famous male models and sends Rushdie Free Love Cookies on Facebook. Once, she wrote about her sex life on a blog called “Mongol Whored.” Gawker truly outdid itself to get to the steamy blog—Min had last posted in January 2008, and set it on private—but, unscrupulous Gawker reported gleefully: “the Google caches everything, you know.”
When Min went to Harvard—she remembers partying to Nelly’s “Hot in Herre”—she could believe in at least a false privacy. No longer. So remember: don’t just set your secret blogs on private—delete them. Then your romances with lusty literary luminaries can be both hot and Gawker-free.
Sections
Heads up, aspiring t-shirt designers—if you've ever thought the official Harvard/Yale shirts have trended a little stale or more than a little staid, here's a chance to spice things up. Harvard sex magazine HBOMB will hold its first official Harvard/Yale t-shirt contest this year, calling for "sexy, classy, smutty and—most of all—witty t-shirt designs" that "reflect HBOMB's vision."
As an addendum, the graphic should, in fact, also reference Harvard and/or Yale, the instructions note.
Not much word on the contest's criteria, but if the honor of having your design emblazoned on shirts that some students will cherish for years isn't enough, the other incentives should make it worth your while. The creator of the best design will receive not only a free t-shirt, but also a "patented" gift basket "guaranteed to numb your body with pleasure, or at least have some cool goodies in it." Flyby isn't sure what these super extra awesome awards might be (besides that it probably won't be a basket of fruit and cheese), but we hear that mystery just ups the thrill factor.
Entries should be sent to Eva Gillis-Buck (ebuck@fas.harvard.edu) by 3pm on Nov. 1. When the hundred variations of Harvard/Yale shirts start popping up all over campus, Flyby will be keeping an eye out for "the sexy ones."
Sections
Jerry Seinfeld once said, “A bookstore is one of the only pieces of evidence we have that people are still thinking.” In an age of 140-character updates it appears, shockingly, that many Bostonians are still thinking in long form.
This past Saturday, the first ever Boston Book Festival was held in Copley Square, featuring authors and performers across all genres and art forms.
One of the most interesting and well-attended events was a interview with John Hodgman. You may not know the name, but you probably know his face. (Hint: he's a PC.)
He was interviewed by author Tom Perrotta ("Election," "The Abstinence Teacher"), who taught him once when Hodgman was at Yale. Despite his low-caliber education, Hodgman has enjoyed much success as a writer, literary agent and personification of a computer since his graduation in 1994.
Speaking to an adoring audience that was almost entirely college-aged in the sanctuary of Old South Church, Hodgman quipped, “I’ve always wanted my own megachurch.” More from the PC and the Yard cow-grazer post-jump.
When asked about how he took on his persona of a (fake) expert in every subject, Hodgman referred to his experience as a literary agent in New York City.
Hodgman also commented that he used to think that “it was not okay to be funny...I never considered myself to be a humorist or a comic writer… until the Daily Show,” he said.
Hollis Research Professor of Divinity Harvey G. Cox, best known for recently grazing his cow in Harvard Yard, and author of "When Jesus Came to Harvard," was also at the Book Festival. In a panel called “Matters of Faith”, he spoke about religion in society today.
He expressed that all the distractions in the world today “are inducing in us a cultural attention deficit syndrome.”
“I think faith is a basic, irrefutable human need,” he said, drawing from his years of working with Harvard students. “There is a hunger… for something beyond our capacity to be manipulated.”
From documentary fanatics (Ken Burns made an appearance) to adults who read kid lit (Chris Van Allsburg, author of "The Polar Express" was there, and so was Clifford the Big Red Dog) to spoken word poets, the inaugural BBF had something for everyone. Flyby is eager for the second edition.
Sections
There's a new King and Queen in town, check it out:

