News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School Dean Elena Kagan will be nominated to serve as
President-elect Barack Obama's solicitor-general, the administration's
representative to the Supreme Court, Obama announced in a press release
Monday morning.
If confirmed by the Senate, Kagan will represent the federal
government, party to about two-thirds of cases brought before the high
court, and play an integral role in shaping the legal strategy of the
incoming administration, working under Obama's nominee for Attorney
General, Eric Holder.
"I am honored and grateful, awestruck and excited, to be asked
to contribute to this most important endeavor," Kagan wrote in an
e-mail to the Law School community.
Kagan added that she viewed the post as an opportunity to
"help advance this nation's commitment to the rule of law at what I
think is a critical time in our history." If confirmed, Kagan would be the first female solicitor general, apart from Barbara D. Underwood, who served as acting solicitor general for the first few months of the Bush administration. Kagan announced that she plans to take a leave of absence from
the faculty of the Law School and resign the deanship, which she has
held since 2003. During her tenure as dean, she has drawn acclaim from
some circles for bridging ideological divides among the faculty,
poaching several renowned professors from rival law schools, and
ushering in a slew of student-oriented reforms.
"It has been both the joy and the privilege of my life to serve as dean of this most wondrous law school," she said.University President Drew G. Faust lauded Kagan in an e-mailed statement, saying that because of her, "the student experience is richer, the curriculum fresher, and the school continues to enhance its worldwide leadership in legal education and scholarship."Though Kagan has never argued a case before the Supreme Court, Fried
said that her lack of experience before the court is secondary to her
time at the Law School.
In an interview over the weekend, Charles Fried, one of Harvard's
noted conservatives and a solicitor general under Ronald Reagan, said
that “some of the
justices might appreciate" that Kagan is a "fresh face."
“Several hundred Harvard Law students are about as tough an audience as you can get,” Fried said. 
“I’m happy for her but sorry for us,” Fried added. “She’s a very hard person to replace.”
During her time at the Law School, Kagan has taught constitutional and
administrative law. She became dean after just two years as a full
professor, succeeding Robert C. Clark as dean in 2003. 
Kagan clerked for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and U.S.
Appeals Court Judge Abner Mikva before serving as a domestic policy
adviser under President Clinton.
Kagan has supported Obama,
a Law School graduate, in the past, and the two met when they served on
the faculty of the University of Chicago Law School in the early and
mid-1990s.
In addition, during their time at Harvard Law School, which did not overlap, both Kagan
and Obama served as research assistants to constitutional law professor
Laurence H. Tribe ‘62, who in recent years has generously praised Kagan
and emerged as a close adviser to Obama.The
announcement marks a continuation of Obama's push to put in place his
cabinet and key advisers sooner rather than later. By contrast,
President Bush's first solicitor general, Theodore B. Olson, was nominated 
on Feb. 14, 2001 and did not take the oath of office until June of that year.Faust said that she will consider appointing an acting dean to run the Law School if Kagan departs, but that "the nature and timing of our own next steps [are] dependent on the course of the Senate's confirmation process."—Staff writer Athena Y. Jiang can be reached at ajiang@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elias J. Groll can be reached at egroll@fas.harvard.edu.
—Check TheCrimson.com for updates throughout the day.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
