News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Can we even call it J-term anymore? When the College administration announced its revolutionary calendar reform last year, it included in its statement vague plans for a three-week term to begin in January. Possible conceptions of a “January Experience” included opportunities for students to pursue research, travel, internships, or academic study, as is the case at many peer universities. On Monday, however, Deans Michael A. Smith and Evelynn M. Hammonds issued a campus-wide e-mail confirming what many had feared—that the College had opted against providing any structured programming for undergraduates between terms and would be limiting campus housing during the term to a limited number of high-need individuals.
It is an unfortunate development that there will be no official programming during January 2010. Given the administration’s prior outline of an exciting “January Experience,” we had been hopeful that students would have options for a productive use of their new extended free time, regardless of whether they chose to stay on campus. Instead of providing opportunities, however, the administration’s plan will actually limit the options of many students. 
One of the major arguments in support of calendar reform was the possibility of an extended recess with new opportunities that would present themselves during that time. Many imagined J-term as a chance to explore new topics and non-academic interests on campus without the stresses associated with term-time commitments. By aborting plans for structured programming and forcing a majority of students off campus, the administration will effectively remove a large array of opportunities for students, including those who would have used the time to pursue independent projects on campus.
That said, complaints about their decision might be unjustified. The extended break could be a blessing in disguise in that students will be able to break out of the proverbial “Harvard bubble” between semesters. Ultimately, uproar over this issue may be out of line, in that few may have taken advantage of officially sanctioned programs anyway. Nevertheless, the abrupt reversal of plans exposes the administration’s unpreparedness with implementing calendar reform. Rather than first creating a clear plan for how the College would utilize the new January recess, the administration announced the change, and only a year later, decided how to approach the new three-week block.
In light of the administration’s decision, we strongly urge University Hall to take necessary steps to minimize the negative effects of canceling a “January Experience.” One important step would be for the deans to rigorously follow up on their promise to “work with students to identify interesting opportunities and help them make the connections to pursue them.” This would entail providing guidance and sources of funding much like the university does for summer vacation. Another important step would be clarifying and loosening criteria for students wishing to stay on campus during the recess. Being able to remain on campus to utilize Harvard’s vast resources would allow students to pursue non-curricular activities such as independent research, student group activities, and service opportunities in Cambridge and Boston. 
In addition, we urge the administration to follow through on its rhetoric regarding the allocation of university resources. In their letter to the campus community, Deans Smith and Hammonds explained that discontinuing plans for a January term would allow the university to focus on developing other programs, including the transition to General Education, improving freshman seminars, and supporting the Arts Task Force. We hope that this rhetoric was not a set of hollow excuses for dropping J-term activities but instead a sincere commitment to focus additional resources on these other pressing issues.
Finally, we hope the administration continues to plan for J-terms of subsequent years. Although today’s economic circumstances present challenges and the university’s resources are spread thinly across other important initiatives, allowing J-term to go undeveloped entirely for the foreseeable future would be an even greater disappointment than the one we now face.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Imagine walking into a room of expectant dignitaries you have never met to give a speech moderated by hosts known to have been critical of you. A daunting situation, to be sure—unless you are the president of the world’s most high-profile nation. Unless you are Barack Obama. 
Precisely above the situation met Obama in the Czech Republic a few weeks ago, which he visited as part of his world tour of U.S. allied countries. The Czech Republic maintains a highly ambiguous relationship with the United States, thanks in large part to the Bush administration’s missile shield plan that would position radar in Czech territory and expose it to backlash from Russia. Obama’s hosts, meanwhile, have been supporters neither of his ascendancy nor his policies. Mirek Topolanek, whose successor as prime minister will be named today, just fired off his last political salvo in the capacity of leader of the Czech Republic’s term as president of the European Union, in which he denounced Obama’s economic policies as “the way to hell.”
Yet, despite all this, 20,000 people gathered in Prague to hear America’s new leader speak this weekend, and by all accounts Obama was a smashing success. His Czech appearance proves once again that he has the charm and tact it takes to work with any country—no matter how much it supports U.S. policies.
During the speech itself, Obama charmed the crowd with an ease that should no longer surprise anyone. There is a reason he was elected president with flying colors, a reason he has a 66-percent approval rating while the party of his opponents, the GOP, polled its lowest approval rating this week in the 25-year period the question has been asked. Obama spoke at length of the Czech Republic’s history and road to independence, flawlessly pronouncing the Czech phrase for “Velvet Revolution,” the movement that ousted Communism from the country in 1989.
Obama’s speech quickly converted thousands in the crowd, and presumably thousands of others who watched or listened to broadcasts, into his latest believers. He has become a global force, reassuring for the future while skillfully appealing to the past. Famed former Czech President Vaclav Havel, who met with Obama afterward, warned him of the risks of becoming so popular as to create impossible expectations. Yet, for now, Obama has exceeded the expectations of yet another foreign nation, leaving even President Vaclav  Klaus somewhat overwhelmed in his wake. Klaus told the media the speech was not the “cosmopolitan speech” he had expected, in which Obama would exploit his presence in Prague to make a general message—instead, Klaus praised the talk as “unexpectedly Prague and unexpectedly Czech.”
This is not to say that Obama is simply brownnosing his eastern European colleagues. When Klaus—an outspoken supporter and ally of George W. Bush, standing by his missile shield project against popular opinion—invited the American leader for dinner in Prague Castle, Obama wasn’t afraid to tell him that he had better plans. He knew where his priorities lay; dinner with Michelle at a top restaurant with a view of Prague was evidently a much more productive use of his time than appeasing the self-importance of a fellow president who had backed the wrong horse. (Of course, Obama expressed his refusal in much more delicate terms.)
Thanks to Obama’s successful visit, the Czech Republic now knows the caliber of leader with whom they will be working. But the world should no longer be surprised by Obama’s grace and dignity or his constant, effortless self-awareness. Obama could walk into almost any room of strangers and produce that sort of result. Perhaps the most important message of his speech was this: that the United States is back as a robust political force, and the dynamism of its leader cannot be ignored.

Alexander R. Konrad ’11, a Crimson editorial writer, is a history concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Nicholas B. Snow ’09 wasn’t meant for walking. His shoulders slant downwards and his arms hang awkwardly at his sides; the athlete sometimes looks downright goofy. But on a horse, the brawny 23-year-old is all grace, efficiency, and power. Nick happens to be the best player in intercollegiate polo—and he’s willing to share some of his secrets.
“If I’m on a horse that isn’t very fast, I’m not going to try and run with the ball. I’ll try and hit it and sit back because I know that I’m not going to be able to run by everybody. Or if I have a horse that runs very quickly, then I can stop with the ball and turn with it. But if not, then I’ll just hit a backshot,” Nick says, offering on a frenetic sermon on his controlled approach to the game. “Does that make sense?”



It doesn’t, at least, not to a novice. But once Snow hops onto a horse and wields a mallet, it all becomes clear. Snow—who was the captain of his high school hockey, lacrosse, and soccer teams—is that all-around athlete who possesses the added dimension of poise that distinguishes the truly talented from the merely overeager. Crocker Snow Jr. ’61, coach of the Harvard men’s polo team, sums it up by calling his son a “quiet player.”
“If you watch him, he’s making three times the plays as anyone else, and he’s never rattled,” says Crocker, who has few reservations about extolling Nick’s prowess on the field. Nick is “clearly” the best player on the team, “obviously” the exceptional one, and the “advantage” Harvard has over other schools.
Nick has taken the Harvard Polo Club quite far in just its first formal year of activity. “The Great Leap Forward,” Crocker calls this past season—presumably excepting the famine and millions of deaths that followed the Maoist version. After nearly a century of failing to gain a foothold at Harvard, the club has been able to practice with its own horses in its own practice facility this past season, generating the first official women’s team and a threefold increase in the number of players in just a year.
Under the coaching of Crocker and wife Katherine T. “Cissie” Jones, most of the players have been transformed from inexperienced riders to mallet-waving, galloping fiends. And with only three players per lineup on the field during an intercollegiate game, having even one player as experienced as Nick has made the national championships a genuine possibility this year for the young team. But for that very same reason, Nick’s success is a constant bleak reminder of how much the club will lose next season.
“I’m just looking ahead and thinking, ‘uh Jesus.’ They’re really enthusiastic, they can learn, definitely—but they need somebody they can grow around, somebody to feed off of,” Crocker says. “We’ll have an inevitable setback for a year or two, until we start developing one or two players with more game experience.”
For Crocker, the issue is finding talent rather than retaining it. “It’s a very narcotic sport,” Crocker says. “There are very few people who get a little taste of it who don’t want more.”
DRIVING TO RIDE
It is February, and the top three players on the men’s team have less than a month to prepare for the Intercollegiate Regional Tournament at Cornell University—but they’ll first have to beat University of Kentucky in a few days to secure a spot. Nick, the men’s captain, is not prone to exuberant flourishes of emotion, but he whistles and growls, low and off-key, to a Johnny Cash track blaring from the car speakers. He is confident of a victory against Kentucky and hopeful—perhaps even sure—of success at the tournament. If Harvard beats the University of Connecticut in its first slotted game at Regionals, the team will move on to play Cornell; regardless of the outcome of this second game, the first victory alone could be enough to move Harvard on to the National Intercollegiate Tournament.
Among the 30-plus intercollegiate programs across the country, Harvard polo ranks below top teams like Cornell, Texas A&M University, and University of Virginia. But Nick says Harvard is “leaps and bounds” above perennial rival Yale College, whose program has been around for about 45 years. Harvard has already defeated Yale twice, and one of the victories this past fall has remained the highlight of the season—but Snow hopes that will be topped in the coming weeks.
In the backseat, Michael J. Scalise ’10 sits with knees high and head looming close to the roof of the car. He replenishes an earthen gourd of mate—a caffeinated drink prepared with the dried leaves of a South American holly—with hot water from a thermos. Unlike Nick, who has a dark, leathery complexion, Scalise is of a lighter cast, his wispy blonde hair framing a bright-eyed face that jerks about when addressed. He passes the gourd to Pablo Botero ’09, and like some religious victual, the pungent beverage slowly makes its rounds among the three. “Nothing illegal,” Snow assures upon surfacing from a deep sip through the steel straw.
Without its own equestrian center on campus, the polo team drives to a rented barn at the Canter Brook Equestrian Center in Hamilton for four practices a week throughout its October to April season. The long drives to practices and games are hallowed arenas for team bonding, whether players are partaking from the same gourd of green goop or scoping highways for options other than Nick’s Famous Roast Beef. “I think I’m getting the chicken parm’, baby,” Snow says. The three men consider other possibilities. “I was thinking the steak and cheese sub, but I can do pizza,” Scalise concedes. “If it’s the right pizza.”
It is completely dark outside by the time the men arrive at Canter Brook. Snow strides down the stable to check the stalls occupied by Harvard’s 14 “polo ponies.” Of five donated to Harvard, three are gifts from actor and polo fan Tommy Lee Jones ’69; the rest are privately owned, typically older horses lent to the team for the season. Though a school like Cornell boasts a 30-horse string, Harvard’s 14 are better than nothing (what the team had last year), and if proper arrangements with outside interests are made, the team may see double the number of ponies next fall, according to Crocker.
Nick enters one of the enclosed wooden cubes and firmly pushes away a horse, which lazily shifts its bulk aside to let him through. “Who left the windows open?” Nick says, shutting the window in the back of the stall as he shudders. “This is silly!” He noisily kisses Pinocho on the head, and the grey gelding stares back with bulbous eyes, steam issuing from his nostrils.
For the next hour, the three boys troop around the stable to tack the horses. They wrap protective bandages around the ponies’ fore legs, attach the bridles, lay out saddle blankets, and braid the tails to make room for back swings. Nick jumps onto a golf cart with a large rake attached to the back, and the vehicle wheezes and rattles across the indoor arena in sweeping symmetrical arcs to smooth the sand, or “footing,” which is looser than most other indoor fields. Mid-way, Nick gets out of the car to swiftly scoop up a pile of thick excrement. The next team T-shirt, he thinks, should say, “We Scoop Shit.”
“It’s a huge contrast with life in Cambridge,” Crocker says. “To be able to come out to a barn three to four times a week helps keep you grounded.”
Crocker bristles at polo stereotypes—associations of the sport with a culture of “Great Gatsby, Ralph Lauren, and white britches.” He considers life in the stable anything but glamorous—you have to do a lot more before you can put those white jeans on, he wryly observes.
The combination of “Harvard” and “polo” may reek of rich-boy snobbery, but Nick refuses to discount the sport’s intensity on behalf of its image. “It’s expensive to play polo. There’s no other way around it,” says Nick, who believes some are involved in the polo scene simply for the presumed lifestyle. “How do you feel about those people? You kinda feel torn because they help push the game forward…but it’s not what the sport is about.”
And it’s apparent that Nick loves the game. During practice, he sings: “Walk, walk, walk—hold it, put it in. That’s you, Pabs, hit—hit!” Nick surveys his teammates. Botero rode all his life in Colombia but only began polo with the team’s rebirth two years ago, and Scalise—who stopped playing lacrosse for Harvard at the end of last summer—rode minimally before joining the team this school year with the encouragement of Nick, a fellow member of the A.D. final club. Nearly everyone on the polo team—except Nick—had no experience with polo before joining. “Ah ha! Bravo! When I turn, come to me!” Even his dad doesn’t escape Nick’s eye: “Well done, Pop.”
After practice, the boys and horses, emitting feathery clouds of steam, are back in the stable. Stale manure is replaced with fresh hay, the horses are denuded. Stinking of the barn’s musk and covered in horsehair, the players are back in Cambridge shortly before midnight.
“The percentage of playing time to the time you’re out there is less than 10 percent, maybe,” Nick says. “There’s no way you’re just going to go out there and things are going to go well just because you have a lot of money and the nicest horses. It really does reward the people who are working the hardest and are involved in it the most.”
THE SPORT OF THE EVERYMAN
When Business School student John Browne requested formal recognition of the Harvard polo team in the late 1960s, the response from former President Nathan M. Pusey was explosive: “Polo? Polo is the last thing we need at this time at Harvard!”
Pusey, fatigued by the anti-Vietnam war movement on campus, was “very polite and charming,” Browne said—but the president didn’t see the point of endorsing a low-priority activity that required a programmatic structure the University couldn’t immediately offer.
The hefty investment that polo requires is a problem for most collegiate programs. There are the horses—essentially, living tools that must be kept in, well, living condition—the concomitant need for space in the form of stables and arenas, and the riding experience needed to get a functional game started. The ebb and flow of Harvard polo over the decades duly reflects these complicating aspects.
In the early 1900s, a group of recreational polo players forged Harvard’s first foray into the sport, and by the late 1920s, the team tasted real success under the leadership of Forrester A. Clark Jr. ’58, a six-goal outdoors player. In the 1950s and 60s, Crocker himself, his best friend Adam Winthrop ’61, and Russell B. Clark ’61 further legitimized the sport on campus—but with neither official University recognition, nor the requisite resources, the survival of Harvard polo remained tenuous.
Days after that first failed encounter, Browne and his polo teammates returned to Pusey’s office. A Texan oil driller named Hap Sharp had donated six of his trade-out ponies to Harvard and dropped them off at Boston South Station for pick-up. “These belong to you—not to us,” Browne recalls telling Pusey as they handed him a telegram from Sharp. “They belong to Harvard.” In 1968, polo was recognized as an official Harvard club sport.
The team underwent subsequent decades of deaths and rebirths. But after a twelve-year hiatus, the most recent resuscitation in 2007 may be the last. With Crocker and Cissie at the reins, a club that only last year practiced infrequently with others’ horses, sometimes showing up at games completely unprepared, now has its highest membership yet and a good chance of making it to Nationals.
Though Nick considers the polo team to be in the upper reaches of the club sports, gaining varsity status for the team is not his goal. He wants to sustain undergraduate participation because “what that transfers down to is the athletic department, and the school realizing that there are kids who are involved and there could be a place permanently for polo if there was support,” he says. “Ideally, we want everybody to come out and play who can, and hopefully in the future, if alumni and the school itself realize that’s an issue, they can make it possible for these kids.”
After World War II, Crocker Sr. obtained several horses for his home in Ipswitch, Mass. and helped start the Myopia Polo Club, spawning a dynasty that would become known by many polo aficionados. Crocker Jr. played recreationally, in addition to eventually becoming a Pulitzer Prize-nominated journalist and the director of the Edward R. Murrow Center for Public Diplomacy at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
“He’s a very cerebral athlete,” Browne says. “When you get a chap like Crocker, he’s able to put [the game] in terms that are understandable, instead of just being good himself. That’s why Harvard is so lucky to have him.”
Crocker’s eldest son, 43-year-old Adam—Adam Winthrop’s namesake—is the last American player to have obtained the highest possible rating of ten-goals (the scale begins at -2). Now Nick is a four-goal player recruited to play for money—something that happens to only one to three out of a hundred collegiate players, he says.
Nick, who stopped playing varsity hockey mid-way through sophomore year to participate in the polo club’s inaugural season, feels that he has found his calling in a sport where he has not only become the face of a polo dynasty, but the field’s greatest intercollegiate talent and proof of professional-level ability in a college sport that continues to seek greater recognition from schools across the country.
ON THE ROAD—AGAIN
John “J.P.” Stilz  ’11 cleans out his car Friday morning in preparation for the team’s imminent departure for Ithaca, and he discovers an uneaten hamburger in the backseat. A tattered, yellowed copy of “Typology of the Racehorse” lies on top of boots and gear, all reeking of barn musk. His car is a “nice compost pile,” Stilz says.
“We need gas, food, and a new windshield,” Stilz says, gingerly touching a widening crack in the glass. He thinks for a moment. “And a deodorizer.”
“That’s true,” remarks William “Albany” Mulholland ’12 in the passenger seat. For most of the trip, Mulholland’s feet are perched on the dashboard, a solid blue sock on the right and a green and black striped sock on the left.
Stilz and Mulholland are the pages to the team’s lords; they watched the victory against Kentucky a few weeks ago, and have high hopes for tonight’s game against UConn—the past two games were closely matched. Though Stilz and Mulholland will not be playing at the tournament, the two, along with junior varsity player Diego H. Nunez '12, Alexandra “Za” Tilt ’10 and Marion I. Dierickx ’12 from the women’s team, are accompanying the three core players to Cornell to help with tacking. 
With the growth in membership this year, the polo team has forged a strong sense of community. “A vast majority of the people are very down-to earth people who like horses,” Nick says. “They’re definitely kids, you know, I’ve got an opportunity to know and hang out with that I probably never would have.”
After hours in Stilz’s mobile compost pile and Scalise’s “Shagg’n-Wagg’n,” the team arrives in Ithaca, on the prowl for fuel. “Scooby snacks are a must,” Scalise says, gripping a shopping cart. By the end of a fifteen-minute search in the supermarket, Botero’s interest in purchasing Cracker Stackers has been vetoed by Snow and two boxes of Scooby snacks have been claimed.
“Now you can take over the world,” Mulholland says. The truth of the statement would be tested at tonight’s game.
A HORSE IS NOT GRAPHITE
The polo community is obsessed with horses in a way that tennis players could never be with their rackets. 
“He’s really fun to ride. It’s just so easy,” one girl gushes in the equestrian center. Another boasts that when she “holds his face” with both hands, he doesn’t move away. Horses are “so pretty” and “incredible.” As Nick says, “What it all comes down to is your connection with the horse”—the animal is a shared interest that makes the polo community often feel more like an overextended family than a collection of competitive localities.
 “Horses bring out an intimacy that is lacking in lacrosse or any other sport that has a tool—it’s just a piece of wood, it’s just a piece of graphite,” Cissie says. “The horses are warm-blooded, hot-breathing masses of flesh and blood that are here because they love their jobs.”
“You have to love the horses in order to play the sport, there’s no doubt about it,” Mulholland says. “You have to consider what they’re capable of.”
 If the stable were an incestuous high school, Nick and Pistola, a large chestnut, would be the star jock couple that not only understands each other’s power, but recognizes the formidability of combining forces. But it’s not merely a combination of talent, but a synergistic force that seems to work only between the two.
“Pistola is so meaningful to Nick that he feels like when anybody else plays the horse, they’ll be a good player,” Cissie says. “But when Nick plays that particular horse, he feels like he is three goals better—mentally and physically and emotionally.”
But the Harvard team was unable to bring its own string of horses to Regionals; the men will ride horses they briefly encountered at past games against Cornell and UConn. In an indoor collegiate game, a team of three plays a group of six horses for the first two chukkers, or periods of play, and the other team plays those same six horses in the last two. Because of the idiosyncratic dynamics between horse and rider, the advantage is huge for the home team playing on its own string—the mark of the exceptional polo player is the ability to adapt to any horse.
Horses obtain their “general framework” by the age of five or six, and afterwards, the player must cater his riding to the animal, Nick says. Does the horse have a “good mouth,” meaning, is it receptive to a pull on the reins? Will the horse go boldly into the wall, or will it balk? Are there other horses on the field it doesn’t like? Does the horse play smaller than it looks, or is it slow and unengaged, perhaps on the sluggish side?
“All these little innuendoes go into the relationship you have with a particular horse, and it’s disadvantageous to come to a tournament like a Regional or a National and not have a string of horses you’re comfortable with,” Cissie says. “Our job as coaches is to give [players]…intuition to know what to do at a particular time because they’ve been there and done it.”
As Crocker says, you don’t fight the horse—you work with it. 
HOOKERS AND “QUESTIONABLE PLAYS”
“We got the lowdown on the horses we’re playing,” Crocker says. He’s gathered the team into a room before the game against UConn, and his plan is simple: Botero and Scalise would run off the men to keep Nick free to drive the ball.
“When you see me going to a ball, your only job is to take the guy,” Nick says. “Don’t even think ball. Think, I’ll deal with getting my man out of here.”
“You’re the best hooker,” Crocker says to Scalise. “He’s the best hooker with pants on instead of a skirt.” Crocker eyes crinkle as he laughs.
But when the game begins later that day, Crocker grips the arena net in rapt attention. If you close your eyes and simply listen, you can get a good idea of what’s happening in the polo match: the light pattering of pony feet as they scamper around a throw-in, the thunderous stampeding down the field when everyone is chasing a ball that’s strayed far ahead, or the clanking of mallets and buckling of side boards against horse flesh when the ball falls into the corners.
“They’ve got their swords, they’re out there with their spears,” Cissie says. “They’re out there not drawing blood, but definitely making an impression on each other about who’s tougher.”
In the first chukker, the power play between Nick and Charlie Hutchinson, UConn’s leading player, makes immediately clear that the two teams are closely matched; the seven-and-a-half minutes end with UConn in a one-goal lead. But in the second chukker, Harvard loses its close follow, racking up multiple crossing violations and missing several foul shots. By the chukker’s end, Harvard is four goals behind UConn—not a good place for a team that had seen itself at least on par with UConn in previous games. 
Nick races with a new ferocity down the field. He sees plays seconds before everyone else, easily weaving himself between players and never rushing to the ball unless he is sure he can gain complete control of it. When Nick sees the need to stand back, he does; he doesn’t focus on where the ball is now but where it’s going to be.
His 52-inch mallet creates a satisfying thwack!, not a dull thud, against the ball, which flies precisely in the direction he intends even as he sits atop an animal that could be moving from 25 to 35 miles per hour. Nick rides the horse with a knowing intimacy, as he rhythmically pumps his upper body so that the two work as one fluid unit. No longer is Nick an awkward ursine: he’s a four-legged creature with two abdomens.
But he struggles under the concentrated pressure of the entire UConn team. Shouts of “Nick is coming!” ring from the UConn players, who ride their horses into Nick’s side, pushing and elbowing—an illegal move—to drive him off the line of the ball. Early in the third chukker, Hutchinson wildly flails his horse at Nick’s to ride him off, unsteadying his opponent. With a graceful tumble off the side of his horse, Nick lands with a powdery thud. The umpires call a simple penalty against UConn, and Nick receives a free shot at the goal.
“Nick gets mad, you’ll see. That always happens,” Tilt says from the sidelines. “Nick gets really upset and scores all the goals.”
Without a doubt, Nick promptly remounts his horse and scores five goals in the span of time UConn scores one. With two minutes left in the third chukker, Harvard is now only two goals behind UConn’s thirteen.
 In the fourth and last chukker, the teams continue their neck-to-neck race towards victory. As usual, Nick darts ahead of the crowd towards the far wall in pursuit of the ball, but Charlie drives up from behind and bumps the rear of Nick’s horse. Mid-momentum, caught between Charlie and the wall, Nick is thrust off his horse and flies headlong into the boards, crumpling into a fetal position before impact.
“What the fuck…this is the second time,” Snow says when he gets up, hands in the air and voice breaking into amused aggravation. “Second time!”
Another simple violation is called against UConn, but growing discontent stirs within the Harvard team: a harsher penalty should probably have been called, one where Harvard could have received an automatic free goal. In the end, UConn wins, 20 to 15. Harvard will not be going to Nationals.
Jim Deangelis, the Yale men’s coach, sidles up to Crocker, who stalks about the arena after the game. “He’s the best college polo player right now.”
“But it didn’t win the game.” Crocker has no room for rationalization: a loss is a loss.
“But it’s won him some,” Deangelis persists. Crocker doesn’t respond.
AN UNINTENDED SERIES OF ENDS
The morning after, Nick is somber. He slouches in a chair, blankly staring ahead. His voice has lost its nasly cadence, and now it just drones,“Fuck the game.”
“I thought we could’ve won, and we should’ve won,” Nick says. “You wake up this morning, and you’re like, ‘Well. That sucks.’” He laughs.
Crocker doesn’t want to sound like a “sour loser,” he says, but he carefully suggests that the game wasn’t quite as fair as it should have been. According to Crocker, Nick had to play a “perfect game” but was obstructed by the numerous violations called against the team—and it probably didn’t help that one of the umpires was a former coach for UConn. Moreover, the opponent had been clearly bent on neutralizing the strongest player on the field, creating a dangerous match-up for Nick. 
 “I thought they were both pretty dirty plays, and I have never really seen that in playing college for three years,” Nick says of his two collisions with Charlie. “It was obviously disappointing to know that they were going after me, but that’s what happens.”
As the inexperienced players, Scalise and Botero tried to play conservatively in order to provide the space for Snow to make the big plays—but matters unraveled beyond their control. “It all happened too quickly. You don’t have time to think,” Scalise says in retrospect. “When you’re in a game, you just pretty much have to let it flow. If you think, you’re too late.”
The unexpected loss to UConn has left Crocker more expressive of his worries than usual. “The cards are really stacked against us. Cornell and UConn, they’ve got the facilities, the program,” Crocker says. In Harvard’s club, “there’s only one [player] that had any previous polo experience, which is a huge handicap against all the other teams we’re playing because they attract and recruit young players that come to play polo and have played before.”
Crocker wants to recruit at least one experienced player to minimize the effect of losing Nick. With the team’s growth this past year, several interscholastic players from all over the world—including one from Singapore that Crocker especially has his eyes on—have expressed interest in the club. If he were to have a say in the selection between two very similar applicants—one with polo experience, the other without—it could yield unimaginable gains for the Harvard team, Crocker says.
“It’s obviously frustrating to end your college career on a game like that,” Nick says. But the defeat itself is a rough reminder of just how far the team has come. “We were one or two goals away from possibly going to the Nationals, which obviously would’ve been a great accomplishment.”
“I feel bad for Nick more than anything else—not me,” Crocker says. “He was trying to will the Harvard team to the Nationals.”
INTERSECTING RIDES
“The thing that I find most important in intercollegiate polo—and I know it’s hard for a Nick Snow sitting in this chair, trying to work through what he went through yesterday—is the relationship that the kids have with the horses, first, and with each other, second,” Cissie says the morning after the game.
Though disappointed, Nick—who will likely go to Argentina (“the Mecca of polo”) post-graduation to play with the professionals—hopes that that past season has given the players something to love, as it has for him.
“I really couldn’t be more happy with the way things are going and the most rewarding thing for me is seeing the kids who are really dedicated,” Nick says. “Not one of these kids would ever have done anything close to this. That’s what’s rewarding—that’s what I like.”
“I want to tell you we’re doing fine, but we’re nervous about Nick because he really did hold the team together this year,” says Scalise, who will, for now, take the de facto role of captain as the eldest varsity player. “It’ll be a different game, but I think we can do it.”
Not one aspect of polo, even the losses, comes to define the sport as a whole. The feelings that come while you’re on top of that horse are layered—and they compound, Scalise says. The thrill of being taken from one end of the field to another in seconds, the feeling of hot horse skin underneath white jeans, the vulnerability of depending on another living thing besides oneself—in the end, losing doesn’t really seem to matter all that much, and it would be difficult to not see other players as one comrades.
 “If they carry on in the sport of polo, they’re going to run into each other again down the road,” Cissie says. “They’re all going to have shared this experience during this time of their lives, and I find that it’s fascinating, because I’ve been around long enough to see a generation continue.”
“It’s a life-changing experience,” Cissie smiles. She would know. 

Sections
1) Update yourself on recent news. How did that election turn out? How big of a slut do you have to be to be a Jai Ho? 2) Once again realize that a screwdriver is not just something to open the battery box on your interview recorder. 3) Restock your body with vital nutrients—i.e. all those not contained in vending machines. 4) Recycle all your Red Bull cans and collect the change. You didn’t have time to apply for a job anyway. 5) Rejuvenate your sex life. If all else fails, at least you have oral to look forward to later this month. 6) Work out for the first time in seven months—by schlepping your 50 pounds of books back to the library. 7) Finally get around to checking your portfolio at Madoff Investment Securities. This may be a good time to dip in to that Red Bull fund. 8) Come up with a new excuse to get out of unwanted dates—no one’s going to believe a Saturday Lamont campout anymore. 9) Actually, you can still stay busy in the stacks. 10) Enjoy dinners in the dim romantic light of Sandrine’s rather than the dim electric glow of your screen. 11) Use your pathetically low tolerance as an excuse for last night’s “mistakes.” Warning: this may not suffice for dropping trow at a City Step party (you know who you are). 12) Burn your leftover acid-free paper—suck it, eco reps. 13) Laundry—for the first time since February. Spare the public the clothes that look more like compost than cotton 14) Start lifting weights; you don’t want to lose that forearm bulge you’ve been getting from all that stress relief. 15) Begin the endless process of convincing yourself that anyone will actually read your 50,000 words on the mating call of the Pistol Shrimp.
Sections
Hey Harvard Economics Lecturer Jeffrey Miron! You recently advocated legalizing all drugs on CNN. Even if legalization is the only way to stop the violence, don’t you think that drug use would also increase if drugs were legalized? “I think it’s plausible we would see a moderate increase. But all of the heavy users are already using, so most of the increase will be in moderate usage. And there would be quality controls for the drugs, similar to the current ones on alcohol and tobacco.”
Sections
House: EliotConcentration: Sociology with a completely arbitrary secondary field in The ClassicsHometown: Brookline, MAIdeal Date: After a semester in a WGS course, I can safely say it’s a date that observes all the expectations of traditional heteronormative gender roles.What you look for in a girl/guy: An inappropriate sense of humor.Where to find you on a Saturday night: Standing outside the bar/party drunk dialing/texting every boy I’ve ever kissed. [Note: If you’re ever subject to one, promptly disregard.]Your best pick up line: I go to BU.Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Your back hair doesn’t bother me at all.Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: I love the smell of gasoline.Favorite childhood activity: Playing in the rain.Sexiest physical trait: My fingers, but my ankles are a close second.Best part about Harvard: The Eliot dining hall staff.Worst part about Harvard: Discovering that there is someone better than me at everything.Describe yourself in 3 words: No verbal filter.In 15 minutes you are: Practicing my cougar moves on unsuspecting Harvard freshmen.In 15 years you are: Practicing my cougar moves on unsuspecting Harvard freshmen.
Sections
Oh, gritty, greasy joys of Chinatown. There is nothing more exhilarating than shoving through a horde of protesting Taiwanese ex-pats to claim your pineapple bun for mere change. Or finding deals on melons of questionable origin in a street stall. For the longest time, I thought only high-end restaurants broke the $10 ceiling on entrees.On Sundays, my parents would make a near-weekly trek from the Westchester suburbs to Flushing, Queens to purchase all their pickled, dried, hypertension-inducing spare animal and vegetable debris that would sit on our pantry shelves like lab specimens.So it was time to acquaint myself with Boston’s own den of all things cheap and Asian. I laced my sneakers and caught the temperamental T, dropping myself off in Chinatown on an unseasonably warm Saturday. After countless weekends of Manhattan’s and Queens’ Chinatowns, finally meeting Boston’s answer proved to be, well, a little disappointing.First of all, where were the crowds? In a recession, isn’t cheap food, in the vernacular of N. Gregory Mankiw, an inferior good? Visiting a Chinatown without the hordes is like visiting Paris in August, when all the French flee for the coastlines. Sure, the structures are there, but there’s no spirit.As I traipsed along deserted streets, I heard only a few snatches of Cantonese. There were a handful of cheap bakeries and frugal Vietnamese sandwich shops, but everything seemed restrained. Even the sight of a “cute cake” ($1.95) smothered in rainbow sprinkles and topped with frosting snowmen on top couldn’t cheer me up.The area reminded me of Cambridge in that Chinatown was also dealing with gentrification. Boston’s Chinatown was established in the late 1800’s by Chinese railroad workers seeking Boston’s many manufacturing jobs. Chinatown is sandwiched between the Theater District, the downtown shopping area, and South Station. Throughout its history, Chinatown has been competing for space with institutions such as Tufts, the New England Medical Center, and more broadly, the city of Boston itself. Today, Chinatown is one of the most densely populated districts in Boston, with a population that is 70% Asian and a median household income of less than $15,000.As I explored, I discovered a few standouts—New Saigon Sandwich Shop on Washington Street served up fantastic Vietnamese banh mi: sandwiches filled with anything from cold cuts to barbecue beef, served up with shredded cucumber, carrots, mayo, daikon, fish paste, and onions. Best of all? Sandwiches cost less than a tall Starbucks latte at $2.50. I ordered a frosty red bean bubble tea ($3) which proved vastly superior to any Boston Tea Stop confection. Another plus: a mere hop and skip away are two strip clubs, which solves the problem of no seating in New Saigon.A few doors down from New Saigon is Empire Garden (690-698 Washington St., 617-482-8898), which does a mean dim sum, reminiscent of that time in Hong Kong I failed at the same meal. (There is only one way to fail at doing dim sum: go by yourself.) Like most dim sum restaurants, it followed the general pattern of an campily grand foyer leading up a staircase to the main event: pushcarts of standbys like roast pork buns, dumplings, and beef short ribs.As I investigated China Pearl (9 Tyler St., 617-426-4338), which also serves a popular dim sum, I spotted Winsor Dim Sum Cafe (10 Tyler St., 617-338-1688) across the street with the word “congee” in the window. I knew what I had to do in the name of research.Congee, a savory rice porridge typically served with crullers for dipping, is a traditional Chinese breakfast food. The closest non-savory American equivalent is oatmeal. It’s boiled down to a creamy consistency and made with chicken or turkey stock for optimal deliciousness.I ordered the beef congee ($3.95), which came in a tureen that could feed three girls or one Lingbo. It was sprinkled with some scallions and a few tender strips of beef swam in its depths. I tasted a spoonful. Solid bliss: a decent, basic congee, with the hint of saltiness made even better with the addition of the chili flake-laced oil on my table. I sweated it out through the entire bowl.Also worth a stop was East Ocean City (25-29 Beach St., 617-542-2504), just to see the fish tanks in the window. There, I spotted thorny crustaceans that looked positively Mesozoic; they were big enough to eat a pesky toddler. Like any good tourist, I snapped photos.As night fell, I attempted to find a certain seafood market. It was closed. Still spooked by empty streets and darkening sky, I boarded the Orange Line amid a inebriated revelers. I may not have recreated my parents’ pantry, but at least I got my congee.
Sections
Party suites and river views aren’t the only criteria by which to pick a room. One must also consider the secrets that the room’s four walls might conceal, some of which have sparked age-old myths and rumors that still manage to frighten residents today.Eliot has always had a reputation of housing Harvard’s elite, but rumor has it that its residents haven’t always received the royal treatment. “I heard that in Eliot, you have to sleep in the servants’ quarters as a sophomore,” says Jasper N. Henderson ’12. Some Eliot residents defend their house’s high-end status, such as Christine F. Matera ’11.  “I’ve never heard of that,” she says. “That’s ridiculous!”Winthrop’s new housing rule, which no longer guarantees seniors “n+1” housing, has led its residents to fear the possibility of being sexiled well into their senior year. Some residents who are granted a stroke of luck prove this myth to be false. “We had the last senior housing lottery number and still ended up with ‘n + 1/2’ housing,” says one anonymous senior, who offers a solution to fellow residents who find themselves without luck. “You can always kill a roommate.”Dunsterites have more to fear than just a long walk to and from the Yard. The infamous and supposedly haunted room H-21, the rumored site of a 1995 murder-suicide, makes Dunster the campus’ spookiest residence. However, most loyal residents are able to sleep soundly. “I’m not concerned that I will suddenly murder my roommate or be murdered by her,” says future resident Sarah B. Rosenberg-Wohl ’12. Indeed, undergraduate residents need not fear finding dried bloodstains underneath the varnish of their floorboards; H-21 is now a proctor’s suite.Adams’ reputation for being a theatrical and dramatic house might have lead to the recent rumors about vampires residing in the the house’s underground tunnels. While students have yet to start hanging cloves of garlic on their doors, the dim lighting and dark wood of the gloomy house, which could be the perfect setting for the “Twilight” sequel, only perpetuate the rumors. “Don’t vampires live in Adams House?” asks Hunter M. Richard ’12. “It has like an aura of spiritual darkness.”
Sections
Hey guys—ever feel awkward walking into the Harvard College Women’s Center with a not-so-femme phallus? Just tuck it in! Last Sunday, the Women’s Center, in conjunction with the Harvard Trans Task Force and the Harvard College Queer Students and Allies, hosted a workshop on dressing in drag. Professional female impersonator Fena Barbitall, otherwise known as Ryan M. Carpenter, taught would-be drag queens to “grab, cup, and pull back” and would-be drag kings to pack themselves down there.The seminar preceded next week’s drag show at the Cambridge Queen’s Head pub, where many of Carpenter’s protégés will perform. Some were not so new to the cross-dressing scene. At last year’s show, “Miss Patience,” a.k.a. James P. Alexander ’10, switched between two personas—a 1980s blonde bombshell and an Amy Winehouse-inspired vixen. He was joined by Marco Chan ’11, who bedazzled the stage in a cherry blossom Chinese dance costume.“It’s funny that a conformist place like Harvard would have these opportunities,” Chan said.  “I would never do this at home.  I like it because it’s fun to play with all these different identities.”On the other hand, some seminar participants were new to the life of pads, heels, glue and lashes.  Jia Hui Lee ’12 plans to debut as a Balinese princess next week.“I’m hoping for an exposure”, he says.On the king side, Morgan L. Haven-Tietze ’10 has yet to set plans for her first show. “I want to make a glorious fool out of myself,” she says from underneath a gruff and virile porn-stache.In the end, even for the pros, drag seemed to be all about community and fun.“I will stop doing drag the second I consider it a real job,” Carpenter said. “It’s a great group of girls.  And in the end, we’re all we have.” Carpenter affectionately referred to each of her colleagues as “that bitch.” FM will definitely be there to see these contestants strut their stuff in the Drag Show at 9 p.m. on April 18th in the Queen’s Head Pub.
Sections
Remember opening that fateful envelope during your senior year of high school? For nostalgia, FM has canvassed the Harvard forum on CollegeConfidential.com to find the quotes from ’13 hopefuls that best capture the bitterness and, at the very end, the joy of receiving your Harvard admissions decisions. I’ve been crying for 2 hours. I will never get over it. —hookem168 The fact that this process—these twelve years—not just the applications—is over feels... strange. That it should end with so many rejections is...I feel numb                      —jiess Real talk: About 20% of the acceptances are mistakes. This can be corroborated with qualitative evidence.—shalashaska64 “A record 10.9 percent of admitted students are from Latino backgrounds” For some weird reason, it made me feel much better for being rejected by Harvard. It is not because I am not good enough academically, it is because I was not born Latino. I am more than happy to bring my tuition money to a school that is truly merit based. —ajr2009  Dear Harvard, Based on my rejection of student status at Harvard, I would like to know whether there are any janitorial posts open at Harvard College? Considering you told me that I did not score well on a test of trivia—SAT/ACT—and relied on that as a judgement of my ability to perform at your college, I was hoping if it would be possible to be admitted to Harvard via the working stream. I could enrich Harvard College by making it clean. Better than being a filthy student right? Plus, this will lighten your load of admitting via affirmative action. Thanks. —Ambitiousteen AAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGHHHHHHHHHHHHH—v3rt got waitlisted at Duke and thought my soul had been torn to pieces until I got into HARVARD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! —cafelalo
Sections
Ratatat’s music may at times seem otherworldly or robotic, but behind the electronic beats is the soft-spoken, sarcastic, and gracious Evan Mast, part of the musical duo that will be performing at Yardfest on April 19. The 29-year-old Brooklyn resident spoke candidly about his college days, performing in castles, and his love for Bach.1. Fifteen Minutes: You met fellow band member Mike Stroud when you were both students at Skidmore. Do you think your experience as a college student will influence what you choose to perform at Harvard?Evan Mast: Not really, I mean we kind of have had a lot of time since college. Mike dropped out after two years, because he wasn’t super into it. I don’t think about college much anymore, especially not when I’m putting together stuff for a show. 2. FM: If you could sum up your impression of Harvard in five words or less, what would it be?EM: Total party zone.3. FM: Do you have a favorite venue?EM: This place in Fribourg, Switzerland a couple years ago was pretty incredible. It was an old medieval fort—a huge stone building with massive wooden beams. It was just an incredible place to play, really stunning.4.FM: What advice would you give to any aspiring Harvard musicians?EM: I don’t know, they should probably give me advice. Is there a music program at Harvard? Just keep practicing I guess. I never liked music classes at school. I wasn’t ever classically trained in theory. If they’re doing music at Harvard they’re probably well on their way to doing something great.  5.FM: Who do you think your audience is?EM: It seems to be a lot of younger kids these days, kids in high school or college. It seems like every tour we do the audience gets a bit younger. There always an oddball older crowd mixed in. It seems to appeal to different sorts of people from all different backgrounds and it seems to change form region to region, too.6. FM: Your duo wasn’t always called Ratatat. What was your first name, and how did it evolve?EM: The first name was “Cherry” which was a name our friend James came up with when we had just made one or two song ... so we went with that for a while and we ended up changing it before our first record came out. We were kinda sitting down thinking of names and it was one that we didn’t hate so much.7. FM: What is your greatest source of musical inspiration?EM: Bach. He’s got a pretty extensive catalogue and he covers a lot of ground, it seems like you can always go back and find something new. I really like his melodies. He kinda wrote the book on melody making.8. FM: What is it like to be part of a two-person band? If you and Mike run into differences of opinion, how are they resolved?EM: We have surprisingly few differences of opinion, especially when we are working on songs. One of us writes a part and we almost always agree on whether it’s worth recording. We’ve gotten to a point where we work together very well and we’ve learned to be pretty tolerant of each other’s shortcomings. 9. FM: You’re performing the same day as Sara Bareilles. Have you ever met her before and how do you plan to out-perform her?EM: No. I’ve never heard her music; I don’t know anything about her. But I’m looking forward to it. Maybe she’ll out-perform us. Maybe I’ll look her up on YouTube or something and see what her performance is like so we can be sure to outdo her in every way. (laughs) 10. FM: Would you define your music as “electronic” or do you think it shares qualities with other genres as well?EM: Yeah, it definitely shares qualities with other genres. I think “electronic” as a genre is kind of a loose term anyway. I think initially they called it that because you used computers to make music, but now all music is made on computers, so its hard to define something as electronic anymore. So I think our music is more rock, or hip-hop, than electronic. That’s what I like about our group—we can do any song and it sort of fits into what we do. 11. FM: Your page on iTunes compares your sound to that of Daft Punk. What do you make of this comparison?EM: Yeah, I’d say there’s some truth to that. I really like their stuff, and I think certain songs have some similarities but I think we’re coming from a different place. They have a more narrow spectrum: their mellowest song and their danciest song aren’t that far away from each other. It might seem like a criticism but I don’t really see it that way. We’re pretty open to doing whatever kind of songs, hip hop and even classical stuff sometimes. I think we’re pretty different, but I can see where the comparison comes from. 12. FM: I’ll ask you a question I was asked in the class Music 1a here at Harvard: “To what extent is a musical work dependent on text to have meaning?”EM: Um, not at all whatsoever. It totally depends on the work obviously. A Bob Dylan song without the text is different then a Bob Dylan song with the words in it. But obviously there’s a very long tradition of music without text.  13. FM: Do creativity and an interest in art run in your family?EM: Yes. Both my brother and sister are artists. My dad is a salesman and my mom is an accountant, so I don’t know where it came from, but my parents are super supportive and they’re fans of art even if it isn’t their job. My dad would travel a lot when we were little and go to art museums in other countries and come back with prints and post them around the house. 14. FM: What is the most embarrassing thing that’s ever happened to you or Mike during a performance?EM: We had a show in Guadalajara, Mexico last year, and it was kind of a total meltdown. There were technical problems, and we were onstage in front of 30,000 people, scrambling to get our equipment up and running. But after several songs we got it back together.15. FM: Where will you be going for an after-party?EM: I dunno—It’s a little early to say. We’re open for suggestions.
Sections
Think that doctors only work in hospitals? Think again. Institute of Politics Fellow Howard A. Zucker has shed his scrubs for a life in the political sphere. Zucker will be at the IOP for the entirety of the spring semester as a fellow, so FM decided to probe deeper into this doctor/lawyer/jack-of-all-trades.1.Fifteen Minutes: You have held numerous prestigious positions at the World Health Organization, at the White House, and at the United Nations. Where does IOP Fellow rank among these illustrious positions? Howard A. Zucker:  I tend to be extremely critical and I tend not to exude superlatives, but I do find this a fantastic place to be. This is a rare opportunity in my career to actually step back from the moment and return to environment that helped me shape my career—college. I think the IOP is probably one of the most unique positions that I’ve held. These are the most rejuvenating months that I’ve experienced in my career in a long time.  2. FM: Do you think that a lot has changed since you were in college? HAZ: Society at that point wasn’t so interconnected with wireless technology. A term paper was typed on a typewriter so it wasn’t just cut and paste. And also, people went to libraries for reference, rather than to just study. You’d spend hours sitting in the stacks.3. FM: Have you had a chance to sit in on any undergraduate classes?HAZ: I’ve been sitting in on Douglas Melton and Michael Sandel’s class on bioethics and I have fun listening to not only the debate between the two professors, but also between the students. I find it fascinating.  4. FM: You must have spent a lot of time in class since you graduated from medical school at 22! How did you manage that? HAZ: When I went through the school system in New York City, you were able to skip grades. That, on top of finishing medical school in three years instead of four, allowed me to finish by 22.  5. FM: Not only that, but you have a B.S., an M.D., a J.D., and a Masters in Law. Do you enjoy being a student that much? HAZ: School is the most secure environment you can find! It allows for an academic freedom that is unmatched in many other forums.  6. FM: Well, thankfully, that education paid off and you ended up as a White House Fellow. What was life like in the White House? HAZ: It was a great opportunity to see how government works and it does not really matter so much which party is in power as much as how agencies work. Also, hearing the perspectives of other White House Fellows was extremely helpful. 7. FM: You worked on bioterrorism while you were there. So, what’s the verdict? Are we safe? HAZ: I think that there is an extremely talented group of scientists and public health experts working to protect America, however, there is always a risk out there.   8.  FM: What do you think the Obama administration’s number one priority should be in terms of public health? HAZ: Of course everyone’s really focused on the uninsured, and how can they not be? Actually, when I returned from Geneva to the US, I was uninsured for one day and I didn’t leave my apartment in fear. If on that one day, that’s how I felt about living without health insurance, think about the millions of Americans who live everyday knowing the potential for disaster could cause a major financial crisis.  9. FM: With the WHO you’ve traveled all over the world. Is there any particular place you have an affinity for? HAZ: It depends. From the standpoint of beauty, culture, history, and renaissance, I’m going to go with Italy. From the standpoint of where this world is going, I would say China.  10. FM: I know we’ve talked policy, but let’s hear more about the doctor part. You’re a certified pediatric cardiologist—what draws you to child health? HAZ: The free spirit of a child makes for a positive work environment. And you never know if the child that you save today will go on to make major changes in his or her lifetime.  11. FM: Do you practice medicine anymore or is it all policy?HAZ: Now it’s policy, although I’m looking at everything in terms of what I’m going to do after the IOP post is over. One thought is going back to the clinical world.  12. FM: If you don’t currently practice medicine, I hope you at least get to watch some good medical dramas. “Grey’s Anatomy”? “House”? HAZ: I do watch “House,” but it’s not like I run home to watch it. I find the intellectual exercise of trying to figure out what’s going on with the patient very interesting.  13. FM: Do you think House is an accurate portrayal of life as an American doctor? HAZ: Not necessarily. Some of the things he does would not allow him to maintain his job. But I’ve actually met doctors like “House.” I’ve met my share of doctors like all the characters on that show.  14. FM: You may not be House, but you’ve been named one of the Best Doctors in America. Clearly, you’re talented. Is there anything you can’t do? HAZ: I guess I wish I could play basketball. I hear that’s important for certain jobs. 15. FM: So if basketball is out, you should consider coming back to work at a hospital in Boston. Given it any thought?HAZ: I like the medicine here, but I guess the only challenge that I have is that it’s very hard to have been born in the Bronx and to stay quiet about being a Yankees fan.
Sections
The word “routine” is a red flag in any long-term commitment. It comes with connotations of habit, boredom, and monotony. So over their 38-show run for this year’s musical “Acropolis Now,” members of Hasty Pudding Theatricals were challenged to keep up the energy night after night. It takes creativity, but when you’re into drag, role-play, and four-inch-heel knee-high pink pleather boots, you definitely have an edge.
Every member of the cast and crew plays a part in spicing things up, from the tech crew chilling in the sound booth and the band in the depths of the pit to the bawdy and salacious cast onstage. The spontaneous and covert are preferred when keeping everyone on point. 
“The cast is very secret about it,” says co-writer Alexandra A. Petri ’10, regarding the ways in which the cast changes things up each night. 
“We’ll throw jokes in,” says Pudding President David J. Andersson ’09, known onstage as the bodacious and sequined Afro Dite. “We’ll change the joke to fit that audience.” 
And thanks to these strategies, Thomas R. Compton ’09, the cast vice president and Hades Pantsaretight, the promiscuous yet possibly impotent lord of the underworld, claims that despite the long run, the show never loses its edge. 
“Even if we do a normal show it doesn’t get boring,” he says. 
ONSTAGE ANTICS   The cast maintains interest when they improvise, particularly on special theme nights, change their characters’ subtexts, and play games on stage. 
Familiar theme nights include Freshman Night, Ladies Night, B-School Night, and Senior Night. During these performance the cast will change lines and add jokes to include groups or individuals in the audience. But this is only the public face of the Pudding’s secret recipe for keeping the show hot. 
A more subtle show played out when one night the cast was given a new subtext for each of their characters. For example, Juno’s subtext was that her doctor had just informed her baby was actually a stillborn.  
“My character was moodier, and whenever anyone mentioned my baby, I got defensive,” says Barry A. Shafrin ’09, aka Juno. “It forces you to look at your lines in a new way. I really like it.” 
In one scene, Kyle J. Dancewicz ’11, who plays the shapely-legged Kim Bustible the Phoenix, has to resuscitate Hugh Bris with the restorative power of her tears. Unfortunately, the subtext was that Kim Bustible was actually a parrot masquerading as a phoenix. 
“I acted like I was crying and kicked him instead,” he says. It worked anyway.  
“The amount of focus actually goes up on those nights,” says Compton. “The number one rule is that you can’t change the show. So when these little things change you have to figure out how to get it back.”
Another diversion is the “Ring Game,” which is similar to “Hot Potato.” Basically, someone starts off holding a small iron ring on stage at the beginning of the show. The ring then gets passed around from one character to the next without letting the audiences see. Whoever finishes the act with the ring loses, and the penalties for losing are acted out during the next show.
“We’ve played the game twice. You don’t want to end up with it,” says Ryan P. Halprin ’12, or Madge Madeinheaven, who after losing the game one night, had to do as many cartwheels as he had lines in the show. He did thirty-five cartwheels. 
“It was a lot of fun in this costume,” he adds, rolling his eyes towards his costume, a voluminous purple dress, which covers a full-bodied undergarment replete with thick, heavy padding in certain areas to simulate the body of a corpulent and voluptuous woman. 
Shafrin’s penalty was to replace his Sunny Delight prop with the real deal and then drink the entire gallon on stage. W. Brian C. Polk ’09, who plays frat boy Brometheus, had to eat a full pizza and a large bag of Funyuns on stage. Thankfully, all the singing and dancing burned off the extra calories.
BEHIND THE SCENES SHENANIGANSWhile the cast is the public face of the Hasty Pudding, the crew and the band are just as important—and mischievous. The tech crew, for example, has its own special nights, one of which is called “Pants-less Booth Night.”
“We just don’t wear pants,” says Michael A. Barron ’11, the spotlight operator. 
Drinking is also a common denominator for those who work offstage. 
Twenty minutes before one show was set to start, Lucy W. Baird ’10, who is in charge of tour sales, entered the dressing room and announced, “The band is drunk.” Nobody was surprised.
“Sometimes it improves the quality,” explains Talisa B. Friedman ’10, the press manager. 
While all acknowledge that the band can get a little out of hand, it is generally accepted as the norm. 
“They can be kind of crazy some nights,” Compton says. “They are so talented you can’t always tell. They’ll be louder and laugh more.” 
So at the end of the day, the members of the Hasting Pudding Theatricals still commit themselves to putting on a quality show. The moral of the story: you can still have fun while getting down to business—show business, that is.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The unprecedented level of global interdependence deepened the U.S. recession, but there is light at the end of the tunnel, according to the two professors of economics who lead a discussion on “The Global Impacts of the Financial Crisis” yesterday afternoon.International Economics Professor Richard N. Cooper said he was surprised by the extent of the damage wrought by the sub-prime mortgage crisis.“I don’t know of anyone who foresaw the ramifications of the sub-prime crisis through the whole economic system,” he said. “At least until last July, I thought that we could avoid a recession in the United States. All that is gone now.”Robert Z. Lawrence, a professor of international trade and investment at the Harvard Kennedy School, emphasized the important role that globalization played in spreading the crisis.“If ever we needed a reminder of how interdependent we’ve become in a global economy, we just need to look at the fact that no countries have been spared,” he said. Lawrence, however, also pointed out that protectionism is not a viable response for containing the fallout.“If we think back to the 1930’s, I think there’s little doubt that dramatic increases in tariff in the United States made that depression much deeper, and left a legacy that took us decades to remove,” he said. Lawrence added that despite the depth of the global recession, he remained optimistic about the decisions that national leaders have made about trade.“Almost every global leader has pledged to avoid protectionist actions and I think that reflects a change in intellectual mindset,” he said.The event, organized by the Harvard International Relations Council as part of their “International Relations Week,” attracted only a handful of students to Ticknor Lounge. The IRC has seven more events planned for Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amidst the worst financial crisis in a generation, the chief executive of one of the world’s largest banks will address Harvard Business School graduates.In a press release issued earlier this week, school officials announced that James L. Dimon—chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase—will return to his alma mater to speak at Class Day on June 3.Dimon was heralded last month by the Financial Times as one of the 50 people who will lead the way out of the crisis.The announcement generated excitement among students, who said that they were looking forward to hearing Dimon’s opinions and knowledge about today’s economy.“He’s a great speaker, has a lot to say, and has a very broad perspective leading a large financial institution through these times,” said second-year MBA student Filipp M. Brunshteyn.During the economic crisis, JPMorgan has at times been at the center of the media spotlight, purchasing Bear Sterns’ assets last March after the investment bank’s collapse.  JPMorgan also accepted $25 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program last October.Second-year MBA student Mahshid Pirzadeh said students were looking forward to hearing what Wall Street firms are doing right.“It will be interesting to gain his perspective on future changes in financial markets,” Pirzadeh said. “He will be more serious than some [speakers] in the past, but that’s a function of the economy.”An active alumnus, Dimon received his MBA from HBS as a Baker Scholar—a student in the top five percent of his class—in 1982. He has served in executive roles at American Express, Travelers Group, and Smith Barney before moving to Bank One Corp., which later merged with JPMorgan. Dimon currently serves on the board of the Business School and spoke on a panel at its centennial celebration in October.HBS spokesman Brian Kenny said that the school is pleased to have Dimon deliver the Class Day address.“He’s someone I would point to as a person who’s talking about solutions in the midst of crisis,” Kenny said. “We think he’s a great choice.”—Staff writer William N. White can be reached at wwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Public Health Department announced a “trans fat free” decal program last week designed to acknowledge restaurants that have already phased out artificial trans fat from their menus.
To obtain the decal, businesses must fill out an application certifying that they have assessed all foods in their facilities and have eliminated all products with artificial trans fat.
Those who successfully apply will also be listed on the “Who is Trans Fat Free” page of the Cambridge Pubic Health Department Web site. 
As of March 31, there were 16 Cambridge businesses on the list, including Au Bon Pain, Finale Desserterie, and Armando’s Pizza.
Josefine Wendel, a nutritionist at the Cambridge Health Alliance who helped to spearhead the implementation of the city’s trans fat ban, said that the decal program had two objectives. 
Besides indicating the restaurants that were already trans fat free, the decals would provide an incentive for restaurants that are not yet trans fat free to eliminate the harmful component. 
Information about the initiative was publicized last week through e-mails to the members of the Harvard Square Business Association and other Cambridge business associations, and in a newsletter from the Cambridge Community Development Department, according to Wendel.
Tom Brush, the owner of Felipe’s Taqueria, Flat Patties, and Crema Café—all of which are trans fat free—said that he plans to apply for the decal, since much of the general public is concerned about healthy eating.  
At Veggie Planet on Palmer Street, owner Tom Penn said that he also planned to obtain a decal for his establishment, which has always been trans fat free. 
Though he said he expected the decals to have a beneficial effect on restaurants that display them, he also said that eliminating trans fat is gradually becoming an expectation—rather than a hallmark—for food service establishments.  
“Being trans fat free wont give restaurants a competitive advantage, but not being trans fat free will be a competitive disadvantage,” said Penn. 
So far, Wendel said that no new restaurants have applied for the decal. In a study conducted by the Cambridge Public Health Department in October 2007, 47 percent of Cambridge restaurants were already trans fat free.
In July 2008, Cambridge became the third municipality in Massachusetts to ban the use of artificial trans fat in restaurants and other food service establishments, following Brookline and Boston. Phase one of the ban begins July 1, 2009 and affects cooking oils, shortening, and margarines containing artificial trans fat, and the full ban will take effect on October 1, 2009.
According to a report by the Cambridge Trans Fat Task Force, the decision to ban artificial trans fat was based on scientific evidence linking trans fat to many health problems—including diabetes, heart disease, and obesity—as well as the desire to protect consumers, who may not know the trans fat content of meals prepared outside the home.
At Harvard, HUDS completely eliminated trans fat in fall 2007 after years of gradually phasing it out.
—Staff writer Liyun Jin can be reached at ljin@fas.harvard.edu.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a contentious decision that some community members called racially charged, the Cambridge Public School Committee chose as its new superintendent an outsider—Jeffrey M. Young, head of Newton Public Schools—over longtime Cambridge resident and Interim Superintendent Carolyn L. Turk. The school committee voted 5-2 for Young, who is white, in a public meeting last night, with only Mayor E. Denise Simmons and Alfred F. Fantini supporting Turk, who is black.The decision marks the end of a nationwide search that began in December, one month after former Superintendent Thomas D. Fowler-Finn’s early departure.The choice polarized those present, with some of Turk’s supporters alleging the decision had racial motivations.Three-quarters of those present at the vote stood up and left the room when Young’s selection was announced.Young’s supporters cited his qualifications and outsider perspective, while detractors questioned his ability to manage a district far more racially and socio-economically stratified than Newton. Parent Sarah G. Bell said she believes Young is a “sophisticated” and “sensitive” individual whose extensive experience with budgets was especially appealing.  “He has articulated that he’s going to listen for quite a while and learn, which I think is a critical piece of any outsider’s ability to succeed in Cambridge,” she said.But other community members said they were displeased with the school committee’s choice. “I watched the school committee take Cambridge back 30 years,” said Kathy A. Reddick, president of the Cambridge NAACP, who added that she thought the decision was insulting. “All she’s good enough to be is an assistant?”Over a third of students in Cambridge public schools are black, according to the district’s Web site.Some parents at the meeting said they thought race was a significant issue in selection process.Renae D. Gray, whose children graduated from the city’s public schools, pointed out that racial minorities have limited representation on the school committee. Simmons is the body’s only black member.“When people deny that it’s not about race, it is, it always is,” she said. “Dr. Young was very articulate and presented well, things that most white people like. He spoke their language. He related to them.”School committee member Luc D. Schuster said in an interview last week that although race is often an unavoidable factor, it would be simplistic to ignore other aspects of the candidates. “I would hope no one’s decision is driven solely by race,” he said. “I haven’t heard any members say that they’re voting because of someone’s race.” But some residents said they felt the school committee did not give sufficient weight to Turk’s Cambridge roots.  “Lifelong service to this city doesn’t mean a damn thing because they’ll screw you,” said Charles L. Stead, Sr., a former principal in the district. “Understand that is the sentiment that is going to be felt by most of the blacks in this city.”Fantini, who has served on the committee for 12 terms, said he thought Turk deserved to be superintendent.“The staff and the teachers in the school system will be totally demoralized,” he said.None of the other committee members could be reached for comment after last night’s vote.—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.—Staff writer Michelle L. Quach can be reached at mquach@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Bush administration HIV prevention and foreign aid programs have had a lasting positive impact on African nations, said former Bush administration official Jendayi E. Frazer at an Institute of Politics forum last night. Frazer, formerly the leading architect of U.S. Africa policy as U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs from 2005 to 2009, called the initiatives she spearheaded “transformative” and said that the new administration should build on its predecessor’s success by increasing dialogue with African leaders to address the myriad health, economic, and political problems that plague the continent.“You need to work with people on the ground,” Frazer said. “We need to see an African leader in the Oval Office.”Frazer said the establishment of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)—a $15 billion effort that she said has saved over 1.5 million lives—had lessons for future policies in the region.The active involvement of African leaders in developing and implementing the program was crucial to its success, Frazer said, adding that the Obama administration should make a concerted effort to make African leaders an instrumental part of their policies there.Frazer also cited policies in economic development, specifically referencing the Millennium Challenge account, which provides billions of dollars to African countries with sound governing and economic practices as a means of incentivizing sustainable economic development in developing African countries. Audience members said Frazer’s comments were surprisingly frank and at times even confrontational about her viewpoint on U.S. policy toward Africa.“Very informative. Very knowledgeable. Very sharp. She was very candid, especially for somebody in public office,” said A. Kayode Ogunro ’05, co-president of the Harvard Business School’s Africa Club.One audience member said Frazer’s glowing remarks about Bush administration policy might have been motivated by her role there.“I think that she still feels the need to defend the administration,” said Pearl T. Robinson, professor of African American politics at Tufts and a friend of Frazer.But Robinson added that Frazer had ample reason to call the policies successful.“The biggest foreign policy success that [Bush] can claim is in Africa,” Robinson said. “I think she’s done well.”The event was part of the ongoing Africa Week hosted by the Harvard African Student Association and the Black Students Association, and drew a crowd of about 50. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Monday night saw the end of yet another men’s college basketball season that didn’t include Harvard in its postseason tournaments. For those of you keeping score at home, it’s now been 63 years since the Crimson played in the Big Dance, when coach Floyd Stahl led Harvard into the eight-team tournament in 1946, only to lose to Ohio State and NYU.
As we settle in for the long, cold Cambridge spring, the only real consolation is that an end may be in sight. The Crimson had wins over two NCAA Tournament teams this year—Cornell and Boston College—and did it all despite major injury issues that limited senior Evan Harris, juniors Pat Magnarelli and Doug Miller, and freshmen Max Kenyi and Andrew Van Nest.
Star junior Jeremy Lin, himself less than 100 percent for quite a few games this year, will be back, as will a talented cast of freshman contributors in Keith Wright, Peter Boehm, and Oliver McNally. Of course, Cornell will be back as well, returning a boatload of stars in Ryan Wittman, Louis Dale, and Chris Wroblewski. But Harvard has already shown it has the talent to down the Big Red.
This talent looks to be augmented by probably the most exciting part of the future of Harvard basketball—the incoming freshman class. 
Like last year, coach Tommy Amaker has signed a star-studded lineup of high schoolers as he looks to remake the Crimson program. Local product Kyle Casey got interest from high-level schools, including Stanford, Vanderbilt, and Providence, and has impressive hops (if you haven’t seen it, Google “Kyle Casey dunk” and click the first link to watch him win a dunk contest). Point guard Brandyn Curry, rated the #40 point guard in America by Scouts Inc., could be the ballhandler of the future for Harvard, while three other highly-touted recruits—Jeff Georgatos, Christian Webster, and Dee Giger—have also announced their plans to relocate to Cambridge.
But while we await their arrival and the help they should bring to the long-moribund men’s basketball program, this year’s Harvard season was noticeably lacking in something that last year—and this year’s NCAA tournament—was not: drama. 
Last year, the New York Times reported that Harvard was lowering academic standards to unacceptable levels for student athletes and potentially violating NCAA rules in its recruiting, accusing Amaker of improper contact with one recruit in a grocery store and an assistant coach of recruiting a player prior to being officially hired by the school. These claims, minor violations if they had been true, were rejected by the Ivy League after an investigation.
Last week, Yahoo! Sports reported on its website that a former student manager at the University of Connecticut and a registered agent, Josh Nochimson, had potentially violated numerous NCAA rules due to his contact with Huskies recruit Nate Miles.
Nochimson provided food, transportation, and representation for the recruit, who eventually signed with UConn before violating a restraining order and being kicked out of school.
Obviously, the presence of agents in the recruiting process is against NCAA rules, and Nochimson should have been excluded from the process from the beginning since he was a former UConn manager.
UConn’s denials seem unconvincing in light of the fact that Huskies coaches had some 1,565 different phone calls or texts with Nochimson during and after Miles’ recruitment. ESPN later reported that Nochimson may have helped shepherd another UConn recruit, Ater Majok, on his way to Storrs.
Two lessons should be obvious from this episode for Harvard fans. First and foremost, there is a need to revamp the college recruiting process in a way that makes the NCAA a legitimate governor or owner of the process. Right now, the byzantine code that governs recruiting is virtually impossible to understand, allowing coaches both good and bad to take shelter with excuses about the clarity or application of NCAA guidelines. In the end, there is no question that the recruiting process needs to be revamped.
Second, and more important, is the importance of perspective as Harvard revamps its own basketball image. Reactions on campus last year to the New York Times coverage of Amaker’s recruiting were mixed, but the bottom line is that the allegations against Amaker and his staff were the smallest of small potatoes in NCAA recruiting violations, even if they had proven to be true. Just as claims about Harvard’s “lowering of academic standards” for basketball are overblown—the Crimson’s Academic Index for men’s basketball during Frank Sullivan’s tenure was well above the Ivy average, and regressing to the Ivy mean hardly constitutes a sacrifice of academic principles—concerns about Amaker’s recruiting are unjustified. Other Ivy schools should be concerned about his recruiting, but only to the extent that it threatens to alter the long-standing balance of power in Ancient Eight hoops.
—Staff writer Brad Hinshelwood can be reached at bhinshel@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
BROCKTON, Mass.—While pitching has been an issue for the Crimson all season—with yesterday’s Beanpot opening round game against Northeastern as no exception—there has been little to complain about regarding the Harvard bats.
The team’s offense has scored 64 runs in its last eight games, generating significant fanfare thanks to the recent infatuation with the long ball on the part of Crimson slugging seniors Tom Stack-Babich and Matt Rogers. 
But while the gazes of spectators in the stands have been set firmly in the sky, watching baseball after baseball soar over fences at an astounding rate, captain Harry Douglas—perhaps Harvard’s most consistent, if not its flashiest hitter—has been quietly piecing together a breakout season, which continued in yesterday’s contest at Campanelli Stadium.
Douglas went 3-for-4 against the Huskies with a pair of doubles, two RBI, and two runs scored.
“I will say that Douglas’ approach at the plate is just outstanding right now,” Walsh said. “He’s just jumping on fastballs.”
Douglas is hitting .363 on the season, with a .569 slugging percentage and 17 runs driven in over 26 games—quite a feat for a career .185 hitter prior to this season.
MUCH NEEDED RELIEF
Aside from Douglas, Harvard baseball coach Joe Walsh said after yesterday afternoon’s game, “it’s hard to find comfort in a 16-5 loss.”
And even if there was another positive to take away from a blowout defeat of that magnitude, logic would dictate that it wouldn’t come from a pitching performance.
But in the Crimson’s 11-run loss to the Huskies, one of the few bright spots for Harvard came from an unlikely source—the mound—in the form of a solid relief performance from sophomore Zach Hofeld.
After sophomore starter Anthony Nutter and lefty senior Ryan Watson got shelled to the tune of a combined 14 runs on 16 hits in just the first 4 1/3 innings, the Crimson desperately needed someone to take the ball, throw it over the plate, and get the team back on the bus as quickly as possible.
Hofeld did just that.
The second-year hurler entered the game in the top of the fifth with a runner on first and six Northeastern runs already plated in the inning. He proceeded to fan Huskies designated hitter Frank Compagnone before getting first baseman Brendan Stokes to fly out harmlessly to left field.
Hofeld stayed in the game and sped through two more efficient innings, allowing two runs on a pair of solo homers but working quickly to mercifully end Harvard’s woeful showing at Campanelli Stadium.
“That’s the best [Hofeld] has thrown,” Walsh said. “Last year he was a good starter. This year he’s just been giving up a lot of home run balls.”
Hofeld didn’t cure his propensity to serve up the long ball yesterday, but he did show promising signs that the form which he displayed in a memorable four-hit, complete game gem against Cornell last season may still lurk within—signs that will certainly be welcomed with measured optimism by a depleted Crimson pitching staff.
STRETCHED THIN
While the Beanpot has no effect on Harvard’s Ivy League title hopes, it does reward its winner with Boston-area supremacy and bragging rights for a year—an intangible prize, yet certainly one that a squad at full strength would unload its most effective weapons to obtain.
But the Crimson is nowhere near full strength right now, at least with regards to pitching. 
Harvard used most of its healthy arms up in a pair of doubleheaders against Cornell and Princeton—which included a 17-inning marathon win over the Tigers.
“Guys are working at it, but after the four weekend games we were pretty shot on arms,” Walsh said.
The Crimson staff also has a myriad of injuries to contend with—including a particularly devastating one to sophomore ace Max Perlman, who recently underwent Tommy John surgery to repair his elbow, effectively ending his season—further exhausting the team’s resources.
With the shortage of pitchers available to Harvard already presenting daunting challenges, matters were further compounded in yesterday’s Beanpot game. Because of unavoidable academic commitments, several Harvard players were forced to remain in Cambridge, leaving the Crimson with just three hurlers available for use—all of whom Walsh ended up sending to the mound against Northeastern.
“The pressure right now is all on school,” Walsh said. “A lot of guys weren’t here and it was tough.” 
These restrictions forced Walsh’s hand, and the Harvard skipper had no choice but to go with the trio of Nutter, Watson, and Hofeld, which combined to allow 16 runs.
“It makes it look like I’m not going for the game,” Walsh said. “But those were the only three arms that I had.”
Harvard will have to dig even deeper into its already-limited pool of pitching today, in the Crimson’s non-conference road game against Bryant.
“I think we’ll throw a few of our freshmen,” Douglas said. “It’s going to be another group effort from our pitching staff.”
—Staff writer Loren Amor can be reached at lamor@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
BROCKTON, Mass.—This weekend saw the Harvard baseball team emerge on the friendly end of a few slugfests, but its good luck—and its success at the plate—was bound to run out sometime.Crimson pitching continued its trend of giving up runs in bunches, and Harvard underwent a 16-5 thumping at the hands of Northeastern (15-10, 4-2 CAA) in the first round of the Beanpot Tournament at Campanelli Stadium yesterday afternoon.The loss means that Harvard (7-19, 5-3 Ivy) will play in the consolation game of the Beanpot Tournament next Monday at Fenway Park.Harvard banged out 11 hits, but none of its three pitchers—sophomore Anthony Nutter, senior Ryan Watson, and sophomore Zach Hofeld—could cool the Huskies’ hot bats. “We keep coming out hard every day, but there’s just not much you can do when a team puts 17 hits on you,” captain Harry Douglas said.Star Mike Tamsin, who Crimson coach Joe Walsh has called one of the best in New England, paced Northeastern with a 3-for-5 day that included a walk, a home run, and four runs scored. Nutter started the game and struggled through four-plus innings of work, surrendering 10 runs (nine earned) on 12 hits.The biggest blow he sustained was a three-run jack by Northeastern’s Frank Pesanello (five RBI), whose bomb to left landed just inside of the foul pole to put the Huskies up 6-3. The game stood in stark contrast to last year’s semifinal game, in which Nutter also got the start.The then-freshman allowed just three runs in seven strong innings of work, but got nothing from his teammates at the plate as Harvard dropped a 3-0 decision. Fast-forward to this year’s Beanpot opener, and the bats have come around. Nutter, though, was missing his best stuff.Things went from bad to worse for the Crimson in the bottom of the fifth, when Watson failed to provide much relief after inheriting two runners from Nutter. David Gustavson and Tamsin greeted him with back-to-back run-scoring hits, and Watson came unglued—a balk, wild pitch, walk, and consecutive singles followed before Walsh called for Hofeld with the score 14-4.Harvard’s defense did not particularly help the floundering pitching staff, commiting two errors in the difficult contest.The game started in promising fashion for the Crimson, with sophomore leadoff man Dillon O’Neill and senior Taylor Meehan reaching base on a single and walk, respectively. Douglas followed with an RBI double, and red-hot senior Tom Stack-Babich plated two with a double of his own. Harvard’s offense seemed to be churning again, with Douglas finishing 3-for-4 with two RBIs.“I’ve been feeling pretty good at the plate,” Douglas said, “but I just want to get some wins right now.”The captain would not get his wish, as the Huskies lineup jumped on Nutter its first time up to tie the score at three—a start that suggested the Crimson was in for another long day. To make matters worse, Northeastern starter JT Ross settled down nicely after his rocky start and went eight frames for his second win in three starts.Stack-Babich, fellow-senior Jon Roberts, and freshman Jeff Reynolds all collected two hits for Harvard, but the Crimson never managed to strike with its go-to weapon—the longball. Whereas the Huskies sent four shots over the fence, Walsh’s squad could not seriously rattle Ross.Hofeld put together the only reasonable pitching line for Harvard, allowing two runs and striking out three batters in 3.2 innings of work. The sophomore represented one of the few options Walsh had after a grueling four-game weekend set that included a 17-inning win Sunday afternoon, and a tired and depleted Crimson squad arrived in Brockton yesterday. Senior Matt Rogers, who along with Douglas and Stack-Babich has paced the offense of late, missed the game for a class. While the offense missed Rogers, Walsh was most in a bind for pitching.“[Monday] night, I didn’t know how many guys I was going to have,” Walsh said. “I was just making sure we had enough pitching to get through the day.”Ross’ eight innings meant Northeastern didn’t have to patch anything together. The Huskies’ Drew Leenhouts, who Walsh predicted would be “playing in the big leagues some day,” struck out the side in the ninth, giving him 20 punchouts in 13.2 innings this season.Harvard continues non-conference play this afternoon at Bryant College. First pitch is scheduled for 3:30 in Smithfield, R.I. —Staff writer Emily W. Cunningham can be reached at ecunning@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This week, Roving Reporter got wordy at the Boston/Harvard Crossword Puzzle Tournament. We talked about favorite clues, closet nerds, and using crosswords to pick up girls. I also had the opportunity to hang out with one of my idols, The New York Times crossword puzzle editor Will Shortz—for 39 whole minutes. But, hey, who’s counting? Will Shortz, Editor of The New York Times Crossword  Roving Reporter (RR): Mr. Shortz, it’s an honor to meet you. So, what’s your favorite crossword clue of all time? Will Shortz (WS): The answer was “spiral staircase.” The clue was “it may turn into a different story.”  RR: I like it! So, I know you are responsible for editing the Sunday New York Times crossword, but how long do you think it would take you to complete it? WS: Around 25 to 30 minutes for one I didn’t edit.  RR: That’s awesome. It took my roommates and me three days to do one once. It was a highlight of my life.  WS: That’s excellent. Do you remember which one it was? RR: Of course! It was called “Web Master” and the letters formed a line of “I”s down the middle to create a spider’s web.  WS: Oh yes, I remember that one.Robert P. Ciofani ’09, Secretary of The Harvard Crossword SocietyRoving Reporter (RR): What’s your favorite crossword clue of all time?Robert P. Ciofani (RPC): My roommate Kyle Mahowald is the person you really want to talk to. He interned with Will Shortz a few summers ago. I liked the theme of one of his puzzles. It was “Not ‘ie’ but ‘e’” so he took words with “ie” in them and replaced that with “e.” For example, Kansas City Chiefs became Kansas City Chefs.RR: Very punny.Nathaniel S. Rakich ’10, Treasurer of Harvard College Crossword Society Roving Reporter (RR): What’s your favorite crossword clue of all time?Nathaniel S. Rakich (NSR): The clue was “enraged and angered.” Answer? “Anagrams.”RR: How did you get involved with the Harvard Crossword Society?NSR: I was the top undergraduate scorer in this tournament two years ago. That’s how I broke out onto the scene.RR: And you’re going to be the President of the society next year? Congratulations! How many members do you have?NSR: (Pause) Right now?RR: Yes…NSR: Three.RR: Oh. Okay. Well, have you ever used crossword puzzles to pick up girls?NSR: No.RR: Would you?NSR: Yes, if you could present me with concrete evidence that it would work.RR: I’d bet you’d make a great boyfriend. You’re good at reading between the lines.Elizabeth RehfeldRoving Reporter (RR): What’s your favorite crossword clue of all time?Elizabeth Rehfeld (ER): Oh golly! That’s a hard one. Probably one from my puzzle which was published in The New York Times in 2007. (Looks over her puzzle, which she has just had signed by Will Shortz). The clue is “Beachgoer wearing bug spray” and the answer is “Off on a tan gent.” The theme was splitting up words unexpectedly.RR: That’s a good one. So, what was it like to meet Will Shortz today?ER: Oh golly! So nice to meet him. Golly, he’s God!Douglas I. Goodman ’97, Winner of the Boston/Harvard Crossword TournamentRoving Reporter (RR): Congratulations on winning. So, tell me, what’s your favorite crossword clue of all time?Douglas I. Goodman (DIG): Can I tell you my least favorite? It was at a tournament in Brooklyn, my debut onto the crossword scene and the clue asked for the word at the end of a love letter, except love letter was in French. I put ‘solo’ but the answer was ‘xoxo.’ I just missed qualifying to the finals.RR: Not that you’re bitter about it or anything.DIG: No, but my wife was. That’s why I came here. This is only my second tournament.RR: Impressive! Wow, how long does it take you to do a Sunday New York Times Crossword?DIG: It depends on if I pick up the theme quickly, but around 10 to 15 minutes.RR: Would you call yourself a cruciverbalist [a constructor or solver of crossword puzzles]?DIG: Yes, but only around people who do crosswords. I’ve never used it as a pick-up line.Kyle A. Mahowald ’09, Secretary of The Harvard Crossword SocietyRoving Reporter (RR): This was a great event. So, Kyle, what’s your favorite crossword clue of all time?Kyle A. Mahowald (KAM): One of my favorite clues of all time is “Ball Field?” and the answer is “Situational Comedy.”RR: That’s hilarious! Ummm….actually…I don’t really get it.KAM: Like Lucille Ball?RR: Ohhh! I know you interned for Will Shortz in the past. How many puzzles have you had published in The Times?KAM: Around 12 or 13.RR: That’s crazy. Kyle, would you call yourself a “cruciver-baller?”KAM: (Laughs) Sure.
Sections
Ever wish you could divine the status of the laundry room’s many machines – full or free – without the need to trudge downstairs?
Cheers to Adams House residents, then, for braving the backlash and implementing an update-system with the help of Twitter and a little old-fashioned manpower. Details after the jump.
Residents took their cue from Olin College where Twitter has been simplifying student routines with succinct messages like “one of two washers available,” “one of three dryers available,” (you get the idea).
Here at Harvard, it’s rumored that past CS50 students have faced threats of Ad Board action if plans for a digital system were completed; Adams residents have skirted the ban and instituted a volunteer-based update system for their laundry room.
While protesters raised the question of how efficiently a system could run off of less than 100% participation, the Twitter launched about a day ago under the username “#adamslaundry”.
Only one of the four tweets posted in that time, however, pertains to the actual state of the machines, so it looks like the jury’s still out on this admirable first attempt.
Sections
The 14th Dalai Lama is coming to Boston area starting April 30 with an event at Harvard, according to his online schedule. The public talk at the College is titled "Educating the Heart" and will take place at Memorial Church.
Later that afternoon, the religious leader for Tibetan Buddhists will speak at MIT and inaugurate The Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values there. But that event will only be open to sponsors and MIT students, via a ticketed lottery. If you were hoping to catch His Holiness at Harvard Medical School on May 1, that event is already sold out.
Following his time at Cambridge's top two universities, his holiness will speak at two events in Foxborough, MA, both of which are open to the public (for a fee). The morning talk will be an introduction to Tibetan Buddhism and its four noble truths. The afternoon talk is called "A Path to Peace and Happiness." Tickets for both the morning and afternoon events, held in Gillette Stadium, cost  $37.50. Tickets for the afternoon event only cost $22.50—proving once and for all that happiness is not free.
