Sections
It's a question that has divided legions of epicureans. It's a debate that has scorned time itself and ravaged the camaraderie that oft forms over the dinner table.
Yes, the question that has defied a straight answer since the Folgate Silver Plate Company of England manufactured this strange creature in the late 1800s: Is the spork a spoon?
So pondered Adams residents in a fiery e-mail battle that echoed the recent "Is the wrap a sandwich?" debate. Get the dish after the jump.
Some approached the matter very simply: "No. If a spork were a spoon, we would just call sporks spoons and the word spork would be entirely foreign."
But others were less convinced. In a far more complex, teleological approach, some argued, "There is nothing a spoon can do that a spork cannot. Thus, a spork is a spoon." Indeed, "The spork is the love child of the spoon and the fork. It's like asking if a mule is a donkey." In fact, some stated, the spork is but a "damaged" spoon that has been "purposefully altered"—but still retains its inherent spoon-ness.
But one Adams resident quipped in response, "I do not think that is how sporks are manufactured."
Frankly, we at FlyBy don't really care whether a spork is a spoon or not. As long as a utensil holds our food up and successfully carries it into our mouths, we won't really create a huge hoopla. But we do have one question: why aren't we discussing whether or not a spork is a fork?
Photo credit: Wikipedia Commons/Jmb at en.wikipedia
Sections
Though the College's plans for January Experience activities may have fallen through, FlyBy has found the one way for you to prevent having to spend a month sitting at home in New Jersey with your family...concentrate in engineering! Thanks to a program organized by the SEAS, while your friends are sitting at home watching reruns of "The Office" next January, you (assuming you switch your concentration to engineering) could be in BRAZIL!
Read more after the jump...
The SEAS has partnered with the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies' Brazil Studies Program to organize a field course for SEAS students in Brazil from January 7th to January 21st, 2010. The course will bring together professors and undergraduates from both Harvard and Brazil. The program will include both lectures and hands-on activities, and the web site says activities could include visiting the country’s largest hydroelectric dam or oil exploration and extraction sites. And don't worry if you spent too much time taking Bioengineering to dabble in Portuguese—all the activities will take place in English. Just think about how wonderful it would be to escape the Cambridge winter for 2 weeks in sunny Brazil...though it might not be worth spending the other 8.5 months of the school year slaving away as an engineering concentrator.
Photo credit Wikimedia Commons/Portal of the Brazilian Government
