News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The raucous home crowd truly believed that its men’s basketball team could win—but the hopes of an upset lasted only a moment.
After a three from freshman guard Christian Webster brought Harvard (17-6, 6-3 Ivy) to within five points of the two-time defending Ivy champions, Cornell seniors Ryan Wittman and Louis Dale hit back-to-back threes to stifle the Crimson comeback, helping the Big Red (22-4, 8-1) pull away to a 79-70 victory at Lavietes Pavilion Friday night.
“It’s no question that that was, I thought, the biggest moment in the game,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “We fought back and dug ourselves out of that hole and got it to that position…Dale made a number of shots I thought were very tough, and so did Wittman. What are you going to do?”
In front of a sell-out crowd of 2,195 that featured numerous members of the national media as well as over a dozen NBA scouts, both teams put on a show, but in the end, Cornell’s headliners generated most of the highlights.
Wittman finished with game-highs of 27 points and eight rebounds, and Dale added 20 points to go along with a game-high five assists. The veteran pair of two-time first-team All-Ivy selections combined to shoot over 50 percent from the field, including 10 three-pointers that demoralized their young opponents.
Harvard’s own star, co-captain Jeremy Lin, led his team with 24 points and went 10-of-11 from the free throw line, but he wasn’t able to will his squad to a dramatic comeback.
Freshman Kyle Casey was the team’s second-leading scorer with a hard-fought 14 points. Lin and Casey went a combined 0-for-5 from behind the arc, where it seemed as if the opposition couldn’t miss.
After heading into halftime with a nine-point advantage, the Big Red led by as much as 17 with 12 minutes to play in the second half, but a 12-0 Crimson spurt brought the home crowd to its feet four minutes later.
Freshman guard Brandyn Curry sparked the run with a long-distance bomb—one of only two threes that Harvard would make on the night. The defensively-minded rookie then poked the ball away from Wittman at the other end of the floor and converted at the line after being fouled on the ensuing fast break.
Curry added a block on a Dale drive on the following possession, and pairs of free throws by Lin and Curry cut the deficit to eight with just under nine minutes to go.
A Dale three then went long off the rim, and Harvard pushed the ball hard in transition, setting up Webster’s shot from the deep left corner and triggering a Big Red timeout—along with the student section’s “I believe that we will win” chant.
But the veteran Cornell team—all but one of its starters are seniors—maintained its composure, and, fittingly, it was Wittman and Dale who extinguished the hot hands of the Crimson.
Immediately after the timeout, Wittman nailed a three-pointer off a screen on the right wing. After Lin missed a long-range try of his own, Dale followed off the dribble with another dagger.
“We had a couple of good possessions, and you could feel that we were starting to come back, and they just hit two big shots,” Curry said. “That was kind of the theme of the night—every time we got it back close, they would hit a huge shot, so give credit to them.”
The deficit now back into double-digits, Harvard could not muster another surge to overcome the visiting marksmen, who nailed a dozen treys on the night.
Though two free throws by Webster brought his team within seven points at the 5:09 mark, Cornell immediately fired back with a jumper by tri-captain center Jeff Foote and a three by Wittman to keep the Crimson at bay for good.
In a matchup billed by many to be the one of the most important games in the history of Harvard men’s basketball, the Crimson struggled with turnovers in the first half, giving the ball away 12 times.
It would turn it over only once more after intermission, but allowing second-chance opportunities became a problem. Eight of Cornell’s 14 offensive rebounds came in the final frame, while Harvard had only three for the game.
Sophomore big man Keith Wright made his return from a two-week layoff due to Achilles tendonitis but saw only 16 minutes of action off the bench.
Senior Pat Magnarelli did not play but said after the game that he would definitely return next weekend at home against Brown and Yale.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Facing Cornell at home on Friday night, Harvard (17-6, 6-3 Ivy) was forced to pick its poison.
Focus on challenging the appropriately-named Big Red (22-4, 8-1) in the paint or attempt to shut down a three-point offense ranked fifth in the nation.
In the end, it was the dominant long-range shooting of Cornell’s Louis Dale and Ryan Wittman that defined the game and denied Harvard the upset.
Overall, the Big Red shot for 52.2 percent from long range on 12-of-25 attempts.
Wittman, seemingly able to sink a shot from anywhere on the court, contributed six treys on the night. The senior demonstrated the value of experience late in the game when he stepped up and stymied Harvard’s 12-0 run by responding to freshman Christian Webster’s momentous three with one of his own. Wittman led all players with 27 points on the night.
“In transition, he’s always running the floor,” Dale said. “When I’m dribbling coming up, I’m always looking for him. I know he’s going to have his feet set and he’s going to be ready...you can’t give him much space, and I think that’s what makes him so great. He’s got a quick release, and he’ll knock it down.”
To add to the Crimson’s woes, another long-range threat emerged after the first 20 minutes. Following a relatively docile first half, former Ivy League Player of the Year Dale rediscovered his stroke in the second half and drained three consecutive three-pointers in under two minutes to build up a substantial lead for the Big Red.
“We’re a good three-point shooting team,” Wittman said. “That’s something that we do well…that’s not necessary something we rely on, it’s just something that was really going today.”
Dale struck again later on, succeeding just seconds after Harvard co-captain Jeremy Lin failed to find the bottom of the net.
Harvard had difficulty shooting threes all night—its first successful long-range shot came with 11:30 to go in the second, as Curry broke the frustrating streak to reduce the Crimson’s deficit to 61-47 and score his first points of the game.
The Crimson shot just 2-of-10 overall from beyond the arc.
BIG DEFICIT
Harvard’s big men also encountered big difficulties on Friday night. Forced to take on a larger workload in the wake of injuries, the upperclassman forwards could not keep pace with the Big Red.
Sophomore Keith Wright and co-captain Doug Miller combined for only five boards while committing five turnovers.
On a positive note for the Crimson, Harvard did keep Cornell’s post game under control.
Big Red center and primary down-low threat Jeff Foote was held to only two points in the second half. Although Harvard’s focus on Foote clearly affected its efforts against the long ball, the Crimson did outscore Cornell in the paint, 30-22. The previous time the two teams squared off last month the Big Red dominated the paint, generating 32 points relative to Harvard’s 14.
With senior Pat Magnarelli and sophomore Andrew Van Nest unable to suit up at forward, one of the Crimson’s touted freshmen was forced to step up on Friday night. Last time out against Cornell, rookie Kyle Casey–coming off the bench at the time–shot 1-of-4 from the field and tallied only six points.
This week the 6’7” forward came up big for the Crimson, contributing two steals and leading all Harvard players with six rebounds. On defense, Casey executed clean blocks to rob Cornell of easy transition points—as well as momentum—in the first half. The freshman also redoubled his efforts on offense and witnessed success drawing fouls while driving to the post. Although Casey shot just 2-of-6 from the field Friday night, he did his job at the charity stripe to rack up 14 points overall.
FREE FOR ALL
Whereas Cornell inflicted the most damage from the three-point line, Harvard’s offensive front emphasized getting to the free-throw line and making consistent shots.
“We did a sensational job of getting to the foul line–using that as a weapon to stay in the game and stay within striking distance,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said.
The Crimson sunk 32-of-34 free throws and was successful in all of its attempts throughout the second half. The Big Red gained only a third as many shots and converted at a 78.6 percent clip.
Casey and Lin both shot 10-of-11 from the free-throw line, while all other Crimson players were perfect in their attempts.
“A lot of things went wrong,” Cornell coach Steve Donahue said. “I’ve never been on the winning side of a game where a team shoots 32-of-34 from the foul line.”
—Staff writer Emmett Kistler can be reached at ekistler@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Hard as it is to admit, Yale has once more trumped Harvard in the videography department, putting out yet another excellent—albeit kitschy—video.
This time, Yale’s crack team of video-gurus, whoever they might be, have produced a crisp video urging the college’s seniors to donate to the senior gift fund.
Recalling elements of Yale’s tongue-in-check but rather over-the-top admissions video, this latest piece imagines a senior who hasn’t given to the fund being accosted by a mix of professors, administrators, and friends who take on zombie-esque tendencies when they learn Dan, the senior, hasn’t donated.
Even if we were to concede to hyperbole and satire, we think chasing someone through the neo-gothic halls of Yale like zombies does seem a little excessive (just like 16 minutes of Glee-like singing for the sake of old Eli was a bit much).
Yet it sure tops our own video from last year, which urged Harvard seniors to donate to the senior gift fund with the message "Don't Give."
The bottom line? These Yale videographers apparently lack a sense of restraint, but damn, they know how to produce a video!
Sections
At Harvard, it’s not uncommon for your brilliant classmates to make you feel slightly inadequate. But take comfort in knowing that at the second annual Freshman Spelling Bee, several freshmen were stumped by the following (absolutely insane) words. How would you have fared in this dorm-versus-dorm competition? See for yourself. On your marks, get set, spell!
Bailiwick (Middle English): Superior aptitude or experience in a particular area
Rejoneador (Spanish): A bullfighter who fights on horseback
Oud (Arabic): Musical instrument of Southwest Asia and North Africa resembling a mandolin
Concupiscent (Latin): lustful
Abattoir (French): a slaughterhouse
Jabot (French): a single or tiered fall of lace worn in the 18th century
Sarsaparilla (Spanish): perennial trailing vine with prickly stem
Xiphoid (Greek): swordlike
Kirtle (Middle English): garment resembling tunic or coat from the 16th century
Fun fact: When freshman bee co-host George A. Thampy '10 (of "Spellbound" fame) competed in the National Spelling Bee in 1999, he misspelled "kirtle" as "curtle"—the same way that contestant Julie M. Zauzmer '13 did in this week's competition. “My sympathy was all with her in that moment,” he said. The error had cost Thampy the championship, causing him to place third. Fortunately for Zauzmer, her stakes were lower.
Now, for the winning word:
Zydeco (Creole/French): music of southern Louisiana involving the blues, French dance melodies, and elements of Caribbean music, featuring guitar, accordion, and a washboard
Congratulations to Jack A. Ausick ’13 of Greenough, Colin Zwanziger ’13 of Wigglesworth, and Zauzmer (who is also a Crimson editor) of Straus, who came in first, second and third respectively.  Really, if only spelling were an Olympic sport, Harvard frosh could totally dominate...
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Down in New Jersey, the race  is on for the one Princeton senior who will be elected  to join the university’s board of trustees for a four-year term as  “Young  Alumni Trustee.” According to The Daily Princetonian, “Candidates are  prohibited from campaigning, self-promotion or accepting any third-party  endorsements.” But, to be nominated, the same candidates had to submit  petitions signed by at least 50 members of the senior class. Hmmm.While  it’s always refreshing to see the young and innocent indoctrinated  into the wonderful world of cigar smoke, boardrooms, and illicit undertakings,  can we at least call it what it is—“masters of the universe” in  the making?
Also, there has been quite  a kerfuffle as of late over a Cornell course on “Cyberfeminism.”  On Thursday morning, Jason  Mattera, a spokesman  for Young America’s Foundation, whose purpose is to inspire young  conservatives, singled out the course as an example  of ridiculous “liberal” course offerings at American colleges.
He also belittled a course  on Native American feminism at the University of Michigan. (We're unsure how he missed the many offerings at Harvard that are guilty of the same progressive, enlightened crime, but whatever.) Honestly, we wonder what he’d have  us learn instead. Any thoughts, Jason? What kinds of things did they  teach you back at Roger  Williams?
