Sections
A lot has happened at Harvard during the past four years—perhaps more than some seniors can remember. However, there are some events that most seniors (and underclassmen) will remember long after college ends—some funny, some tragic, and some historic. Here are 10 of those memorable events from the past four years at Harvard.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


1. The Kirkland Shooting
 
The Kirkland shooting of Justin Cosby was perhaps the most memorable event of the past four years, taking place in May 2009.
2. The Election of Obama
 
News of Obama's election in the fall of 2008 brought about celebration among most of the students at Harvard.
3. Endowment Drop and Budget Cuts
This year's seniors felt the effects of the drastic decrease in Harvard's endowment over the past four years, as spending on everything from faculty to hot breakfasts was cut.
4. Election of Drew Faust
 
The class of 2010's freshman year was dominated by news stories about the search for a new Harvard President following the resignation of Larry Summers in February 2006. In February 2007, Drew Gilpin Faust was unanimously confirmed as Harvard’s first female president.
5. Swine Flu Scare
 
Numerous students were quarantined in UHS, and hundreds scrambled for flu shots in light of the swine flu scare in the Fall of 2009.
6. Introduction of J-Term 
 
The introduction of J-Term in the 2009-10 school year represented a drastic change from the schedule that current seniors experienced during their first three years at Harvard.
7. Introduction of Gen Ed
 
After much deliberation, the college announced in the fall of 2007 that the new program in General Education would replace the Core Curriculum, starting with the class of 2013.
8. Development and Construction in Allston
Between the promise of new undergraduate housing and a science center, the stop of construction, and the many development projects, this year's seniors have undoubtedly heard about Allston regularly since they stepped foot on Harvard's campus.
9. Scabies Outbreak
 
Although it may not have directly affected their class, most seniors will probably recall—most likely with humor—the outbreak of scabies in Pennypacker in October 2007.
10. Changes to Admissions and Financial Aid
 
This year's senior class was the second to last class to have early admissions and was one of the first to experience the benefits of the new financial aid initiative announced in December 2007.
Sections
UPDATED: May 23, 2010
Now that it’s almost time for the Class of 2010 to leave the gates of Fair Harvard, we couldn’t help reflecting on just what it is that makes a Harvard Commencement so special. Is it the eye-catching “Veritas” banners hanging off of Memorial Church? The grand sense of ceremony? The continuity of a shared tradition across generations? Of course not.
It’s the multitude of famous people, who come back for their reunions and to see their children graduate. Obvi.
After scouring the lists of graduates from the respective classes of 1960 and 1985, we've produced the following list of famous faces you might see wandering around the Square later this week.
John H. Harbison '60 won a Pulitzer in music for The Flight Into Egypt and conducted the BachSoc as an undergrad.
Michael S. Dukakis '60, a former governor of Massachusetts, ran for president in 1988. He’s now a professor at Northeastern.
Antonin G. Scalia (HLS '60) is one of the Supreme Court Justices and reportedly has an amazing signature.
Elizabeth H. Dole (M.Ed. '60) was a North Carolina senator from 2003 to 2009 before losing to “godless” Kay Hagan. Her husband is Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican presidential candidate who is probably better known for his appearance in Viagra advertisements.
Robert E. Rubin '60 was Secretary of the Treasury under former president Bill Clinton (who did not go to Harvard).
Conan C. O’Brien '85 is a comedian and TV host who recently emerged from the NBC kerfluffle with the prospect of hosting a late-night show on TBS starting this fall. Oh, and he was also president of a certain semi-secret Sorrento Square organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine.
Masako Owada '85 is the wife of Japan’s Crown Prince Naruhito, which means that she will be empress someday.
Lloyd C. Blankfein '75 is CEO and Chairman of Goldman Sachs. He has a son who’s graduating this spring.
Caroline B. Kennedy '80 is an attorney, writer, and the daughter of former president John F. Kennedy '40. She also has a daughter who is graduating this year.
Know any we missed? Leave a comment!
 
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 24, 2010
An earlier version of the May 22 FlyBy post "Some Famous Faces to Watch For This Week" incorrectly stated that the class of 1975 does not have a reunion this year. In fact, it will have a reunion during Commencement week.
Sections
Despite the fact that Adam  Wheeler has  been charged with larceny, identity fraud, falsifying an endorsement or  approval, and pretending to hold a degree, he might actually have supporters. There is now a Facebook fan  page called "Free  Adam Wheeler!" that has, in its description, a summary of Wheeler's crimes but ends with what seems to be the premise of the  fan-page: "Hey, everyone makes mistakes."
At the time this post  was written, the page had 330 fans. Many of the fans are residents of  Delaware—where Wheeler actually went to high school—or students who  attended Harvard at the same time as Wheeler.
Erika L. Zeiters, a fan who said she was in Wheeler's grade at Caesar  Rodney High School, wrote to us in a Facebook message that she and Adam dated for a very brief time in ninth grade but continued to be friends during the next few years. "In high school, he was  a really nice kid," she said. "He was quiet and shy, but super nice and funny. I  never saw any signs of him as being weird or lying." Zeiters said she joined the  Facebook page because of her connection to Wheeler, but she added that  she does not know who created it.
Most of the fans, though, do not seem to be acquainted with Wheeler. Many of them humorously admire Wheeler's cleverness—one fan  even compared him to Frank Abagnale, whose trickery was  dramatized in the movie Catch Me If You Can. Other fans, in response to a status update stating that  Wheeler is being held on $5000 cash bail, volunteered to donate money to  get him out of jail. One ambitious fan suggested that she could even  sell her PS3 to raise money for the bail.
But not all fans appear to admire Wheeler. As one put it, "I would say that what Adam  Wheeler has done is more than a 'mistake'. This was a deliberate  scheme to lie his way into a school. He used scholarship money that he  didn't deserve (meaning that money was taken away from honest students  who really did deserve it), and I hope that he is prosecuted for his  actions to the fullest extent."
Anyway, if you still have Wheeler fever (but have already seen his resume, read every article about him, watched all related videos, and bought yourself a "Free Adam Wheeler" T-shirt), this Facebook group is one more piece of Wheeler mania to check out.
Sections
Over the next few days, we'll be pulling snippets  from The Crimson archives to commemorate the coming class reunions. You'll  see selections from the graduation year of each class celebrating a  reunion next week.
There has been one Queen of  England, but that’s about all that has been constant in the 50 years  since the Harvard class of 1960 graduated.
One immediately noticeable difference is the frequent presence of cigarette ads in the 1960 papers, free from  the warnings of the Surgeon General. An ad from Salem (see first image) claims that its newest   technology “breathes new refreshing softness and finer  flavor into the smoke.”
But cigarette companies weren’t   the only ones to advertise in the paper—back then, recruiters were already hard at work on Harvard's campus. IBM (see second image) looked to recruit  students by discussing the capabilities of its newest computers: “the computer goes to work with prodigious speed  and accuracy. Often, it can solve a problem in minutes…”
The year 1960 also saw an  increase  in tuition—the new total moved up to $1520. And that included healthcare.
More significantly, John F.  Kennedy '40 and Richard Nixon were locked in a heated presidential  race that consumed The Crimson and national news. Though the two  candidates  were close in most polls, Kennedy dominated at Harvard, winning every  measured demographic—except for the Business School, where only 24 percent  backed Kennedy (see third image). If you’re curious, Adams  was the most liberal residential house—70 percent of its residents backed  Kennedy. Winthrop, where Kennedy lived as an undergraduate, showed the  weakest support for him at 52 percent.
In the 1960 pre-registration  issue, The Crimson re-ran a 1958 article about the role that Final Clubs   play on Harvard’s campus titled “The Final Clubs: Little  Bastions of Society In a University World that No Longer Cares.” The  author wrote that Final Clubs had to change before they would once again "become  a generally recognized elite." He predicted, however, that "there seems little chance, however,  that the Clubs will take a turn in this direction." Wonder what he would have thought about the way Final Clubs operate now.
