News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard looks to even its record in the Ivy League as it takes on struggling Cornell at home. The Crimson will have all the live action for you starting at 11:45am!
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s midterm season, and sometimes brain break just doesn’t cut it when you’re tormented by looming exams. We’re here to satisfy your inner foodie with some culinary stress-relief therapy: delicious pie recommendations! And for those of you spending too much quality time with that Math 25 problem set, we’re talking about the edible variety.
Scrumptious goodies are luckily just a short walk away from Harvard Yard and the Quad, and pie is the perfect fall treat to take your mind off a growing workload.
Petsi Pies, 31 Putnam Avenue
Pros: This lovely shop serves delectable scones, muffins, and pies with a side of friendly service and a comfortably homey vibe. With freshly baked goods and all-natural ingredients, this place deserves the rave reviews it’s received on Yelp.com. The hours are pretty flexible (7 a.m. to 9 p.m.), so feel free to stop by and enjoy a delightful slice! The prices are reasonable when you consider that the standard portion serves two people.
Cons: It can be cramped inside and the location is several minutes walk from the Yard, although Matherites won’t be complaining.
Recommend: Any of the fruit pies or scones, the Banana Chip Muffin, and the Bourbon Chocolate Pecan Pie.
Crema Café, 27 Brattle Street
Pros: Crema Café’s artful brick walls, upper level loft, and gleaming wooden tables create a sophisticated atmosphere that Petsi Pies lacks. Their baked goods—also fresh and home-made—are smaller and half the price of Petsi’s. They stay open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., so venture inside to sample a key lime pie bar or buttery English muffin. Vegan options include brownies and chocolate walnut cookies, according to Yelp.
Cons: Their cash register has been broken for a while, so they won’t accept credit in the meantime. Also be prepared to wait during their busy lunch hours.
Recommend: Pear-ginger scone, spicy hot chocolate, and massive chocolate chip cookies.
Hi-Rise Bread Company, 56 Brattle Street
Pros: This small shop can be hard to locate but they’ve made a name for themselves with stellar, large cookies. If you’re looking to avoid the hustle and bustle of Harvard Yard, the upstairs seating area is an ideal place to escape the tourist cameras and get some work done.
Cons: What this tiny bakery lacks in size, it can make up for in price, and comments on Yelp unanimously mention service with an attitude.
Recommend: Oatmeal raisin cherry cookie and chocolate cookie.
If you’re looking for a sweet snack and are willing to spend a bit more cash, other options include Sweet, for their specialty cupcakes, L.A. Burdick Chocolate Café, for decadent chocolate desserts and unbelievably rich hot chocolate, and Finale Desserterie and Bakery for their molten chocolate cake and dessert sampler.
Do you have a favorite spot we missed? Leave us a comment and let us know!
Photo courtesy of Yelm/Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
Mark Zuckerberg may be the hottest name on Forbes’ list of America’s Youngest Billionaires but he is surprisingly, not the youngest.
According to an article on Forbes.com, that title goes to his former roommate and Facebook cofounder, Dustin Moskovitz, who is younger than Zuckerburg by 8 days. In 2008, Moskovitz left his post as Facebook’s first chief technology officer to start Asana, a software company that facilitates improved collaboration between individuals and small firms. While Forbes sees potential in Asana, Moskovitz’s $1.4 billion fortune appears to stem entirely from his 6 percent stake in Facebook.
Although Zuckerburg is no longer the youngest American billionaire, he is this year’s biggest percentage gainer. The Facebook founder and CEO’s net worth jumped from $2 billion to $6.9 billion, making him worth even more than Apple’s Steve Jobs.
Eduardo Saverin, Facebook’s third cofounder with whom Zuckerburg was entangled in a messy lawsuit, isn’t doing too poorly either. Saverin’s 5 percent stake makes him worth a pretty $1.5 billion.
These nouveau riche have not only made their money quickly but are also attracting headlines for how they are choosing to spend it. Moskovitz contributed $70,000 in support for Proposition 19, which aims to legalize marijuana in California. Zuckerburg resides in a modest rental home in Palo Alto, California and has pledged $100 million to Newark’s public schools.
Photo courtesty of Mark E. Zuckerberg.
Sections
It appears as though our favorite “camouflage geek” still can’t get enough of Harvard. Soon enough Shaquille O’Neal plans to spend a silent afternoon with fans in Harvard Square imitating a statue on a bench.
With his job as a professional basketball player restricting his ability to attend class (remember he professed to the Boston Herald last week that he could hold his own at Harvard or MIT), Shaq’s back with what appears to be a surefire plan B.
He’s going to sit on a bench in Harvard Square for an hour.
Shaq told The Herald,
"I will be still for the hour ... come down and sit on the bench with me and take a picture. No conversations, no nothing,"
When asked if kids could be placed in his lap, the Shamroq (as he prefers to be called now) responded,
“Of course. I’m a statue.”
He’s a statue? Sounds more like Santa to us, but hopefully Shaq’s real bench-warming skills will be amusing enough to draw a crowd. Recently, the Shamroq has had no problem in that department. At a local sushi joint this past week Shaq had to simmer down overexcited friends with a booming proclamation:
“Silence, while I eat thy Sushi.”
Add that to the list of obscure and grammatically incorrect Shaq-isms. Maybe a little time at Harvard will do him some good. He’ll let us know time and place via tweet.
Photo courtesy of High Contrast/Wikimedia Commons.
