News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The U.S. Senate voted to overturn a policy that bans gays and lesbians  from openly serving in the military Saturday, a major advance for the  gay rights movement that opens the door for the potential return of the  Reserve Officer Training Corps to Harvard’s campus.
In a 65 to 31 vote, the Senate repealed the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”  policy, which the University has said would be necessary in order for it  to formally recognize ROTC.
But on the same day, Senate Democrats  failed to advance legislation that would extend a path to citizenship  for undocumented minors, which the University had lobbied Congress to  pass.
Campus activists have also worked to organize support for the measure,  known as the DREAM Act, and have mounted a campaign in recent weeks to  pressure lawmakers to pass the law.
But on a 55 to 41 vote, the  Senate failed to end debate on the Development, Relief, and Education  for Alien Minors Act, which would have provided qualified undocumented  youth with a six-year conditional path to citizenship upon the  completion of two years of higher education or two years of military  service.
Opponents of the act contend that the measure would encourage further  illegal immigration, that the U.S.-Mexico border needs to be secured as a  first step, and that Congress ought to focus on a comprehensive  immigration reform package.
Sixty votes were required to end debate on both measures.
With  Saturday’s vote, the bill to repeal “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” heads to  President Barack Obama’s desk. The act’s passage may represent the first  step toward Harvard’s formal recognition of ROTC.
University President Drew G. Faust sounded an optimistic note yesterday about the program’s return to campus.
“The  repeal of DADT is a historic step. It affirms American ideals of equal  opportunity and underscores the importance of the right to military  service as a fundamental dimension of citizenship,” Faust said in a  written statement. “I look forward to pursuing discussions with military  officials and others to achieve Harvard’s full and formal recognition  of ROTC.”
Columbia University also signaled that it may be willing to reconsider its relationship with ROTC.
Columbia  University President Lee C. Bollinger told Politico that the Senate’s  decision Saturday provides “the opportunity for a new era in the  relationship between universities and our military services.”
But, for Harvard, the Senate’s failure to advance the DREAM Act came as a disappointment.
“The  DREAM Act would have allowed us to build upon the investment we, as a  society, have already made, harnessing the homegrown talents of  thousands of youth who already share the American dream,” according to a  statement released by the University. “We will continue to advocate for  the passage of legislation that makes it possible for those individuals  who were brought to America at a very young age and meet designated  eligibility requirements.”
Undocumented students who would have benefited from the DREAM Act,  called “Dreamers,” filled the Senate chamber during the vote Saturday,  wearing caps and gowns as symbols of their cause, said Mario Rodas, an  undocumented student at the Harvard Extension School who was in  Washington D.C.
“It was really moving to see all the Dreamers holding hands right as the  vote was taking place,” Rodas said. “After we found out that we only  had 55 votes, it was devastating... We consoled each other. We are  determined to continue on the fight.”
For Nicolas E. Jofre ’13, co-director of Harvard College Act on a DREAM,  the Senate’s failure to pass the on the same day that it repealed  “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” represented a moral double standard.
“It’s  difficult not to perceive the DREAM Act as some sort of down payment for  DADT to go through,” Jofre said. “I really think that today was a  bittersweet day because it proved that while some wrongs can be  redressed... we’re deciding on something that individuals can’t  control—sexuality and undocumented status for minors—so for some reason,  we decided today that one was okay but the other one wasn’t.”
However, according to retired Captain Paul E. Mawn ’63, chairman of the  Advocates for Harvard ROTC, even with the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t  Tell,” many obstacles remain to bringing back a ROTC program to  Harvard’s campus.
“There’s several issues that need to be addressed by the Pentagon and  the politicians,” Mawn said, listing funding and recruitment as  examples. “I think this is going to be an issue for many years.”
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Adam B. Wheeler, the former Harvard student who pled guilty to defrauding Harvard on Thursday, was referenced last night on Saturday Night Live during its Weekend Update segment.
Image courtesy of NBC Universal/Hulu.
