News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Alexei Chijoff-Evans, slated to be the co-captain and No. 1 player on the Harvard men’s tennis team this year, announced to his coach and teammates this week that he was leaving the team.
Chijoff-Evans, who has not yet returned calls for comment, was the Crimson’s only nationally-ranked player.  Going 19-21 at No. 1 singles last year, he was tied for the team lead in singles wins.
The news has come as a shock to the Harvard tennis community.
“[The players] were hugely surprised,” said Crimson coach Dave Fish '72. “Anyone would be surprised.  But he’s got a lot on his plate right now, and sometimes these things feel like a lot of pressure.”
Fish, as well as Chijoff-Evans’ teammates, elected to keep the full explanation private, but Fish noted that the departure was not unfriendly.
Harvard will suffer from its No. 1’s absence this year, but the team remains positive.
“Our measure of our success is if each guy learns to give the best he can every day,” Fish said. “We have a great bunch of guys.  But we’ll miss that contribution.  He’s a huge part of the team and a very fine player.”
Classmate and co-captain Aba Omodele-Lucien will take over the captaincy this year.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
New York Times film reviewer Stephen Holden calls “The Romantics,” a movie about Harvard grads convening at a wedding, “a formulaic rom-com with an Ivy League pedigree and a higher than average SAT verbal score.”  That might be enough to dissuade some readers from seeing this J. Crew-styled reunion flick, but others (hi, freshmen!) might perk up their ears and get out their wallets at the chance to see Katie Holmes and Josh Duhamel portraying big-screen versions of our disillusioned future selves. Still on the fence? We'll break down the Harvard connection to help you decide.
Galt Niederhoffer '97, the film's director and author of the book on which it was based, is a Harvard alum (and former varsity squash player!). +8
In the book, the characters are Yale alums. -10
Much emphasis is placed, in both the film and the book, on the closeness of the titular friend group. In the trailer, Katie Holmes’ character says, “Our friends got the nickname ‘The Romantics'... because of our incestuous dating history.” Sound like any blocking groups you know? What about this earnest paean, also highlighted in the trailer: “Nurse, shrink, opponent—we’re everything to each other,”? Yeah, you can blame the Andre, but you’ve definitely said something like that to your roommates. +6
Even though they’re approaching 30, no one in “The Romantics” has their life fully figured out, or is really even settled on a career. We don’t want to think about this too much. +0
Both the movie and book are set on the tempestuous Atlantic coast (on Long Island in the movie and in Maine in the book), home to a large portion of Harvard students—and even more alums. +3
The book and the movie depict Ivy Leaguers as being exclusively wealthy, preppy, and WASPy, which, occasional slip-ups aside, isn’t really accurate. -4
One time Katie Holmes toured Harvard. Okay , we know it’s a stretch +1
The final score: +4. Go for the preppy prettiness, stay for the malaise. The movie was released in New York and Los Angeles on Friday, but it's coming to Kendall Square Cinema on Sept. 24.
Image courtesy of Four of a Kind Productions.
Sections
In  the first few weeks of the fall term, HUPD responded frequently to  reports of “suspicious activity” and  “annoying calls.” Check out some  of the weirder excerpts from the most recent logs:
 
BY THE NUMBERS
 
Reports of “suspicious activity”: 20
 
Reports of “unwanted guests”: 9
 
Reports of “annoying calls”: 2
 
Noise complaints: 9
 
 
 
Aug. 31, 2010
 
Theft Report (8:00 a.m.)
Richards Hall, 24 Everett Street, Cambridge
Officer  dispatched to a report that while an individual was sleeping they heard  an unknown individual enter their room. The reporting individual stated  they turned to look at the individual and the individual fled the room.  Nothing was reported missing from the room.
 
Sept. 2, 2010
 
Noise Complaint (9:46 p.m.) 
Pennypacker Hall, 387 Harvard Street, Cambridge
Officers  dispatched to a report of individuals screaming and making animal  noises. Officers checked the area with negative results.
 
Sept. 3, 2010
 
Assist Cambridge Police (12:37 p.m.)  
Church Street and Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge
Officer  was informed of a suspicious individual in the area with their pants  down below their waist. Officers located the individual and a field  interview was conducted. The individual was checked for wants/warrants  with negative results. The individual was instructed to pull their pants  up and sent on their way.
 
 
Sept. 5, 2010
 
Disorderly Conduct (2:05 a.m.)
Radcliffe Quad, 107 Shepard Street, Cambridge
While  an officer was driving an individual threw an object at their cruiser  and ran from the area. Officers located the individual who was  uncooperative. Officers report management was notified and arrived and  took the individual home for the night. Officer reports the object  thrown at the cruiser was a soda bottle.
 
Suspicious Activity (2:04 p.m.) 
Widener Library, 31 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer  dispatched to a report of an individual rollerblading up and down the  stairs of the building. Officer reports the individual was gone on  arrival.
 
Sept. 6, 2010 
Hazardous Condition (8:54 a.m.) 
International House, 199 Park Drive, Boston
Officers  dispatched to a report of the smell of gas. Upon arrival officers  located the smell and spoke with the occupant who stated they left their  gas stove on and fell asleep. The stove was turned off and the windows  were opened to ventilate the room.
 
Sept. 7, 2010 
 
Suspicious Activity (1:54 a.m.) 
Currier House C, 64 Linnaean Street, Cambridge
Officer  dispatched to a report that a box of apples was in the lobby. Officer  reports the box was secured in the office as they were most likely a  delivery.
 
Theft Report (9:37 p.m.) 
1533 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge
Officers  dispatched to take a report of a theft. Upon arrival the reporting  individual informed the officers and unknown individual approached them  from behind while they were walking and grabbed their eyeglass case from  their pocket. The individual then fled the area. Officers searched the  area for the individual with negative results.
