News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
NO TIME FOR A BREAK
126—Number of miles separating Cambridge and Hanover, N.H. The Harvard men’s hockey team takes on Dartmouth this weekend in a home-and-home series. The Crimson will host the Big Green tomorrow at home then travel to Hanover on Saturday.
34—Saves made by Harvard assistant captain goaltender Kyle Richter in last weekend’s 1-0 loss to Princeton.
8—National rank for the Crimson in scoring defense.
2.17—Number of goals allowed by Harvard per game. Despite its stellar defense, the Crimson is just 2-4 on the season.  
ICED
7—National ranking for the Minnesota women’s hockey team. Harvard flies out to Minneapolis for a two-game series against the Golden Gophers this weekend.
8 — Number of total goals scored against No. 9/10 Dartmouth by the Crimson last weekend. In its two games against the Big Green, Harvard upset the favorites both times, 5-3 and 3-2, respectively.
14—Number of times Minnesota and Harvard have faced off, with the first coming in the 1997-98 season.
DOING SOMETHING WRIGHT
24—Points scored by junior co-captain Keith Wright in the Harvard men’s basketball 69-66 victory over Bryant yesterday afternoon. Sophomore Christian Webster stroked a three-pointer with 23 seconds left to give the Crimson the win.
16.8—Average points scored per game for Wright so far this season. The junior is having a breakout season, and his play will be critical for a young squad looking to capture the program’s first Ivy title.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s squash squad is off to a stellar start this season—it’s currently ranked No. 1 in the nation, and the women have not dropped a single match in their three 9-0 victories against Brown, Stanford, and Williams.
More impressive is the solid string of matches played by the women who, as freshmen last season, saw little varsity action
In her rookie season, sophomore Vidya Rajan hit the squash courts for four matches at the No. 10 position. Despite going 4-0, the Bellevue, Wa. native never made it into one of the top nine positions during the season.
But this year, Rajan has stepped into a steady role in the varsity rotation. In the home opener against Brown, she blanked opponent Sarah Beresford 11-6, 11-4, 11-3 in the No. 8 slot. Against Stanford, she nearly repeated her performance—Cardinal Julie Koenig fell in three sets, earning only 10 points in the entire match. Then, in the same day, Rajan also played at No. 7 in her team’s match against Williams. The sophomore gave her best performance yet, giving up only seven points total in her 3-0 victory over Mia Fry.
In her first year with the Crimson squash program, sophomore Eliza Calihan did not see any varsity play. But Calihan, too, has played some strong squash since the season opener.
Her first varsity match came against Brown in the No. 9 position, and Calihan pulled out an impressive 3-0 win over Antonia Libassi, 11-7, 11-7, 11-3. She continued this winning streak the following Sunday against Stanford and the Ephs. Versus the Cardinal, she again played at No. 9, and the New York native won in straight sets. Then, against Williams, Calihan stepped into the No. 8 spot and again achieved a 3-0 win, 11-7, 11-7, 11-4.
Despite the team’s small size, then, it seems that players from any spot on the bench can get the job done and pull off seemingly flawless, three-set wins en route to another national title.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With winter formals fast approaching, you now have the perfect excuse to ask out the hottie in your section, woo your Lamont study buddy, or impress a cute, new beau. Here’s a round-up of the nights, and for the lonely souls out there, take this as a cue to make a move on that crush you’ve been eyeing.
For Freshmen: “A Midwinter Night’s Dream” Winter Formal
 Where: Boston Park Plaza
When: Jan. 28 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m
Freshmen only
Adams: “Harry Potter” Winter Formal
Where: Adams House
When: Dec. 5 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
No interhouse restrictions
Dunster:  “Wintry Things” Winter Formal
 Where: Dunster Dining Hall
When: Dec. 8 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
No interhouse restrictions
Eliot: “When Hell Freezes Over” Winter Formal
 Where: Eliot Dining Hall
When: Dec. 6 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
No interhouse restrictions
Kirkland: “Holiday Dinner and Dance” Winter Formal
 Where: Kirkland JCR
When: Dec. 4 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Kirkland residents only
Leverett: “Night at the Top” Winter Formal
 Where: Top of the Hub Skywalk Observatory at the Prudential Center
 When: Dec. 2 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. (Champagne reception beforehand at Leverett)
No interhouse restrictions, and “The Usual Suspects Band”
Lowell: “Yule Ball” 
 Where: Lowell JCR
When: Dec. 4 from 9:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. (Pre-reception in library starting at 9 p.m. and nightcap starting at 1:30 a.m.)
No interhouse restrictions, plus live band
Mather + Winthrop Winter Formal
Where: Sheraton Commander Hotel
When: Dec. 3 from 9:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m.
All Mather/Winthrop residents plus date
The Quad: “ICED” Winter Formal
 Where: Westin Hotel, Boston
When: Dec. 5 from 10 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
No interhouse restrictions
Photo courtesy of Steve Ryan/Creative Commons.
Sections
Celebrating the Thanksgiving holiday on campus? Here's the list of dining hall openings and closings.
Thursday
Quincy is open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
All other dining halls are closed.
Friday
Currier, Eliot, and Quincy are open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
All other dining halls are closed.
Sunday
Adams, Currier, Eliot, and Quincy are open for breakfast, brunch, and dinner.
Annenberg opens for brunch and dinner.
Cabot, Pforzheimer, Dunster, Mather, Kirkland, Leverett, Lowell, Winthrop, and Hillel open for dinner.
Photo Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Sections
In light of the 10 robberies and attempted robberies that have taken place in the past few weeks, HUPD has released a map of designated safety pathways around campus for those who may be traveling alone or at night. We've combined those pathways with our map of recent crimes, and it seems that a few of the robberies have occurred along or near the suggested safety pathways.
What you see above is the updated map of recent robberies that have taken place near Harvard's campus, including the one in Cambridge Common and the more recent one by the Quad. Roll over each number to view more information about the robbery that took place, and click to read the related Crimson article. Click the show and hide buttons to display the designated safety pathways.
Graphic by Sirui Li, Gary L. Norris, and Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
After Thanksgiving, those lucky enough not to be suffering from the after-effects of a food-filled extravaganza may find themselves in the midst of one of the craziest times of the year: Christmas shopping season.
While this weekend sees the likes of Small Business Saturday and Cyber Monday, no day is more famous for the after-Thanksgiving, pre-Christmas holiday rush than Black Friday.
Black Friday, some argue, is the perfect time to buy those things you've been needing (and of course gifts). Below, we've outlined some of the best deals for items that students may be yearning for.
The coming of Thanksgiving means the coming of winter, and for those still unprepared for the cold weather of the snowy season, take a look at the deals for Eastern Mountain Sports here in the Square.
Looking for a new camera to snap a shot of the first batch of snow that covers Harvard Yard? Hunt’s Photo has a special deal on Casio and Nikon cameras so you can capture every special moment you have over the holidays.
For those that have access to a car or a very generous friend willing to make the trip, drive over to the Wrentham Premium Outlets. With deals starting at midnight on the already discounted outlet prices, you will not be disappointed by the selection. Be forewarned: get ready for a long commute; you won’t be the only ones on the road that night.
Here are some other deals to look out for this Friday:
Macy’s
75% off Dress Shirts and Ties, 50% off Casual and Dress Shoes
Target
Warm Flannel Sheet Sets (Perfect for Winter Weather) for $13.99
Urban Outfitters
50% off all clearance items
Radio Shack
Selected Digital Cameras for under $150
A word of caution to those brave enough to explore the wonder that is Black Friday: shopping can get pretty hectic and with many stores starting their deals at midnight or earlier, be prepared to see long lines and some fighting for the last item on sale on the shelves.
But if you are willing to stick it out and survive the onslaught of shoppers, you will be surprised at what you can find in the midst of all the grand sales.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
Stuck in Cambridge over Thanksgiving weekend? Never fear. In the absence of crazy Aunt Annie’s post-turkey tableside rants or Grandma Edna’s questionable Jell-O salad, the good ‘ol Cantabrigia provides. Flyby’s here with a cornucopia of Turkey Day options for those of you staying on campus over Thanksgiving. You can give thanks to us later.
Thursday, Nov. 25
Thanksgiving-themed meals at Harvard Square restaurants
With the exception of communal gorging, a shocking preponderance of food-comas, and the Macy’s Thanksgiving Parade, nothing much happens on the third Thursday of November. Besides, who wants to do anything after consumption of massive quantities of a mediocre-tasting fowl bestows one with all the energy of a beached whale?
That being said, skip the HUHDS.
16 Garden Street (located in the Sheraton Commander), Uno Chicago Grill, Rialto, Sandrine’s, Grafton Street, and Upstairs on the Square will all be offering special Thanksgiving-themed menus.
Of these, Grafton Street is the cheapest. Sandrine’s provides the most foie gras.
Friday, Nov. 26
Hiking in New Hampshire with the Harvard Outdoor Club
Cambridge isn’t your Thanksgiving weekend ideal, after all. Head to the White Mountains of New Hampshire with the Harvard Outdoor Club for winter hiking. According to an e-mail the club sent out, you’ll learn all about crampons and ice axes. And you’ll be back in the Square in time for Monday’s classes. Total cost will be around $45, and we hope you signed up by Nov. 17 to enter the lottery.
Men’s Hockey Game vs. Dartmouth
Expend any post-H-Y residual school spirit, and root for the men’s team (2-2) as they take the ice against Dartmouth at 7 p.m. in the Bright Hockey Center.
“The Liberal Shop of Horrors”
If musical political satire is your thing, you’ll want to be in Sanders Friday night for a performance that pokes fun at Democrats, Republicans, Tea Partiers, and Indpendents alike. According to The Wall Street Journal, “Their political satire brings chuckles…rave reviews…guffaws…and bipartisan grins all around. The satire hits the mark.” Tickets are available for $38, $34, or $29 both online or at the Harvard Box Office. They're $5 off with student ID. Performances are at 5 p.m. or at 8 p.m.
Saturday, Nov. 27
Harry Potter Scavenger Hunt
If you’re a true fan, you’ve probably already visited the Museum of Natural History’s Harry-inspired hunt through their galleries. But if you haven’t, consider going before the hunt ends Nov. 28 at Harvard's Museum of Natural History.
A Hot Chocolate Tour of the Square
Four of The Boston Globe’s 11 hot chocolate hot spots are a short jaunt from the Yard. Check out L.A. Burdick Chocolate Shop & Café, Upstairs on the Square, Peet’s Coffee & Tea, or Simon’s Coffee Shop for a sweet treat worthy of Beantown’s best.
