Sections
Finishing exams is, we at FlyBy imagine, somewhat like giving birth  (please don't ask our moms to confirm the validity of this analogy). You  carry around the increasing weight of your impending exams/term  papers/end of year project, bragging about its current size until you either  spend an excruciating night pushing—and pushing, and pushing, and  pushing—the thing into existence, or you exhaust yourself for a  quick-but-painful three hours of labor.
Now that you're done, it's  understandable that you feel like celebrating. But according to this  analogy, all of your friends who aren't done with exams yet are still  pregnant (you may have noticed them getting rounder—that's actually all  of the Lamont Cafe pastries), and they'd really appreciate it if you  were sensitive to their special condition.
So here's an easy rule of  thumb: don't do anything around someone who isn't finished with exams  that you wouldn't do around a pregnant woman. FlyBy has compiled a handy  list of specific examples to help follow this rule.
1. Turn it  down. Babies have sensitive ears, even in the womb. We understand your  desire to blast "We Are The Champions" or "Tik Tok"—or both,  simultaneously, for a sound explosion—but preparing to give birth to  the perfect essay requires lots of concentration and, if at all  possible, some sleep. So consider the plight of your hallmates and keep  the riot in your earbuds.
2. Don't offer alcohol. Sure, drink all  you want, but don't tempt an exam-taker-to-be. You don't want to  inflict lasting damage on their baby...er, computer science project.
3.  Quit bragging. So you wrote six papers in 72 hours without sleeping or  leaving Lamont or eating anything you didn't buy from a vending machine.  It's over. Others are still carrying around the Miracle of Life [Sci 1B  study guides], and hearing about your ordeal and/or your post exam  shennanigans isn't making it any easier. Stop blabbering and give your  exam-bound friends a foot rub.
4. Offer your seat. Pregnant  people take up a lot of space with their huge bellies and piles of  textbooks. Now that you're done, free up some space in Lamont—why sit  there guiltlessly checking Facebook when you could be taking the first  of those trips to Boston you always said you'd make when you came to  Harvard?
5. Indulge their cravings. We all know that expectant  mothers get weird cravings, and those preparing to welcome a new blue  book are no different. Bring your blockmate that bubble tea she doesn't  have time to go get, or stock your room with energy bars so your  roommate has something to eat at the end of an all-nighter when  breakfast is still an hour away.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
