News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the Israeli government announced new East Jerusalem settlements during Vice-President Biden’s visit, it seemed at first to be just another political misstep. But as weeks have passed, and with a chilly Israeli state visit to the White House, tensions have grown rather than decreased. We oppose the original construction of the settlements, and believe this incident provides an important opportunity for the U.S. to consider its relationship with Israel. It is time for the U.S. to reexamine its alliance with the country based on its national security and geopolitical realities. To do so, the U.S. should create diplomatic distance between the two nations. The U.S. should also make the degree of aid it provides to Israel contingent on Israel’s pursuit of the peace process. President Obama’s recent actions demonstrate that he is dedicated to the same careful reevaluation, and we applaud him in that regard.
It is important to remember that the geopolitical universe has changed dramatically since our alliance began. When the U.S. began its support of Israel, it was a newborn, tiny state. Today, it has grown into an economic powerhouse with numerous technological advancements to its credit. Likewise, in the wars of ’67 and ’73, Israel demonstrated conclusively its ability to defend itself and strike outward, even against much larger coalitions. When Israel declared independence, the primary U.S. concern was a comprehensive oil embargo by the Arab states, supported by the Soviet Union. Given the modern relationship between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia and the collapse of the U.S.S.R., such concerns seem outdated. Furthermore, while Israel shares certain key U.S. values, the imperialism and racial overtones of its settlement programs do not fit within our nation’s ideals (although America has been prone to similar failings in the past). Finally, and most worrisome, Israel’s continued policy toward the West Bank and Gaza Strip is undemocratic and unconscionable. Israel has committed atrocities in its military actions—admittedly, in response to other atrocities.
On the other hand, there are compelling reasons to maintain the alliance into the future. Israel’s growth into a military and economic power makes it less dependent on American aid, but a more valuable ally. Likewise, Israel remains the most democratic nation in the Middle East, and is far more committed to women’s rights, gay rights, and other civil liberties than its neighbors. Finally, the common history of aid shared by the U.S. and Israel cannot be disregarded. A similarly valuable alliance could not appear overnight.
America should keep these considerations in mind as it moves forward in its relationship with Israel and the other nations of the Middle East. But it also needs to remember a more abstract set of important principles. In general, it is prudent not to consider alliances permanent, but instead to reassess them regularly. While the U.S. is a far greater presence on the world stage than our founders envisioned, there is still wisdom in George Washington’s admonition to “steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world.” In a similar vein, it is important to remember that alliances need not be mutually exclusive. A period of partial disengagement from Israel might provide an opportunity to foster our relationships with its neighbors.
Ultimately, the key American interest in the Middle East, and in Israel in particular, is creating a lasting peace. When a tight relationship with Israel helps protect it against outside assault, allows the American government to shepherd the peace process, or mitigates against Israeli military strikes, America should seek closeness. But when, as now, such a relationship seems to endorse hard-line and counterproductive actions by the Israeli government, undermine long-stretched faith in American impartiality, and undercut the peace process, America should strive for distance. Vice-President Biden’s comment that “the United States will hold both sides accountable for any statements or actions that inflame tensions or prejudice the outcome of talks” is a good start. But for such statements to be credible, they must be coupled with real action. If Israel undermines the peace process, it should face cuts in aid. If and when it gets back on the right track, the aid should be restored. The U.S. has spent a great deal of time pursuing the peace process while providing constant aid to Israel. We feel it is time for a new approach, one that holds Israel accountable for its missteps with more than harsh words, and rewards it for its progress with more than verbal praise.
It is also important to remember that even if and when Israel’s relationship with America grows more distant, most American priorities in the Middle East will not change. Regardless of its particular alliances, America has a profound interest in the stability of the region, and should continue its efforts in that regard. More specifically, America should strive to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Such arms are not merely a threat to Israel; they are a threat to regional peace and the world moratorium on nuclear conflict.
We wish to emphasize that America should distance itself from Israel not as a statement of hostility, or a repudiation of the latter’s legitimate security concerns. Instead, America should distance itself if its closeness to Israel is impeding national security interests and working counter to the two-state solution. We have confidence that the U.S. and Israel can resolve their differences and their difficulties, pursue peace, and remain friendly for decades to come. But, right now, it is time for a little room.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The special shade of orange that one’s skin adopts after a meeting with a tanning bed is hard to miss. It isn’t particularly appealing, and it definitely doesn’t seem healthy. After all, who really wants to look like Snooki or The Situation from “The Jersey Shore”?
Despite my personal dislike for the salon-tanning phenomenon, thousands of people continue to frequent tanning salons. The government has taken steps to restrict tanning bed use, like introducing a tax on tanning, and the Food and Drug Administration may even go further to ban those under 18 from tanning bed use. While the tanning bed tax is a great step in the right direction towards discouraging people from using these harmful devices, the FDA’s potential ban on minors’ use of them seems like an overstepping of boundaries because of its infringement of individual rights.
In July 2009, experts at the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon—the cancer branch of the World Health Organization—published in the medical journal Lancet Oncology their research stating that tanning beds and other sources of ultraviolet radiation are causes of cancer. Tanning beds are now considered to be as deadly as arsenic and mustard gas.
In fact, the risk of skin cancer increases by about 75 percent in those who begin use of tanning beds before the age of 30. Skin cancer rates are usually highest in people above the age of 75, but melanoma is now the leading type of cancer diagnosed in women in their 20s in Britain, which provides a parallel rise in the use of tanning beds in people under 30 and increased cancer patient numbers.
Given these statistics, it seems incredibly unwise to subject oneself to concentrated UV rays on purpose. We don’t go around smearing ourselves with arsenic, do we? But if people won’t stop frequenting tanning salons and turning into lobsters, even when they are aware of the health risks, the best thing is for the government to tighten tanning bed restrictions.
The recently passed health care bill introduces a 10 percent tax on indoor tanning services. Dr. June Robinson, a clinical professor of dermatology at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine, tells the New York Times that the dream is that this tax will work to decrease tanning bed usage much as prior taxes on addictive substances like tobacco and alcohol have decreased usage of those taxed items. The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation also estimates that the tax will raise $2.7 billion over 10 years in hopes of offsetting some of the cost of providing health insurance for millions more Americans. This sounds like a win-win situation: discourage tanning bed use and decrease the expense of more universal health care.
But for the government to go further and to ban those under 18 from using tanning beds is not only a little ridiculous but also too much of an encroachment of individual rights. People under 18 are already exposed to UV radiation on a daily basis, so banning tanning bed use would be like banning frolicking in the sun for extended periods of time without sunscreen use—a clearly ludicrous idea. To some extent, the absorption of harmful UV rays are a more natural part of our existence on this planet, unlike tobacco and alcohol consumption, so a ban on tanning beds would not be quite the same as taking away a young person’s right to smoke or drink.
The panel of advisors to the FDA that recommended this potential ban also suggested requiring parental consent forms. This means of restrictions is much more reasonable than a full-out ban. Minors should be able to maintain the right to too much UV radiation exposure, even if they are aware of the cancer risks, as apparently 40 to 60 percent of surveyed teenaged girls did. Let them risk cancer if they must—it’s not like they haven’t been warned.
Ayse Baybars ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a chemistry concentrator in Lowell House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Tonight at five o’clock two thousand students across the globe receive word of their acceptance to the world’s most prestigious university. Many will literally jump for joy. Most will celebrate. All will feel an odd, sudden—possibly dumbstruck—sense of surprise accomplishment.
Remember that feeling?
Those hundreds of students will dance, laugh, scream, and make frantic phone calls for hours. And the source of their utter untainted joy is that they have been given the chance to have what we already do: Harvard.
We were that excited once. Or at least I hope you were. But time has the cruel ability of making the fascinating terribly mundane. And so it is with this place. What once was enthralling is now routine. We would do well, now and again, to remember a little of that emotional rush we felt not so long ago.
Listening to friends’ memories of that day—everyone remembers it—I got distinct, yet similar narratives. I was “jumping up and down” said one. “Crying” was another. One friend chased down her parents’ car as it pulled out of the driveway. Another, after startling an elderly couple on her cruise ship, celebrated with a contraband bottle of Mexican rum. My roommate strained to suppress his excitement for the first few hours: He was attending a banquet to receive a scholarship from another university.
When was the last time we were so excited to be here? We’re so easily wrapped up in the minutiae that are the source of bitter Facebook statuses and meaningless brain break conversations that we’ve forgotten to occasionally step back and see the big picture: We are—right now, everyday—living a dream that we had for many months or years. Yet we often feel inclined to overlook that in the frantic pursuit of the next “dream,” the next great achievement, the next great job. Songwriter John Lennon once noted that “Life is what happens when we are busy making other plans.” One might say that too often “Harvard is what happens when we are busy making other plans.”
I give tours for the admissions office, so I get to speak to hundreds of eager students (and their much-too-eager helicopter parents) each month. So many want so badly what we have. They travel great distances to wander the campus and glimpse the storied buildings to see that to which they aspire. We stroll past them every day but would much prefer to stare down at our iPhones. We pass the time on “I Saw You Harvard,” but when was the last time we really saw Harvard?
So take a moment. Set aside the problem set. (It will get done.) Put down the LSAT book. (You have plenty of time.) No! Don’t set down this paper yet. (You will miss my point.) And take a deep breath, recall that feeling, and let yourself smile. You are at Harvard. Our four years here is not merely a stepping stone; it is an end unto itself.
Now, this is not an invitation to be self-congratulatory or excessively prideful. That would render us unworthy of the privilege we have. You will recall that a couple months ago, Brian Bolduc on this page reminded us—rightfully so—that our being here requires a certain respect and humility. This, however, is about being sufficiently and regularly thankful—and joyful—for an incredibly coveted experience.
Whether we attributed our acceptance to Harvard as the product of luck, blessings, or hard work, it was worth celebrating. And it’s worth remembering and appreciating. But what will we be doing at five o’clock this evening? Rushing into a dining hall to discover, “Chicken Français again?” Fretting over another job application? Agonizing over next year’s rooming situation? Regretting last Saturday’s poor choices (or lack thereof)?
Instead, at five o’clock today, exhale and think back to that moment you found out that you would have the opportunity to be where you are right now. Remind yourself: We’re living our dream. Enjoy it. And then ask around, “What is your memory?” I promise you the stories will be worthwhile, and they will perhaps remind you that whatever is on your mind is not so troublesome.
But you really don’t have to wait till this evening. Do it now, whatever time it is. After all, it’s five o’clock somewhere.
Mark A. Isaacson ’11 is a government concentrator in Kirkland House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
Thank you for publishing the op-ed by Johnny F.  Bowman ’11, Maryam Monalisa Gharavi, and Abdelnasser A. Rashid ’11 (“On Kramer’s Statements,” Mar. 11, 2010) that was addressed to me, Professors Jeffrey Frieden and James Robinson, and President Faust. I am replying on behalf of myself alone. Their letter gives voice to their sincere reactions to Mr. Kramer’s statements, reactions that many of us feel those positions deserve. Their words are statements of resistance to attitudes that can easily be taken as racist and inhumane. It demonstrates the strength of our university and our society in general when its members insist on opposing what they believe to be hateful statements, especially ones that initially appear to be supported by a venerable institution such as Harvard. As these students are no doubt aware, the remarks described were not uttered at or under the auspices of Harvard or the Weatherhead Center, but the students’ response to the incident is appreciated nonetheless.
The Weatherhead Center for International Affairs cannot and will not take the specific actions that Mr. Bowman, Ms. Gharavi, and Mr. Rashid call for in their letter. This does not constitute support for Kramer’s positions—far from it. It constitutes an unswerving commitment to the principles of academic freedom and free speech, even when the content of that speech causes us institutional and personal embarrassment, which, I will be frank, it has done in this case. But please do not make the mistake of concluding that the Weatherhead Center has defended Mr. Kramer’s positions. To paraphrase Voltaire, many of us strongly disagree with what he has said, but will defend to the death his right to say it. The WCFIA statement these students refer to only makes the case that the speech in question is probably protected, for better or for worse. In another place and time, it might not be. In much of Europe, there might be legal grounds for prosecuting someone who propounded such positions. But we are at a university in the United States, the freest possible venue for making an ass out of oneself.
I cannot indulge in Professor Walt’s speculation about “what if” the target of Kramer’s policies had been different. The WCFIA has never excommunicated an affiliate for political or policy views. We cannot go in the direction Mr. Bowman, Ms. Gharavi, and Mr. Rashid suggest—vetting associates for such positions, even on something as distasteful as racism. What we can and must do is screen our affiliates for the highest possible scholarly qualifications, and then let them burnish or ruin their own reputations by non-scholarly utterances in the broader public sphere. Mr. Kramer has a Princeton Ph.D. and a record of scholarly publication, but he has not published recently in peer reviewed journals, so one might decide he is not an “active scholar” and should not therefore be affiliated with Harvard at all. That is an appropriate question for vetting, and as Director of the Weatherhead Center (currently on sabbatical), I can assure you, I will redouble my efforts to make sure our visiting scholars really are scholarly.
The bottom line is Mr. Bowman, Ms. Gharavi, and Mr. Rashid have set an excellent example of exactly what responsible and conscientious people should do: expose and oppose views that offend them and many others. That is a much better response to the Kramer affair than a system of vetting for views on sensitive issues.
BETH A. SIMMONS
Cambridge, Mass.
Mar. 11, 2010
Beth A. Simmons is Clarence Dillon Professor of International Affairs in the Department of Government at Harvard University. She is Director of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
As a member of the Harvard community and as a Jewish activist, I applaud your thoughtful condemnation of Martin Kramer’s comments regarding Palestinians and the tepid response from the Weatherhead Center. Too often in our public conversation, basic human rights standards and the civility we expect towards the “other” (Jewish, African-American, Hispanics, etc) are not applied to Palestinians who are living under unconscionable distress in Gaza and the West Bank due largely to the Israeli occupation. Combining that with the muzzling that occurs in the press with regard to accurate reporting from the region and the prejudices that haunt the attitudes and language of the media, the American public is largely unaware of the human realities of the conflict.
The Weatherhead Center needs to publicly distinguish between hateful, racist speech and open discourse in an academic setting.
ALICE ROTHCHILD
Cambridge, Mass.
Mar. 11, 2010
Alice Rothchild, M.D., is Assistant Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Biology at the Faculty of Medicine at Harvard University.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
"Silence means that I do not exist. I walked for four years in and out of classrooms; I do not exist. I finished my expository writing papers; I do not exist. I received my Harvard diploma this past June; I do not exist.”
Michael, an undocumented Harvard freshman who asked that his real name not be disclosed because of his unauthorized immigration status, stood among the crowd, listening to those words. About 30 people had gathered around the John Harvard statue on a cold March afternoon to listen to these narratives—read aloud by Harvard students, written by their unnamed, undocumented peers—as part of a National Coming Out Day for undocumented youth. Michael’s story was not there.
He is one of over three million undocumented youth in the U.S. under the age of 24, many of whom were brought here by their families as children. The event’s sponsors, Harvard College Act On A Dream and the Massachusetts Student Immigrant Movement, are part of a broader movement for the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act—better known as The DREAM Act—which promises a conditional path to legal residence for undocumented high school graduates who serve at least two years in the military or complete two years of higher education.
“I have spent the last 15 years of my life in prison, and I am only 23 years old,” another narrative read. “In the last 15 years of my life, I have forgotten what freedom means.”
One by one, the narratives spoke of frustration, accomplishment, hope, and disillusionment. It all resonated with Michael, but he could not contribute.
Kyle A. de Beausset ’08-’11, a member of Act On A Dream and a Crimson editorial writer, gave the next speaker a special introduction. “I gave him every opportunity to back out of this,” he said, as an undocumented Harvard student stepped up to the statue to tell his own story.
As the student recounted his efforts to contribute to American society—“I pledged the Pledge of Allegiance, I did it all”—Michael could also relate, but he still did not speak up. And when seven other students in the crowd raised their hands as fellow undocumented students, Michael did not raise his.
Michael’s family came to the U.S. just before he started middle school. “When my parents told me, I had no conceptualization of what it entailed because I was so young,” recalls Michael. “As a kid you look for somebody to be responsible for you. But if you’re here as an undocumented student...in a way, you’re left as an orphan because your parents can’t protect you. For me, this was the most painful part; it’s really heartbreaking.”
But Michael says he never felt the desire to share his situation with his peers. In fact, he has not told a single student on campus since coming to Harvard.
“By telling anyone, it separates you,” he says. “You end up having a double life, but it’s hard not to. You want to live as normally as possible.”
“But then,” he adds, “to what extent is trying to be normal an illusion?”
DREAMING BIG
Around the country, student advocacy for immigration reform has recently adopted this practice of “coming out,” of putting a face on the cause. In Chicago, eight undocumented students spoke at a rally that drew a crowd of 1,000 people on the same day as Harvard’s event, and cities from Los Angeles to Orlando followed with rallies of their own. In Florida, four undocumented and formerly undocumented students began a 1,500-mile walk on New Year’s Day. They planned to go from Miami to Washington, D.C. to raise awareness about the DREAM Act and their situation. Their “Trail of Dreams” campaign has attracted supporters as well as opponents, including an encounter with the Ku Klux Klan in Georgia.
Of course, most undocumented students keep their status quiet for fear of deportation or the stigma attached to being illegal. But as the wait for immigration reform continues and the obstacles to a normal life become more apparent, more are pushing their fears aside and speaking out.
Juan, an undocumented college student who asked that his last name not be disclosed, is the director of communications for dreamactivist.org, a group that connects reform advocates around the country. Although Juan recognizes that speaking out is a risky decision that may not be right for everyone, he also believes that undocumented students need to take their futures into their own hands.
According to Juan, the open advocacy is a powerful tool clarifying misconceptions about the undocumented student experience. He recalled a recent rally in South Carolina where undocumented students were confronted by an angry crowd member, yelling at them for being illegal and telling them to return to their countries. He reported that by the end of the rally this audience member was hugging the students after having heard their personal stories.
Relative to more comprehensive immigration reform, the DREAM Act already has a broad support base because it targets a specific population and requires that beneficiaries contribute to society, either through military service or higher education. Many scholars also agree on the economic importance of the bill.
A 1982 Supreme Court decision requires that students have access to a primary and secondary education regardless of their immigration status, but there are no similar measures regarding higher education. Edward Schumacher-Matos, who directs the Harvard Inter-Faculty Initiative on Immigration and Integration Policy and Studies, believes the primary reason to pass the DREAM Act is that it is in the country’s best interest.
“We have invested so much in training and educating this group of young people,” he says. “If they’re good enough and have responded enough to be able to get to go to college, then we as a country need these people and should want these people.”
While many undocumented students may have day-to-day experiences similar to those of their documented peers, the fundamentally restricted structure of their opportunities becomes clear when it comes to certain milestones: 16th birthdays do not mean driver’s licenses, and high school graduations do not open the doors to college or a job.
“Every year, there are more and more students who are kind of filtered into this pathless existence,” says Melissa Tran ’10, current president of Harvard College Act On A Dream, in reference to the estimated 65,000 undocumented students who graduate high school each year.
Because they are guaranteed a K-12 education, the first major limitation that most undocumented students face comes when they look ahead to college. Although there is no federal law barring universities and colleges from accepting undocumented applicants, these students are ineligible for federal financial aid, and most private aid and scholarships are restricted to legal residents.
Eleven states currently offer in-state tuition for undocumented students, who often still struggle to pay these lower rates. Many students work on the side to put themselves through community college, often only able to take a few credits at time.
A select few are able to defer the limitations of an undocumented future when they are accepted at schools like Harvard. In its efforts to recruit the best students from the nation and the world, Harvard is one of very few universities with the financial resources to offer merit-based, need-blind admissions standards for all students, including those ineligible for federal financial aid.
Michael realized a school like Harvard was his only chance.  Though his parents were excited about his acceptance into some prestigious public universities, Michael could not bring himself to share their joy.  “I think they were seeing [my acceptance] as a milestone, and I saw it as a missed opportunity,”  he says.  He had seen the struggles of older undocumented youth as they took time off from school to work to pay for college or went into deep debt, and knew he did not want to follow this path.
Michael continued to wait to hear from the private schools who would be able to offer him financial aid—his list included Columbia, Swarthmore, Harvard, Yale, and Princeton—knowing that admission was unlikely, even for those without legal issues.
“When I was accepted [to Harvard] it was all that much more rewarding,” he recalls. “And all that much more enraging, because there are so few people who make it.”
POLICY AND POLITICS
Schumacher-Matos was himself an undocumented immigrant at one point, but he never faced the roadblocks that characterize the experience of today’s undocumented youth.
He came to the United States from Colombia with his mother, who became naturalized after marrying an American citizen. Legally, Schumacher-Matos was required to also declare himself when he was 14, but did not know at the time.
It was only at the age of 21, when he tried to join the military during the Vietnam War, that officials informed him of his illegal status for the past seven years.
Up until that point, Schumacher-Matos had not faced any problems—he attended college at Vanderbilt and even had a U.S. passport. “These things weren’t major issues back then, and nobody paid so much attention, so I just slipped through the system,” he says.
Schumacher-Matos quickly pled his case in front of a judge and was sworn in as a U.S. citizen within a week. “It was so obvious,”  Schumacher-Matos says. “Here’s a case where the judge saw that the country had put a tremendous investment in me all my life and that I was by all intents and purposes an American kid, and all I needed was this stupid piece of paper, and he gave it to me.”
Much of the current intensity over unauthorized immigration goes back to the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, which made it illegal for employers to hire or recruit undocumented immigrants, while also granting amnesty to immigrants who had come to the U.S. before 1982 and resided here continuously since that point. The law was largely ineffective at decreasing unauthorized immigration, the undocumented population continued to rise, and the resulting widespread backlash against immigration persists to this day.
The DREAM Act has become tangled in this politicized debate, despite a solid base of bipartisan support. “The real political issue is that both sides are using the DREAM Act to hold the other side hostage,” Schumacher-Matos says. Proponents of more progressive immigration policies want to leverage the bill’s bipartisan support to pull through comprehensive reform, while their opponents will support the DREAM Act only in exchange for stricter enforcement. There are also those who reject amnesty in any form.
Due to the tensions surrounding immigration policy, students advocating for the DREAM Act have found themselves performing a balancing act.
In March of 2008, Scott M. Elfenbein ’11 led a group of students to found Harvard College Act on a Dream, which strives to raise awareness and push immigration reform forward. But since then, the club has had to reassess and redirect its initiatives multiple times.
Tran recalls that one of the club’s first initiatives was to prompt Harvard to advertise itself as a “sanctuary university”, modeled after sanctuary cities. There are more than 30 of these cities around the country, which openly publicize practices that refrain from inquiring about immigration status. Act On A Dream reached out to Harvard University Police Department and the admissions office, but faced some resistance. They backed off amidst worries that pushing too hard on HUPD would draw negative attention to undocumented students.
“We wanted the undocumented students to still feel safe, so in creating this safe space we didn’t want to unintentionally make them feel unsafe,” Tran says.
The group faced a similar situation last spring, when it began lobbying for President Drew G. Faust to show her support for the DREAM Act. “People got a little scared that we were pushing her too hard and undocumented youth started pushing back against us,” says de Beausset. “They didn’t want to push her so hard that Harvard would stop accepting undocumented students, so we kind of stopped agitating.”
But Faust ended up publicly endorsing the DREAM Act in a letter to federal lawmakers last spring, a step that was in line with support from the Association of American Universities and The College Board, and has since been replicated with support from presidents at other schools, including the University of Pennsylvania and Stanford.
“What influenced my decision was a meeting I had with students whose lives were so deeply affected by their inability to be full citizens and participants in American society,” Faust says. “It seemed like such a terrible betrayal of human potential and such an unfair burden for these young people to carry for no fault of their own, and so I felt very moved by that experience.”
SAFETY AT HARVARD
Higher education at places like Harvard offers a temporary respite from the undocumented life in the outside world. “This was in so many ways the closest I’ve ever been to freedom, to be at Harvard,” says Mariana, an undocumented student who graduated last year and asked that her real name not be disclosed. Mariana came here when she was eight years old from Mexico; her mother was sick, and they could not find the care she needed in their home country.
But even though Mariana says she cannot imagine Harvard having done any more for her, it could not provide a shield from all the difficulties of life as an undocumented student. Mariana knew that she would never be able to study abroad or get a term-time job, and while her peers were stressed about finding summer internships, most of them were not even options for her. “I was so bummed out to be here,” recalls Mariana of her first semester. “You can see what’s possible, but you know that you’ll never be able to do it. It takes a lot of effort to get rid of that idea and try to work for something.”
Eventually, Mariana convinced herself that she could only take advantage of the opportunities she had now, even if the future remained uncertain.
“I think that most [undocumented] students are fine throughout their undergraduate years. It’s fairly easy to do as much as you can and you have learned to be satisfied with the things you can do,” Mariana says, reflecting on her time with organizations including Women in Business and The Crimson. “When you’re about to graduate, that’s when the anxiety comes back.”
For Laura Jaramillo ’10-’11, this anxiety came sooner. Jaramillo’s family left Colombia when she was 12 years old. As an employee of a national telephone company, her father worked to cut off the communications of imprisoned officers of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. He began receiving phone threats from the rebel group. They heard of people they knew getting kidnapped. The family fled to the U.S. to apply for political asylum, a process that was drawn out over eight years.
During this time, Jaramillo had gone to high school, applied to college, and spent two years at Harvard.  Finally, during her sophomore spring, Jaramillo’s family had their final court hearing. Their case was denied.
The judge recognized the difficult situation her family was in, but explained that the qualifications for asylum were strict and he did not see their particular situation as a perfect fit. The family was issued an order of withdrawal and given 60 days to leave the country. “It felt like my life was crumbling around me,” Jaramillo says.
But she knew that staying at Harvard as an undocumented student was something she simply could not do, both on principle and because of the dangers and limitations that accompany an undocumented life. “Even though I would be fine as far as Harvard, I would have no way of becoming legal later,” she says. “I would graduate and I would have this pretty, shiny Harvard degree and no way to get a job, so it was kind of pointless.”
Jaramillo’s only legal option to complete her Harvard education was to go back to Colombia and apply for a student visa. Even though Jaramillo was uncertain about her chances of obtaining such a visa—it would be difficult to prove the required intent to return to her home country after having done most of her growing up in the U.S.—it was worth the risk.
“Being undocumented is a life of constant fear,” she says. “It’s a life of uncertainty all the time, and it’s a life of no future.”
Jaramillo took a leave of absence, returned to Colombia, and secured her return as an international student. Because of this experience, Jaramillo sypathizes with those students who unlike her did not have a choice in their immigration status. “You can’t punish children for the sins of their fathers,” she says. “In any other circumstance that would seem so absurd, to make someone pay with their entire life.”
UNCERTAIN FUTURES
For those students who know that a Harvard degree will not allow them the same opportunities as their peers, other sources of motivation are necessary.
“There’s something empowering about working hard for the sake of working,” Michael says. “You’re contributing to the cause by not giving in to the idea that because you are victim of circumstance you have to remain that way.”
Nonetheless, Michael is frustrated that his hard work is not recognized. “I’ve dedicated a lot to this country by wanting to stay here, being upheld as a product of the education system, as an ideal image of what America can do for someone,” he says, knowing he will not ultimately receive the full benefits America can provide. “I’m starting to feel forced to speak up in whatever way I can.”
But for now, he does not speak up; he has his family to protect, and he does not want to jeopardize his Harvard education. He is stuck in limbo. “It’s hard to think of any other group that can’t advocate for itself,” he says. “You don’t really have the option, and if you do, you put yourself in danger.”
To many, this inherent danger makes speaking out look like a simple bad decision.
“I wouldn’t recommend it,” says Schumacher-Matos. “Once upon a time I would have, but not in the current political climate.”
But Isabel, an undocumented Boston-area student who asked that her last name not be disclosed, spoke at multiple events hosted by Act On A Dream last month. She has found speaking out to be an empowering form of advocacy.
“If I get deported today, I’m fine with it. You know why? Because I fought for it,” she announced at an event last Friday. “If any of you guys are going through this, don’t be scared. I’m undocumented. I’ll say it 20,000 times if I have to. Don’t be in the shadows because that’s the worst thing you can do.”
For many Harvard students, once graduation looms, their concerns about speaking out also begin to give way. “The students who are more willing to be vocal are the ones that have graduated and are really experiencing what it means to be undocumented in the real world, not Harvard’s safe place,” Mariana says.
Mariana had never told any of her friends at Harvard about her situation until she was a senior. Since then, she has told 10 or 20 friends, and she has begun reaching out to as many undocumented students on campus as she can.
In looking toward the future, there are only two real pieces of advice that people can give Mariana: get married or move back to Mexico. “I don’t know the place at all,” she says. Mariana also cannot leave her family behind, knowing that her mother is still sick. And as far as marriage: “I’ve been proposed to more times than I care to get married,” she says, remembering the offers of friends she has told about her situation.
Mariana says she would rather be a sacrificial lamb than take the easy way out through a marriage of convenience. “I wouldn’t feel right about fixing something that’s wrong by doing something that’s wrong,” she says.
Beyond that, Mariana has been inspired by the undocumented students she has met at Harvard, and she feels compelled to pave the way for students like them, no matter the risks. “I can handle prison just fine. I can find a way to be okay. Whatever comes, that’s fine, I’ll figure it out,” she says.
Mariana has spent the past ten months since graduation preparing to apply for medical school. “It may not be the smartest thing, but I can’t just sit here and do nothing,” she says.
And she is confident about her potential as a legal resident. “Once I get those nine digits, I will be unstoppable,” she says. “I will shake things up.”
But right now, it’s a waiting game. And if nothing changes, she will at least be satisfied knowing she has done something meaningful. Ultimately, that may mean becoming more vocal than she has been.
“There comes a point,” she says, “when you have nothing to lose and a life to gain.”
—Elias J. Groll contributed to the reporting of this story.
Sections
Let’s talk about marriage and haircuts.
Marriage terrifies me. It’s a hungry, big-eyed beast of permanence lurking in the forest. One that threatens to pounce and capture me with each approaching year until I’m 35 and ugly.
Haircuts on the other hand, I love. I don’t even need a qualifying metaphor—that’s how wonderful they are. I just got one last week, and let me tell you: wooooooweeeee.
Marriage is a societal construct that exists more to support the state apparatus than to build stable relationships between consenting adults.
Haircuts sometimes have a free shampooing. It’s really a great deal.
Marriage ends in death or divorce; haircuts end with that really great clipping that tickles the back of your neck.
I could go on. But why? It’s depressing. Marriage, that is. Not haircuts. Those are—
Alright, fine. I’ll stop. But here’s my point.
My 21-year-old cousin got married over the weekend. And it totally depressed me. Not in the normal, “I’m sorry sir, we’re out of spicy Doritos” way. It hit me in the “We’re out of all forms of Doritos” way.
Here she is, not even old enough to run for Congress, and she’s already devoting the rest of her life to Kenny Varga of the greater Salt Lake City area.
To celebrate her marriage, I spent a few hours poking around Divorce Magazine’s Web site, a publication that lost “Best Name” to the You’ve Contracted Herpes Gazette.
While Divorce Magazine answered some of my long-standing questions on how to get a divorce (“Do I have to fill out some kind of form?”), it was the marriage statistics that surprised me, showing me how incredibly rare early marriages like my cousin’s have become.
In 1970, by the age of 25, nearly 65 percent of the US male population and 45 of the US female population had been married. Today, that number has dropped to 15 percent among men and 25 percent among women. Even though two of my ex-girlfriends and four of my childhood friends are married to varying degrees of happiness, they have become the exceptions and not the rules.
So what’s happening? Maybe humans are just less likeable these days. But then again, plenty of bride-themed reality shows on FOX have proven you don’t have to be loveable for someone to marry you.
And while the trend in the female population can be explained by more women going to college and getting careers before marriage, occupational concerns do not explain the entire phenomenon. At the very least, they fail to explain why marriage appears in more of my nightmares than does that sexually insistent octopus woman.
To answer the question, let’s return to haircuts. The one I got last week has been an enormous success. Despite my roommate’s insistence that the haircut combined with spring break has made me a bronzed Tin Tin, I’ve gotten nothing but compliments elsewhere.
But that’s the great thing about haircuts. It doesn’t matter how bad they are, because even the worst mop-chops grow out. Go ahead—elope with a Mohawk. You’ll only be stuck with him a few months. Then it’s back to the drawing board.
These days, the convenience of haircuts—that is, the ability to press undo—has never been greater. Don’t like your job? Switching careers has never been easier. Don’t like the e-mail you just sent? Press the “undo” button on the app. These days, I can even push control+z on a night of unprotected sex, thanks to Plan B.
But marriage—though technically undoable if you can find the right forms—retains a version of permanence that is rare today. It’s no longer a question of buying the cow or getting the milk for free. It’s “should I invest in non-refundable milk futures or just have a glass of milk?”
So maybe this new recognition of marriage’s gravitas isn’t a bad thing, because whatever conveniences the future holds, human emotions—human commitments to other humans—will always be complicated, fragile and devoid of convenience. And while 21 might be the right age for some to make such an enormous decision, for now, I’ll stick with a little off the top.
Sections
Last weekend, Boston University’s Agganis Arena was overrun with robots taking part in the Boston FIRST Regional Robotics Competition. Fifty-three enthusiastic high school teams, decked out in beads, buttons, and crazy hats, cheered as their creations competed in a game called “Breakaway.” Robots kicked soccer balls into goals, climbed onto towers, and lifted themselves up in teams to advance to the world championship next month.
Ellen M. Farber ’13, who did FIRST with her high school in Texas, shed some light on the motorized mayhem’s mission. “So, there’s the term ‘coopertition,’” said Farber. “Everyone helps each other but in the end there’s still a competition to go to.” She hesitated when asked about the prize. “Bragging rights? It’s not so much about winning as it is about learning. The whole goal of the organization is to promote STEM fields—science, technology, engineering, and math.”
Schoolwork didn’t seem to be in anyone’s mind last Saturday. Kimble M. McCraw, a second year student at Harvard Business School and a member of the committee that brought FIRST to Boston five years ago, said, “Dean Kamen [founder and inventor of the Segway] always calls it the ‘Superbowl of Smarts.’ This is kind of like high school football for the math and science people of the world.” As pop music blasted and giant screens glowed, the crowd chanted and practiced the wave.
There aren’t any Harvard students currently involved, but Saeqa D. Vrtilek, a senior professor at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and a veteran FIRST judge, wants Harvard to sponsor a team, calling her annual participation invigorating and fun. Even the judges get in on the craziness; during timeouts they dance the Macarena. “The idea is so that the kids see that the judges are normal people,” Vrtilek said. While the participants’ normalcy may be up for debate, the packed arena loudly asserted that, yes, STEM fields are fly.
Sections
This spring, Harvard will become home to its own sustainable garden in front of Lowell House, and the Office of Sustainability is calling upon the community to submit names in an online contest that closes today. Ever-conscious of its responsibility to the wider-Plympton area, FM presents some choice names.
1. Your New Breakfast
This garden is supposed to provide “food for students, faculty, and the local community.”  We’re guessing breakfast is going to take another hit.
2. The Drunkards’ Buffet
You exit the Fly a little sloppy. The organic sheen of a sustainable tomato plant catches your eye. Free and low-caloric. Yum.
3. The Garden Next to the Phoenix
As in, “Oh...that garden.”
4. The Secret Garden
The name section guy in your English class would submit. We all know the literary reference doesn’t make any sense, but it’s just the kind of BS he loves.
5. The Admissions-Packet Pastoral Garden
Because we couldn’t have a picture of a quaint, student-run garden if we didn’t actually have one. “Hey, we’re sustainable and organic, damn it!”
6. The Garden of Sin
Furrows are so the new stacks. Bonus points if your pick-up line includes a Biblical allusion.
7. The Harvard Garden
When all else fails, just drop that H-Bomb. Never has so much been accomplished with a last resort.
8. The Bei-root
Discarded ping pong balls from the Phoenix and the Fly will be given ground to grow into bei-roots.
9. The [Insert name of someone who just moved off the waitlist] Family Garden
Hey, the funding needs to come from somewhere...
10. The To-Be-Pollinated-By-Real-Bees Garden
FOX News would be relieved.
11. Le Jardin d’HUDS
Bohemian, questionably cultured, and possessing of a pretense for class. Just like our favorite dining service.
12. The Dirt Nasty
Full of ditches and hoes. The Phoenix is now sustainable.
13. Veggitas
Vegetables are yummy. True that.
14. The Natalie Portman Garden
She was in “Garden State”. This is a garden. Valid enough connection to warrant a guest appearance for its grand opening.
15. The Idiot Garden
Come here if you want to raise your “awareness about the critical role that food plays in our environment and our health.” Or just go starve yourself, you idiot. 
Sections
A. Ryan Leslie ’98 is a singer, songwriter, producer and promoter whose accomplishments include graduating from Harvard at the age of 19 and releasing two albums in the past year. FM caught up with him after his keynote address at last Friday’s AMBLE Spring Media Careers Conference to discuss his work, his personal videographer, and his status as one of the 50 hottest bachelors in New York City.
1.
Fifteen Minutes:  So how exactly would you describe your job right now? You seem to have millions of projects all moving forward at the same time, but what would you say is the primary focus of your career?
A. Ryan Leslie: I would say that the primary focus of my career is to be creative. That’s it. To the best of my ability, to execute the creative vision that I have. That’s my job every day and it’s the job of everyone who works with me.
2.
FM: You entered Harvard at the age of only 15. What was it like starting college so young? Were you able to make friends?
ARL: Yeah, I was able to make many lasting friendships while I was here. I believe that what was really incredible about the class that I came in with, as well as the other students at the College, was that they accepted me as a peer and so they made it very easy to fit right in as just another student.
3.
FM: Do you ever feel like you missed out on the high school experience?
ARL: Well, the only point of reference I have to compare my experience to anyone else’s experience is what I see on television, and I’m told that what I see on television is pretty far removed from reality, so I don’t really have a frame of reference for what I missed.
4.
FM: As an undergrad, you were placed on academic probation three times. Were you not interested in your classes, or did you just feel like you had too much else to do?
ARL: Very honest reasons for academic probation would be non-attendance of class and poor performance on examinations. I believe that stemmed from the fact that I was prioritizing the pursuit of music. Fortunately for me, I had a mentor who went to bat for me each time and was my advocate to the Ad Board. He was a Ph.D. candidate at the Business School and he ensured that I graduated on time.
FM: If you were prioritizing music over class, what made you stick with it for eight semesters?
ARL: I’m very driven to respect the wishes of my parents. This really means a lot to them that I did graduate from Harvard. It’s an accomplishment that no matter what I achieve in life, it’s an accomplishment that people respect because of the lasting legacy that comes along with a Harvard education.
5.
FM: Did your parents or mentors at Harvard ever try to talk you out of your plans to work in the music industry while you were a student?
ARL: I believe that parents and people who really care about you, they want the best for you and they want your suffering and your challenges to be as minimized as possible. They definitely, I would say, advised me to be wary of that career pathway because of the immense personal and financial risks associated with pursuing a career in entertainment.
6.
FM: In your speech at Class Day in 1998, you said, “We are united in the wondrous power that we have as a collective body, the power to shape the world.” Do you think that you’re in the process of shaping the world right now?
ARL: I feel like every day that is a driving force behind what I do. I do believe that through art, through music, through expression, we are always influencing and shaping the minds of those who consume that which we create. In that sense, I would say yes.
7.
FM: People always talk about the power of a Harvard degree. Do you feel that in your industry?
ARL: Saying I graduated from Harvard holds weight any time I say it, no matter what industry, or social or professional circle I’m in. I’m grateful for that, and proud of it.
8.
FM: What was it like working for Diddy?
ARL: My experience there was very enlightening because it was an extremely concentrated dose of what it’s like to work in the music business. I’m a sponge, so I soaked up every moment of it: every tense moment, every moment under pressure, every demanding moment, I soaked it up. I enjoyed every moment as well because I have a really voracious appetite for knowledge about the industry, so working with him gave me a really firsthand opportunity to experience what it’s like in the thick of the entertainment industry. I believe that’s something that can almost only be experienced in that camp because, like me, he’s a workaholic and he’s very passionate about all of his professional endeavors.
9.
FM: Can you think of a moment when you stepped back and thought to yourself, “I can’t believe this is happening”?
ARL: It happens all the time, even today. I step back and I can’t believe that I’m here at my alma mater being recognized by my own, so to speak. When I look at the power and the prestige and the accomplishments of my fellow panelists, I’m just really grateful. It’s all very surreal.
10.
FM: So you have a videographer here who films your life all the time. Explain to me your logic behind this decision. What do you think you’ve gained out of it so far?
ARL: Initially it started as a way for me to share with my audience the ins and outs of what I do on a daily basis via a video blog. Now I mostly use it as an archive of the experiences that I’m having in hopes that one day, people will review this archive and will be inspired to live hard, love hard, and work hard.
11.
FM: In addition to the daily filming, there have been several tabloid articles in recent years about your personal life. Do you ever become frustrated by your lack of privacy?
ARL: No. I really believe that once you get to a certain level of public exposure, people are just entertained by the lives of other people. Sometimes it’s more artistically represented, through film or through song, and other times it’s more literally represented through tabloids and reality shows and people are just as engaged. I take it as a by-product of the industry that I’ve chosen.
12.
FM: You were nominated as one of the “50 Hottest Bachelors” for Page Six Magazine in 2009. Do you try to cultivate this image or were you surprised by this designation?
ARL: I actually didn’t know that I was on that list. I happened to be at an event for GQ and someone came up to me and said, “Hey Ryan, I’m the journalist that put that article together,” and I said “What article?” and she said “You didn’t see it? The 50 Hottest Bachelors of New York City.” And so, you know, as I said, my aim every day is to create the best art and creative media that I can create, whether that be through music, film, documentary film, whatever means of expression. If that passion is a characteristic of one of the 50 hottest bachelors in New York City, then I would have to say that, yes, I cultivate it.
13.
FM: Your album “Transitions” was reviewed by The Crimson earlier this year. Did you get a chance to look at the article?
ARL: Oh yes, I did see that, and I wrote to that girl.
FM: The review overall was pretty critical and definitely included some negative components. How do you deal with negative feedback like this?
ARL: I’m into music so that people can enjoy it. I believe that critical reviews of music are necessary because it’s just as entertaining to read someone else’s point of view or perspective on a piece of art as it is sometimes to listen to that piece of art, so I have no problem with it. And I believe it was Meryl Streep who said that she stayed grounded by reading the blogs.
14.
FM: You used to sing in the Kroks here at Harvard. What would you think about producing a hip-hop remix of one of their albums?
ARL: Well, I mean they’re a cappella, so I think that the Kroks really have a very specific musical message that would be compromised if we were to do a hip-hop remix. However, I would absolutely love to do it.
15.
FM: Where do you see yourself in the long term?
ARL: Perhaps I live in a fantasy world, but I see myself in the long term living the way that I live for as long as I possibly can. There are those on my staff that say I have the mannerisms of a 17-year-old boy, and in fact I’ve had those mannerisms since they started six years ago. So I think I’ve done a great job of perpetuating my current vigor for expression and art and life.
Sections
“Hi, my name is Zane.”
Whenever I finish saying these words, my newest acquaintance—whoever it is—doesn’t then ask my hometown, concentration, or House. Instead, an eyebrow raises and she asks a different question. It can range from a curious inquiry to a challenge, but I always know what it will be: “What’s your real name?”
Now, Zane may not be the most common name in existence—according to babynamewizard.com, it has never been in the top 1,000 names for girls—but it doesn’t sound like a celebrity construct, like Apple Martin or Prince Michael II, a.k.a. Blanket. In Arabic, Zane means “beloved.” In Hebrew, it’s “gift from God.” The English language seems to think it’s a variant on “John.” And everyone’s heard of the writer Zane Grey and the actor Billy Zane, right?
The assumption that “Zane” is a made-up nickname for myself is false. Check my birth certificate. But if you read my e-mail signature, you’ll notice that “Zane” is preceded by a mysterious letter “H.” Naturally, the next question is: “What is your first name?”
My full name, in its unabridged form, is Henrietta Zane Bratton Wruble. It’s long. It sounds pretentious, at times. It stretches across the entire length of my HUID. To speak it out loud is clumsy enough that I have taken to whipping out said ID so that inquisitors can see the absurdity for themselves. Ever since coming to Harvard, its entirety has been plastered on every class list and official e-mail, so I’ve long since given up on maintaining it as my Deepest Darkest Secret.
To the government, DMV, and Harvard, this is how my name will always be. To Amex, Bank of America, and now The Crimson, I am H. Zane B. Wruble. To my distant relatives in Ireland, I imagine I am still Henrietta. To my friends I will always be Zane. I have even tried on a couple of other names for size before. At French camp when I was 16, I was “Zazie.” Zazie was the outgoing goofball I never had the courage to be in high school. In China, I was Wu Hanrui: traveler, socialite, and obsessive photographer.
Nevertheless, my opponent is determined to continue the interrogation, transforming her tone into an accusation worthy of “Law and Order.”
“Why don’t you like Henrietta?”
Truth is, the choice was never actually mine.
During my mom’s entire pregnancy, my parents knew I was a girl, but they kept this strictly on the down low to avoid incessant interference from my relatives on choosing a name. They ended up using the gender-neutral “Zane” to refer to me to avoid giving the secret away, and it stuck for the duration. “Zane” was also a family name, belonging to a female relative from a disputed number of generations before.
There was just one obstacle in the path to making it official: my mom, in all of her hormonal and high-risk pregnancy bliss, mandated that I be named after her-much-beloved-Aunt-but-not-actually-an-aunt Henrietta, whom I never had the opportunity to meet to verify that claim. My father would have preferred to keep the extant name for simplicity and, well, pragmatic reasons. My parents decided to compromise and use both names, but call me by my middle name. (For the record, “Bratton” is my mom’s last name.)
Of course, I am certainly not the only person who has foregone his or her first name for a middle one. I’ve always wondered what N. Gregory Mankiw’s story is. In eighth grade, one classmate confessed in an English essay that he, too, was harboring a secret first name that he chose not to use. Even Zane Grey dropped his real first name—Pearl—in favor of his middle name.
However, using “Zane” has come back to bite me. Up until recently, my driver’s license said only “Henrietta Z. Wruble,” so using it as identification to fly created a mismatch with my plane tickets. Most airport employees realized that the unusual letter plus my utterly harmless appearance meant that I wasn’t worth harassing, but freshman year one ticket counter attendant decided to chew me out for it. After a short argument and her insistence that “the Z could stand for Zachary,” I pulled out a secondary ID to confirm my story and was sent on my way (the TSA ID-checker at security signed off on my boarding pass without a word).
Then there was my high school graduation. After I received my diploma, the Head of School pulled me over for a hug. As he did so, he delivered the ultimate blow to my emotional solar plexus, revealing he knew nothing whatsoever about me: “You’re a special person, Henrietta.”
And of course, there’s gender confusion. While Zane may never crack the top 1,000 baby names for girls, it was number 235 for boys in 2008. Naturally, my frequent e-mail communication with non-acquaintances has led to numerous misunderstandings and the incorrect assumption that my cells are sporting a Y chromosome. Last spring, frustrated, I wrote to “Dear Abby” asking if there was a polite way to correct this mistake, but I ended up foregoing her advice to sign all my e-mails with “Ms.” to avoid coming off as pompous.
I’ve gotten better over the years at accepting the inherent confusions that my name brings. I just smile in silence when the Greenhouse Café card swiper chirps, “Have a nice day, Henrietta!” Or when someone I meet up with for the first time in Lamont exclaims with shock, “I wasn’t expecting you to be a girl!” I can laugh it off and say, truthfully, that it happens all the time.
A friend actually suggested to me once that I forego my name entirely. “Just pick a symbol,” he said. “Like Prince. You could be ‘The Harvard Student Formerly Known as Zane.’”
Maybe someday I’ll try that out.
—H. Zane B. Wruble ’11 is an Organismic and Evolutionary Biology concentrator in Quincy House.  She plans on naming her first child $@$$i.
Sections
Caitlin H. Sarubbi ’12 was not supposed to live through the first days of her life.  But today, at age 20, she has become a world-renowned skier who just finished competing in the 2010 Paralympics.
Born with Ablepharon Macrostomia Syndrome, a disease that affects approximately 13 people worldwide and causes physical deformities, Sarubbi has undergone more than 50 reconstructive surgeries and, as a result of the illness, is visually impaired.
She discovered skiing several years during a trip to Colorado, where her father, a New York City firefighter, was being honored after the September 11 attacks. There, when Sarubbi clicked into her skis for the first time, she says she “immediately fell in love with it.”
Sarubbi took a leave of absence after freshman fall to train and compete. She skis with the help of a guide, who navigates in front of her and communicates directions through a headset.
According to Caitlin’s mom, Cathy M. Sarrubi, it was the sense of freedom that hooked her daughter. Soon after their trip to Colorado, Sarubbi traveled to Windham, N.Y. where she enrolled at the Adaptive Sports Foundation’s school.
“I balanced skiing and school, and the first week in April I got my acceptance letter from Harvard that Wednesday, and my nomination letter for the [Paralympic] Team that Friday,” she recalls. “It was a great week.”
Sarubbi, who carried the torch through the streets of Vancouver in the Paralympic Torch Relay this winter, qualified for all five of the alpine events. Twenty-eight of Sarubbi’s family members and friends flew to Vancouver to support her.
“I think just every day she was out there giving it her best,” said Ray Watkins, Sarubbi’s coach.
“There is only one word to describe Caitlin,” says Cathy Sarubbi. “Miracle.”
Sections
It’s April Fools’, so you’re probably effortlessly pulling witty pranks on all your friends.  April Fools!  If you’re stuck with lame jokes and comedian’s block, FM is here to help.  Here, six of Harvard’s premier comedy groups give their advice on never-fail knee-slappers and a taste of their own senses of humor.  They were asked the same three questions—whether they are improv sketch aficionados or aspiring Daily Show writers—so pick out your favorite or try and glean some insight from the different groups’ senses of humor.  Because sometimes, Knock-Knock jokes just don’t cut it.
David T. Tao ’11, Head Writer, Respectably French
Fifteen Minutes: What’s the best prank or joke you’ve ever done as a group?
David:  We just did one video, “The endless corridor,” which was our first one this semester. We’re pretty proud of it.  It’s a video, not a prank, but you could say it’s a satirical yet informative look at the ramifications of underfunded police bureaus.
FM: If you’re doing a show and I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
David: We usually revert to guns.  Guns are always funny,
FM: Finish this sentence: Take my advice—never...
David: Get involved with a video that goes on the Internet because it’s there forever, and they’ll trace it back to you.
Christopher C. Liberge ’12, Executive Producer, Harvard Hooligans
FM: What’s the best prank or joke you’ve ever done as a group?
Chris: Well, I can’t speak for the group, but most of them were in on it. Six months ago, I was driving with friends, and they had satellite radio. So they were listening to Playboy Radio, which had an advice show playing, so I thought, “Why not call in and try to get through?” So I got through, and pretended to have girlfriend who wanted to do some pretty unnecessary things to me. Eventually they figured out I was pulling their leg, and I got kicked off the air.
FM: If you’re doing a show and I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
Chris: Kick someone in nuts. No matter what’s wrong, if it’s highbrow, lowbrow, or satire—if you’re not getting laughs, you’ve got to resort to kicking a guy in the nuts.
FM: Finish this sentence: Take my advice—never...
Chris: Volunteer your grandmother as a crossing guard.  Oh, and I should probably mention that she’s blind.
Scott A. Levin-Gesundheit ’11, Czar, Immediate Gratification Players (IGP):
FM: What’s the best prank or joke you’ve ever done as a group?
Scott: We don’t do tend to do pranks because we are nice people, but IGP is officially registered with University Hall as “Investment Government Politics,” and that’s how we put it on our resumes. Also, every member of IGP is an “analyst.”
FM: If you’re doing a show and I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
Scott: You’re not laughing? Did you walk into the wrong room? I would leave and find an IGP show.
FM: Take my advice—never...
Scott: ...Dance like no one is watching, sing like no one is listening, and love like you’ve never been hurt. Those are all really bad ideas.
Ryan P. Halprin ’12, The Guy Who Runs With a Backpack, On Thin Ice (OTI)
FM: What’s the best prank or joke you’ve ever done as a group?
Ryan: We teepeed a freshman dorm once.
FM: If you’re doing a show and I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
Ryan: If you are in the audience and not laughing and we notice, we will come get you and bring you on-stage and in front of everyone we will sing you Hall and Oates. And then five minutes later if you’re still not laughing, we’ll kindly ask you to leave.
FM: Take my advice—never...
Ryan: Eat baby carrots.
Alexandra A. Petri ‘10, Co-President, Harvard College Stand-Up Comic Society (HC SUCS)
FM: What’s the best prank or joke you’ve ever done as a group?
AAP: One time we got one of our members on the Harvard Lampoon. We got him to the comping process and now he’s a member. I guess that’s an accomplishment or whatever.
FM: If you’re doing a show and I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
AAP: Well, we usually have someone who comes and removes you with a crane, or we pelt you with rocks, or we put Pete Davis up. Pete Davis is consistently funny. One of those three things.
FM: Finish this sentence: Take my advice—never...
AAP: Never try to put more watermelons under your arm than you have arm room.
Jeremy Patashnik ’12, Amy Rosenthal ’11, and Scott H. Reed ’12, Executive Editors, Satire V
FM: What’s the best prank you’ve ever done as a group?
Satire V: The best prank I can think of recently was a while ago we printed out coupons for a free burrito and distributed them at the prefrosh activities fair. The only problem was the coupons were good at Bob Slate, so we had a whole line of prefrosh trying to get free burritos from a stationery store. They were pretty confused, and it was pretty hilarious.
FM: If I’m not laughing, what’s your back up? How do you make me laugh?
Satire V: Well, since we don’t do shows if you don’t find us funny, you can just stop reading us; we don’t have to be embarrassed in person.
FM: Take my advice—never...
Satire V: Take our advice, never take advice from comedy groups.
FM: What’s your punch line? What’s your gimmick?
Satire V: Satire V is actually “Veritas” spelled backwards. Our motto is “Holding a mirror up to the truth” and we like to think that our satire—on occasion—is more than just a cheap laugh. The underlying goal is to uncover some underlying comedic irony about this crazy world we’re living in.
Sections
Anyone who’s seen “The Donkey Show” will tell you: it’s bat-shit crazy. The concept sounds like something from the world’s campiest, most hallucinogen-happy comedy improv troupe: “Alright, darling, I want ‘A Midsummer’s Night Dream’ told in the style of ’70s disco—with roller skates, and glitter, and no pants.”
This truly is madness, but might there be method in’t? That was the question I sought to answer last Saturday as I went undercover to the latest round of auditions of “The Donkey Show.”
Now, I can’t sing, I can’t dance, and I was a bit put off by the audition notice’s requirement that I be comfortable dancing shirtless in go-go boy pants. But the course of investigative journalism never did run smooth, and so after 10 minutes of YouTube research and some Absolut confidence boosters, I felt ready to go make an ass of myself—so to speak.
I crept down the stairs to the basement of Harvard Square’s Unitarian Church, eager to partake in the rites of a different faith. For all the gaudy marvel and garish sparkle of the actual show, though, this audition was serious business: the hopefuls were stretching, all in regular dancing gear—with the exception of one young Adonis whose perfectly toned legs were well advertised between tiny shorts and sequined shoes.
We were asked for headshots and résumés. I didn’t have a headshot, and I scrawled my own pathetic résumé: “Juggling—basic skills. Dancing—a little bit in high school (a big lie) and a lot in trashy clubs (a small lie). Singing—was in a choir once.” After a moment’s hesitation, I decided not to mention my double-jointed thumb.
“Dance like nobody’s business for three hours,” we were commanded, thrown into a bustle of role play and choreographed maneuvers. I wiggled shyly at the back of the dance call but discovered with a shock that, when you’re doing the Bus Stop, the back rather quickly becomes the front.
After a few improv games, we finished off by taking turns in a Soul Train, suddenly filling an ordinary church basement with “Funky Chickens,” “Shopping Trolleys,” and dance moves unlike anything that I could respectfully name.
Then my solo arrived, my very own Soul Train moment. Harvard parties had not prepared me well for this—there was no girl’s bottom to hide behind.
What happened in those few fateful seconds, I can’t entirely remember, but I do know there were John Travoltas involved. I also know that, when I traipsed home minutes later, my hips were sore and my jeans were split. It must have been furious. And when I sashayed back to my side of the train, I might have burst with pride; my sequined-shoed mentor turned to give me a high five and an emphatic “Yeah, boy!”
My stint as a club nymph may have been short-lived, but it will remain unforgettable; I wasn’t asked to come back, of course, so I think I’ll leave to the professionals the serious business of getting silly.
Sections
After Commencement, the Class of 2010 will finally be setting off on their own, but exactly where they are going is another story. Lured to far-off lands, some seniors are going beyond American shores—from Hong Kong to Paris—to seize what the international job market has to offer.
BUILDING CONNECTIONS
Rui Lin Gao ’10, who will be working in Bain & Company’s Hong Kong office, discovered the job opportunity after interning there during the summer after her junior year.
Gao notes that Bain’s recruitment process in Hong Kong was separate from the company’s domestic e-recruiting. She heard about their summer positions her junior year through involvement with Asian student groups on campus and applied directly to their Hong Kong office. When comparing the e-recruiting interview process to the one she went through to work abroad, Gao says that though the experience was similar, the international employer was looking for certain language skills. “The only thing that was different was that they tested my Chinese,” says Gao.
Russell C. Mason ’10 had another perspective. Getting his job at Mahindra and Mahindra in Mumbai, India required a specific approach. “All domestic jobs have a very structured way of hiring,” says Mason. “With Mohindra, it had a unique style of interviewing. From there, it took a couple months of courting, and that’s much less than a standardized process.” In Mason’s experience, comparing the international process with the domestic one was much like “comparing apples to oranges.”
FINDING A FIT
During her time at Harvard, Gao has been actively involved with the Chinese Student Association and other cultural organizations. When it came time to look for a job, being able to work in China was a major plus for her. “I’m taking Chinese, I have family in China, and China’s market is growing at a very fast rate,” she says. “I would like to be a part of it.”
The consulting opportunity in Hong Kong also matched Gao’s professional interests. After becoming involved in global health and going abroad her sophomore summer, she looked to explore another field, “I think working at a non-profit as a college student made me realize my limitations in terms of how the wider world works, so I thought business was good for learning more,” says Gao.
Similarly for Lawrence D. Arbuthnott ’10, who will be working in a law firm in Paris, previous experience overseas played a factor in his job search. “I studied in France spring of junior year, but I wasn’t planning to go abroad in particular,” he says. “The offer came, and it was more luck of the draw.” Arbuthnott is interested in law and hoping that the position will give him a better sense of what he would like to do in the future.
Mason’s journey to his job has been an intrepid one. After leaving North America for the first time his freshman summer, Mason “caught the travel bug,” spending summers in South America, Asia, and a semester in Barcelona. “I loved it, and it’s just my personality and my curiosity for adventure. So when I started looking for jobs, this international component was definitely in my head,” he says. “I prioritized jobs that had international opportunities. I was applying to consulting firms and travel fellowships to go to India so this job was a perfect hybrid of everything.”
Many students like Gao also use their own connections and networks to conduct job pursuits, but Harvard is trying to do its part. With databases, informational panels, and specialized counselors, the Office of Career Services covers both international and domestic job and internship opportunities.
“All of the job search resources at OCS are global,” according to Nancy Saunders, the Associate Director of Career Services for Employer Relations and Internships. This year, Crimson Careers, the comprehensive job and internship database, has posted 250 non-domestic jobs and internships, and they’ve received over 650 applications. OCS has also purchased a new online service called “Global Global,” which provides students with more specific resources for not only jobs, but also related topics such as securing visas.
DOWN WITH THE ECONOMY
In the rough field of job searches, seniors looking to go abroad have faced similar challenges as those staying domestic. “Everyone’s having trouble, and you don’t know when you’ll actually get it. You have to be really proactive,” says Arbuthnott.
When it comes to the international stage, it’s difficult to measure the effect of the economic downturn on students’ decisions to either go abroad or stay close to home. “The changes in the economy have touched all parts of the globe with some countries experiencing unemployment rates better than, similar to, or worse than the U.S.,” says Saunders
She also adds that many Harvard students have always chosen the international option, in good economic times and bad. “International employers are the same as domestic employers in that they are seeking applicants who are committed to the organization,” she says.
And the economy doesn’t seem to have discouraged these seniors as they prepare to embark on the next part of their lives many miles away. “It’s a great chance to meet new people, get to know a different culture, and get to know a different area of the world,” says Gao.
Arbuthnott agrees. “I’m really excited. It’s a little nerve-wracking,” he says. “This is much more independent, but it’ll be something great.”
Sections
Got a bike you want to use for more than that daily trek to CGIS? Tired of perusing the same scenery between the Quad and Science Center? The Boston area features several adventurous trails and rides for all types of cyclists, and the T allows you to bring your bike aboard as long as it’s not rush hour. Take advantage of the  spring weather and unleash your inner Lance Armstrong.
Minuteman Trail
For the history buffs out there, the Minuteman Trail allows you to create your own mini-Revolutionary War reenactment. Rest assured, though, a little less will be at stake than when Paul Revere made this journey in 1775. This 11-mile path through Arlington, Lexington, and Bedford closely mirrors the route of Revere’s legendary ride. Popular with young and old alike, the flat paved walkway follows the former tracks of the since closed Lexington & West Cambridge Railroad. It’s a scenic but shaded path, with some history to complement a leisurely trip that’s accessible for casual cyclists. To avoid city biking, start the trail at the Alewife T-stop.
Dr. Paul Dudley White Bike Path: Charles River
The renowned cardiologist Dr. Paul Dudley White (Class of 1908) is memorialized with, among other things, a three-cent postage stamp, a Presidential Medal of Freedom, and this 17-mile bike trail. The local loop, a mere few blocks away from River Houses, shadows the banks of the Charles through Boston, Cambridge, Newton, and Watertown. River views are the highlight of this trip, presenting a brief escape from tall buildings and cityscapes. Green pastures and benches for relaxing line certain portions. However, riders beware—the path narrows significantly at parts, which means little room for passing and overcrowding on temperate spring days. Watch out for inanimate objects and other people as you pedal. With a safe exercise routine, your own cardiologist will be thrilled that you’re taking care of your heart.
Winthrop-Concord-Carlisle-Bedford
For more ambitious cyclists, this route is a beautiful trip through the rural outskirts of Boston. Starting out from Winthrop, Mass., the roads wind through the sweeping greenery of Carlisle, pass by the Revolutionary War sites of Minuteman National Historical Park and Concord Battle sites, and include a few moderate hills. Take a day off from studying and jump on this 44-mile round-trip from Winthrop for a Tour de Massachusetts, accessible by the Blue Line.
Sections
Two decades have passed since the release of Tim O’Brien’s “The Things They Carried,” but this Pulitzer Prize finalist has lost little of his mass appeal. On March 25, O’Brien returned to Cambridge­—he once studied in Harvard’s Ph.D. program in government—to speak in celebration of the book’s 20th anniversary. O’Brien’s speech at First Parish Church Meetinghouse elicited both laughter and tears as he discussed the lasting influence of a work written, as he said at the event, “to help readers feel something about what it was to be a foot soldier in a long-gone war in Vietnam.”
FM had the chance to ask him a few questions after his speech.
Fifteen Minutes: Having formerly worked as a journalist, why did you decide to describe your experiences in Vietnam through fiction?
Tim O’Brien: Working as a journalist, I was always tempted to lie.  I felt I could do dialogue better than the person I was interviewing. I felt I could lie better than Nixon and be more concise than some random person I was covering. It was liberating to my imagination to break out of that and to be able to make things up that, although they were invented, felt truer than the truth. These are two different things [fiction and journalism] and one makes me feel and the other leaves me kind of cold.
FM: Why do you use the format of the short story in “The Things They Carried”?
O’Brien: The world comes at me that way—comes at me in clumps of stuff, sometimes little vignettes and sometimes whole stories. And then the rest is erased by the internal filter that erases things for the same reason you’d forget swatting a mosquito. The inconsequential gets erased. I don’t think of it as a book of stories. It’s a book. It feels unified. But I did want to write discrete stories because that’s how the world has been coming at me for all these years.
FM: You were a graduate student at Harvard after you returned from overseas. What was it like being a Vietnam vet on a campus that was once so opposed to the Vietnam War?
O’Brien: I was an anonymous veteran. I didn’t mention to anybody except my best friend here that I was even in Vietnam, much less that I was a soldier in Vietnam. It wasn’t out of any shame. I just didn’t want to have anyone look at me in any way beyond what I was, which was a student here. I didn’t want to explain myself to people–not out of any motive except it’s hard, and I didn’t want to go through the labor of it all. So I stayed silent about it. It was too exhausting to talk about. You come out of a jungle and a nightmare and you come to Harvard and it’s everything you’ve dreamed about. I wanted to be part of it and not be a et.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the introduction of his latest book, “The Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right,” Atul A. Gawande writes about the double-edged nature of knowledge: it “has both saved and burdened us,” he states. Gawande goes on to write that in tasks as complex as piloting aircraft, constructing skyscrapers, and investing, even today’s most qualified professionals have made grave mistakes.
Last night, as a guest of the Harvard Writers at Work Lecture Series, Gawande questioned how these critical—but preventable—errors persist in his own field: medicine.
According to Gawande, who is currently a surgeon at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and the School of Public Health, the solution is “simple”—a checklist.
In 2006, the World Health Organization assigned Gawande what he called a “daunting” task: to reduce deaths from surgery around the globe. He began his project by distributing surgical safety checklists to eight hospitals—from impoverished clinics in New Delhi and Tanzania to leading hospitals in Seattle and London.
Gawande said that in hospitals both rich and poor, “the checklists reduced the average rate of surgical complications over three months by 36 percent.”
But regardless of the hospital, “what we struggle with day-to-day is complexity,” Gawande said to the packed audience in Fong Auditorium last night.
He added that his surgical safety checklist, which was the product of months of revision, reduces this struggle. Two of his basic “checks” include timing antibiotic injections before incision, and instructing operating team members to tell each other their names and voice their concerns before surgery.
Gawande—who is also a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine and the best-selling author of two other books: “Better: A Surgeon’s Notes On Performance” and “Complications: A Surgeon’s Notes on an Imperfect Science”—says he is a surgeon first. But he has also been distinguished for his writing.
Karen L. Heath, senior preceptor of Expository Writing, said that Gawande was “one of the first writers we considered” for Harvard Writers at Work.
“It seems like everyone is listening to what Dr. Gawande has to say...from the Obama Administration, to the editors at the New Yorker, to all of the readers of his books,” Heath said. She added that “that is why we thought it would be perfect for Dr. Gawande to speak to us.”
The lecture series—organized by the Harvard College Writing Program, the Harvard Extension School Writing Program, and Harvard Review—features authors from a wide array of professional fields and personal backgrounds.
“The hope is that students will be inspired, ask questions, and learn about these authors’ lives,” Heath said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Adam Habib, a prominent South African and Muslim scholar, spoke yesterday at Harvard Law School about ideological exclusion in one of his first speeches in the United States since the Bush administration barred him from entering the country in 2006.
The Obama administration, in an order signed in January by Secretary of State Hillary R. Clinton, decided to lift the ban on Habib and a number of other scholars who were excluded for similar “national security reasons.” Since receiving his visa in mid-March and making his first return trip to the U.S., Habib has now spoken several times about his allegedly being barred from the country for political reasons.
“We are thrilled today to be able to celebrate a victory,” said Sarah Wunsch, a staff attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, which co-sponsored the event.
In October 2006, Habib traveled to the United States to attend a series of meetings but was detained at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport. Habib said he was questioned for over five hours and was asked “have you ever been a terrorist?” to which he answered, “how long have you been doing this job? Has anyone ever answered ‘yes’?”
Habib was eventually sent back to South Africa. His wife’s and children’s visas were also revoked several months later.
Habib was not told why he had been deported, but he said he suspected it was because he had vocally protested the war in Iraq and the Bush administration’s policies. The government later denied his reapplication for a visa, citing unspecified alleged “engagement in terrorist activities,” according to Habib.
Melissa Goodman, a staff attorney in the ACLU’s National Security Program, took on Habib’s case and filed a lawsuit on behalf of the American organizations that had invited Habib to speak. U.S. citizens have a legal right to talk to foreign scholars unless there is a “facially legitimate and bona fide reason” for the scholar to be prohibited from entering the country, according to Goodman.
Though Goodman said it is acceptable for non-citizens to be barred for dangerous or threatening activity, she said they should not be barred for speech nor required to undergo “an ideological litmus test at the border.”
Habib said he pursued legal action with the ACLU in part because he considers the United States a second home. Habib received his Ph.D. from the City University of New York and had visited the United States without incident many times before and after 9/11.
“This is where memories were made,” Habib said. “This is where my son was conceived, and where I played with the ducks in Central Park.”
Habib also said he persisted with the case because he believes that “this is the kind of struggle we will be confronted with in the future.”
“It was a struggle of the future, a struggle to establish a precedent for global engagement,” Habib added.
—Staff writer Zoe A.Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The line snaking out of the Annenberg dish return room during Tuesday’s breakfast rush was like that on any other day, with one exception—no green trays.
This semester, freshmen have participated in “Trayless Tuesday Breakfast,” part of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Resource Efficiency Program’s Green ’13 initiative.
Over the past few years, schools across the country—including Middlebury College and the University of Connecticut—have at least partially adopted trayless dining plans. These programs are meant to reduce both food waste and water waste from washing trays as students are forced to make more selective choices without a tray, according to Isabella A. Wechsler ’13, a Green ’13 representative.
During these breakfasts, there has most likely been a small decline in water and food waste, according to Harvard University Dining Services spokeswoman Crista Martin, though she noted there are no documented numbers. Green ’13 representative Anne M. Baldwin ’13 said the program’s next step is to measure food waste over the coming month.
Annenberg’s program is part of a larger movement at Harvard, including Quincy House’s month-long pilot “Trayless Thursdays” initiative in 2008 and Adams House’s current trayless Saturday lunches. But HUDS Executive Director Ted Mayer said that going trayless comes with its own set of problems, making it difficult and perhaps counterproductive to institutionalize these changes.
Many students with disabilities, as well as tutors and proctors with small children, need to use trays, according to Mayer.
The physical set-up of many of the dining hall dish returns also inhibits trayless dining, Wechsler said. The conveyor belt in Annenberg as well as many House dining halls are specifically designed to fit trays. Without monitoring, individual plates can get caught and break the belts.
To combat this problem, many houses have put trays by the belts to aid students who choose to go trayless. This Tuesday in Annenberg, a HUDS worker was stationed by the belt to prevent problems, but Wechsler said that Green '13 would not be able to use HUDS workers in this way if it wanted to continue the program next year.
Student response to the initiative has varied, but many said that trayless dining has not impacted their decision to use trays at other meals. Samantha L. Pickette ’13 said she still prefers to use trays because she has trouble having to go back to get drinks and silverware.
But REP member Kurt Tsuo ’11 noted another non-environmental benefit to trayless dining.
“It’s less institutional,” Tsuo said. “It’s a more homey feel.”
–Staff writer Stephanie B. Garlock can be reached at sgarlock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an effort to better predict class sizes each semester, College administrators are hoping to implement new course planning requirements for undergraduates next year.
If the plan goes ahead, students will be required to update a non-binding course planning tool before the start of each semester. This information will then be used by teaching fellows, professors, and administrators to more accurately predict important numbers such as class size and number of teaching staff to hire, according to Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris.
Harris said this new program will likely be launched in November to collect preliminary information about course preferences for the upcoming spring. The online application will be a simpler and more “refined” version of the online submission form used by sophomores this year for their concentration plans of study, said Harris.
The change is due in part to difficulties administrators have recently encountered in estimating enrollment for new General Education courses.
“We have lots of [new] courses with no history to guide predictions,” Harris said.
Inaccuracies in pre-semester estimates can leave courses short-staffed and scrambling to find appropriately sized meeting locations.
“The biggest problem is we end up hiring a large percentage of our TFs after the course has begun,” said Harris. “That just wastes money and makes for bad pedagogy.”
For example, Historical Study A-87: “Madness and Medicine,” a Core course that also counts for Gen Ed credit, ended up with 200 more students enrolled this semester than the course heads had planned for, according to Head Teaching Fellow Christopher J. Phillips.
“We had 14 unexpected [sections] and that can be very difficult to deal with in the first week of the course,” he said.
While the class was eventually able to hire additional TFs, Phillips said it would have been useful to have more information about how many students planned on enrolling from the beginning.
Others, including Undergraduate Council President Johnny F. Bowman ’11, have pointed to the benefits of this new process for students.
“[It will] force students to look ahead every term,” said Harry R. Lewis ’68, a member of the Faculty Council and former Dean of the College. Currently, students are given a week to “shop” classes before officially submitting their schedule for the semester.
Administrators stressed that the process is not pre-registration—a term which usually implies a binding commitment to a set of classes before the start of the semester. With this new program, students will still be free to change their study card before submitting it at the end of shopping week.
In 2002, then-Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences William C. Kirby pushed to implement a pre-registration process in which students submitted their study cards for classes in the preceding semester. But the proposal was met with fierce opposition from students and faculty and was eventually dropped.
“I think this course planning tool is a much less disruptive solution than pre-registration would be,” Lewis said.
—Melody Y. Hu can be reached at melodyhu@fas.harvard.edu.
—Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three pairs of House masters will be leaving Harvard this summer—taking with them 35 years of combined experience—but those remaining say they are confident that their collective performance will not be dramatically hindered by the departures.
Tempering the loss of these six Masters—hailing from Cabot, Eliot, and Mather Houses—is the shared knowledge retained by the remaining leaders, 10 of whom will have served for at least 10 years when the next academic year begins.
Of the departing three, Mather House Masters Sandra F. Naddaff ’75 and Leigh G. Hafrey ’73 have led the pack with 18 years of experience, bestowing upon them the reputation of being a “great source of wisdom,” according to Leverett House Master Howard M. Georgi ’68. Due to her seniority, Naddaff has led the docket committee that sets the agenda for the College’s monthly meetings of House Masters.
“Sandra and Leigh do have a lot of accumulated institutional knowledge, and she uses that to very good means in our meetings and the policies that we follow. So it’s going to be a loss to see her go,” said Quincy House Master Lee Gehrke. “At the same time, there are other Masters who have significant experience too.”
Due to the recent economic crisis and the changes that have taken place in the College administration over the last 10 years, having experience beyond the last decade is not as critical, Adams House Master John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67 said. The Masters have recently had to tackle a host of issues such as budget cuts and imminent House renewal that were nonexistent 18 years ago.
But Palfrey said that when considering the effect of the Masters’ departure, the combination of personality and perspective in the outgoing Masters—including Cabot House Masters Jay M. Harris and Cheryl L. Harris and Eliot House Masters Lino Pertile and Anna Bensted—trumps the number of years they have under their belt.
“They are people who really are wonderful, and we will miss their presence among us,” Palfrey said. “It is less related to their longevity than the type of people that they are.”
Georgi and Lowell House Master Diana L. Eck—who, along with their partners, will lead the remaining cadre in terms of years of experience—said that while the looming departures may not have a tangible effect on the group, the loss of the outgoing House Masters’ experiences will have an impact.
“That does leave a bit of a vacuum, and we will all try to pick up our part as best we can,” Eck said.
“We’ll all have to work harder to make up for her loss,” Georgi said.
But several Masters said they agreed that the appointees will bring new ideas and energy to the table.
“You don’t want to hire just a bunch of old Masters who are fuddy-duddies who will do what has been done before,” Palfrey said. “You want to hire people who will say, ‘This is what we can do with this system.’”
Moreover, Gehrke said that the “infusion of fresh ideas” will be complemented by the institutional experience of the other Masters.
“I think the remaining Masters will not hesitate to remind them of the way it used to be,” Gehrke said. “So I think they’ll be brought up to speed on the learning curve.”
—Staff writer Danielle J. Kolin can be reached at dkolin@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the mind of a romantic, the consummate library houses endless rows of stacks that have acquired the thick, musty odor of quaint history. The towering shelves are lined with all the books in the world, creating a kaleidoscope of color and subject matters.
But such an idealized vision does not reflect the complex reality of Harvard University Library, a sprawling system whose growth has been challenged by financial and space constraints. In the words of University Provost Steven E. Hyman, Harvard’s library system is “labyrinthine”: there are 73 libraries, which manage over 16 million volumes with the help of a staff of approximately 1,200 and a combined operating budget of nearly $160 million.
And yet, with the University constantly aiming to expand its holdings, the Cambridge campus has found itself running low on open shelf space.
In anticipation of this problem, the University finished in 1986 construction of the Harvard Depository, a mysterious storage facility in a publicly undisclosed location 30 miles from campus where large tracts of land are less expensive than in Cambridge. While the facility was originally intended to store Harvard’s least-used volumes, it is now home to 45 percent of Harvard’s collections. David Lamberth, chair of the Library Implementation Work Group, calls it a “precise warehouse” for which the term “library” would prove inaccurate.
Now, with Harvard considering sweeping restructuring of its library system and reexamining its capacity for expansion, the University may be forced to rely even more heavily on less tangible means of  materials collection—including at off-campus sites such as the Depository. With shelf space running dry in Cambridge, the Depository is a critical component of Harvard’s vision of the modern library, whose holdings are first found online rather than on the shelves themselves.
While the facility may not offer patrons the physical immediacy of resources that defines a navigable library like Widener, it does provide the University with cheap and efficient storage for its overwhelming collections.
“The digital revolution has fundamentally changed the way human beings collect and disseminate information,” Hyman said in a task force statement. “As we build upon Harvard’s outstanding collection, we must envision what the library of the 21st century should be.”
MANAGING A “LABYRINTHINE” SYSTEM
In November, a task force charged with examining Harvard’s libraries released its final report critiquing the overly ambitious scope of the system’s collection strategy. The libraries, the report stated, could “no longer harbor delusions of being a completely comprehensive collection.”
Infamous for its convoluted administrative structure, Harvard’s ring of 73 libraries operates under varying data systems, redundant collection habits, poor interlibrary communication, and no clear chain of command.
A focal concern is that the libraries can no longer maintain physical ownership of their expanding collections. Given the on-campus space constraints and the skyrocketing costs of many journals, the task force report recommends that the libraries de-emphasize accumulating physical collections in favor of simply offering patrons digital access to resources.
Such a move could be implemented through online services, collaboration with neighboring institutions, and—in a compromise between ownership and accessibility—expansion of the Depository itself.
‘AN INDUSTRIAL OPERATION’
Like an industrial facility, all aspects of the Depository are geared toward maximizing the efficiency of its operations.
The Depository has concrete floors, orange warning stripes to guide the forklifts, and 30-foot high shelves. Books are stored in shelves of complementary size to ensure the most efficient use of space. Even the floors are expertly designed to be completely level so that the forklifts do not lean against the shelving.
Visitors are not welcome—on average, only 15 come per year, and they are there to observe the facility rather than to take out any books, according to Assistant Director of the Depository Thomas E. Schneiter. Even professors who request to visit the Depository for research purposes are denied access.
There are no librarians on the premises—only staff workers trained in the art of promoting efficiency and preservation. Outside the secured, airtight doors of the storage room, Depository staffer Steve Bertino monitors the facility through a completely computerized system.
“It really is an industrial operation,” Schneiter said. “Our product just happens to be books.”
When a student requests a book from the Depository on the Hollis Web site, the text’s barcode is placed on a list that is passed on to one of the 23 Depository staffers.
The staffer steers a forklift toward the proper aisle in the module—a set of four to six aisles—and rises up to the appropriate shelf to pull out the specified book from a cardboard tray that resembles an open shoebox. Books are stored in 50-degree temperature and 35 percent humidity—climate specifications that prolong the life of books, according to leading preservationists.
Schneiter said that storing a book in the Depository is akin to placing it in a time machine: the book will endure 250 years with no deterioration.
“As far as books are concerned, it’s still 1995,” Schneiter said as he stood inside a particular module.
After books are collected and placed on a tray, they are brought to the main room to be scanned, grouped with other books heading for the campus, and loaded into one of the three delivery vans.
If a student requests a book from the Depository before 6:45 a.m., the book will be waiting for the student to claim that same afternoon—and the individual may have done as little as making a few clicks.
REFORMING THE DEPOSITORY
The Depository has represented a bittersweet solution for the constraints facing the Harvard library system.
The facility, which serves as a model for over 80 similar projects around the world, ensures an efficient, fail-proof way to store and distribute books. Only two Depository books have been misplaced in the history of the facility, according to Schneiter.
The Depository was designed as a low-use facility that would house the University’s esoteric and unused holdings—dubbed “dormant.”
But by the 1990s, Widener Library reached its capacity limit, forcing the University library system to send out resources of higher circulation than usual to the Depository. The facility now welcomes 500,000 new books every year, and as many as 1,600 are circulated out a day.
Indeed, the Depository has bloomed into a structure that outsizes its original model, and now the University is working to reconcile the facility’s purpose with Harvard’s recent structural revamping of the library system.
The Depository’s financing was not created with the expectation of the high circulation that it now faces. Member libraries pay for storage in an inefficient client-based business model, in which a book’s owner—a particular school within the University—pays for all of the costs associated with the item, even if the beneficiary is affiliated with another unit.
For example, if a College student who requests a book deposited by Harvard Medical School, HMS pays the $2.15 fee associated with the book’s circulation.
“The current model combines disincentives to storing materials at [Harvard Depository] with procedures that punish the most generous providers of materials,” the task force report states.
The report, which makes a critical assessment of the Depository, presents a series of reforms for the once state-of-the-art facility to better align it with the University’s current library system.
The proposals include the construction of a new, more accessible facility that could sustain 50 years of collection expansion. The new building would allow the current structure to serve its intended purpose of a minimally-circulating, “dormant” storage facility.
The task force also recommends an administrative change in which the school affiliated with the requester pays for the delivery rather than the book owner.
THE CROWN JEWEL OF HARVARD
In the final scene of Raiders of the Lost Ark, the holy tabernacle is laid to rest in a government warehouse, boxed up and stacked in a sea of unidentifiable cardboard boxes. As Peter Kosewski, communications director for the University libraries, likes to say, the Depository is not so different.
Like the lost relic, the books in the Depository are out of sight and distanced from their readers—but perhaps this is the future of libraries in a time of expanding resources, limited space, and changing methods of delivering information.
Harvard’s library collection has grown increasingly reliant on the Depository, an often overlooked component of a world-renowned library system that has been vaunted as the symbol of Harvard’s prestige and intellectual prowess.
“It isn’t simply one of the jewels in the crown of Harvard,” said Jeffrey F. Hamburger, professor of German art and architecture and the chair of a FAS advisory committee that represents the faculty’s library concerns, of Harvard’s evolving library system. “You could say that it is the crown.”
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School student Saeeq Shajjan came to the United States seeking an education that would allow him to make a tangible difference in his home country of Afghanistan.
The same is true for Adela Raz, a masters student at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, who says she hopes that her studies in the United States will provide her with a fresh perspective on how to change policies in her native Afghanistan.
Mariam Jalalzada, also a Fletcher School student, harbors ambitious goals as well—she says she hopes to use the skills learned at Tufts to form an educational institute for Afghan women.
Yet during much of their time as students in the Boston area, they found few opportunities to discuss contemporary issues surrounding Afghanistan with their fellow countrymen and women. The Afghan student population in Boston is small—Harvard currently enrolls only two Afghan students at the Harvard Kennedy School and two at the Law School.
But the formation of The Afghan Students Initiative at the Kennedy School last October has created a small but passionate community allowing these individuals to share their concerns about their homeland, students say.
“Before ASI, there was no formal organization where we could bring together Afghan students,” Jalalzada says. “This was the first time we all came together.”
NEW GROUP, NEW PERSPECTIVES
The Afghan Students Initiative was the brainchild of Nathaniel Y. Walton, the program’s current project manager, and Jasteena Dhillon, an associate fellow at Harvard Kennedy School’s Carr Center for Human Rights Policy. The two say they originally aimed to further the discussion on Afghanistan as the United States’ involvement in the region continues.
“The idea was to bring Afghan voices to the debate about Afghanistan,” Walton says. “We thought it would be really important to tap into the great resource of Afghan students here in Boston.”
During its first few meetings, the group identified some specific goals concerning foreign policy and human rights issues.
Dhillon says she viewed the founding of the Afghan Students Initiative as a new opportunity to open up a dialogue on these subjects.
Already active in the Carr Center’s State Building and Human Rights program, which focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan, Dhillon says she sought to utilize the group to promote Afghan students’ involvement in the foreign policy debate.
The group plans to respond actively to policymakers and interest groups discussing issues in Afghanistan.
In addition, Walton says, the group seeks to publish a journal that will consist of essays addressing the future of Afghanistan as well as its position within diplomatic discussions.
“With all the attention that Afghanistan is getting within the United States, [and] as a fellow in the program, I thought that [the Afghan Students Initiative] would be a great way to provide space and support for the students,” Dhillon says.
THE VOICES OF CHANGE
Students in the Afghan Students Initiative say that joining the group has exposed them to a variety of new viewpoints on the issues that they care about most.
“We have students from so many different backgrounds looking at [their] country from different perspectives,” Jalalzada says. “I think everyone who has an opinion is valuable.”
In order to more effectively foster dialogue and debate, the Afghan Students Initiative has hosted guest speakers at all of its meetings. These lectures included discussions of current research on Afghan affairs by Carr Center fellows such as David Mansfield, Michael Semple, and Paul D. Fishstein.
More recently, however, the group has welcomed Afghan scholars. One of the most notable speakers to address the group was Ahmad Nader Nadery, a commissioner in the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission.
“Our goal is to engage in dialogues with [the speakers] to make them sure of what Afghan thinking really is,” says Shajjan, emphasizing the mutual exchange of ideas between the students and their guests.
Arthur N. Pont, another fellow involved with the State Building and Human Rights program who spoke at a meeting, says that he enjoyed his conversations on current events with the Afghan students.
“Speaking with the students provides for a much richer and more grounded debate about the issues in Afghanistan,” Pont says. “[The students] have definitely been a benefit to those fellows that have met with them.”
A PROMISING FUTURE
Many members of the Afghan Students Initiative mention plans to return to Afghanistan after their stints in American universities.
Shajjan says he expects to go back home this coming June after he graduates from the Law School, with the hope of finding a job in the Afghan government where he can champion human rights issues.
Though Jalalzada says she is unsure when she will return to Afghanistan, she has focused her studies on economic development and says she is also “very interested” in issues affecting Afghan women.
“My ultimate goal is to create an institution where women would come and learn skills that would earn and generate income for them,” Jalalzada says.
While she has long been passionate about women’s issues in the county, Jalalzada says that being involved with the Afghan Students Initiative has refined her aspirations.
The group has exposed her to different ways of thinking, she says, giving her new ideas on how to accomplish her goals.
Raz says she has left her future prospects more open, but adds that she believes in the potential of the group’s members as they enter their future careers.
“[The Afghan Students Initiative] helps to shape our vision for the future of Afghanistan,” Raz says. “It encourages me about the future of our country because I have a hope that these students will make a change for Afghanistan.”
These ambitions are typical of the students who participate in the Afghan Students Initiative, Dhillon says.
“These students are bringing knowledge to the development of Afghanistan, not force,” Dhillon says. “They are highly motivated, highly educated young Afghans who want to try to use their experiences in a positive way to move forward into the future.”
—Staff writer Andrew Z. Lorey can be reached at alorey@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 3, 2010
An earlier version of the April 1 news article "Afghan Students Join HKS Group" incorrectly stated that Harvard Law School currently enrolls only one Afghan student. In fact, there are currently two Afghan students at HLS, according to HLS student Saeeq Shajjan.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Class of 2011’s “Junior 24”—the first 24 members of the Class to be elected to Harvard’s chapter of Phi Beta Kappa—were announced yesterday.
A selection committee for Harvard’s branch of the national honor society reviewed undergraduates’ grade point averages and then invited high-ranking students to apply for induction. The application includes two letters of recommendation from students’ professors.
The new inductees represent a range of Houses and concentrations. Six of the students reside in Winthrop House, three study Social Studies, and three others concentrate in Economics.
While none of the students interviewed for this story were willing to reveal their GPA, the group contains some of Harvard’s most studious and academically motivated undergraduates.
“When I was growing up, as a kid, my dad...always encouraged me to get 100s in high school,” Christopher W. Higgins ’11 said.
Another inductee, Sophie Cai ’11, a chemical and physical biology concentrator, will spend her summer researching retinal regeneration, which she has been doing since her freshman year.
New inductees articulated slightly different philosophies that they said contributed to their earning of the recognition.
“I find it very difficult to sit in a class and not know what’s going on to a very deep extent,” said Jerry L. Kung ’11, an applied mathematics concentrator. “I try to take classes that interest me. I think that’s the major reason I’ve been able to motivate myself.”
Kung’s brother, John K. Lai ’05, was also elected as a member of the Junior 24 when he was at Harvard.
Lila G. Brown ’11, an environmental science and public policy concentrator, said that while she was excited about the honor—she said she called her mother—in the end, the academic distinction has a limited value.
“My perspective is—this might be a little meta—it’s just a label,” Brown said. “It’s really exciting. But it means very little about who I am as a person.”
Every year, 24 students are inducted into the society in the second semester of their junior year. Forty-eight more are chosen in November of their senior year, and about 90 more are elected just before graduation.
The twenty-four students named Phi Beta Kappa yesterday are Nicholas O. Bodnar, Lila G. Brown, Sophie Cai, Edith Y. Chan, Marco Chan, Ama R. Francis, Anne L. Goetz, Nell S. Hawley, Meng Xiao He, Taylor J. Helgren, Christopher W. Higgins, Darius S. Imregun, Sundeep S. Iyer, Eli J. Jacobs, Alexander S. Karadjian, Jerry L. Kung, Iya Megre, Arjun R. Ramamurti, Marsha Sukach, Pramod Thammaiah, Arnav Tripathy, Rui Wang, Allen Yang, and Helen H. Yang.
—Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Public School Committee met informally on Tuesday to identify key problems affecting public schools and their potential remedies, and concluded that student achievement was the top priority in both the short- and long-term.
Specifically, Committee members said they would aim to close the race-based achievement gap and to raise expectations for all students.
Members also acknowledged the importance of other pressing issues such as the upcoming school assignment process, which usually assigns students to specific schools based on preference. But mandatory assignments, which are used when preferences cannot be fully accommodated, will take place this year, according to Committee Member Alice L. Turkel.
Turkel said that while school assignments are salient because they affect schools and the community in the immediate future, student achievement is an issue that should not be neglected either.
Committee Member Marc C. McGovern echoed Turkel’s sentiments, noting that it is necessary to focus directly on achievement instead of giving exclusive attention to “hot-button” issues such as school assignment.
According to Turkel, while no consensus was reached on how to specifically tackle the problem of achievement, the Committee members established an outline titled “Culture Change for High Expectations.” The outline will be expanded and discussed by McGovern, Cambridge Mayor David P. Maher, and Superintendent Jeffrey M. Young at the Committee’s upcoming meeting in May.
—Rediet T. Abebe
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard-Duke lacrosse game this Friday not only represents the meeting of two lacrosse and academic powerhouses, but it also marks the latest installment in the budding Ivy League-ACC rivalry.
Yes, the Ivy League-ACC rivalry.
While the competition between the two conferences may be largely limited to lacrosse—though don’t forget the Crimson’s recent success against Boston College in men’s basketball and men's soccer, it’s nothing short of the SEC-Big 12 college football rivalry in intrigue and intensity.
Last year, Cornell discarded then-No. 5 Virginia in last year’s national lacrosse semifinal, 15-6. Virginia returned the favor two weeks ago when the Cavaliers traveled to Ithaca and embarrassed the Big Red, 12-4.
That same week, North Carolina traveled to Princeton and came out on the winning side of a 12-11 nail-biter.
And who can forget Harvard coming out in its 2009 season opener and dumping then-No. 5 Duke in Durham, 9-5.
All four ACC teams, including North Carolina and Virginia—the nation’s only remaining undefeated teams—and five out of the seven Ivy League teams were in the most recent Inside Lacrosse Top 20 poll.
Overall, the Ivy League is 31-13 in nonconference play this season while the ACC is a staggering 28-1.
With nearly half of the nation’s best lacrosse teams coming from these two conferences, expect the Ivy League-ACC classics to continue for some time.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Spring break is a cherished memory of the seemingly distant past, remembered as a time when one had the chance to take a break from work and escape from the Harvard bubble to warmer climates. Yet, for the Radcliffe Rugby Football Club, the direction of travel wasn’t south, but rather, east.
Its final destination? Ireland.
The members of the women’s club rugby team journeyed across the Atlantic Ocean to spend eight days in the Emerald Isle, where they tested their skills against international competition, tried the local cuisine, and saw historical sites and cultural events.
The respected Radcliffe squad boasts an undefeated regular season and postseason, but barely missed a bid to nationals. On its trip, it stepped into the global playing field and participated in a friendly match against St. Mary’s Rugby Football Club, a team based near Dublin. The game served as a great opportunity for the athletes to learn new tactics from their international opponents.
“The game was a lot more dynamic,” freshman scrum-half Kellie Desrochers said.  “It helped us to practice defending against a different playing style.”
Harvard also took some time off the field to act as observers, cheering on Ireland to a victory in its match against Wales in the international Six Nations Rugby Tournament.
A large component of the trip involved exploring the country away from the rugby pitch, whether it was seeing sites such as Kilmainham Jaol, Trinity College, Christ’s Church Cathedral, and Malahide Castle, attending a play at Gates Theater and an Irish music festival, or watching the parade in Dublin on St. Patrick’s Day.
“The rugby team is a huge family,” Desrochers said. “It was great being able to share this experience with them. It’s a spring break I’m always going to remember.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At a place as historic and stuck in its ways like Harvard, traditions don’t often fade in and out of existence, never mind re-emerge after a more than sixty-year absence.
But when the Harvard men’s heavyweight crew travels to Ithaca, N.Y., this coming Saturday to open up its sprint season against Cornell, that is exactly what will happen.
Prior to 1946, the Crimson would meet the Big Red each season in dual competition. With the introduction of the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges (EARC) Sprints, the annual race was discontinued.
Not this year.
“[Cornell] wanted to add a race against another Ivy League school,” Harvard coach Harry Parker said. “And, it worked out well for us because of the new calendar and wanting to get in another race with the extra weekend we have.”
The Big Red’s varsity boat placed fourth at last year’s Sprints and had a competitive showing at the Intercollegiate Rowing Association (IRA) Regatta. Cornell should be excited to catch a glimpse of Harvard weeks before the Sprints because the Crimson consistently places in the top three crews at the championships each season.
Last year’s varsity eight went undefeated in dual competition, placed second at Sprints and placed fifth at the IRA Regatta.
For a Harvard squad powered primarily by young oarsmen, this additional race is an important step in finding speed early.
The Crimson varsity eight returns only three rowers from last season’s line-up, including captain Blake Pucsek, junior Anthony Locke, and junior David Wakulich. The remaining seats are filled out by five sophomores—Pat Lapage, Matt Edstein, Mike DiSanto, Nick Jordan and Sam O’Connor. Senior coxswain Kelly Evans brings much-needed experience to the boat, and will steer the varsity down the 2,000-meter course at Cayuga Inlet on Saturday.
“The varsity is young,” Parker said. “[But] they have trained hard and have made some very good progress technically with their rowing. I didn’t anticipate that there would be quite so many [sophomores], but they all have certainly earned the opportunity.”
Harvard will bring several eights to race against the Big Red, including a junior varsity and third varsity composed of seasoned veterans. After a winter of indoor training on the ergs for the Crimson rookies, the freshman eight is also poised to perform well in Ithaca.
“There is a pretty good mix of some experienced seniors throughout the squad and now a particularly strong sophomore class,” Parker said. “The crews have only been together a couple of days but they are already working well together.”
Like their heavyweight counterparts, the Harvard lightweight men’s team opens their sprint season this Saturday with a new addition to its schedule—a race at home against Delaware.
The Crimson squad showcases a lot of depth this season, returning six athletes from last year’s varsity eight and a strong class of sophomores. Line-ups are still being sorted out for this weekend, a testament to the talent on the team.
“There are a lot of guys that I could see being great candidates for the varsity boat,” captain Martin Eiermann said. “Unfortunately, this means that we have to do a lot of narrowing down, and we’re still in the process of doing that and testing out the different combinations. The intensity of competition within the team is very high but it’s not detrimental to the overall team environment.”
The Fightin’ Blue Hens are not generally top competition for teams in the EARC. But Delaware returns five rowers from the boat that won the Dad Vail Regatta last year and is anxious to make waves in early season action against an EARC-boat in Harvard.
“Yes, Delaware is not the opponent that we expect to be the fastest,” Eiermann said. “But I think that we’ve been very clear about the fact that we can’t underestimate them. You know, we can’t really say yet where we stand exactly, so this is going to be a good way to sort of test the waters.”
In addition to a strong varsity squad, the Crimson will field a freshman eight that has been rowing in a set line-up for a few months. The rookies had strong finishes during the fall racing season, including a victory at the Princeton Chase.
“The freshmen are quick,” Eiermann said. “Looking at how they did this past fall and how hard they have been working through the winter, I think they are set up well for this season. The sky is the limit.”
—Staff writer Jessica L. Flakne can be reached at jflakne@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Mannings have football.  The Molinas have baseball.
For the Oshimas, judo is the family business.
Last year, Michael Oshima ’09 won the NCJA Collegiate National Championship in the Senior Men’s 90 kg category. His younger brother, Daniel Oshima, then a junior, took second place in the Senior Men’s 73 kg.
Earlier last month, Daniel earned victory in the same weight division, giving Harvard—and the Oshima family—back-to-back national championships.
“For me, it’s great to be able to repeat from what my brother did last year,” Daniel said.
He also won the Outstanding Male Competitor honor at the tournament, and single-handedly led Harvard to a third-place finish in the Senior Men final team standings.
“The coolest moment was when the Harvard men’s team overall took third place,” Daniel commented. “Harvard is the third best college team in the nation right now, but we only had two competitors … Other colleges will bring as many as 20 or 30 people.”
But the Oshima legacy extends beyond its two consecutive national collegiate titles.
Michael started the mixed martial arts and self-defense clubs here on campus, giving students an opportunity to practice judo. They trained at the same Somerville gym that they have since their childhood.
And their father is their coach.
“I’ve been coaching them since they were eight years old, so I have that role completely separate in my life,” said Harold Oshima, who runs the nearby gym. “I’m just a coach. Sometimes I have to remind myself that I’m a father too.”
Given the closeness in age and clear overlap in athletic interest, Michael and Daniel have trained together for most of their judo careers.
And like any siblings together in sports, they cannot help but compete with one another.
“They’re very competitive,” Harold said. “Fortunately, we were always able to keep them in separate weight groups, and they never had to compete directly against each other, but they are extremely competitive.”
The coach briefly paused.
“I mean, there is no fear of violent death … but they go at each other,” Harold said.
Still, he says that the brothers, who are registered coaches, are willing to help each other out.
“[Daniel is] definitely a motivating force; he’s a great coach, and he’s coached me very well during my fights,” said sophomore Amaury Berzin, who took third place in the Novice Men’s 81 kg at the national collegiate tournament and currently trains with the younger Oshima brother.
Berzin also commented that Daniel coaches by example, particularly in his winning performance at the college championships.
“Dan, [in the championship fight] for the gold medal, fought a very good competitor, one who had been fighting flawlessly and was definitely one of the best competitors there,” Berzin observed. “[Daniel] knew exactly what was happening, and was in full control of the match.”
Harold noted that Daniel was largely motivated by his runner-up finish last year.
“This was his last chance,” the coach said. “He was really upset last year, but everything worked out.”
As with every tournament they compete in, Harold travelled with Daniel and Berzin to last month’s tournament at Texas A&M.
After the two Harvard competitors made weight, the three went out to dinner together.
“[Daniel] ate all but six ounces of a 48 ounce steak,” the coach said chuckling. “Of course, he was in Texas—that was the place to do it.”
The close of the national championships in the Lone Star State marks the end of Oshima representation for Harvard in judo.
Much of the focus for Daniel has turned to his future and the family’s legacy on Harvard judo.
“Our [family’s] goal is really to solidify the club so judo can persist after we leave,” he said. “We tried to just raise awareness that judo is out there, and if you want to be able to compete at a national level … you can do all that by joining the judo club.”
Harold believes that judo, which he refers to as “one of the most widely practiced sports in the world,” will one day gain greater traction at Harvard. Berzin shares his optimism, noting that there are a number of underclassmen and potential future freshman who would be interested.
The Harvard club team will continue training at the same gym, even after the Oshimas are gone.
“At the Oshima dojo, it’s a place where there’s a family atmosphere,” Berzin said. “I can improve every week that I go there.”
As for Daniel’s own future, he plans to continue participating in judo in some capacity after he graduates, though he concedes that the level of involvement will depend on his job and where he his living.
Judo is an Olympic sport, and like any athlete who participates in such a sport, the Games would be the pinnacle of his career and athletic achievement.
“It’s really difficult to train for the Olympics and have a full-time job, but the Olympics would be amazing if I could ever get there,” Daniel said. “There are a few more people I’d have to beat before I’d have a spot on the team.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you find out this afternoon that you didn’t get into Harvard, blame it on the weather.
A recent Canadian study has indicated that medical school applicants who had their interviews on rainy days received lower evaluations from their interviewers than those who interviewed on a sunny day, according to Book of Odds.
The study said that interviews “are prone to subconscious biases from extraneous factors unrelated to the candidate.” (These researchers know what they’re talking about since they hail from Toronto, which averages at 145 rainy days a year.)
Another study conducted at University of Pennsylvania in 2006 yielded similar results. They concluded that an applicant who has an interview on a sunny day will have a higher predicted probability of being admitted.
If you’ve been paying attention in Psych, you know this could be attributed to interviewers’ misinterpretation of core affect, or what Freud would call a “projection bias.” When admission officers feel gloomy on a rainy day, they are more likely to interpret the gloominess as an indication of an unimpressive application.
In an interesting twist, cloud cover during a college visit makes it more likely that a student will choose the school.
So for your sake, Bill Fitzsimmons, we hope prefrosh weekend is full of clouds.
Photo by Joseph L. Abel, Crimson Staff Photographer.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 2, 2010
An earlier version of the April 1 post "Decision Day 2010: Let's Hope It Was Sunny" incorrectly stated that according to a recent Canadian study, students who visit or tour a school on a sunny day are more likely to choose the school than if they had toured on a cloudy day. In fact, the study states that cloud cover makes it more likely that the student will choose the school.
Sections
It's 5 p.m. It is time to jump on Facebook and see who has been been accepted to Fair Harvard from your high school.
Sections
Remember that transcendent moment when you opened that e-mail titled “Your application to  Harvard College”? The sensation you felt after reading the first sentence? And  then having to read it again?
Today the class of 2014 received the joyous news about their triumph against all odds,  joining a group of 2,110 prospective students who were admitted at a historically  low acceptance rate of 6.9 percent.
Here are some admissions stories from students who remember that sepia-toned day.
Adam M. Butensky '13 was in Israel with his classmates when he got a fateful phone call. “I actually thought it  was a prank," he said. "So I told this admissions officer to "stop [expletive] with me.” The admissions officer, who was undoubtedly prepared for such  naughty language, politely assured Butensky that he was indeed not being [expletive]  with." Butensky told us that he "was just amazed that they somehow got my Israeli phone number," since he was using an international phone. "But yeah," he said, "that's how I found out I  was admitted."
Lavinia R. Mitroi '12 had a slightly more PG story. “When I saw the e-mail I sort of gasped,” she said. “I then called my  parents, who then proceeded to tell the waiter at whatever place they were eating  at that I had gotten in.”
Arturo Cuevas '12 defeated all of mathematics with his Harvard admission. “I was at calculus tutoring after school,” he  said. “My mom (who doesn't speak English very well) had access to my college e-mail  and called me to ask what that e-mail meant.” After Cuevas realized just what the  e-mail meant, he came to an even more powerful realization. As his teacher continued to solve integrals on the board, Cuevas decided that as a Harvard admit, he should be the one doing the tutoring, not getting tutored. So he got up and left. "I didn't go to tutoring for the rest of  the semester," he said.
Anthony A. Pino '10 had a story that was full of mystery, action, and intrigue. “I waited all day for  the e-mail from Admissions as my friends all heard back,” he said. “Finally, that night, I found it buried in the spam  folder.”
For one anonymous Harvardian, getting into Harvard was something of a curse. “As a Boston-area native from a  Harvard-favored public school, not only was I not ecstatic about my admission, I was  actually depressed that I hadn't gotten into other schools that would finally  allow me to leave Boston.” But all was not lost: “The cast member next to me said  he received an acceptance e-mail, but then claimed five days later that the  email had been sent by accident and gave me all the Harvard paraphernalia that  he'd bought. I still wear his tainted clothing.”
What were you doing when you found out you got into Harvard? Did you feel euphoric? Bewildered? Nauseous? Share your experience below.
Photo by Michelle L. Quach, Crimson Staff Writer.
