News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Psychology Professor Marc D. Hauser, who took leave from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences upon accusations of scientific misconduct, will no longer teach classes  at Harvard Extension School this year, according to the school's website.
The news signifies a reversal from recent indication that Hauser would continue teaching at Harvard this academic year, despite being on leave from FAS. Dean  of Continuing Education and University Extension Michael Shinagel had  “confirmed with University leadership that it was indeed  appropriate for  Professor Hauser to teach in the Extension School," according to an e-mail from Extension School spokeswoman Linda A. Cross last Friday.
But  the statuses of the two courses' availability are now labeled  "Canceled" on the school's website. Hauser, a specialist in cognitive  neuroscience, had been slated to teach Psychology E-1153: “Cognitive  Evolution” this fall and Psychology E-1006: “The Moral Sense: From Genes  to Law” in the spring at the school.
“I am deeply disappointed as I  was extremely excited about teaching the courses,” Hauser wrote in an  e-mail to The Crimson on Monday night. “I will return to teaching in the  fall of 2011, including courses both at the College and at the  Extension School.”
Hauser did not respond to a question about why the cancellation of the two courses had occurred.
In  an e-mail last week, before the cancellation of his Extension  School classes, Hauser wrote that he had never taught at the school and  was “keen to extend [his] reach of teaching experiences.”
At the time, Cross said that it is “not uncommon for teachers on leave from FAS for various reasons” to teach at the Extension School. In turn,  Shinagel said in a statement that Hauser's course is "a popular one,  attracting strong interest and high ratings from students."
Hauser took a leave following a three-year investigation into  allegations of research misconduct in his laboratory. In a letter to the  Faculty earlier this month, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith wrote that Hauser was  found “solely responsible" for eight instances of scientific misconduct  involving the collection, analysis, and storage of data and the  reporting of research methods and results.
Without naming specific actions taken against Hauser, Smith said  that he did “impose appropriate sanctions,” which he said could include  forced leave and increased oversight and limitation of research.
The Harvard Extension School is one of the 13 degree-granting schools of the University, offering on-campus and online courses.
Cross did not immediately return requests for comment Monday night.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: August 31, 2010
An earlier version of the Aug. 30 news article "Hauser No Longer to Teach at Extension School" incorrectly referred to the dean  of continuing education and University extension as Michael J. Shinagel. In fact, he has no middle initial.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Need a break from moving in under the sweltering heat? Head on over to the Science Center tonight at 7 p.m. for some free milkshakes, sponsored by b.good and Unofficial Tours.
B.good's ice cream truck "Harvey" will be in front of the Science Center for a back-to-school dance party. They'll only be there for an hour, according to the event's Facebook listing, so stop by for some indulgent refreshment.
Photo courtesy of Doug Beckers under CC-BY-SA 2.0.
