Sections
Earlier this week, The New York Times reported on the remarkably high incidence of cheating among computer science students at Stanford. While only representing 7 percent of total course enrollment, computer science courses account for 22 percent of the total honor-code violations (read: Ad Board cases) among our California counterparts. Is this just a reflection of our Palo Alto pals' lack of interest in churning out computer code during their perpetual summer? Or could code-copying be a more widespread issue that may plague other computer science departments including (gasp!) our very own?
In order to answer this question, we talked to Computer Science Professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis '68. "There is nothing special about computer science students," he said in an e-mailed statement. "It's just easy to copy computer code, and the incidence of any apparently profitable bad behavior increases as it becomes easier."  However, Lewis noted that "in the 100-level CS course I teach every fall, cheating is very rare."
Lewis went on to say that "[t]he reason so many plagiarism cases are detected in CS at Stanford is simply that it's the field in which automatic cross-checking is a well-developed technology—though not, apparently, so well-developed that students believe professors who say that automatic checking is in use!"
But Lewis added optimistically, "I suspect that will change as students who cheat in this way on programming assignments come to realize that they are virtually 100 percent sure to be caught."
Lewis' sentiments were shared by computer science concentrator and CS 51 TF Evan R. Czaplicki '12 who explained that "every coder has a specific style. it would be suspicious if two students turned in exactly the same code for a given assignment." He added that the probability that a cheating programmer would be caught in a course such as CS51 is high, as problem sets are generally graded by two TF's.
As to whether or not cheating exists in the Harvard CS department, Czaplicki said he belives it is unlikely. "The majority of people taking computer science courses at Harvard are concentrating or earning a secondary field in the department," he said. "Among people who have a genuine passion for coding, the costs of cheating far outweigh its benefits."
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Valentine’s Day blues, anyone?  Dating scene got you down? If so, consider taking the commuter down  to Providence, where two guys at Brown may have the answer. With  their Web site Prospect  and Meeting, Kai  Huang ’11 and Arune Gulati ’11 have created a site where student  users can list five people they have crushes on, and then receive an  e-mail if any of those five crushes in turn have crushes on them.
The  site launched Saturday, and, according to The Brown Daily  Herald, it  already has over 900 registered users. According to the article, the  two juniors and newfound czars of campus love hope that each student  on campus will one day receive an e-mail from their site that alerts  them of the romantic possibilities lurking in cyberspace. Wishful thinking? Well, if the dating scene  at Brown is anything like Harvard’s, we can only encourage  these innovative ventures, although we’re skeptical about how effective  they’ll be.
While much has been written  about Yale’s “Sex Week” and the polls conducted by the  Yale Daily News, we were wondering if you’d heard about this, the invasion of the Yale Pundits, a humor society,  into an official campus debate entitled “Resolved: Reject Hookup Culture.”  Apparently, about 30 minutes into the debate, a bunch of horny Pundits  and make-out partners got noticeably physical.
Also at Yale, it’s recently  been announced that Google will custom design an interface for campus e-mail, which makes us wonder  how much longer our own crappy one will continue to exist.
Oh, and one more thing about Yale: remember  that crazy admissions  video of Yale’s  we wrote about a couple weeks back? The one  where the admissions guide randomly bursts into a rendition of “That’s Why  I Chose Yale” in the middle of the info session? Of course you do.  Well, Ben McGrath has written a piece in the “Talk of the Town” section  of this week’s New Yorker  gauging the reaction from some of Yale’s more conservative, old guard  alumni. Let’s just say that the reviews aren’t glowing.
At Princeton, it snowed. Really hard. Like, you don’t know  how hard. So hard some classes had to be cancelled and some buildings  had to be locked.
And while we’re on the subject  of snow, some people at Penn  decided to make a giant  snowball to block  a door, although it’s unclear if the motive was to do something fun  on a really snowy day or to create a legitimate barricade from the dangers  that lurk outside on that campus. Who knows? Maybe it was both.
Sections
You and around 146 million other users may have noticed this week that Google recently added a social networking service, “Buzz,” to its already large list of features.
Signing into Gmail on Wednesday, we noticed something was different. The regular spots to enter username and password were missing when you directed your mouse to where you should have been able to log in. What the heck?! Google fail? Impossible. Recognizing that Google must be up to something, you must have reluctantly directed your gaze towards the screen and seen this golden message: “Go beyond status messages.”
But what exactly does that mean? And why is Buzz any different from Facebook, Twitter, Myspace, and LinkedIn? And doesn’t the name Buzz evoke images of annoying mosquitoes? These were the initial questions that ran through our heads as we got used to Buzz in Gmail’s interface.
To get these questions answered, we turned to the official Google Blog. “Google Buzz is a new way to start conversations about the things you find interesting," it read. "It's built right into Gmail, so you don't have to peck out an entirely new set of friends from scratch—it just works."
The first thing we did was check how many friends (or “followers,” in Buzz lingo) we had. 29! Not bad. Then we noticed that one of them was a TF from Moral Reasoning last semester and another was Grandma's scrabble partner. Awkward. We were almost ready to take a break from Buzz when we got our first notification. It was a cousin buzzing about his intense CrossFit training and the number of “burpees” he did yesterday. TMI, we thought.
At lunch, the tables were buzzing with conversations about Buzz. Most people seemed less than enthusiastic, citing too many other social networking sites and an overload of tweets and status updates already. Others thought that it wasn’t worth it to switch over to Buzz from Facebook. Still, there were some optimistic souls. We’ll see what comes of the noise.
