News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED 5:36 p.m.
Click on this link for The Crimson's annotated version of a resume drafted by former Harvard student Adam B. Wheeler to see the various discrepancies and lies that shed light on the recent charges that Wheeler submitted fraudulent applications to different institutions.
On Tuesday afternoon, news magazine The New Republic posted on its blog a copy of a resume that it had received from Wheeler, who had applied for an internship earlier in 2010 after he left Harvard.
After combing through the resume to verify the authenticity of the items that Wheeler listed on the document, The Crimson discovered several of Wheeler's inconsistencies and misrepresentations.
Wheeler, 23, pled not guilty on Tuesday to charges of submitting fraudulent documents—including plagiarized essays, letters of recommendation, false transcripts, and fake SAT scores—to a slew of institutions.
—Athena Y. Jiang, Lauren D. Kiel, and Esther I. Yi contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The revelation that former Harvard student Adam B. Wheeler eluded the illustrious Harvard College admissions office has left some wondering what went wrong in the process and how Wheeler could have taken his scheme so far.
By creating an alternate life for himself—complete with letters of recommendation that professors never wrote, SAT scores that he never earned, and schools he never attended—Wheeler bought himself two years at Harvard and tens of thousands of dollars in scholarships, grants, and financial aid, prosecutors allege.
Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, said that Harvard could not be wholly blamed for Wheeler’s ability to slip through the admission process.
“There is not any institution in this country that can afford to or does verify everything people submit. It’s just not a practical possibility,” Nassirian said. “You can’t really fault Harvard for not calling every high school and obtaining a duplicate copy of every transcript and every recommendation people submit.”
In his transfer application to Harvard, Wheeler submitted transcripts reflecting perfect grades in his freshman year at MIT and attendance at the prestigious Phillips Academy in Andover.
Wheeler—who actually spent two years at Bowdoin College before transferring to Harvard in 2007—never attended MIT or Phillips in Andover. MIT does not even award letter grades to first-years.
In his application packet, Wheeler also submitted an SAT score report stating that he had earned a perfect 1600, when he had actually taken the test twice and scored 1160 and 1220, according to prosecutors.
In an official statement, the College Board assured that all the score reports sent on Wheeler’s behalf were “accurate,” and that the College Board employs “rigorous security measures” to guarantee the authenticity of the official SAT score reports provided directly to each school by the Board.
“I just can’t wrap my head around that one, quite honestly,” Nassirian said about the fraudulent SAT report. “[Wheeler] took the most mechanical, most verifiable components of the application package and put fake ones in their place, and managed to get past the very robust mechanisms that must be in place.”
Nassirian pointed out the many layers of defenses against plagiarism inherent in documents produced by third parties, such as school transcripts and standardized test scores.
“Did the envelope match the letterhead? Did the envelope have a stamp on it? Did the postmark cancellation match the location of the institution from which the document should’ve been mailed?” he said.
Wheeler somehow mimicked real documents convincingly enough to bypass these questions, or such checks were overlooked by admissions staffers.
Robert Bardwell, secondary level vice president of the American School Counselor Association, did not place the blame on the admissions office, stating that the sheer volume of applications is too large to permit a flawlessly thorough screening.
“There are so many pieces of paper that come through, that to check every application, every transcript, every letter of recommendation—you can’t possibly do that, and you have to assume that people are honest,” Bardwell said.
Though Bardwell said that he thinks the fear of being caught and thus risking placement on the blacklist at colleges would deter most would-be application fakers, he suspects that still some others are willing to lie on their college applications.
Indeed, Wheeler is not the first to be accused of cheating his way into the Ivy League.
In 2008, Akash Maharaj was convicted of bilking Yale out of $46,000 in financial aid by submitting a false transcript from Columbia which led to his admission as a Yale transfer student.
In 1991, 31-year-old James A. Hogue—who gained admission to Princeton by posing under the alias Alexi Indris Santana, an orphan from Utah—was convicted of stealing $22,000 from the University. While awaiting sentencing, he enrolled as a Harvard Extension School student and stole $50,000 in minerals and gems from the Harvard Mineralogical Museum.
“The minute Harvard gets involved, there’s this level of scrutiny,” Nassirian observed.
Harvard and Yale admissions staff declined to comment about Wheeler’s case.
—Esther I. Yi contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
There's Gmail, Gchat, Google Docs, Google Reader, Google Calendar, Google search...and now Google Voice. This latest Google concoction claims to give you more control over your phone calls by offering a variety of voicemail features. Although Voice is only available by invite, Google announced last Friday that they will be giving college students priority in invitations—if you have a .edu e-mail address, you can get an invitation within 24 hours of requesting one, according to the Google Voice blog.
So, should you download it? We've tested some of the features to help you decide if it's worth your time. Here's what we found.
SMS to E-mail
Description: This feature allows you to forward text messages from your phone to your Google Voice account and vice-versa.
The Verdict: We like that with this feature, you can easily act like you're taking notes on your computer when you're actually reading and sending texts. Also, if you don't have unlimited texting, you can save money by using Google Voice instead, as you can text directly from your Google account.
 
 
Custom Greetings
Description: This feature allows you to customize the greeting that each contact hears when he or she reaches your voicemail.
The Verdict: If you wish you could greet your mother with a sappy message but still greet your boss formally, this feature could be helpful. Although it isn't completely necessary, we think it's useful to have.
Block Callers
Description: This feature allows you to block certain numbers so that when those people call, they are told that the number they dialed has been disconnected or is no longer in service.
The Verdict: If you've used the "I dropped my phone in the toilet" excuse too many times, this feature is for you. Dishonest? Perhaps. Convenient? Yes.
Call Screening
Description: This feature makes your cell phone voicemail act more like landline voicemail. You can see who is calling, take a call, send it to voicemail, or join a call at any point during the process.
The Verdict: We found that this feature is a good idea, but making all of these button-clicking decisions and remembering what you need to push before your caller finishes his or her voicemail is harder than it sounds. The feature could be helpful, but it doesn't quite compare to the ease of landline call screening.
Transcribe Voicemail
Description: This feature will take your voicemail, automatically transcribe it, and send it to your Google account, making it easy to check your voicemail in class or in a loud place.
The Verdict: This feature failed to live up to our expectations. We hoped that Google would surprise us, but their transcription services are still pretty faulty. Here's Google's transcript of a test call, followed by the actual transcript:
Google's transcription: "Hey Keren, It's Joe, right. You know you got this. If you can reserve is committed to avoid Hey in going for you and I thought we that test out the transcription it service to you know. Maybe we can feature that in thatblog post on the flight. Bye blog Harvard that lock. I will listen you figure it out and call me back. I'll be waiting for you in the blogs days alright. Catch you later."
Actual transcription: "Hey Keren, it's George. You know, you got this new Google Voice thing going for you, and I thought we'd test out the transcription service. You know, maybe we can feature this in that blog post on the FlyBy blog—Harvard's best blog. Alright, well listen—you figure it out and call me back. I'll be waiting for you in the Blogspace. Alright, catch you later!"
Overall Grade: B
Voice didn't blow our minds: it won't revolutionize your phone experience, and for now, you should stick to listening to voicemail, rather than reading it. But it does have features that could be useful—and it's free—so it's definitely worth looking into. Click here to request an invitation.
Sections
In response to the case of Adam B. Wheeler—a former Harvard student who was indicted on 20 counts of larceny, identity fraud, falsifying an endorsement or approval, and pretending to hold a degree—the national media and their affiliates scoured the Square yesterday for student reactions. Below, we've compiled some video clips that feature our fellow students.
CNN:
Collin A. Jones '12: "They have a zero tolerance policy for plagiarism, and it's very well understood [...] that if you plagiarize on an assignment or on anything at all for a class you will be in trouble for it."
Wesley N. Hopkin '11: "I think a lot of people would agree with the actions taken by the University or by, I guess, the District Attorney in taking some punishment against this particular individual because it really hurts the reputation of the school."
NBC:
Justin* T. Keenan '10: "He didn't [...] engage that many of us in conversation. He never attended any of the [...] transfer orientation events or anything."
Megan L. Amram '10: "I have worked really hard for my As and Bs and Ds. [...] Don't worry, mom, those Ds are mine!"
*In the video, NBC misidentifies Justin T. Keenan '10 as "Austin Keenan."
Sections
This week, alumni are arriving from across the  country for class reunions. To get everyone in the mood for wandering  the yard, attending the requisite a capella concerts, and gathering at  the myriad picnics to reminisce about the good old days, FlyBy will present  clips from The Crimson's archives.
Today we bring you snippets from  1940, when all mail was snail mail, many Harvard men smoked pipes, and a  few Cantabridgians had yet to embrace their lefty reputation.
Much  like students today, Harvardians in 1940 appear to have enjoyed  investigating their classmates' bad habits in the name of academia, as  evidenced by the one student's investigation of "College Cussing." Also like today's grads, many Harvard seniors weren't quite sure what  they'd do with their lives, although back in 1940, smoking a pipe as you  contemplated the future wasn't a hipster affectation.
Seventy years later, when waiting for the registrar  to post grades online is arduous, we can hardly imagine an era when the  headline "Postcards in Bluebook Best Way To Get Marks" signaled a revolution in timeliness. Those of us who rely on videotaped  lectures are also pretty happy that the college no longer has an  official attendance-taking policy.
And it's tough to say how many of us can identify with a  fourteen year-old freshman was making a name for himself by consistently  winning a radio game show called "Ask the Children."
In 1940, Cambridge Councilman Michael A. Sullivan fought what  he apparently perceived as creeping communism in a town that would  eventually come to be known as “Kremlin on the Charles.” In January,  Sullivan defended a Cambridge City Council resolution that would forbid  the use of the words "Lenin" and "Leningrad" anywhere in the city. Then,  in March, Cambridge Councilman Michael A. Sullivan threatened to  prevent the Harvard Student Union from putting on "Communist" plays.  The Lampoon struck back at Sullivan, publishing an entire issue  dedicated to the revelation that he was actually "the brains of American  Communism."
In fact, Harvard's politics at the time leaned right; a  Crimson poll in the week before the 1940 presidential election found  that most students favored Republican challenger Wendell Willkie over  incumbent Franklin D. Roosevelt, class of 1904. A few student "vigilantes" even went to the polls to monitor voter  lists for people casting ballots under the names of dead people—and  found 15!
Photo by Bora Fezga/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
This week, we asked graduating seniors to answer four different questions about their Harvard experiences: yesterday we asked about what they will remember about college, and on Monday we inquired about their regrets. Here's the third installment of their reflections.
What is the most scandalous thing you have done at Harvard?
 
Freshman walk of shame in the rain with no shoes and no ID. 
Anne G. Montgomery '10
Six guys. One week. 
Anonymous
 
I once mounted John Harvard. 
Harry T. Rimalower '10
 
I ran primal scream freshman year. I peed on John Harvard. I've done various illicit substances, some while I was on the job.
Kyle M. Hecht '10
 
I've had sex here in many places outside of my bedroom.
Alterell M. F. Mills Jr. '10
During Camp Harvard week, the first college party I went to got broken up by a tutor. My roommates and I were scared that we would get in trouble.
Daniel M. Bear '10
I don't remember. 
Conan Liang '10
Photo by Maria Y. Xia/The Harvard Crimson.
Editor's Note: A quote that had been given off-the-record has been removed from the post.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Nov. 1, 2012
An earlier version of this article incorrectly attributed a quote which was in fact spoken by Anne G. Montgomery '10.
