News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Yesterday the Harvard College Alliance for Africa held the third annual Fast Tracks for Africa 5k race on the Charles  River bike path to benefit the Harvard Pemja Scholarship Fund. One of Harvard's very own professors of Human Evolutionary Biology, Dan Lieberman, centers his research in his skeletal biology lab on the benefits of running barefoot in contrast to runner who use typical modern running shoes. According to Lieberman’s website, these modern shoes have features such as “built-up heels, stiff soles and arch support.”
His work has led him to the Pemja Primary   School in the Western Rift Province of Kenya. The proceeds of this weekend's run will help to support the Scholarship Fund’s goal of sponsoring children at the Pemja  Primary School so that they can continue on to higher education.
During this weekend's race, all runners were welcomed, but barefoot running was encouraged. After the race was finished, Professor Lieberman, as well as other experienced barefoot runners, stayed to give tips to other runners who were interested in getting involved in the sport.
For people who are interested in getting involved with barefoot running but didn't get the chance to get involved with the Fast Tracks race, Professor Lieberman's lab website serves as a resource for information on getting started. Lieberman is also involved with the Harvard Marathon Challenge and regularly can been seen around Cambridge running barefoot—even without the excuse of an organized barefoot race.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Would you pay $250 to fall 10,000 feet? Well, the Harvard Aviation Club is offering an opportunity for 10 lucky undergrads to travel to northern Massachusetts on Oct. 3 so that they can experience the exhilaration of skydiving. The cost covers all expenses excluding meals. Participants must be healthy, at least 18 years of age, and weigh fewer than 250 pounds.
The Aviation Club has a long history on campus, tracing its roots to the 1909 founding of the Harvard Aeronautical Society. The club once built its own aircraft (named Harvard I) and flew planes in its own field in Squantum, MA. The organization faded in and out throughout the century until it was reformed in 2007 as the Aviation Club.
We spoke with Benjamin L. Brinkopf '11, president of the Aviation Club, about this trip and the broader activities of the organization.
How many people lotteried for the 10 spots on this trip?
I didn’t know how many people would be interested but we had over 40 people e-mail in their interest. We have been trying to work with the company and different organizations in order to arrange a larger group. For those who we are not able to accommodate, we will give them a list of other skydiving options in the area.
How many of the people on the trip are members of the club?
Eight members of the club are going on the trip, along with two nonmembers. If we are able to arrange more space, we will take people on a first-come, first-serve basis.
Is the club going to be doing trips like this frequently?
We are going to try another one this fall or maybe another one in the spring.
What else is the Aviation Club doing?
The Aviation Club is partnering with the Harvard College Engineering Society on a trip to Washington, D.C. to meet with representatives of Lockheed Martin, the Pentagon, NASA, and Col. Myland Pride, Director of Space Policy for the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Photo courtesy of Behdad Esfahbod/CreativeCommons.
Sections
We always hear jokes about New Haven being way more dangerous than Cambridge, but according to The Daily Beast, it looks like Harvard has trumped Yale once again.
The same day that Harvard was pinpointed by a private security firm for an increase in crime on campus, The Daily Beast ranked us third in its list of the 50 most dangerous colleges in the U.S. (Yale was ranked an inexplicable 26th.)
In comparing 458 schools across the nation, The Daily Beast used data from 2006 through 2008 compiled by the United States Department of Education, the FBI, and the Secret Service. Nine different types of criminal incidents, ranging from burglary to murder, were weighted according to their varying levels of violence. While car theft was not as much of an issue here, Harvard racked up points in burglaries and assaults, placing fourth and third, respectively.
According to The Daily Beast, our shining statistics for the last three years include one incident of arson, 157 car thefts, 909 burglaries, 170 aggravated assaults, 151 robberies, 128 forcible rapes, and one murder. We scored zeroes in both negligent homicides and non-forcible rapes.
Feeling wary about your next stroll to the Quad? Just thinkabout the friendly faces of HUPD—and remember that at Tufts (ranked first) and the University of Maryland—Baltimore (second), students are holding their bags even more closely.
Photo by Sara Joe Wolansky/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Did you used to get together after school with friends to do arts and crafts? Do pipe cleaners, popsicle sticks, glue, and glitter bring back warm and fuzzy memories? If you miss those days (or never had the chance to experience them), we have good news for you.
Edwin Acosta ’11 and Abigail S. Brown ’11, co-founders of the Crimson Crafts Club, a recently founded student group, said they want to give fellow students a way to reclaim the carefree spirit of childhood. “I want this to become a chill space for students to create in the company of friends,” Brown said. “It is a de-stressing community-building opportunity.” Not that it’s just about being silly, Brown explained. “To me, it’s more like the art of craft, not ‘arts and crafts.’”
Acosta said that “fond memories of doing arts and crafts activities” with his nieces and nephews kick-started the idea. “I’m a senior now, and after this year, I apparently have to get serious, so I thought to myself, why not be silly, and do something I like to do? And then I thought, why not make this available for everyone?” He added that the crafts will be more “industrial and utilitarian” than what he would make with his nieces and nephews. Projects, for instance, might include light bulb terrariums, deconstructed T-shirts, and rope-knit rugs.
Jack L. Turban ’11, co-director of the Harvard Student Art Show and editor-in-chief of The Harvard Art Review, said he believes the Crimson Crafts Club “will be a great new way for artists to come together, creating a social environment based on artistic expression. I can’t wait to see what the group creates!”
The club, which will meet every two weeks, has its first meeting scheduled for Wednesday, Sept. 22, at 10 p.m. in the Bullitt Room in Quincy House. Acosta said he is looking for a big turnout. “I feel like my time at Harvard has been wasted,” he said. “This is one of the last chances I have to leave my stamp at Harvard. I want to do something good for our community.” He added that the club has a place for everyone. “I bench 240 lbs and I still love arts and crafts,” he said.
But what if people, in typical Harvard fashion, are too busy to show up? “If this doesn’t work out, then I guess I’ll start the job search,” Acosta said. “I hope it doesn’t come to that.  I don’t want to grow up.”
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
