Sections
Are you deeply regretting having chosen  that philosophy course with 200+ pages of reading a week? Are you wondering  what the heck you were thinking when you decided to add a fifth course onto your workload?
We’ve all been there, and we all  know the solution. Snoop Dogg had it right when he coined the term “drop  it like it’s hot.” Turn in those add/drop forms by Monday, Feb. 22 (that's tomorrow), and you’re good to go.
If you’re looking to replace an onerous  course with a more manageable substitute, we’ve outlined two options for you below. (Finding classes that are still accepting students was harder than we expected!) These are the courses that you'll love to love—and that your GPA will love too.
Folklore and Mythology 173: “Handmade  Objects and Their Makers”
This class meets only once a week, and  for the midterm, you’ll get to do an “interview-based biographical  study of an individual or group who makes things.” If you like  doing things with your hands, or watching people do things with their  hands, then this class is for you. | W. 4-6. Link.
Chinese Literature 130: “Screening  Modern China: Chinese Film and Culture”
This is the perfect class for those looking to dive into something new. Designed to appeal to those with no prior background in Chinese cinema, the course will illuminate new ideas in a fun and film-tastic way. | T., Th. 1. Link.
Have another course on your  mind? Make sure to check with the professor first—some faculty members may say that they won't admit new students at this point because too much material has already been covered. If you do manage to find a class that will let you in, remember that there's also a $10 add/drop  fee. But that's a small price to pay for a happier semester.
Of course, the other option is to skip the fee and choose one of your courses to take pass/fail—those forms are due tomorrow as well.
Photo courtesy of Brian Gosline/Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
First, Der Spiegel accuses some Harvard students of being "abstinence apostle[s];” then, Newsweek accuses the faculty of harboring “general disdain” towards faith? Is it a case of being “damned if we do, and damned if we don’t”—or is it the case that we are just damned period?
Newsweek Senior Editor Lisa L. Miller, in a recent article titled “Harvard’s Crisis of Faith,” reported on “Harvard’s distaste for engaging with religion as an academic subject.” Ironically remarking that “it doesn't take a degree from Harvard to see that in today's world, a person needs to know something about religion,” Miller justified her assertion in light of the controversy raised after Harvard's 2006 “Report of the Committee on General Education.”
Suggesting the possibility of a General Education category titled “Reason and Faith,” the report raised serious questions about the role of religion in the classroom. "Reason and Faith" was eventually scrapped after serious opposition from faculty members like psychology professor Steven A. Pinker, who argued that the study of "faith" has no role in an institution that seeks to train students in the practice of rational inquiry.
Miller went so far as to characterize Pinker’s views as representing a belief that “human progress is an evolution away from superstition, witchcraft, and idol worship—that is, religion—and toward something like a Scandinavian austerity and secularism.”
She also cited committee co-chair and English professor Louis Menand, who disagreed with Pinker. “For Harvard—or any liberal-arts college—placing value on the study of religion poses no threat to secularism, science, or rationality," he said.
Reverend Peter J. Gomes, the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals, echoed these views. "My colleagues fear that taking religion seriously would undermine everything a great university stands for. I think that's ungrounded, but there it is."
Miller wrote that she believes that this problem is also reflected institutionally within the College. The lack of a “Faith and Reason” General Education requirement, for instance, allows students to graduate without ever taking a formal class on religion. But we noticed that classes on religion abound at the College and fulfill three other General Education requirements. One of these requirements, "Culture and Belief," covers content remarkably similar to what would be included in the proposed "Faith and Reason" requirement.
Still, Miller pointed out that only 33 students graduated with a degree in comparative study of religion in 2009—a number that pales in comparison to the 704 economics concentrators who graduated the same year.
But even disciplines as seemingly dissimilar as economics and religious studies may not be as different as some might believe: after all, Economics 1776: “Religion and the Rise of Capitalism" counts for both concentration credit in economics and the "Culture and Belief" General Education requirement.
Sections
It's not every day that you get the opportunity to have a University executive vice president pour your beer. For the crowd that showed up to the Cambridge Queen's Head Friday night, they had just that opportunity.
About three times a month, the Cambridge Queen's Head invites a guest Harvard affiliate to serve a one- to two-hour bartending shift. Last Friday, Harvard Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp took up the spot behind the counter, filling customers' orders and pouring drinks.
Though she had to overcome the challenges of a foamy beer tap on her first few tries, Lapp quickly picked up on the pouring procedures. The last time she bartended was when she was in college, she told us.
Peter D. Storer '10, the pub's former human resources manager, said that the guest bartending program is great for bringing students and faculty together because it's as if "everyone is getting to have a piece of the pub."
According to general manager Scott C. Smider '01, many campus faces have graced the CQH pub in the past, including deans, professors, graduate students, and even Undergraduate Council candidates.
"It's a good opportunity to meet with different administrators and other students," Smider said.
Sections
Mr. Bartley's Gourmet Burgers is celebrating its 50th year of serving up some of Harvard Square's best burgers and frappes. Over the last half-century, well-deserved praise for the delicious burgers from publications such as The Wall Street Journal and Esquire Magazine has transformed a simple burger joint into a Harvard Square icon. To commemorate Mr. Bartley's Golden Jubilee, we sat down with Joseph Bartley, the restaurant's founder and namesake, to find out what it's been like to spend 50 years in Harvard Square.
FlyBy: Reflecting on 50 years at Bartley's, is there any experience that you find particularly memorable? 
 
Mr. Bartley: Years ago, Jackie O. and Caroline Kennedy came here on a busy Saturday night. The place was packed and noisy, but, right when those two walked in, total silence fell over the restaurant. I still remember what Jackie ordered: a Muenster cheeseburger and a glass of skim milk. That's way before your time, though. I remember a couple of years ago, Skip Gates called me and asked me to change his menu item from a chicken sandwich to a hamburger. I heard a lot of noise in the background, so I asked him, 'Skip, where are you calling me from?' He was calling me from the hospital—he had just gotten hip replacement surgery! 
 
FlyBy: What has been the most consistently popular burger over the course of the last 50 years? 
 
Mr. Bartley: It's hard to tell because our menu is constantly changing, but I'd say "The Ted Kennedy" which is "a plump, liberal amount of burger with cheddar cheese, mushrooms, and French fries." "The Viagra" is also very popular. The Viagra is a blue cheese burger with bacon, lettuce, tomato, and French fries that invites you to "rise to the occasion!" 
 
FlyBy: What is your favorite burger?
Mr. Bartley: Me? My favorite is "The Burger Deluxe." I love the onion rings.
 
 
FlyBy: Do you have a favorite drink to wash that down? 
 
Mr. Bartley: Oh, definitely the Vanilla Oreo Frappe. 
 
FlyBy: What was Mr. Bartley's like 50 years ago? 
 Mr. Bartley: Well, I got the idea after working at my uncle's restaurant in Garden City, New York. I bought a grocery store in the Square and converted it into a burger joint. The novel aspect of the restaurant was that we charged 48 cents for a burger! I wanted to make the restaurant seem like a dorm, so I bought a bunch of long wooden tables and tons of posters. 
 
FlyBy: People really like the posters covering the restaurant from floor-to-ceiling. Do you have a favorite poster?
 
Mr. Bartley: We've got this great poster of Larry Johnson and Larry Byrd playing together as babies. It's a great unifier. I really like it. In fact, someone offered to buy it, but we couldn't let it go. 
 
FlyBy: What do you expect Mr. Bartley's to look like in 50 years? 
 
Mr. Bartley: I don't know, but I hope it's still family-owned. 
 
FlyBy: The Cambridge Chronicle, reporting on Bartley's 50th year, noted that you "might just deserve an honorary degree from Harvard." What do you think? 
 
Mr. Bartley: I actually just called Skip [Gates] about this the other day. I told him that I want a BS (burger science) degree. I mean, I've been feeding protein to the Harvard brain trust for 50 years now. Protein is great brain food. Without it, all of these bright students and professors might've ended up at Yale!
