Sections
Leave it to Harvard students to turn sex into something you use your brain for rather than other more viable organs. Tommy Doyle’s Irish Pub recently hosted Sex Trivia Night, organized by Harvard Law Students for Reproductive Rights. The event featured free condoms, food, and drinks—all the ingredients necessary for a debauched night. Eager to participate, this writer made his way to the sign-up sheet and was happily surprised to find condoms gingerly sprinkled around the table.
The energetic host began explaining the rules of the game. With a penchant for puns, he outlined a complicated point system. It seemed unlikely that anyone was going to remember the rules after a few rounds anyway. The team names were more attention-worthy: “Vagination,” “The Third Wheel,” “Obama Can Drill My Coastal Shell,” and “Albatross Lesbian.”
After sitting alone for the first five-question round of the game, this writer went and talked to a group of girls at another booth. The question “During what month do most Americans lose their virginity?” stirred some lively debate within the group. “During the summer, everyone gets horny,” one decided. “Wait, wait, wait–prom is in June. It’s June,” another said.
For such an outgoing crowd, everyone seemed a little shy when asked for a quick interview—many gave a simple “no comment,” and one person even asked for press credentials. HLS students apparently don’t put out statements lightly. After some prodding, one attendee spoke on condition of anonmymity. “I thought there’d be gay people,” she said before beginning to laugh.
Laura K. Freund, a first-year law student, admitted that she and her friends came because “they have free drinks and free food.”
But according to Evelyn M. Atkinson, one of the event coordinators and also a 1L, there was more to it than just free stuff. “We were brainstorming ideas to make people more aware of sex and to bring sex into the conversation in a positive way,” she said. “We’re saying, ‘Look, let’s talk about sex. Let’s talk about reproductive rights.’”
In the background, the host asked, “In which ancient civilization would women expose their vaginas to ward off storms at sea? Follow up: in which ancient civilization were men brilliant liars?”
And so on. The crowd remained eager until the very end. “You don’t have to go home,” said the host. “You can stay here—just keep drinking.”
Sections
“We had a flag but it was taken in an absolute massacre—six men came at us from all sides. The mast broke,” said Guy Mendilow, Longy School of Music ’07, as he prepared to re-enter the fluff-filled fray seven feet to his left.
“I’ve trained for many years in the comfort of my own home,” Mendilow commented. He made the voyage from Jamaica Plain to Cambridge Common last Saturday morning to continue the cycle of violence that has recently plagued Harvard Square. His and roughly a thousand others’ weapons of choice? Pillows. Despite the ferocity of his battle cries (“Ahoy! Avast!”), this was Mendilow’s first time participating in International Pillow Fight Day.
Banditos Misteriosos, the organization that coordinated the Boston branch of the event, began in 2007 as the brainchild of three college students who all attended the same Boston-area institution, whose name they’d rather keep a secret.
“We wanted to bring a sense of fun and adventure, and elements of the emerging playground movement, to what we saw as a somewhat-stuffy city,” said one Bandito who referred to himself as "Bandito T."
Newbies and veterans alike gathered to engage in the peculiar happiness that only comes from mercilessly batting randos with bedding. Katherine W. Schenot, a sophomore at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design, arrived with a large group, all sporting orange t-shirts labeled “Tuff Fluff.” A three-year veteran, she prefers to intimidate opponents through slogans like, “You’re just mad because this is the closest you’re going to get to our beds!”
“It really disarms them,” she said.
Samuel B. Novey ’11, a.k.a. Burgerman, considered the pillow fight a type of training for the Boston Marathon, which he plans to run wearing a b.good burger costume for charity.
“You have to have mixed training methods,” said Novey. “Cross-training, if you will. My trainers recommended I do this to be grilled to perfection for the marathon.” When asked about the victor of an earlier tussle with a banana-clad opponent, Novey replied, “Everyone’s a winner on World Pillow Fight Day.” Now that’s some sweet pillow talk.
Sections
Question: How do toolbags maintain the delusional sense of their own coolness that makes them, by definition, toolish losers?
Answer: By having even more pathetic hangers-on who actually think they’re cool. So thank you, Freshman Dean’s Office, for being an enabler by advertising, in your Yard Bulletin, the “Dressy Tuesday Club” that a bunch of freshmen have recently started in Annenberg.
“Ever wonder what your fellow freshmen are doing all dressed up on Tuesday nights? It’s because Tuesdays are Dressy Tuesdays! You have to eat, so why not eat in style?”
Rhetorical arguments aside, Sir Yard Bulletin, I am still left wondering: why should Tuesdays be dressy? I get this much: that if you go to Annenberg in a suit, you have a desperate desire to be noticed. But—and here is where I really begin to get befuddled—you’re not just insecure and attention-hungry in the same way that people who wear neon clothing are (and hey, we all have). You specifically want to be noticed in a suit. Why? So that a few naïve people wrongly infer that you own a hedge fund, or a trust fund, or are going to a fancy party, or are somehow a “classier” person? Everyone wants to be noticed sometimes. Dear dressy freshmen, please choose a less offensive and stupid way of being insecure.
Sincerely, FM.
Sections
Forget the free-will model of morality you learned in “Justice” lectures. If a recent scientific study is correct, you might be able to sway your entire section to your line of thinking using one simple object: a magnet. But how could a physical object alter our most fundamental beliefs?
Last week, Harvard and MIT researchers published a study supporting the idea that using magnets on the brain can affect moral decision-making. Study participants were subjected to transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS, to confuse the neurons in the brain’s moral center. Either during or after this treatment, subjects listened to fictional scenarios and judged the morality of the characters involved. Treated participants showed slight but consistent changes in moral judgment, condemning accidental transgressions but forgiving failed villainous acts.
Liane L. Young ’04, one of the co-authors of the report, sees these results as possible evidence for a biological account of the way we determine right and wrong. “Morality could be decomposed into these specific neural and cognitive processes,” she said, referring to intention versus outcome.
But not all campus morality experts are convinced. Daniel Wikler, a professor at the School of Public Health said that omitting intentions from moral assessment is “not [a value] that any serious person would ever hold.”
“It’s not clear to me from the study that this shows that magnets change people’s values,” he said. He adds that TMS may have simply led to a decreased ability to process information about intention rather than a complete disregard for it.
Edward D. Grom ’12 is also skeptical about the power of the magnet. “So if I bring a magnet along in my pocket, I can steal from children, and their moms will just chuckle and say, ‘Oh, you meant well’?” he said. “Let’s be real, people.”
Sections
A certain sly fox pulled a Spiderman, and scaled great heights (all the way up a building!) to go war with a bear. The bear went through the window, and the foxes were thrown out of the club—for good.
A birthday boy got more than he bargained for as his own party. Let’s just say that wrapping paper was not the only thing that was broken on this occasion.  FM sincerely hopes his poor little pinky recovers soon!
Sections
Martha Nussbaum, a law professor at the University of Chicago, who studied Classics and ancient philosophy at Harvard, recently gave a speech at the Harvard Book Store for her new book, “From Disgust to Humanity: Sexual Orientation and Constitutional Law.”  Nussbaum sat down with FM to give the low-down on her new book, her views on same-sex rights (see Greek military strategy circa 500 B.C.), and the legality behind public sex.
1.
Fifteen Minutes: What message would you like readers to take away from your new book about same-sex rights?
Martha Nussbaum: I think the message they should take away is that a lot of the legal discussions in this area have been influenced by irrational emotions of disgust and stigma, and that those are not good bases for law-making in a pluralistic society. And then when we remove that element and just look at the arguments in a clear-eyed way, I think it’s clear that the Constitution does support non-discrimination laws for gays and lesbians.
2.
FM: With more of an eye toward undergrads at Harvard, what would you hope for younger people to find in your book?
MN: I think they should learn what’s out there and get involved in the struggle for marriage equality, because what we need is to confront these issues with good arguments and clear legal and social thinking. So who better than undergraduates at Harvard to supply that?
3.
FM: What was your goal in writing this book?
MN: My whole aim was to address a wide audience, to persuade, to bring in new people. It was hard to figure out how to write about it without alienating my audience.
4.
FM: To that end, there are parts of the book that deal with public sex, explaining its legality in conjunction with freedom of sexual choice. Was writing about this difficult?
MN: I think the issues about public sex were hard because, first of all, very little good legal analysis has been devoted to them. People just don’t talk about that very much. I didn’t want to scare my audience away by telling them “all this entails accepting sex clubs.” But in the end I do that because I think that’s what accepting the right of sexual choice entails.
5.
FM: You’ve also written a book called “Sex and Social Justice.” Can you tell me a little about the basic premise behind that book?
MN: It’s about women’s equality, although it does have one chapter on lesbian and gay rights. There I tried to develop a framework for thinking about women’s rights grounded in an approach that combines the best features of liberalism, a focus on both liberty and equality, with an appreciation of the origins of subordination.
6.
FM: In what ways is this book an extension of that work?
MN: I think this book is continuous with all my work, but the difference is that this book is focused in America; most of my work is very international. Here I’m enmeshed in very specific details of American constitutional law.
7.
FM: Do you support gay rights?
MN: Oh, certainly.
8.
FM: How did you first get interested in this movement?
MN: I’ve been interested in it for a long time. As someone who studies the Greeks, I’ve been writing about ancient Greek homosexuality for a long time. I’ve also been an actress and I’ve seen people who were able to be respected and accepted in the theater world who were not able to be accepted in the larger world, and that moved me a lot.
9.
FM: On a related note, how do you feel about “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”?
MN: Oh I’m very glad it’s on the way out, I think it’s absolutely ridiculous. Going back to the ancient Greeks, they actually constructed a famous fighting cohort with pairs of male lovers because they thought they would fight more boldly when they were vying to look good in the eyes of their lovers. The fighting forces have had gay and lesbian people for a very long time, and there’s something just very weird about the stance the Army has taken versus the stance that other countries with fine armies such as Canada, Britain, Israel take. It’s about time we just threw this out. It’s been the invitation to mean-spirited persecutions. I think it’s clear that’s not going to last much longer.
10.
FM: Where did you go to school?
MN: I actually started at Wellesley, but then I went to the Tisch School of the Arts the first year that it was in existence. But when I decided I didn’t want to be an actress I went to Washington Square College [now NYU] and got my B.A. in Classics there.
11.
FM: What was your experience going to college in the 1960s as a woman?
MN: Well, actually I had great support from my teachers and I was very lucky. But later, in graduate school, I encountered issues of sexual harassment which I had not encountered as an undergraduate, thank goodness, and I also encountered the terrible issues about child care and division of domestic labor.
12.
FM: How did those issues affect you?
MN: All of those things were particularly hard on women, and I was lucky enough to live through the period when sexual harassment first became taken seriously. Harvard was one of the first places to have such an anti-harrasment policy, but I’m afraid that having the policy is just part of solving the problem. It’s certainly not the whole solution.
13.
FM: What made you want to get involved in philosophy as a graduate student?
MN: I came to graduate school at Harvard in Classics and then I got very excited by what was going on in the ancient philosophy department. John Rawls was teaching. It was a great era, a really golden era in philosophy.
14.
FM: Recently an article in a Harvard student publication criticized the Ethnic Studies and Woman and Gender Studies concentrations, essentially saying they were pointless. What’s your reaction to that view?
MN: Women’s studies and ethnic studies are interdisciplinary just like the Classics, and I think they have just about the same amount of unity as Classics, and they’re just as respectable. I think the critics just want to make a lot of noise, and they haven’t really looked very deeply at what’s going on in these disciplines. They haven’t thought too much about how disciplines are formed.
15.
FM: Who is your favorite philosopher?
MN: J.S. Mill. Mill, you know, is a terrific philosopher, but I also find him very appealing as a human being who could respect women. If you think of most of the great figures of philosophy, most were incapable of respecting women. Mill didn’t just write about that, he lived that. When I ask myself who would I like to meet, I think, “Well, I would like to meet somebody who would talk to me.”
Sections
Anxiety didn’t disappear for everyone when students finished their exams before Christmas—in fact, for many employees of Harvard University Dining Services, it was only beginning. While students reveled during Harvard’s new five-week winter break, the dining halls closed one by one, leaving the staff essentially unemployed from the last week of December to the last week of January.
Harvard does allocate paid leave for the breaks in the academic calendar. The system is based on seniority; according to the existing contract, which is set to expire next June, HUDS employees accrue an annual three weeks of paid vacation after five years of continuous service, and every additional five years of continuous service results in another week of paid vacation every year. However, with the long-awaited arrival of J-Term, workers are forced to spread their paid vacation over not one but two lengthy breaks.
“I’ve been here for 35 years, and I have no vacation time left,” says Edward B. Childs, a cook in Adams House and the chief shop steward at HUDS for Unite Here, the union that represents the employees.
With fewer days of work, HUDS employees are more dependent than ever on second jobs. But due to the recession, layoffs are rolling across the restaurants, mail centers, and hotels that HUDS employees have come to rely on. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the national leisure and hospitality industry has shrunk by approximately 500,000 employees since January 2008, and the total weekly hours worked by all employees dropped 7 percent over that same time period before experiencing slight gains last month.
Childs says that the unique combination of calendar reform and a struggling job market has taken its toll on HUDS employees. “We suspect that some will lose their homes, be evicted, and become homeless within the next year,” Childs says. Moreover, he predicts that the crisis will especially affect single mothers and the younger, inexperienced workers who haven’t earned many days of paid leave, both of whom make up a large part of the HUDS work force.
Of course, the HUDS contract has its advantages, in part because of the same bleakness of the current outside options. According to Johnny R. Montes, who has worked in Annenberg’s kitchen for 20 years, the “security of the job” was his favorite part of being hired by Harvard.
“We believe that Harvard provides a very comprehensive benefits package, which is part of the union bargaining agreement that is approved by the workers,” says Crista Martin, Director for Marketing and Communications for HUDS, when asked about the issue of paid vacation.
However, the current contract was signed in June 2006, almost a year before Harvard’s governing boards announced calendar reform for the 2009-2010 school year and 18 months before the beginning of the current recession as determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research. “It’s drastically affected us. You’re talking about four weeks, no pay,” Childs says. “It’s put us behind in our rents and our savings for the summer time.”
With very little opportunity to get jobs outside Harvard, HUDS employees are scrambling to get second jobs at the university, which is also proving to be a challenge. “There’s no other thing that’s there for us,” Childs says of the alternatives. “They haven’t given us any safety net.”
In response to their struggling members, the union is more active than ever, making sure its members have access to food stamps and other services. But the ultimate goal is for more sustainable, long-term change; in short, the HUDS staff hopes that the University administration will re-assess the logistics of the new calendar. “Harvard should really give some money to hold us over until we come back after J-Term,” suggests Larry E. Houston, a shop steward at Annenberg. But Childs believes that the solution lies elsewhere.
“We’re telling Faust that we need jobs,” he says, softly pounding his fist on the table. “We’re literally looking to survive.”
Sections
With some “Harold and Kumar”-type fantasy and a vague desire to find out what stroopwafels were, I booked a last-minute ticket to Amsterdam for spring break. The phone call home telling my parents about this decision was, unshockingly, a bit of a downer.
“It’s a terrible idea,” my mother said.
Maybe. I’d never gone on a spring break vacation before, and had little knowledge of it outside of laying at home in my pajamas watching “Say What? Karaoke” on MTV. Spring break was a time when college kids assumed their parents had a temporary loss of television or eyesight, or a time when college students in warm places went to slightly warmer places for a week. For me, a pale Jew with uptight parents, one who burns at the smallest suggestion of sunlight and craves cold, foggy weather (eat your heart out, Stephenie Meyer) the idea didn’t sound too appealing.
“Europe,” said one blockmate. We’re all pretty lazy, so nobody took it too seriously. “Europe is an even worse idea,” said my mother, whom I like to scare with stupid ideas anyway.
I’m not sure how it even happened. A few trips to Expedia, a couple are-we-actually-doing-this moments, and then I was on a plane to Amsterdam with a bad head cold and the threat of a British Airways strike boding poorly for my return to the US. Unlike my blockmates, I did absolutely no research before leaving. What was the national language? Or food? Or rapist population? I had no idea. Was I staying in a crack den? The price tag certainly seemed to indicate it. I told my mom we’d be going to cultural sites. Did streets of hookers count as cultural sites?
Fortunately for me, Amsterdam was pleasantly manageable. Van Gogh and the Rijksmuseum, check. Requisite picture near the “I Amsterdam” sign, check. Overeating like the country of overeaters we were proud to represent, check. One might say it was our patriotic duty.
For me, though, the best of part of it, besides the pancakes—I had a cheese and mushroom pancake I would murder a tiny dog for—were the interactions we had with people around us (all Jewish, mom. All imaginary, too). I don’t want to judge Cancún vacations too quickly; maybe it is possible to make friends over sweaty PBR and Jay Sean. Lord knows those two have done more to help Harvard undergraduates than grade inflation and Quad shuttles. But the more relaxed pub settings of Europe—it’s hard to find those in the US, or in the warm islands that welcome tons of STDs and college kids every March.
Most people who know me know about my British Isles fetish. After my summer in Ireland, I announced to my parents that I was moving there. It was like my parents were Pat Buchanan and I had just told them I was dating a Democrat. A black Democrat. They weren’t pleased. I’ve tried to figure out why I like traveling to Europe so much. It’s not just the inviting palaces or inviting hookers, as great as those are. I think it has more to do with café culture and pub culture, with striking up conversations with strangers, something I rarely do in the US (with the small but notable exception of Chatroulette. Hi, Estonian friend!).
I write this in Peet’s, where an army of hipsters has been shooting me death glares ever since my failure to immediately move upon finishing my hot chocolate. “Move, outlet-hogging bitch,” their eyes say. “And is that...Lady Gaga’s ‘Telephone’ coming out of your iPod? We hope you are listening to that ironically.”  Everything seems faster here; everyone seems busier. Maybe it’s just that it’s home. There’s something endemically more interesting about someone from another country than about someone from another state, who calls soda “pop.”  That’s not interesting. It’s just really annoying. I’m not really interested in chatting up these judgy hipsters. I want them to leave me alone. I want them to put on actual pants.
It’s a Harvard thing too, I think. Everyone thinks that what they’re doing is the most important—and sure, PBHA, maybe teaching blind kids how to read Braille is kind of noble, or whatever. I think you could say writing for FM has its noble, humanity-saving aspects as well. Wasting time (either not working, or not thinking and complaining about working) is anathema here. Few people spend afternoons lazing in coffee shops or cafés without an accompanying laptop.
I am absolutely the wrong person to be mourning the lack of friendliness on this campus. I am admittedly not of a sunny disposition, and I’m pretty sure I’ve awkwardly avoided eye contact with a good portion of the readership of this magazine. Deep down, yes, I do believe that my own work is more important than yours. You have non-thesis work? That’s cute. Oh, you wrote one also? It probably sucks.
When it comes down to it, I guess, I can only recommend that at one point during college, you drop everything, piss off your parents, and go abroad—for a week, for a summer, for a semester. Do something stupid. Make new friends. Do nothing for a long period of time without thinking about work. Then come back and return to the land of worry and G-chats and stalking ISawYouHarvard, a few regrets and pounds heavier. It’s the American way.
Jessica L. Fleischer ’10 is a History and Literature concentrator in Eliot House, and is still looking for a black Democrat.
Sections
A night of House pride, trash-talking, and a whole keg of root beer ended with a miraculous three-cup comeback by the mysterious duo who only identified themselves as “Ty” and “Pat” (4-0 Ivy) to take the Pforzheimer House root beer crown.
Last Saturday, competition was fierce in Pfoho as their HoCo held trials for the upcoming Harvard inter-House root beer pong tournament.
“In Pforzheimer House we’re all about competition,” said Papa R. Chakravarthy ’12 (3-1 Ivy), one of the tournament’s organizers as well as a competitor. “The P in front of Pfoho doesn’t need to be there, but it’s there because of two things: pong and pride.”
Eleven teams responded to the call and stepped up to the table. The field was full of basketball players, root beer connoisseurs, root beer pong enthusiasts, and other stereotypical college characters. “I play for the love of the game,” said Paul T. Hedrick ’10, a former Crimson editor. “Basically everything I do, I do to win. If you ain’t first, you’re last.”
The tournament was anything but predictable. After the preliminary rounds had finished, No. 1 seeds Ryan K. Schell ’11, Pfoho HoCo co-chair, and Adam T. Clark ’11 (1-1 Ivy) seemed to stand out among the rest, having destroyed their first-round opponents.
“We’re sitting pretty right now,” Schell said at the time. “We’re finally getting into our stride. We train twice a day. We drink at least half a keg of root beer on weekends.”
Yet even they ultimately had no answer to the duo of Ty and Pat, who rode their underdog momentum all the way to the championships while keeping everything but their first names a secret. In the last seconds of the epic 10-cup finals, Ty and Pat, down three cups to one, made three straight shots to clinch their first title in a massive upset. They declined to comment.
Sections
There are some key reasons why the bikini has been and will continue to be popular—minimizing tan lines, for example, or keeping cool in the blistering sun. But really, the added bonus is that bikinis are like Halloween costumes; both give young women a chance to wear modified forms of lingerie in public.
The origin of the bikini, however, is distant in many ways from its modern-day counterpart. Marilyn Morgan, a manuscript cataloger at the Radcliffe Institute’s Schlesinger Library, explores the complicated past of the bikini and its ties to gender roles and competitive women swimmers in her upcoming book “Beauty at the Beach: Marathon Swimmers, The Media and Gender Roles in American Culture, 1900-1940.”
The book itself goes to the very beginning, when women were becoming involved in aquatic activity. “If you go through the papers of the late 19th century, there were so many deaths by drowning, and the three major learn-to-swim campaigns that came of out of that encouraged mothers to learn to swim to save the lives of their children,” said Morgan.
As the sport became more popular, women began competing against men in the 1920s in swims across the English Channel, which was considered the most challenging event at the time. This changed women’s swimwear from heavy wool skirts to slimmer one-pieces and ultimately to the bikini, as a compact suit helped minimize chafing during the grueling swims, which lasted 17 hours or more.
“It makes some sense that bikinis were made for athletes because it prevents drag, but I didn’t know that they were invented so long ago,” says Shyam S. Vichare ’12. At the time of their invention, women were such adept swimmers that the first woman to swim across the English Channel, Gertrude Ederle, shattered all previous records held by male swimmers. American women looked up to athletes like Ederle and wore bikinis to emulate these strong female role models.
Things have changed, says Jordon E. Osborn ’12, a former swimmer. “The bikini doesn’t really work for athletes anymore—it’ll fall off,” she says.
This two-piece suit continues to be a controversial symbol of female sexuality; it is still worn in competition, but the bikini is more likely to be seen on models in Sports Illustrated than on athletes in the Olympics.
Morgan hopes to illuminate the intricate journey women’s swimwear has taken. “The bikini can mean very different things to different generations,” she says. “I hope a knowledge of its beginnings can help readers better understand its contemporary cultural meanings.”
Sections
Hey, Professor of English Helen Vendler: you recently mentioned that modern poets, unlike poets in the past, have no afterlife in which to place themselves or a journey to look forward to. How does this affect their takes on life, as well as death?
“The most eloquent poems are those that give credence to three things: the fact of extinction, the fact of aspiration, and the fact of failure in the aspiration. Failure can generate a comic view. It can put you in the human context of others, not judging solely by aspiration, but by the degree to which you and others have failed...There is a big push when you’re young to become yourself, and then you realize that no matter what you’ve done, you’re mortal and unsuccessful. That unites you to the sorrows and predicaments of others.”
Sections
While most senior theses sit untouched on the shelves of Lamont after they’ve been turned in, Chloë F. Schama ’05 is debuting her work in bookstores across the country.
Interested in the Victorian period, women’s history, and sensationalist novels, Schama had a very specific focus for her junior year History & Literature tutorial. Fortunately for her, that focus has since become the basis for her thesis and her new book, “Wild Romance,” published last month by Walker and Company.
“We read a lot of big novels that were popular in the day but featured women with a past and who were of course, persecuted,” said Schama’s thesis adviser Michele C. Martinez, who is now an expository writing preceptor.
Schama’s interests led to a summer spent at the British Library, where she stumbled on a set of letters by Theresa Longworth and William Yelverton.
In 1857, Longworth and Yelverton married in secret. Soon after, he left her and remarried. The bigamy trial that followed turned Longworth into a celebrity. She capitalized on the fame to travel and write novels of her own.
“When I came across the story initially, I basically fell in love with it,” said Schama.
There was little academic writing on the infamous case, but there were plenty of contemporary sources to explore, including court documents and ballads. However, Schama knew that her thesis couldn’t encompass them all.
“When I went to look at my senior thesis to revise the writing sample for my grad school applications, I thought to myself, you know, this is something I felt like I never really finished,” she explained.
And so Schama worked on it as a side project while in England for her master’s degree. After graduating in 2008, she spent an intense year writing and polishing.
“I think almost no words from my senior thesis ended up in the book,” Schama said.
Schama’s friend and fellow History and Literature concentrator Charlotte H. Douglas ’05 remembers the revision process.
“What I loved about seeing her process of revision—from the thesis, to some of the early drafts of the book, and now seeing the final product—is watching her evolve as a storyteller,” said Douglas.
Editors, though, were initially not sure what to make of her manuscript.
“I tell people the basic gist of the plot, and they say, ‘Oh, it’s fiction,’” said Schama. “And I say, ‘No, no it’s written like narrative history, and it’s kind of like biography, but it reads like a novel.’”
But having transcended the boundary between academic and mainstream, what does genre even matter, after all?
Sections
April M. Griffin sprints the two blocks to the E branch train, clutching the stroller’s handles as it rattles down the sidewalk. It’s 7:20 a.m.—an hour later than it should be.
—We’re going fast, mommy!
—Yes, we’re going fast.
She coos the words—peering over the stroller at her four-year-old son Miles as they race past the American Brewery Lofts towards the Heath Street station. Developers have tried to gentrify this part of Jamaica Plain by making apartments of the one-time brewery, and of the old Jefferson School that she and Miles call home.
The trolley is deserted. Heath Street is the first stop, and besides, it’s still early for most commuters.
April’s grown familiar with the E branch. She finished her bachelor’s eight stops away at Northeastern—classes at night, lab work during the day. Down the same tracks is the Whelan Lab at Harvard Medical School, where she’s pursuing a Ph.D. in virology. In between was Miles, who is, at present, in a garrulous sort of mood.
—Mommy!
She leans over, listening. His words are difficult to make out.
—You want chicken nuggets?!
Miles giggles joyously. He turned four last week, but his speech development is lagging, and while April understands him, Miles is often unintelligible to outsiders. When the problem was first flagged a couple years ago, he could speak only a few words. “I just wanted him to say ‘Mommy,’” April remembers.
She’s worried he’s not hearing enough English at daycare, which is run by an elderly Spanish-speaking woman from Colombia. Harvard has six affiliated daycare centers, plus two more that serve the Longwood Medical Area. It sounds like a lot, but with over 2,000 faculty, 12,000 staff, and 12,000 graduate students, demand outstrips supply. In 2007, then-Harvard professor and diversity dean Lisa L. Martin called childcare at Harvard “a crisis situation,” and estimated that the University’s capacity could only meet half its demand. A few dozen slots have been added in recent years, but many centers still have months-long waiting lists.
And the problems don’t end there. The centers charge between $1,423 and $2,453 a month for full-time infant care—prices that would command roughly two-thirds of the average stipend allotted to students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, pre-tax. Harvard launched a pilot program in 2006 that gives student parents an additional sum of up to $5,000 toward the cost of University-affiliated childcare—still leaving much of the expense uncovered for many parents. The program was extended through this year, but its renewal is now in doubt amid the bouts of cost-cutting that have followed Harvard’s $11 billion loss during the recent market crash. The Medical School has also shown a willingness to help, giving April $3,500 a year for outside childcare. But even at an inexpensive family daycare, that doesn’t pay the bills.
Miles and April get off the T and make a beeline for the Dunkin’ Donuts. April gets coffee. Miles gets munchkins, which he has to eat before they reach the daycare, housed in an apartment building on Alphonsus Street. There, he and several other children spend their days in a small, green-carpeted room on the 10th floor, complete with toys, diapers, and a window, among other amenities. The whole thing costs $160 a week. At 7:40, Miles is the first to arrive.
“You get what you pay for. They’re confined to one room. There’s no English. They don’t get to go outside,” April says, adding with a smile. “But he is loved. He’s so loved.” Miles has been a regular since he was seven months old, since the day April started graduate school—for the first time, at least.
Downstairs, a cigarette is in her hand before she reaches the lobby doors.
THE HOUSING LOTTERY
Across the river, biology graduate student Sebastián Vélez is weaving his bike through morning rush hour, his six-year-old daughter in tow. Their finances are better now than they’ve been in years. Mariana’s clothes come from stores, instead of the Salvation Army. She gets a piano lesson once a week. And last year, Sebastián even took her and her step-sister, whom he also helps support, to Niagara Falls for a weekend. Not long ago, Sebastián won the equivalent of the grad student lottery: He became a resident tutor.
The highly coveted post in one of Harvard’s undergraduate Houses comes with an apartment, a set number of meals per week, and a convenient location—five minutes by bike from his lab and 10 from Mariana’s elementary school, where Sebastián is pedaling now.
When he matriculated in 2004, the University gave Sebastián a one-time grant and suggested he apply to be a resident tutor. He did. But for three years, he received rejection after rejection. Once, he was offered a non-resident tutorship—which came with a small number of meals but no housing. The job didn’t seem worth it, so he turned it down. It was a decision he’d later regret. Houses often pick resident tutors from the non-resident pool because the masters and House staff are already familiar with them, but Sebastián says nobody told him that at first. Having a child also hurt his chances, he says, and particularly at Kirkland, which hasn’t been deleaded and so cannot house children five or younger. Since he became a tutor, other student parents have started asking Sebastián for advice on their applications. “I tell them, ‘Disappear your children. Then you might have a shot,’” he says.
Might. Because, children aside, the demand for tutor positions is so great that landing the job is more improbable than being admitted to Harvard in the first place. This year, Kirkland House has openings for two people; 316 applied.
Sebastián credits the position with saving his grad school career, but there are downsides. Tutor duties take time away from research. So do the sophomore advising coordinator, teaching fellow, and exam grader positions he holds to earn a little more. This week, he received an e-mail from Kirkland saying he and Mariana have gone over their meal quota and will have to cut back. And for a while this semester, the students across the wall from Mariana’s room were having particularly loud sex.
Whenever the moaning started, Sebastián picked his daughter up and moved her to the common room couch, where he normally sleeps. There he waited, lights off, listening for the amorous racket to die down. It’s nights like these when he wondered (and still wonders) whether the Ph.D. is really worth it. Whether it’s selfish of him to put her through this. Whether he should just e-mail the House, his lab, everyone to say that he’s had it. She’ll never be six again.
When the sounds finally stop, he carries his sleeping daughter back to her room.
AN ACADEMIC ANOMALY
At the Medical School’s Whelan Lab, April is the first to arrive. Miles has a doctor’s appointment in Cambridge at 1:45, so she needs to get started.
The lab bench is a familiar space for April, who has been doing scientific research since she was 14. Back then, a minority research scholarship provided escape from a deteriorating home life. Her father was a part-time taxi driver and musician, though that’s not exactly how she describes it: “He was a drug addict, that’s what he did,” she says, pausing. “He also drove a taxi part-time.” With her parents in the middle of a protracted divorce, the lab was a retreat. And she fell in love with the science.
At the age of 13, April began her freshman year at the notoriously troubled Denver West High School. Off to college at the precocious age of 16, she studied molecular biology for five semesters at the University of Colorado, Boulder before taking time off to do research. She spent the next several years as a journeywoman scientist, first in Colorado, then Buffalo, then the Research Triangle in North Carolina, and back to Buffalo again. At one point, she took a second job as a jazz lounge hostess to pay the bills. She joined the Kirchhausen Lab at Harvard Medical School in 2002 and began night classes at Northeastern to finish her degree.
She discovered she was pregnant around the time she got her diploma. So she decided to go to grad school. “It wasn’t my first thought: ‘Oh, it’s positive! Guess I’ll get my Ph.D.,’” she laughs. But April wanted to be able to provide for her son, and she had always hoped to get a doctorate. It was now or never.
It’s 8:47 and a set of cells is ready to be transfected. April is in the process of creating mutants of the rabies-like virus she’s studying. She pipettes in snippets of mutant DNA, which will enter the cells, altering their cellular genome to express viral proteins.
Black, female, and a single parent, April is herself an anomaly in the ivory tower. There are around 250 student parents in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences—a number that represents fewer than 7 percent of the school’s roughly 3,700 students. Black, female scientists are rarer. Single parents are rarer still.
But as improbable as April’s path is now, it would have been laughably absurd a generation ago. In the 1960s, only a tenth of U.S. doctoral degrees went to women, and few of those were awarded outside the fields of education or the humanities.
Today, that figure is 45 percent. The academy’s doors are being thrown open as never before to diverse populations of aspiring scholars.
Yet in other ways, academia has been slow to change. The sea change in professional gender roles has not come with a similarly dramatic shift in how graduate programs function. When Ph.D. candidates were married males with stay-at-home wives, they could afford to have children without derailing their careers. Now, many—and particularly many women—feel pressure to choose between family and profession or those who choose both climb the faculty ladder with their hands tied. The result is an exodus of women at every stage of the academic pipeline. The higher you climb, the fewer there are.
In 2005, while April was finishing her bachelor’s, women made up less than a quarter of the tenured faculty at 10 of Harvard’s 13 primary divisions, with exceptions coming only in the humanities, divinity, and education. That January, Harvard’s then-President Lawrence H. Summers shone an inadvertent spotlight on the issue by delivering a now-infamous speech suggesting “innate” gender differences as a possible explanation for the scant number of female scientists and mathematicians at the top of their fields. The firestorm these comments generated put pressure on Harvard and its embattled leader to demonstrate a greater commitment to diversifying Harvard’s ranks. Task forces and committees convened, diversity offices were formed, and reports commissioned.
At the graduate student level, this meant the baby problem began to get traction, according to Christine D. Wenc, a History of Science grad student who was particularly active in the parent community at the time of Summers’ remarks. The statistics were telling: nationwide, women with children are less likely to enter the tenure-track, less likely to receive tenure, and more likely to leave academia entirely than their childless or male counterparts. And surveys at Harvard and elsewhere suggest that students with children, and particularly women, can face a discouraging environment. In a 2008 survey of the University’s student parents, 25 percent of respondents reported having advisers who were unsupportive of their family decisions.  Just months before the Summers remarks, Wenc had helped found the Student-Parents Organization, which reaped the benefits of the new publicity.  But it wasn’t enough to save her own graduate career. Just semesters later, after years of trying to juggle her career and her family, Wenc’s dreams of a Ph.D. were a thing of the past.  “I just said, ‘forget it,’ I can’t do this’—it was way too hard and expensive,” Wenc recalls. “And I was just completely fried.”
April is still hanging on. She initially started her Ph.D. when Miles was seven months old, but quickly felt overwhelmed. “It lasted a month and a half. He wasn’t sleeping, I couldn’t keep up with classes, milk was everywhere,” she says. “It just didn’t work.” Her adviser suggested she take a year off and return when Miles was older. So April took a job at a lab to help support herself, and by the time she returned, they had found a routine that worked.
Today is a little different, though. She has to pick Miles up at daycare and take him to University Health Services in Cambridge for his four-year physical. That’s two hours out of her day at least, which means less time for science. At 10:10, she sets the cells aside to incubate for five hours, which should give her enough time to take Miles to his 1:45 appointment and return by the end of the incubation.
As she’s about to leave to pick Miles up from daycare, she receives an e-mail over the student-parents list-serv. The message is from history grad student Meredith Quinn. It begins:
Hi everyone,
I just received the following e-mail indicating that GSAS is ending the program to assist with day care tuition. I don’t know if there’s anything that can be done about this. Does anyone have a sense of how these decisions might be reversed?
Meredith
‘MR. MILES’
Miles began crying outside the doctor’s office and would not stop. It seems, for a moment, as if two blue Fisher-Price-style rocking horses in the waiting room might lull him into silence. But after a couple seconds, the wailing begins anew. A few weeks ago, Miles, who is allergic to peanuts, visited the hospital with anaphylactic shock after eating peanut butter at his dad’s place. The experience appears to have poisoned his opinion of the medical profession.
—Mr. Miles!
The nurse enters, greeting the bawling four-year-old with great enthusiasm. But Mr. Miles is unamused. He won’t stand still on the scale or against the wall to be weighed and measured. After a few minutes of screaming, April gets on the scale with him so the nurse can do her work by subtraction.
Suddenly, a merciful break in the tears. The rolls of cartoon stickers on the wall have caught the young man’s attention. April gets him an Elmo sticker, which seems to do the trick until she tries to place it on Miles’ shirt, eliciting another bout of sobs.
—You want Elmo on your face?
—Yeah...
He draws the word out despondently. April relents, and Elmo takes up residence on his left cheek.
—Oh, that’s good. I like that. That’s the new look.
Miles tries to share the wealth.
—No, Mommy doesn’t want Elmo. Mommy has make-up on.
April and the nurse discuss the speech therapy Miles has been receiving through the Boston Public Schools. He’s made progress, though April tells the nurse that other people can only understand 20 percent of what he says. He hasn’t had much success at sentences either. Miles gestures for another sticker, and now, Spongebob Squarepants is on his other cheek. They discuss the hospitalization, and the nurse asks whether his father has since cleared all the peanut butter out of his place. “He better have,” April responds. Oblivious, Miles flips through an oversized book of cars and trucks.
“What are you going to do about his S-H-O-T-S,” the nurse asks, pausing dramatically before she surreptitiously spells the dreaded plural noun. This hadn’t occurred to April.
—How many are there?
—Four.
—Four?
April’s voices rises with dismay. It’s more than she’d realized. Miles needs blood work too to be able to enroll in public school next year. This is going to take longer than she had hoped. “I may need to leave him a little longer at daycare today,” she sighs. The nurse leaves to prepare the shots. Mr. Miles begins demanding more stickers. Three, four, five.
—Six!
—Five is enough.
Mr. Miles has the upper hand. Another sticker. He’s collecting.
—Seven!
In walks the nurse to find her patient covered in square cartoon portraits.
—Oh my goodness, you’re the sticker man!
She gives the sticker man four shots, rapid fire.
UHS provides them a coupon for an ice cream cone at the Ben & Jerry’s a block away, so Miles gets a scoop of cookies & cream with rainbow sprinkles. It’s 20 to three. As they stand in line, April studies the daycare e-mail chain on her iPhone. Miles is calling her name, but she’s lost in thought and takes several seconds to respond each time.
She can’t figure out whether her grant will be affected. The check for February hasn’t arrived yet, and she wonders now whether the funds have already been cut. She’ll quit smoking if they have, she says, though that will come nowhere near making up the $3,500 deficit.
The M2 shuttle back to the Medical School won’t arrive for another 20 minutes, so April and Miles get on the T. By then, the ice cream has restored Miles to his jovial self, but April spends the ride staring silently out the window of the T.
At 3:10, the red line train crosses into Boston. Back at the lab, her incubation has just finished.
THE SLIPPERY LADDER
Sebastián Vélez—biology graduate student, resident tutor, assistant resident dean, sophomore advising coordinator, Life Sciences 1b test grader, and teaching fellow for “OEB 51: Biology and Evolution of Invertebrate Animals”—arrives in his Cambridge lab after dropping Mariana at school.
He’s hoping to finally run the computer analysis on some DNA he’s collected for his dissertation on arachnids. It should have been done by now, but he keeps getting side-tracked by Mariana or by one of the other jobs he’s taken to supplement his stipend. This week, his invertebrate class had a lab on mollusks. Tuesday, he had to prep it. Wednesday, he had to supervise it. Today, he has to clean it.
He was lucky to get this job. Sebastián was initially third in line for OEB 51, but by some stroke of luck, the first two applicants dropped. And he needs the money.
Workload varies widely for teaching positions. Intro life sciences courses are notoriously intensive, with labs, problem sets, office hours, and multiple meetings a week. Then there’s a graduate seminar in his department in which the TF is tasked only with ordering pizza.
OEB 51 isn’t Life Sciences 1b, but it isn’t the pizza course either. After the students leave lab, the samples need to be shuttled carefully back to their proper locations elsewhere in the complex. The tables need to be cleaned. With a paper towel and solution he wipes over one bench after another after another in the deserted room. It’s an hour out of his day, and here and there, the hours add up.
“It was a bad week,” he says, mournfully surveying the newly glistening benches. “This lab took too much time.” This afternoon is his research group’s weekly meeting, where he’ll be expected to detail the progress on his own work. He has little to report.
If Sebastián can’t keep up with his peers, whatever hopes he has of landing a faculty position will evaporate. For a time, he managed to churn out research despite the myriad handicaps. He’s already had his name on nine publications—an impressive total for a Ph.D. student. His second year, when Mariana was two, he won the Joseph R. Levenson Teaching Prize—awarded to one teaching fellow each year. The genetic analysis he conducts requires him to be on-call for extended periods of time, so he saved himself hours by working after school or on the weekends, and taking Mariana along. While she waited one day, Sebastián gave Mariana expired labels to play with. Labeling is sacrosanct in Sebastián’s field; incorrectly labeled samples can and have ruined entire experiments, which is presumably what one of his fellow grad students was thinking when he alerted a higher-up to Mariana’s presence. The policy was clear: Mariana had to go. Since then, he says, his productivity has plummeted.
“People who don’t have children do not understand how little things throw you off...They don’t think like a parent. ‘You cannot bring your daughter to work?’ That really fucks you up,” Sebastián says. “Really, I’m still reeling from it.”
Now, he’s worried a faculty spot might be out of reach—particularly because the one-year postdoctoral jobs that are often prerequisites come with little job security or pay—a dangerous road to choose with a child to support.
Sebastián first fell in love with biology at the University of Puerto Rico, not far from where he was born. His eyes light up as he recounts reading Harvard luminary Stephen J. Gould’s account of the Burgess Fossils, which hold an exalted place in the pantheon of evolutionary biology. Four weeks ago, he taught a class using those very fossils. “For someone like me, it’s like carrying Bono’s guitar, if you’re a rock fan,” he says. “That’s not measured in salary.” He was starstruck too when he first met E.O. Wilson, a giant in the field of biology. The two-time Pulitzer Prize winner and Harvard professor had attended a lecture Sebastián gave and dropped by to discuss a paper he thought would interest the first-year student. They talked and Wilson told Sebastián to come to him if ever he needed help.
Back then, times were tougher. He hadn’t yet received tutor housing, and Mariana needed daycare. His budget was strained to the breaking point and he found himself unable to pay for his daughter’s health insurance. In desperation, he turned to Wilson, who helped him foot the bill. “Find me another instance of a professor doing that for a student,” Sebastián says. “These people are really out to help me.”
Still, climbing the academic ladder with a kindergartner in tow is extremely difficult, so he’s begun looking at administrative positions. Every day he gets an e-mail with non-academic job openings in his field. Sometimes they pay decently, sometimes less so. Rarely are they good options. Today’s offering is with the National Park Service at $37,000 a year. “See, there are jobs,” Sebastián remarks. “But then, this is the problem. It’s in Oregon.” And only for a year.
For now, he has more immediate concerns. His stipend won’t cover summer expenses, when Mariana will need daycare again. So he’s been applying to summer administrative positions in the Houses or in the Harvard Summer School. If he lucks out and is hired, of course, that will mean less time for research. Nobody has gotten back to him yet.
“It’s the anxiety that kills you,” he says.
‘AROUND THE HOOD’
Back in the Whelan Lab, April is labeling petri dishes with a permanent marker—preparing to infect her cells. Then she hurries to the lab bench for another step and back to the fume hood, which keeps the chemicals she works with contained. The doctor’s appointment has put her behind schedule.
To her left, a gaggle of Ph.D. students chat—one of them seated at the second fume hood, the other two standing around. “See all that small chat?” she says, gesturing to the three students on a trip back to the bench. “I don’t do it.”
That’s not entirely true. April does talk with her labmates while she does her experiments, but it is clear she’s not looking for detours. “By no means do I hang around the hood,” she says, a note of pride in her voice.
This seems innocuous, even admirable, but it also touches on the social isolation that comes with having children in a place where childlessness is the norm. Sure, April’s proud she refrains from extended chit-chat, but she also wishes she had social time with her peers. Instead, she lives a double life, and neither one much cares about the other. The other students aren’t particularly interested in Miles, and Miles couldn’t be less interested in a glycine clusters. She tries, though. One of the people in the lab had been stuck with a needle earlier in the day, which brought a coterie of safety officials to the lab. April offers solace.
—If it makes you feel any better, Miles had to get four shots today.
Her colleague laughs good-naturedly in response: “When I get a shot, I have 15 people looking at me to see that the shot was approved.”
She’s missing out on more than leisure, though. Social and departmental events can be critical to advancement in the academic community. Take this passage from the description of April’s Ph.D. program, posted on the Virology Web site: “Seminars, student journal clubs, and program retreats are an integral part of the scientific and educational experience of the Virology Program. Therefore, students are expected to attend and participate fully in all of these activities.”
April can’t, of course. The program tries to make accommodations, but they’re not lying when they call such programs “integral.”  Networking and community activities can make a difference in a competitive environment where every contact counts.
She does have one hour a week when she can be social. There’s a beer hour for students every Friday at 5 p.m., and Miles can stay in daycare until 6 or 6:15. At the end of an exhausting week, with little promise of respite ahead, April looks forward to that hour. She doesn’t like beer, but if there’s wine or hard alcohol, she’s “all over it.” Last Friday, they had rum and coke. At 6, there was half a bottle left so she took some home. She was still feeling it when her head hit the pillow.
MR. PRESIDENT
At 6:30 p.m., April finally leaves the Medical School to pick up Miles. He’s the only child left, still with two stickers on his knees from the doctor’s office, though they’re mostly peeled off by now.
Together they get on the T going outbound. Today was bad but likely a good indication of what she can expect next year. Miles starts kindergarten in September. The school begins too late and ends too early for April’s work day, which means she will have to drop him in daycare early, go to the lab, then move him from daycare to school, then back to the lab, then move him from school to daycare, then back to the lab, and finally pick him up to go home. Not to mention the prospect of losing the daycare grant. Recently, the anxiety has taken a physical toll on April. “The day he turned 4, I woke up puking my brains out because I was scared,” she says. “Not that this is easy, but it’s easier.”
Recent years have not been without organized efforts at improvement. In 2008, the Student-Parents Organization and a group of students led by Kyle M. Brown, then-president of Harvard’s Graduate Student Council, assembled a survey and a set of recommendations concerning parental accommodation that they presented to Harvard administrators. Only mixed success has followed. GSAS has helped reinforce an official but sometimes unheeded policy allowing students who have a child during school an extra year to finish their dissertations. The pilot grant program for Harvard childcare also emerged from the group’s earlier lobbying, as did an expansion in health insurance options for dependents.
But stipends still lapse in some departments if students take time off to have a child, which means student parents can find themselves running out of money at the worst possible time. The 2008 survey showed that stipends are cut off during parental leave for over 90 percent of student parents in Harvard’s humanities departments. That figure is over 50 percent for the social sciences, though lower for the hard sciences, where grant funding keeps the stipend money flowing.
April and Miles are lucky enough to draw their living from a science department. They get off the train at Heath Street. Miles hops out of the stroller and runs ahead, donning a snow hat with a large ‘H,’ colored crimson.
April smiles again, the worries falling momentarily away as they reach the one-time elementary school they call home.
“This boy is destined for great things. I look at pictures of Obama when he was little,” she says, hopeful again. “This is the next president of the United States. I’m just trying to stay on his good side.”
The next day, April will learn that daycare grants have only been cut for Harvard-affiliated childcare centers. Miles’ daycare, back on the 10th floor of the apartment building on Alphonsus St. has no such affiliation. But the person who administers her subsidy cautions that it too may soon arrive on the chopping block. A month later, Sebastián’s department will agree to give him two months of summer support, but of course, he still doesn’t know what he’ll do after he gets his degree. Uncertainty, it seems, is the perennial affliction of parent Ph.D.s.
And these are in some respects success stories. Harvard gives April two scholarships. Sebastián has the tutor program, and one year, a professor paid Mariana’s health insurance. Yet it’s still a daily struggle.
Does academia lose something valuable if April or Sebastián or the other parents at Harvard and elsewhere are squeezed out? The same week Harvard revealed it would end existing daycare grants for graduate students at its own centers, University President Drew G. Faust sent an e-mail to the entire Harvard community reviewing the institution’s progress on diversity since 2005. She cites in her message a principle adopted by two of the task forces convened in the wake of the Summers remarks. “A diverse faculty is a strong faculty because it emerges from the broadest possible consideration of available talent,” Faust wrote, quoting their conclusions. “The development, recruitment and support of outstanding faculty...provide the essential foundation of a great university.”
In which case, should Harvard and its peers be doing more to ease the burden? Sebastián’s department recently told him they would cover some of his summer, but next year, when he plans to finish his degree, he might leave the lab entirely. He says he can’t compete with the students who come in refreshed at 10 in the morning and stay until midnight. And providing for Mariana means jumping from one 12-month post-doc to the next—a common route to a faculty spot—is likewise worrisome. He may try his hand at administrative positions. At least they’re stable.
“I’m not ungrateful, but it’s still shit, man,” he says. “It’s still very, very hard.”
Sections
I’ll be honest: I’m a fearsome eater. One of my proudest moments was vanquishing an entire table of drunken Australian businessmen at an all-you-can-eat Japanese grill in Shanghai; while they ignored bowls of fried rice and poked at lackluster ice cream, I wolfed it all down.
But I’ve found that describing myself as a food writer has led to awkward lines of inquiry. I’m scared of a certain question. And it always comes, revealing me as a rank impostor. After finding out that I write about food, someone always asks, “Oh, so do you cook?”
I’ve come up with a few ways to answer this.
One method is the soft sell. “No. Nothing,” I’d say. “I’m not sure if I can boil water.”
Another reply is to hedge. I say, “Uh, sorta,” adding with apologetic smile pasted on my face, “I’m learning.”
This tended to bring less vitriol, more pity.
But all this underselling and hedging wears on the soul. And besides, I genuinely wanted to learn how to cook and to quit cowering behind a pot of cold water.
For my first real attempt, I wanted to go big or go home. I put together four dishes for dinner: split pea soup, lemon risotto, shrimp salad, and macerated strawberries. The first hurdle was grocery shopping in the pouring rain. The other was getting all the dishes to the table in the right order. I blogged my efforts, feeling extra guilty when I did some post-production to the food photos.
Though the soup was more like a thick pudding, the meal was otherwise reasonably successful. Encouraged and aided by YouTube, where I could look up elementary things such as, “How to Chop Onions” or “How to Grate Ginger,” I decided to tackle dishes that really spoke to me.
Chinese dishes. Yes, I felt like a cliché.
I had a link to food writer Fuchsia Dunlop’s gong bao (kung pao, in menu parlance) chicken recipe. The ingredients looked simple enough: soy sauce, sesame oil, cornstarch, rice wine. I went grocery shopping again (this time it wasn’t raining quite so hard), only to realize that the grocery stores within walking distance didn’t carry Sichuan peppercorns or dried red chilis. I would have to make do with dried chili flakes. I teared up inside, knowing I was committing a sin, but persisted—my dining partner couldn’t eat very spicy food, anyway.
I painstakingly deboned the chicken with a small knife, then tried to cube the meat—a slippery, tedious task. I washed and chopped the anemic bunch of scallions into short chunks before I realized I didn’t have a wok. I only had one kind of soy sauce for a recipe that called for both light and dark. And instead of black vinegar, I had rice vinegar. Dinner looked bleak.
I’d already started chopping, and I was too exhausted to spend another hour grocery shopping, so I persisted once again. By then, I imagined that instead of kung pao chicken, I’d produce only a saucepan with the ingredients rearranging themselves to spell “failure.”
Finally, after half an hour of prep work, the ingredients were assembled for stir fry. I heated up the frying pan, then neatly splattered my hands with some hot oil when I tossed in the cubed chicken, then the scallions and ginger. Still dubious, I put in the sauce—which had only one kind of soy sauce and the wrong kind of vinegar—into the sizzling mix.
The recipe said to stir until the sauce became “thick and lustrous.” I peered anxiously at the pan, wondering what that was supposed to mean. “I think it looks thick and lustrous,” my dining partner said, bemused and attempting to speed up dinner’s ETA.
“Give it another stir,” I said, still not convinced. I was still waiting for the entire meal to explode in indignation over the wrong spice and sauce formulation.
Here I was, an utterly Western girl of Chinese descent cooking a recipe written by a Western woman well-versed in Chinese cookery. I didn’t bother over-thinking these layers, but the flavors of the dish I produced were worth mulling over: spicy, sweet, sour, better than any humdrum takeout joint’s rendition of the Sichuanese classic, even minus the numbing tingle of the peppercorns.
It wasn’t quite on note—I had the vinegar swap to blame for that—but it turned out that this Chinese recipe’s ingredients, unlike those for French pastries, were forgiving. Despite my bumbling in the kitchen, the wasted supplies, all those times I’d nearly nicked a finger or incorrectly loaded the dishwasher, I’d still created a dinner that was not only edible, but really, really tasty.
I was ecstatic.
Emboldened, I’ve since then done a spot of baking (peanut butter cookies, biscotti) as well as tackled Mongolian beef, fried rice, and split pea soup two more times. The last time, I burnt the soup and had to throw the whole batch out. You win some, you lose some.
And along the way, I’ve had nervous breakdowns in the meat aisle (Where’s the flank steak? What’s an appropriate substitute for flank steak? Wait, what is flank steak anyway?) and incorrectly chopped leeks. I’ve botched meals, oversalted food, and done cruel things to ham.
But I’m proud to say—after cooking a pot of rice—that yes, I can definitely boil water.
Sections
There are three prime occasions for Facebook stalking at Harvard—Opening Days, shopping week, and admissions season. Insofar as admissions season is concerned, is there a better way to get to know the entering class than by inspecting their profile pictures and favorite music? Well, the Harvard Undergraduate Admissions Council thinks they have a better idea: last weekend they hosted a Dial-a-Prefrosh event and spoke with admitted students about life at Harvard.
1. Katherine J. Gunn ’11Co-Chair of the Harvard Undergraduate Admissions Council
Fifteen Minutes: What’s the reason you guys are calling the prefrosh?
KJG: It’s just to welcome the class of 2014, to give it a more personal touch as opposed to just receiving a packet of information or an e-mail. I remember I spoke to the person that called me for like 45 minutes.
FM: What kind of questions are you being asked?
KJG: The questions for the most part are just about life on campus, like, “Do you have fun?” Or, “How competitive is it?” Or, “Is all you do study?” They know they’re already in so they’re willing to ask things like “Do you go out, do you drink?”
2. Amanda Lu ’11
FM: What do you like about calling prefrosh?
AL: It reminds me why I love Harvard. You have to tell people why they should pick Harvard over another school and you start remembering your own reasons.
FM: What kind of reactions have you gotten?
AL: One of my prefrosh actually didn’t know that she had gotten in. So I told her and she was like, “Are you kidding? Is this a late April Fools’ joke?” It was exciting, I got to break the news and I don’t think that ever happens.
3. Zachary A. Katz ’10
FM: Why did you want to participate today?
ZAK: The phone call from the freshman when I was a senior in high school influenced my decision a lot because it gave a real personal touch to the acceptance.
FM: Any out of the blue questions?
ZAK: Someone asked me about senior theses in physics [laughs].
4. Samantha L. Pickette ’13
FM: How have the prefrosh been reacting when you call them?
SLP:  Everyone seems really happy, really excited. Can you blame them? I was too.
FM: What was your reaction when you were admitted?
SLP: I burst into tears.
FM: Awwww.
SLP: They were happy though [laughs].
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Northfield Mount Hermon big man Majok Majok will not be coming to Harvard, but the Crimson's recruiting class may not yet be complete.
In a web interview March 29, the 6'8 Majok said he would make a decision "in like 2 weeks, i think." He stated his final choice of schools would be among Oklahoma, St. Louis, Oregon State, and Boston College.
As was widely reported earlier this season, Majok confirmed that Harvard had been one of his top picks, but that he had "decided to look at high major schools" and that he would not be coming to Harvard. When asked what had changed , Majok said, "i dont know. just turned in a different direction."
Majok, whose aerial feats have been well documented, had also been linked to Virginia Tech, Alabama, Virginia, and Stanford. The big man's stellar play his senior year heavily bolstered his stock at the Division I's top level.
With Majok eliminating Harvard from his decision-making, the Crimson's last possible recruit will likely be Brice Kofane, a 6'8 power forward out of The Miller School in Virginia. As of March 30 Kofane, a talented shot blocker and rebounder, said he would be announcing his decision "soon."
In an online conversation March 13, Kofane said he was eligible for admission to Harvard—"[qualifying academically] is not a problem"—and that he would announce his decision in three weeks. He declined to disclose his final school choices but did say that Harvard was one of them (and that Fairfield was not).
"I pretty much took my decision already. I just have to make it public," Kofane said of delaying his announcement. "I still have to figure some stuff out and talk to people."
As of now, the Crimson will definitively be welcoming Laurent Rivard and Matt Brown (Northfield Mount Hermon), James Moore (Jesuit High), Monty Brown (Hotchkiss School), and Ugo Okam (Monteverde Academy) to campus next season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two weeks prior to Easter Sunday—the holiest day in the Catholic liturgical calendar—Pope Benedict XVI was preparing for an apology instead of a celebration. On Sunday, March 21, congregations throughout Ireland were read a letter authored by the Pope, which expressed his “shame and remorse” for the acts of child sexual abuse committed by priests in the nation. The Pope was responding to two reports released by Irish officials last year, which discovered frequent abuses in parochial schools and widespread efforts by ecclesiastical authorities to cover up these crimes. Ultimately, despite the penitential tone of the Pope’s letter, his apology for Church abuses is insufficient, as it does not attempt to correct these abuses through institutional reform.
The flaw underpinning most of the Pope’s logic relates to his framing of the abuse scandal as a problem of faith rather than of regulation and management. In response to the heinous crimes, the Pope recommended that all Irish priests attend a religious retreat and suggested that churches designate certain chapels where congregations can pray for “healing and renewal;” nonetheless, these are simply abstract solutions to a concrete problem. While the Pope’s recommendations might allow for personal healing and spiritual redemption, they fail to attack the root cause of the abuse tragedy: a lack of administrative supervision and accountability. To prevent abuse in the future, the Church needs to concentrate not on spiritual advice but rather on substantial and systematic reform.
A number of specific reforms, if immediately adopted, could reduce the ability of priests to engage in sexual abuse and of bishops to conceal these crimes. First, the Church must reaffirm its commitment to treating cases of sexual abuse as open civil matters rather than concealed ecclesiastical ones. For example, one of the reports in Ireland noted the Church hierarchy’s systematic failure to inform local authorities of felonies committed by priests. Priests need to be made aware of the appropriate means of reporting crimes to civil enforcement officials and mandated to do so in many cases. The obligations of confidentiality that all priests must uphold due to the sacred Church constraints on confessional may at times make it improper to prioritize civil demands over ecclesiastical concerns, but in all other cases, civil authorities should be informed immediately to prevent internal cover-ups. After that, the matter can be addressed within the Church.
A second reform involves providing bishops with more authority to handle cases of abuse. Constructing this extra layer of local defense against priestly indiscretions would demonstrate the Church’s commitment to ending sexual abuse in its dioceses. Bishops should be granted the authority to report cases of abuse on their own (without consulting the Church hierarchy), impose consequences such as mandated leaves of absence or counseling for priests guilty of felonies, recommend the defrocking of priests to the Pope, and speak out against transferring priests simply to conceal histories of abuse.
For example, when the Pope himself served as an archbishop in Germany in 1980, a priest in his diocese struggling with pedophilia was permitted to move to Munich for therapy. The priest was subsequently appointed to serve in a church, and civil officials were never informed of the allegations against him. Within five years, the priest was again accused of sexual abuse and he was convicted in 1986. Providing bishops with more power and more incentives to speak out against incidents like this—times when abusive priests are discreetly transferred without informing civil authorities of their criminal actions—can provide a local mechanism to limit widespread abuse.
One further problem with the Church’s reaction to the abuse scandal relates not to the Pope’s communication, but to the protests of Catholics around the world. A controversial letter recently published in USA Today, for example, likens the Pope to a “martyr” who, “like Jesus, is completely innocent and is doing everything in his power to weed out those priests guilty of sexual abuse.” These and similar claims, which portray the Pope as a martyr for bringing the sexual abuse claims to light, are offensive to the victims of these crimes and unacceptable if the Church is to move past these allegations. The Pope’s controversial actions have certainly brought him into the spotlight, but his own insufficient response to the scandal is driving the attention placed on him: A martyr he is not.
Nonetheless, the Pope’s apology represents at the very least a step in the right direction, especially for an institution that has been notoriously slow in apologizing to those it has slighted in the past (ask Galileo or the victims of the Spanish Inquisition). In this regard, the Pope’s response to the sexual abuse allegations represents an unusually quick reaction, and he was proactive in creating a council to investigate the abuses in Ireland. Even so, the Pope’s actions thus far are only a first step in what must be a long road toward forgiveness and progress. Pope Benedict’s letter is an impassioned apology, but the Church’s penance still lies ahead.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Reflecting on Harvard’s internship search process, which for many juniors started as early as last fall, reveals how absurdly stressful recruiting is. “Blame it on the economy” is the present mantra: an exogenous scapegoat for the tribulations of recruiting. However, structural failures in the Office of Career Services’ “On-Campus Recruiting” platform are presently more detrimental to the system’s efficiency at pairing applicants and employers. And thus, each year, many qualified applicants are left offer-less, and even students who do manage to receive offers still find themselves sometimes unhappy.
In our system, the unpredictability of resume drops, interview requests, and Superday invitations forces the typical applicant to cast as broad a net as possible when applying. The challenge employers then face is selecting among those genuinely interested in the position and those merely hedging their bets through precautionary recruiting. In the language of George Akerlof, the Nobel Prize-winning economist who described the used-car market as having buyers and sellers with different amounts of information about the transaction to be made, the recruiting market is ridden with “adverse selection.” In the Harvard case, it is not hidden car qualities, but rather uncertain applicant motivations that force employers to bear all the risk of hiring a “lemon.” As a result, it is both the students and employers who face second-best outcomes in summer and job offers.
Like in Akerlof’s used-car market, the OCR platform presents employers with two categories of lemons (though others exist)—the disinterested applicant and the opportunitistic one. The former may not initially be interested in the job at all but feigns interest once granted an interview. This represents an error in selection against the interests of applicants who would like offers from the jobs they prefer most. But because of uncertainty in the market, interviews and offers are misallocated from those who should ideally receive them, those most qualified and committed for a given job—a labor market failure. Conversely, opportunistic applicants are errors in selection against the interest of employers who want hires to remain at their company. Far more typical of the Harvard student, opportunistic interns intend to gather the experience and move on to a preferred job that is presently unavailable. This is largely why offering paid freshman and sophomore summer internships go against the interests of most employers under the present system; firms lose their human capital investments when trained interns leave for other companies.
Ironically, a better system to mediate these market failures is one known best to pre-med students: residency matching. After their residency interviews, graduating medical students submit rank-order lists of programs to a centralized matching service, the National Residency Matching Program, which optimizes pairings with the rankings of applicants submitted by individual residency programs. The NRMP utilizes the Gale-Shapley algorithm, introduced to solve the canonical  “stable marriage problem.” In this algorithm, pairings between parties are optimized such that all possibility of “infidelity” in matches is precluded, so no spouse wants to defect from the arranged nuptials—in our case, hired employees do not leave the employer for more preferred opportunities. Additionally, the NRMP imposes a contractual obligation on applicants to attend their matched residency.
Restructuring OCR as a matching service, rather than merely a listing of “unverified” internships and interview space, greatly spreads the risk employers currently bear. OCS should be an impartial intermediary to match market players, though, granted, this is not an entirely closed market. Nevertheless, with preferences blind to the other side, the problem of information asymmetry can be resolved for those who do recruit, as each party is incentivized to honestly and openly reveal its preferences, which is what is lacking in the current system. Job scarcities will still lead to students who are not matched, but the friction generated by adverse selection will be eliminated.
Realigning the selection risk in the manner of residency matching allows firms to recruit the applicants most enthusiastic about working there, removing the adverse selection problem highlighted above. Additionally, the risk-sharing agreement under a reformed system places greater ex-ante responsibility on the applicant to research jobs, as they will be locked in once they apply. And that just might add some tangible value to the many months of Faculty Club info sessions.
Ashin D. Shah ’12, a Crimson photography editor, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Sometimes western Europeans come here looking for communism. There’s a park a few miles from the city center where they can go see old statues and things if they want.” Evening, an upscale bistro, Budapest—a friend of a friend is talking. “But I don’t think it’s worth it. Today all the people who used to be communists are nationalists who just want to wear traditional Hungarian garb and speak Hungarian. It’s reactionary. In this country, you have to know English, Spanish, German to be competitive—at least.” How can so many have gone from wanting an international world order to advocating isolationism, I ask? “Simple people,” he scoffs, swirling his drink. “They can totally 180 just because they have to believe in something.”
That condescension for the “simple people,” felt by many well-to-do eastern Europeans who dismiss those who cling to certain ideologies as laughable or naive, can be contagious. The tendency to flip-flop for the sake of political expediency is on display all the time, in the U.S. included. Even this week, Obama’s administration finally helped protect the health of millions of Americans while simultaneously stripping protection from oil-rich areas off the eastern and Alaskan coasts.
But this “simple” kind of inconsistency comes to seem attractive when set against what is perhaps the greater plague—the absence of any conviction at all. Accompanying the rise in political correctness, the refusal to adhere to one point of view has been a shift from a conversation broadly centered around ethics to one focused on the intricacies of policy. (Fodder for the conspiracy theorist: Is initiating sharp high school kids into American policy jargon through activities like debate merely a way of diverting the politically minded from the protests they would otherwise be attending?) The Keynesian invention of a British Arts Council in England, for instance—arising during WWII out of a public demand for the arts—is what Christopher Frayling calls a “classic example of what Adam Smith called the ‘moral sentiments’ that should underpin economic conversations. And there aren’t too many of those around today.”
What’s around instead is a stylistically sublime kind of evasion. In 1957 Roland Barthes introduced the term “neither-nor criticism” to describe the form of bourgeois verbal foot-shuffling so much public comment takes. “I’m neither right nor left; I’d call myself moderate”—a familiar refrain, one that eschews any definition of terms. It’s a nice way of saying that one isn’t really committed to anything.
And so, while political squabbling may be the bread-and-butter of blogs like The Daily Dish, it’s very difficult to point to any coherent political system at the moment. As this month’s Economist, engaging in a bit of its own neither-nor criticism, put it in a review of Tony Judt’s new book “Ill Fares the Land:” “Preaching aside, his key point is sound. Neither right nor left has any longer a plausible story to tell about the state.” In the book, Judt advocates a kind of social democracy; his writing is saturated with nostalgia for a pre-1970s era when inequality was on the wane, communitarianism was on the rise, and Reagan-Thatcher free-marketeering was an unimaginable specter in the far-off future.
Not all convictions are of a kind, of course. The late cultural critic Susan Sontag found herself on the wrong side of the media pitchfork when in the wake of 9/11 she wrote that, “Whatever may be said of the perpetrators of Tuesday’s slaughter, they were not cowards.” Jihad for jihad’s sake is probably not what she meant.
But lacking any kind of conviction at all is a shame of its own, especially when it comes to art. If literature and visual media so often seem beside the point—if an art that really matters in the public sphere seems nearly inconceivable, forced to rely on shock to say anything at all—it’s because shock is what remains when there’s no content in which to believe, because it’s so much gold paper wrapping an empty box. “Religion used to be the bolster of art. No longer,” writes Nicholas Shakespeare, chief book reviewer of The Daily Telegraph. “Graham Sutherland and Stanley Spencer left striking work on cathedral walls—Sutherland’s tapestry Christ in Glory for Coventry Cathedral, and his Crucifixion at St. Matthew, Northampton; Spencer’s war paintings at the Sandham Memorial Chapel in Burghclere. One can’t imagine the Church of England approaching Damien Hirst for a high altar, still less the Vatican commissioning Lucian Freud to paint a Sistine Chapel.”
So what can replace that conviction? Perhaps only something as basic, and yet as deep-seated, as a belief in other people—a stringent refusal to abide any needless suffering whatsoever. Judt never explicitly defines what his social democracy would look like—he just states clearly that Europe isn’t one (and even less so the U.S.). Figuring out how to set up a system based on, at the very least, care for others may be a “simple” request. But it’s one that necessitates a very complex answer.
Jessica A. Sequeira ’11, a former Crimson associate editorial editor, is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House currently studying abroad at the University of Cambridge. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While many Harvard seniors have been scrambling to find a job for next year, one member of the class of 2010 will be determining his future in a far different fashion—on the hardwood.
Men’s basketball co-captain Jeremy Lin is currently taking part in the Portsmouth Invitational Tournament, which began yesterday and will continue through Saturday.
Held annually in Portsmouth, Va., the 12-game showcase provides 64 invited college seniors—most of whom are not projected as first-round draft picks—the opportunity to be evaluated by professional scouts.
At stake for Lin, a member of the eight-player Tidewater Sealants, will be the chance to improve his shot at playing in the NBA or overseas next season.
Joining Lin in the Sealant backcourt will be Aubrey Coleman of Houston, a shooting guard who led all Division I players in scoring, and Arizona point guard Nic Wise.
Tennessee’s Wayne Chism and Omar Samhan of St. Mary’s will also be looking to prove themselves at Portsmouth. Last year, six tournament players were drafted to the NBA.
Currently projected by ESPN as a being either a second-round selection or going undrafted, Lin is determined to play at the next level.
“I’m pretty sure I want to play basketball for at least one year and see where that takes me,” Lin said.
Following the end of Harvard’s season three weeks ago, Lin took less than a week off before beginning individual workouts with assistant coach Kenny Blakeney.
After playing a combination guard role for the Crimson—both as his team’s primary scoring threat and playmaker—Lin has realized that he will have to move to point guard to continue his career.
“I think that’s going to be more natural for me, because I’m a little undersized for a two-guard,” Lin said of making the switch, which he acknowledges will not be easy.
“Four years is a long time for not being a point guard. It’s going to be a long process. I don’t know how hard it will be, but I will find out very soon.”
Jonathan Givony, president of DraftExpress.com, agreed that Lin will be more suited to the point in the pros.
“He is more attractive, at six-foot-three, as a point guard,” Givony said. “Showing playmaking skills, showing that he can run a team and make other people better—that’s definitely not going to hurt him.”
Portsmouth will be invaluable for Lin to display his skills against quality opponents.
“This is a good opportunity for him,”  Givony said. “We have a pretty good feeling that he could have played at any level of college basketball, but the fact that he was in the Ivy League—not really going up against NBA-caliber athletes on a game-by-game basis—makes this a good setting for him to show that he can translate his game to a higher level of competition. For him, there’s a lot to prove here.”
Cornell seniors Ryan Wittman and Jeff Foote will also be attempting to raise their own stock at Portsmouth. While Wittman has signed with an agent and Foote is looking to do so as well, Lin is in the process of finding an agent but has not found one yet.
“That would be a safe bet to make,” Givony said of the trio possibly playing in Europe next year, but he held off on assessing the NBA chances of the Ivy’s top seniors.
“I’ll have a much better opinion in four days,” Givony said. “This is why we’re going out there, to figure this question out. I don’t know that we have a definite answer at this point.”
Two of Lin’s teammates from last year’s Crimson squad—Drew Housman and Evan Harris—are currently playing in Israel and Germany, respectively.
“He could absolutely play at a lot of places,” Harris said of Lin’s prospects.
The Harvard standout received much attention from both national media and NBA scouts throughout the year, leading many to speculate on Lin’s potential as a professional player.
But Lin’s performance dipped as the 29-game season’s grind wore on, and the senior ended his collegiate career with a pair of lackluster performances at Princeton and at Appalachian State.
“I’m a lot more rested now, and I have my legs underneath me. I’m a much different player now than I was at the end of the season,” Lin said.
As classmates seal their fates for the next year and beyond, the senior remains hopeful and humble.
“I’m lucky, because I’m going to be doing what I love doing, which is playing basketball,” Lin said. “I feel like I’m really blessed. I haven’t applied to a single job, or done any interviews, and I’m very thankful for that…I’m very fortunate to be where I’m at.”
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Duke won the NCAA basketball championship on Monday, but the madness isn’t over yet. Last Thursday, Greg Shaheen, vice president of the NCAA, announced a proposal to expand future basketball tournaments from 65 to 96 teams.
The logistics aren’t finalized, and there are some hurdles like the CBS television contract that runs through 2013, but the feeling is that expansion is going to happen, perhaps as early as next year.
For the most part, fans and writers think the plan is a pretty bad idea. “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it,” seems to be the go-to line.
But as a Harvard student, I say go for it, NCAA. Expand. And I’ll tell you my selfish reason: as a student from a non-power conference, I will care more about my school’s basketball program if 31 teams are added to the Big Dance.
As an Ivy League school, the Crimson’s only way into March Madness right now is to win its conference. But with 31 extra teams, Harvard could potentially get into the tournament with stellar non-conference performances and a second place league finish. This new possibility will open up interest in the Crimson’s non-league basketball games.
What I hope happens is that the selection committee puts a little extra weight behind some of these mid-major teams that don’t quite win their leagues. After all, March Madness is about the Cinderella, and there’s no better way to find Cinderella than to invite 31 more girls to the ball.
The talent pool in college basketball continually gets better, and I’d argue that the talent is being dispersed to create a decent amount of parity. As always, mid-major schools grabbed national headlines this year. Northern Iowa, from the Missouri Valley Conference, knocked off top-seed Kansas. Cornell, of the Ivy League, steam rolled to the Sweet Sixteen. Butler, from the Horizon League, made the NCAA finals.
Take Harvard as another example. The Crimson demonstrated it had the ability to hang with power conference teams like Boston College and UConn, and Harvard finished the season with an RPI of 105. There are mid-major teams out there that can compete at the highest levels, and putting some of those teams into the tournament would add to the excitement, not take it away.
What I hope doesn’t happen is that the selection committee invites a bunch of average teams from the major conferences to fill the expanded field. This year, eight Big East teams made the tournament. Is the NCAA planning on inviting the rest of the conference? I hope not.
Overall, the NCAA proposal might not be as bad as some people think. Critics argue that the expansion will hurt the mystique of the tournament, kill the regular season, and punish the student-athlete.
As for the mystique of the tournament, I don’t see expansion hurting it that much, as long as the selection committee focuses on adding top teams from the mid-majors and not average teams from the power conferences.
Also, I’m not convinced adding teams will kill the regular season. As Shaheen noted, the top eight teams in each region will get first-round byes under the new proposal. This rule adds an important incentive to regular season play.
The other major reason critics dislike the expansion is that they say the NCAA is choosing money over student-athletes, who will have to miss a few more days of class under the new plan.
First of all, in the grand scheme of things, two more days of missed class isn’t that big of a deal. But I do see where critics are coming from—it’s more of a grievance about the symbol of the NCAA as this big business.
This complaint entertains me—not because it’s wrong, but because people are acting like the business attitude is something new.
We all know that we’re in the age of the athlete-student and not the student-athlete. Just look at Kentucky, a team whose core players will likely all leave before graduation.
The NCAA has been a big business for a long time now and the CBS March Madness television deal is already valued around $700 million a year. As a reference point, the national rights for NBA content are worth an average of $950 million per year.
But the NCAA’s big business isn’t necessarily a bad thing. The money doesn’t take away from the youthfulness and emotions of the game, and a lot of the money the NCAA makes gets kicked back to the schools anyway.
Although the NCAA may be thinking with its wallet, that doesn’t make the expansion a bad idea. Especially for the Crimson and schools from mid-major conferences, the tournament expansion will stimulate more interest in college basketball.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the 1968 Rabbinical Assembly meeting in New York, Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel extended an invitation to the keynote speaker, the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. He asked that Dr. King join him in April for a Passover Seder in his family’s New York apartment. On April 4th, only a week before King was to sit at Rabbi Heschel’s table, James Earl Ray shot and killed Reverend King outside his Memphis hotel room.
Had Dr. King been at that Seder, he would have taken his turn around the table reading and discussing passages from the Biblical Exodus. King and Heschel might have recalled the day they marched from Selma, Alabama to Montgomery, Alabama three years earlier, arm in arm, standing up for equal rights and protections for all Americans, regardless of race or religion. Like those sitting around him, King would have remembered that the fight for freedom is an ongoing one; every generation has its own Pharaoh to enslave the vulnerable.
Although King never had the opportunity to sit at Heschel’s Seder table, his example of collaboration across racial and religious barriers should continue to serve as model in our time; only through cooperation can we effectively address the hardest problems facing humanity. The Pharaoh who ruled over the Hebrews in ancient Egypt is not gone; he and his armies still exist in various forms for millions of people around the world.
Modern day Pharaohs like hunger, poverty, and disease continue to enslave much of the world’s population. Eighteen thousand children die every day from hunger according to the U.N. food agency. Almost half of the world lives on less than $2.50 a day. UNICEF reports that one in every two children lives in poverty, and one out of every seven has no access to healthcare. Malaria is a curable and preventable disease that continues to kill a child in Africa every 30 seconds.
In his 1941 State of the Union address, President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave his famous “Four Freedoms” speech. He spoke of a world in which Pharaoh and his armies no longer existed. He envisioned that in the not so distant future we would attain a world whose citizens enjoyed “freedom from want”—a world in which a mother would never have to choose between taking her child to the doctor and feeding her family for a week; a world in which a father would never have to sacrifice his daughter’s education to be able to provide for his family.
Ten years ago, 192 nations came together in New York City to reaffirm the promise of freedom from want. They established the U.N. Millennium Development Goals and pledged to achieve them by 2015. These eight goals address the root causes of global poverty: tyrants like infectious disease, hunger, and gender inequality. Now, five years from the deadline, none of the goals are on track to be accomplished. These goals, once beacons of hope in the fight on global poverty, are becoming broken promises to people across the world.
In sub-Saharan Africa, tuberculosis rates actually increased between 1990 and 2007 according to a recent report from the United Nations, despite the goal of halving tuberculosis cases and deaths by 2015. Contamination and polluted water kill more people than all forms of violence combined, and one million people still die each year from malaria, the majority of them children and pregnant women in Africa. Their suffering remains invisible to us an ocean away. Concentrated in the world’s poorest villages and away from the eyes of the developed world, they die silent deaths.
In 1955, the World Health organization developed a plan to eliminate malaria globally within 15 years. The funding from governments, however, soon dried up and in 1970 the disease still plagued much of the world’s population. Today, effective global malaria control would require an estimated $5 billion a year; according to the New York Times, Americans spent 10 times that amount on cosmetics and toiletries in 2006.  Europeans spent $50 billion on cigarettes.
Modern malaria control, however, cannot be accomplished by money alone. Successfully combating the injustice of malaria requires cooperation across the lines that divide society—lines like religion, ethnicity, socio-economic status, and gender. In countries across Africa, groups are recognizing this need to work with one another in order to make real progress on eradicating the disease. In Mozambique, Together Against Malaria brings Christian and Muslim leaders together to utilize religious infrastructure to improve access to malaria prevention measures. In Nigeria the same is being done by the Nigerian Inter-faith Action Association, which will help distribute 60 million bed nets in remote parts of the country that are inaccessible to government agencies.
Abroad, populations are working together despite differences in order to improve the world around them, but here in the United States we often forget the value of cooperation. As Martin Luther King Jr. understood, it takes collaboration across the lines that continue to divide us to effectively address the major problems facing the world.
Miranda Rosenberg ’09 co-directs the 10 Net Challenge to raise awareness and funds for global poverty and malaria eradication.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the unfortunate conclusion of one NCAA basketball tournament, questions about next year’s and the preceding years’ tournaments have arisen—namely, the potential expansion of the tournament from its current format of 65 invitees to a possible 96. As Crimson staff writer Jake I. Fisher argues in his column Choosy Moms Choose JIF, this 31-team expansion may offer the opportunity for more mid-level, underrated, or undiscovered teams—such as 2010 runner-up Butler, Sweet Sixteen Cinderella Cornell, or, dare we say it, Harvard—to reach the big dance.
For the Crimson, expansion could indeed provide the chance for a talented squad, akin to this season’s team under the leadership of co-captain Jeremy Lin, to garner an invitation to the tournament. Although a title may be a stretch at this point, Harvard, like conference rival Cornell this season, would earn valuable experience in a post-season tournament, respect from the basketball community, and the opportunity to prove its merit as a program.
However, a more important question is whether or not the expansion will prove beneficial to lesser-known teams such as Harvard or if it will only be focused on bringing more attention and revenue to the power conferences. Rather than providing additional room for the Ivy League or the West Coast Conference, expansion might instead give the Big East or the ACC extra invitations.
One can only hope that if the expansion does come to fruition it will be for the promotion of underdog teams in underrepresented conferences rather than for the Goliath’s of the basketball arena.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last night at Blodgett Pool, months of anticipation were set to culminate in a fiery match between bitter rivals as the Harvard women’s water polo team faced Brown for the first time this season.
But the anticipation ended in disappointment and frustration when the match was unexpectedly cancelled.
“It was postponed because one of the referees wasn’t here,” junior goalkeeper Laurel McCarthy explained. “It’s really frustrating for everyone. We’ve been really excited about this game for the entire season, and in these past two weeks it’s all we’ve been preparing for.”
The Crimson’s intense preparation for this game ties into an intense rivalry dating back to the 70s. Losing by one goal at the hands of the Bears three times last year has further fueled Harvard’s drive to defeat Brown.
“Both teams consider the other their most mortal rival,” head coach Erik Farrar said. “It’s an old long-standing rivalry—it’s like Harvard and Yale with football.”
But the importance of the game extends beyond the rivalry.
“This is huge for both the conference, qualifying for the championship, and for seeding, over and above the fact that Brown is in our pool and we’re going to try to stick it to them in a big way,” Farrar said of the game.
Unfortunately, the Crimson must now wait until next week, once the game has been rescheduled, for their chance to take down the Bears.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A few months ago, Kirkland House Resident Scholar Peter V. Emerson saw a group of people with musical equipment standing in front of his gate at the airport. Emerson got in line and struck a conversation with a lady behind him.
After he asked a few questions about the band, the woman finally introduced herself. Emerson then realized that he had been speaking with Rosanne Cash, the song writer and daughter of country music legend Johnny Cash.
Yesterday, Emerson and Cash met again when the musician came to the Kirkland Senior Common Room as the guest speaker of a discussion that was part of the “Conversations with Kirkland” series.
When asked what she thought about “Walk the Line,” the 2005 Hollywood blockbuster about Johnny Cash, she said, “I thought what anyone would think if they made a Hollywood version of your childhood.”
“Nobody would like that,” she added.
Cash said she refused to go to the premiere, but watched the movie before its release with her teenage daughter.
The movie was “painful,” Cash said, “because it had the three most damaging events of my childhood: my parent’s divorce, my father’s drug addiction, and something else bad that I can’t remember now.”
Her daughter, on the other hand, liked the movie. Cash said she realized the movie was not for her enjoyment, but rather “for other people”—for them and her daughter, “it’s just some story.”
Cash said that when she was young she wanted to be an actor but was “unsuited” for that kind of life, and felt “an urgency to differentiate” and “prove herself constantly because the shadow of Johnny Cash loomed very large.”
At the event, Cash also discussed the changing music business, her fans, and her experiences touring, and took time to ask audience members why they came to visit.
John M. Sigmier ’12, one of two students present, said that Rosanne Cash was “his first Harvard experience”: while driving from Cleveland to Harvard with his parents for the first time, he listened to Cash on National Public Radio.
“My whole impression of her of being a very intelligent, articulate individual was validated,” Sigmier said.
Ashwin Kaja ’07, a Kirkland tutor who worked with Emerson to bring Cash to Harvard, said that because Harvard hosts many political speakers, he tries to  bring in people from “other walks of life.”
Cash’s memoir “Composed” will be published in August.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some on campus may joke that Mather House is “the box that Dunster came in,” but this jab does not stop incoming Mather House Masters Christie A. McDonald and Michael D. Rosengarten from appreciating the building’s concrete beauty.
“We actually really like the architecture in Mather,” McDonald says. “Inside, the spaces have incredible windows and light, and... there are these spaces designed for people to get together in small groups that are absolutely terrific.”
The Three Columns Gallery—the art showcase near the Mather dining hall and across from the Junior Common Room—earns particular admiration from McDonald, a French language and literature and comparative literature professor who studies literature’s relationship with art and the social sciences.
With her husband Rosengarten—McGill University associate dean of the Center for Continuing Health Professional Education—by her side, McDonald says she hopes to infuse the House with her love for art.
This goal—and the broader aim of becoming House Masters—is not a capricious whim of the couple, they say.
Rather, it is a long-standing desire, and perhaps even a logical next step in both of their careers, which have allowed them to traverse various academic and administrative roles across national borders.
A HARVARD VETERAN
The House Mastership is one of the few roles McDonald has yet to hold at Harvard.
Her vast administrative and managerial experience ranges from chairing the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures to participating in myriad faculty committees.
“Everybody always complains about administration, but in fact, it’s actually great to be working with your colleagues,” McDonald says.
Her extensive involvement in faculty life has introduced the couple to other Masters, including Kirkland House Masters and fellow French professors Tom C. and Verena A. Conley, Leverett Masters Howard M. Georgi ’68 and Ann B. Georgi, and Lowell Masters Diana L. Eck and Dorothy A. Austin.
McDonald works with Eck and Austin as a member of the Lowell House Senior Common Room, and she says she exercises with Verena Conley—though not as often as they should, McDonald is quick to add.
These friendships have given the pair a glimpse into a House Master’s daily life, which McDonald says will serve as a valuable model when she and her husband begin their first year as Mather Masters.
FRANCOPHILES FOREVER
A native of Montreal, Rosengarten earned his Bachelor of Engineering in 1966 at McGill University—a top-tier university in Quebec known in jest as the “Harvard of the North.”
He subsequently earned a medical degree from the University of Ottawa, which led him through various residencies, research fellowships, and practices. Rosengarten currently serves as an associate professor of medicine in addition to his position as associate dean at McGill.
As associate dean, Rosengarten says he has aimed to create a medium for three-dimensional photography online, an initiative that hearkens back to his childhood hobby of photography. In classes he taught at McGill, Rosengarten introduced both videotaping and live-streaming.
Born on the other side of the border in New York City, McDonald grew up in Greenwich Village, a neighborhood in Manhattan. But when she was 16, she traveled to France for the first time, an experience that she says shaped the rest of her career.
A newfound passion for France would lead her to study abroad for a year at the Université de Paris before she graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1964. She later earned her Ph.D. from Yale University in 1969.
McDonald’s fervor for all things French was one of many factors that united her and Rosengarten in matrimony 23 years ago in Montreal. They both love France, and to this day, they say they go regularly—especially to Paris.
“It’s another lifestyle. It’s just such a wonderful city of people that are all different,” Rosengarten says. “There’s so much culture and so many things going on.”
France would attract both of them in different ways. A technician and cardiologist, Rosengarten researched human heart-rate variability for two years in Paris and, one summer, worked at French technology company Saunier Duval.
Meanwhile, for McDonald the literature aficionado, France provided a wealth of material—most important to her were lengthy volumes of Marcel Proust, she says.
“I’ve reread and reread and reread Proust,” McDonald says. “Once you get into it... it’s all-enveloping.”
A DREAM DEFERRED
The thought of being House Masters first struck McDonald and Rosengarten about a decade ago, but they say that a particular family arrangement prevented the thought from becoming reality.
In his role at McGill, Rosengarten spends his time in Cambridge only every other week. But that commuting arrangement, which disrupted Master-related plans in the early 2000s, is set to end in July. McDonald says this “dovetailed perfectly” with the House Master search.
“We both have great careers, so we actually were able to maintain the two careers simultaneously, but after 15 years of commuting, I’ve sort of had it,” Rosengarten says.
“So when we were offered this position and the opportunity to work with young people and young minds, it just seemed like there was no choice,” he adds.
Rosengarten says he is unsure about his future at McGill. He says that he hopes to continue his efforts to expand the use of three-dimensional imagery on the Internet in a technical advisory role.
In any case, the transition might not be seamless for McDonald and Rosengarten, given the 18-year-long tenure of their predecessors, Mather House Masters Sandra F. Naddaff ’75 and Leigh G. Hafrey ’73.
“They’ve been such great Masters so it’s going to be a hard act to follow obviously,” McDonald says. “So we’ll want to make sure to continue all the things that people care about in the House that they’ve built up.”
“It’ll be a learning curve, and some say a steep learning curve,” she adds.
Rosengarten, with a seemingly restrained but relentless sense of humor, immediately chimes in.
“We’re counting on a long honeymoon phase as well,” he says.
—Staff writer Danielle J. Kolin can be reached at dkolin@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College has sought to increase public speaking resources on campus and has even created a speech tutor program, but students are still calling for more opportunities to enhance their public speaking skills.
Members of “Harvard Speaks,” a campaign launched by students Tuesday night, hope to demonstrate to administrators the importance of public speaking as a life skill and the consequent need for more public speaking opportunities on campus.
“Whether it’s [speaking] with a law professor, in consulting, or in advocacy, the skills you take away from public speaking will help you communicate your message,” said Kevin Y. Fan ’13, the founder of the campaign, which has already collected over 100 student signatures on a petition calling for more public speaking resources.
The College currently offers a limited selection of courses that focus on public speaking—for example, Expository Writing 40, “Public Speaking Practicum,” is a small seminar course designed to help students practice and improve their oral communication skills.
Course head Rebekah Maggor, a voice and speech consultant, said that she was inspired to start the class when she recognized the “enormous” demand for more public speaking instruction within the Harvard community.
In fact, 104 applicants applied for 12 spots in the class when it was offered for the first time last year, according to Maggor.
Some courses offer academic studies of public speaking—for example, a visiting professor from Northwestern University is offering two classes on rhetoric, including one on the speeches of former U.S. President Abraham Lincoln. Yet other courses incorporate oral elements into the curriculum itself.
General Education classes such as English 156, “Crime and Horror in Victorian Literature and Culture” and Culture and Belief 11, “Medicine and the Body in East Asia and in Europe” have incorporated speaking components, such as a final oral assessment or podcast assignments into their syllabi.
Maggor directs the recently-created Program for Speaking and Learning, which works with faculty to integrate public speaking into their curriculum.
The College has tried to provide students with opportunities to hone their public speaking skills outside the classroom as well.
The Harvard College Speaking tutors group—which previously boasted only one tutor—was able to hire three additional instructors to provide one-on-one help and workshops for students hoping to improve their public speaking skill.
But the program’s inaugural tutor Andrea R. Flores ’10—who is an alumnus of Expos 40—said that Harvard needs to offer more resources and opportunities in public speaking to students.
“I think speaking should be a core part of the Harvard curriculum. Writing and speaking go very hand in hand,” said Flores, the former Undergraduate Council president. “[It’s a] life skill you should be prepared for when you graduate.”
Marlon D. Kuzmick, Expos preceptor and associate director of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning, pointed to the existence of “speaking across curriculum” programs at other universities as a potential model for public speaking education at Harvard in the long run.
“It really should be more central, perhaps across Gen Ed courses,” Kuzmick said.
While the College’s current budget restrictions limit the possibilities for expansion, Maggor said she is hopeful that new public speaking opportunities will continue to become available.
“The administration has been very supportive in any way that they can,” she said.
—Staff writer Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Melody Y. Hu can be reached at melodyhu@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
American workers are angry, and the labor movement ought to form alliances across socioeconomic groups to prevent this anger from turning into hatred, President of the AFL-CIO Richard Trumka said at an Institute of Politics forum last night.
Trumka—who spoke earlier in the day at the study group of his AFL-CIO predecessor, current IOP Resident Fellow John Sweeney—said that the labor movement provides necessary organization and political voice for workers who do not feel the system is on their side.
“We need to act boldly to strike at the foundation of working class anger and to stem the growth of racism,” Trumka said. “Our republic must once again offer working people something other than the dead end choice [of] the failed agenda of greed and hatred.”
Trumka also emphasized the importance of the labor movement in rebuilding the strained U.S. economy.
According to Trumka, the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations is working to show younger generations of workers that the labor movement can be key to addressing several of their needs, ranging from health care to justice for undocumented workers to workplace safety. He added that the AFL-CIO has been active in each of these areas.
“You may think that this is pretty retro. Jobs are so 20th century. Sweat’s for the gym, not for the workplace,” Trumka said. “For the lucky 10 percent of our society, that has been the reality. But for the rest of the country, economic reality has been something entirely different.”
Trumka’s emphasis on workplace safety came in the wake of a mine collapse on Monday in West Virginia, which killed 25 workers. Trumka, a former miner and former president of the United Mine Workers, said that the tragedy should encourage the strengthening of worker safety laws.
After opening the discussion to questions from attendees, Trumka directly grappled with the question of racism in America.
Andrew J. Breitbart, an editor at the Drudge Report who was a guest at IOP Fellow Ernest Istook’s study group yesterday, questioned the recent allegations of racism in the Tea Party movement.
While the question riled up the audience with cries of “next question,” audience member Kevin E. Kelley—a member of the Carpenter’s Union—said that Trumka’s diplomatic handling of the situation is representative of his strong leadership style.
The event, co-sponsored by the Kennedy School’s Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy, attracted union members from across the Boston area.
Karen Jeanne O’Donnell, a union electrician who has worked at projects at the Harvard Business School and Adams House, said that she was disappointed that Trumka did not address the role of women workers, but she was “hopeful and energized” after hearing his plans to reach out across age and socioeconomic lines.
—Staff writer Stephanie B. Garlock can be reached at sgarlock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Supermax prisons, which are designed to hold prisoners in prolonged and strict solitary confinement, are ineffective, expensive, and detrimental to mental health, surgeon and journalist Atul Gawande said during a speech at Harvard Law School yesterday.
Gawande, who is also a professor at the Medical School and the School of Public Health, questioned whether solitary confinement is equivalent to torture, citing apathy among the public as the reason that solitary confinement is so pervasive in the United States.
“The public is outraged at some level, but not deeply enough...The prisoners are not connected to our society due to racial, socioeconomic, and educational disparities,” Gawande said. “The average inmate is not a person you would run into in daily life. I think it would disturb us or be difficult to stomach putting people we grew up with in solitary isolation.”
There are currently at least 25,000 prisoners in solitary confinement in the United States, according to Gawande.
He cited a study by Craig W. Haney, a psychology professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, that found that after months or years of complete isolation, many prisoners “begin to lose the ability to initiate behavior of any kind—to organize their own lives around activity and purpose.”
Gawande said the study found that solitary confinement often leads to chronic apathy, lethargy, depression, and despair among prisoners, and that once released they are more likely to commit crimes than they were before being put in solitary confinement.
Supermax prisoners are typically confined to their cell for at least 23 hours a day and permitted to leave only to shower or exercise in an outdoor cage. These prisoners receive their meals through slots in their doors and are shackled whenever they leave their cells.
According to Gawande, one of the paradoxes of solitary confinement is that, as starved as people become for companionship, the experience typically leaves them unfit for future social interactions.
Gawande cited the case of Bobby Dellelo, who was held in isolation for more than five years of a 40-year prison term.
After months without human contact, when Dellelo had an in-person meeting with his lawyer, he had trouble following the lawyer’s words and hand gestures and had difficulty speaking, ultimately leading him to have a panic attack.
“When we consider legalized torture, we consider Guantanamo and Abu Ghraib,” Gawande said.
“But solitary confinement in our state prisons is the legalized torture of our own people within our own communities.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the face of Justice John Paul Stevens’ impending retirement, the nomination of former Harvard Law School Dean Elena Kagan for the open seat on the Supreme Court has become a likely prospect.
If she is selected as President Barack Obama’s nominee, Kagan—who currently serves as the nation’s first female Solicitor General—will face a number of challenges on the road toward confirmation, including her lack of experience as a judge, her religious background, and her stance on the military.
Kagan’s experience in academia rather than in the courtroom may be a significant obstacle in her confirmation, according to Law School Professor Mark V. Tushnet ’67.
Historically, a significant number of Supreme Court Justices had not been judges before their confirmations, but the last 30 years have seen a sharp trend of nominating current appellate court judges.
Kagan’s religious affiliation may also impede her nomination. Justice Stevens is the Court’s only Protestant, and if Kagan, who is Jewish, were appointed, the court would be composed of six Catholics and three Jews.
According to Tushnet, that issue “has not quite surfaced yet,” but there have been some indications that it could factor into Obama’s decision.
In Kagan’s Senate confirmation hearings for Solicitor General, she was questioned about banning military recruiters from the Law School’s campus in opposition to the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy.
Tushnet said he believes that the policy is “on its way out” and will be used as a “talking point” for Republicans, but would not be an issue that would bar Kagan from the Court.
Tushnet and Law School Professor Frank I. Michelman said that they were unclear if these concerns were legitimate indications of Kagan’s inability to serve as a Justice.
“Republicans are unified against anything the administration wants to do,” Tushnet said.
Kagan’s confirmation hearings for Solicitor General were viewed as especially rigorous—and may have foreshadowed a potential nomination.
“It is possible to speculate that [the hearing] was anticipatory of a future Supreme Court nomination,” Michelman said.
Current Law School Dean Martha L. Minow has also been raised as a possible candidate, according to Bloomberg. But Tushnet said he thinks it is “unlikely” that Minow would be chosen because Kagan has had “some bathing in high-level practice” that would make her a more likely contender.
Michelman said that the skills Kagan acquired both as dean and as Solicitor General may translate well in the Court.
Although the Law School deanship is a management job, Kagan was required to have political and interpersonal skills relevant to work in the Court, according to Tushnet.
Tushnet clerked for Thurgood Marshall, the last Justice who was a former Solicitor General, and said that Marshall’s previous work exposed him to a range of legal issues.
“I am sure the same will be true with Kagan,” Tushnet said.
“[Being Solicitor General] demands both an ability to take advice from and respect the concerns of all the constituencies in government you represent, but then making up your own mind about what is the best thing to do,” former Solicitor General and Law School Professor Charles Fried wrote in an e-mail.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard unveiled its plans to beautify the perimeter of the construction site that was slated for the Allston Science Complex at a meeting of the Harvard Construction Management Sub-Committee last night.
The landscape design, which the University hopes to complete by the end of June 2010, is intended to give the site a “more aesthetic” look, according to James Royce, a Stephen Stimson Associates landscape architect hired by Harvard for the project.
The landscaping plan—which comes in the wake of the December announcement of the indefinite pause in construction on the $1 billion Science Complex—is intended to address community concerns regarding the unattractiveness of the construction site, which residents believe may lie empty for at least a decade.
“We just don’t want the neighborhood to look neo-correctional,” said Allston resident Joyce Radnor.
The proposal—the result of the Allston Development Group’s collaboration with the Boston Redevelopment Association—consists of removing the current scaffolding around the perimeter of the construction site and replacing it with a more permanent wood fence. The site would be surrounded by native perennial plants such as winterberry and red twig dogwood, in addition to river birches and red maples.
The project also includes the creation of more parking space to accommodate the new tenants that Harvard hopes to bring to its vacant properties in the neighborhood, addressing a concern Allston residents have had about the availability of parking after learning the University’s plans to fill its empty real estate holdings.
While the residents present at the meeting were pleased with the plan, they continue to be concerned about how long the moratorium on construction will last.
Resident Paul “Chip” Alford questioned the use of the word “pause,” which has been employed by the University throughout discussion of the halt in the Science Complex’s construction.
“Isn’t it a little disingenuous?” he said, referencing rumors that the University would not move forward with construction on the Science Complex for at least 10 years. “It’s an abandonment of the project.”
But Director of Community Relations Kevin A. McCluskey ’76 defended the use of the word “pause.”
“It gives an indication that we are continuing to work on exploring our options to have construction resume on that site,” McCluskey said.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Almost 50 Allston Brighton residents attended the sixth annual Green Gathering at the German International School last night to celebrate the achievements in making the Allston Brighton community more environmentally-friendly.
The event, hosted by the Allston Brighton Community Development Corporation and the Allston Brighton Green Space Advocates, featured a special presentation by Juan Jose Sanchez, a masters degree candidate at Tufts University School of Urban and Environmental Policy and Planning who presented evidence from his thesis that surveyed the interest of green spaces in the Latino community of Allston Brighton.
According to Sanchez’s research, men and women differed in the types of spaces they felt most important for the community. Men, for instance, sought more soccer fields and women wanted more spaces for family-oriented activities.
Christine Poff of Boston Parks Advocates spoke about goals to elevate the profile of parks in the Allston Brighton community.
“How do we make residents realize how important [the parks] are?” Poff said to the attendees. “How can we really capture the moment now when green spaces are looking really lousy?”
She suggested trying to change public officials’ view of the parks through increased advocacy—working with decision-makers and creating a network where community residents can connect with each other.
David McNair of the Allston Brighton North Neighbors Forum responded to Poff’s request for a communal conversation by broaching the issue of physical accessibility to the park spaces.
The overall consensus seemed to be that such problems would require bringing different agencies, such as parks and transportation, together—another conversation for another year.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Residents of Cambridge and several surrounding towns will vote in a special primary election on Tuesday to select their new State Senator, replacing currently imprisoned ex-Senator Anthony D. Galluccio.
The new Senator will represent the Middlesex, Suffolk, and Essex districts.
Six Democratic candidates—half hailing from Cambridge—will vie for the seat in Tuesday’s primary. There are no Republican candidates, but one Independent, John Cesan of Agawam, plans to run in the May 11 general election.
Galluccio, a former Cambridge mayor, was arrested in October 2009 for a hit-and-run accident which injured two individuals. Within three days of his sentence of house arrest, he violated his probation by failing a series of breathalyzer tests. He was sentenced to a year in jail and resigned his Senate seat a day later.
Galluccio has maintained his innocence and plans to appeal the decision.
The candidates who hope to fill his spot include a former opponent and a former aide, those with decades in politics and those with no background in government.
Meet all six, and hear their comments:
MICHAEL J. ALBANO
Albano, a real estate broker from Chelsea, says he has “been involved in politics most of [his] life,” starting at the age of seven when he knocked on doors to campaign for his father, a former Mass. State Senator.
Albano worked as a professional political consultant in the 1980s, and once he turned to a career in the real estate and advertising industries, he continued his political activism as a volunteer on many campaigns.
“We’ve got to change the way we conduct business on Beacon Hill,” he said. “I’m just tired of the game playing. It rears its ugly head so much more clearly when things are as bad as they are now.”
“People are hurting, and they’re angry and they’re frustrated, and still our government can’t find the will to act in the best interest of children and families,” Albano added.
He stressed the need for easier credit to keep small businesses afloat.
Albano also claimed to be the only candidate who opposes the legalization of casinos in Massachussetts and voiced his support for campaign finance reform.
Albano is optimistic about his chances: “Signs don’t vote,” he said. “People vote.”
DENNIS A. BENZAN
Benzan’s frustration over Democrat Martha Coakley’s loss to Republican Scott P. Brown for a seat in the U.S. Senate spurred him to run for the State Senate, he told The Crimson in January.
“There is a lot of frustration and disappointment in people across the state and the country that their elected officials are not really meeting their needs,” he said.
Benzan, a Cambridge lawyer who ran for the Mass. House of Representatives in 1996 and 1998, said that the open State Senate seat gave him the opportunity he had been seeking to jump back into politics.
Benzan emphasized education as a part of his platform, saying that math skills for young children and college readiness for minority youth are among his top priorities.
“While we are in a bad economy, the state does have resources,” he said. “Cambridge has great resources and yet we’re failing our children.”
Benzan said he believes “if programs don’t work, you don’t need to spend money on them.”
“Sometimes we have a tendency to complicate policy,” he added. “It’s very simple—people want a good education. They want jobs. They want healthcare. They want streets that are clean and infrastructure that’s not rotting away.”
SAL N. DIDOMENICO
A native Cantabrigian, DiDomenico has been involved in politics since his college years, beginning as legislative aide to State Representative Peter A. Vellucci. At the time of Galluccio’s resignation, DiDomenico was serving as his chief of staff.
In 2004, DiDomenico was appointed to the Everett Common Council and was unanimously elected in 2007 to serve as President of the Council.
DiDomenico emphasized a need to take prompt action to sustain small business, seeing them as a prime area for job creation.
“We have to bring down the unemployment rate of 9.5 percent,” he said.
Motivated by his two sons—both of whom attend public schools—and his wife—a special needs teacher—DiDomenico said he opposes teacher lay-offs, shrinking school budgets, and elimination of critical curricula.
He also outlined specific goals for each town in the district. For Cambridge, he envisions working with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to create jobs and ensuring adequate funding for safe and affordable housing.
“I know the issues in every city and every town; I’ve been working on them for two-and-a-half years,” he said, adding that he possesses a “unique understanding” of the districts.
TIMOTHY R. FLAHERTY
Flaherty, a Cambridge resident, said he ran against Galluccio for the Senate seat in 2007 “because as a strong progressive I was concerned about healthcare and essential human services.”
“My feeling is that [these issues are] even more important now, because in the down economy, these services need to be protected,” he said.
Flaherty cited his experience as “a major felony prosecutor” as good preparation for the Senate post.
“I ran a drug unit; I prosecuted multiple murder cases,” he said. “All of that taught me how important it is for government to be competent and very progressive.”
Flaherty’s five-point plan for creating new jobs in the state includes granting a tax credit to high-tech manufacturing companies, increasing loans to biotech startups, and fostering the growth of the film industry in Massachusetts.
He added that “Harvard needs to make a greater contribution to the communities of both Boston and Cambridge.”
If private universities in the district refuse to make greater contributions to the community, Flaherty said legislators can revoke these institutions’ tax-exempt status.
“The race has come down to a two-man race between me and the Everett candidate [DiDomenico],” Flaherty said regarding his chances of winning Tuesday’s primary.
DANIEL C. HILL
Hill, a lawyer from Charlestown, said he decided to run for a Senate seat in November 2009, even before Galluccio resigned.
“I certainly didn’t expect there to be an open seat,” he said. “I was planning to run against the Senator in the September primary.”
“I’m uniquely qualified in this election because I’m not a member of the political establishment,” Hill said. “I think that distinguishes me from the other candidates in that I can make decisions with objectivity and without the consideration of lobbyists and special interests who have donated to my campaign.”
Hill described his efforts as “an underdog campaign” with no professional staff.
“We’re hoping that this will work, that you don’t need to essentially take money from special interests to be elected,” he said. “If that’s what it takes to be elected, I think that’s a sad indictment on the state of our electoral system.”
“The core message of our campaign is sustainability,” he added. “What that encompasses to me is both economic prosperity as well as...protecting our environment and preserving our natural resources.”
E. DENISE SIMMONS
Simmons, whose nearly three decades of political involvement include a stint as Cambridge mayor, is currently serving her fifth term on the Cambridge City Council.
She said that her identity as an openly gay African-American woman has helped in her campaign.
“Certainly, other women, other people of color, other members of the LGBT community want to see someone that understands them working for them in the local government,” Simmons said. “At the same time, when someone comes to me and says ‘Councillor Simmons, I need help’...it doesn’t matter to them that I’m a woman, or a person of color, or openly gay.”
Simmons said that she plans to focus on economic development, job creation, environmental protection, and funding for essential services if elected.
While she admitted that she’s “never been the candidate that goes out and raises the most money,” she said she prefers “focusing [her] time and energy on speaking with the voters.”
“We’ve been getting some great feedback with all the phone calls, the door knocking, and just being out in the community,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Yesterday night, as we walked past the old Z Square location at 14 JFK St., we noticed something intriguing. The windows were still covered up, no indications of a new business were immediately evident (at least, from where we were standing)...yet there were definitely people inside. We peeked through the door and saw a placard that said something along the lines of "Russell House Tavern closed for a private function." Interesting, we thought. When had a Russell House Tavern opened in Harvard Square?
The answer: today. We're not sure what the event was last night, but we just found out that the official opening date for the Russell House Tavern—described in the press release as "a modern neighborhood tavern celebrating smart cocktails and artisanal fare"—is today.
Digging through The Crimson archives, we realized that plans for this restaurant have been in the works for awhile. Well, we'll do some more investigating—check TheCrimson.com later for updates.
Image courtesy of Amelia Sutton.
 
Sections
Four “besties with testes” (aka best friends, duh!) sit around a living room watching “The Biggest Loser” and chatting about their daily caloric intake, their relationship issues, and the wonders of Pinkberry in a recent video posted by the Harvard Sailing Team (HST) – a comedy group that actually has no connection whatsoever to Harvard and has no sailing skills, as far as we know.
The HST wishes there was an awesome story behind their name, but Rebecca Brey, a member of the group, explained that in truth there’s not much rationale behind it. “We started our sketch comedy group over 5 years ago and when we were coming up with names someone suggested Harvard Sailing Team as a name and that we wear argyle,” Brey wrote to us in an e-mail. (Are they calling us preppy?!)
The video, in which a group of guys pretends to be a group of stereotypically clingy, calorie-counting girls, begins with the boys feeling a bit peckish. They talk about sharing something small to eat and agree to, but not before one of them makes sure to check in with his girlfriend about whether they’re planning on eating later on in the day. They are. All of a sudden the other boys seem less hungry too. Maybe they had big breakfasts? “I actually digested a huge gust of wind on my way to work…” one of the guys admits.
The topic of Pinkberry comes up. “Wait…what’s Pinkberry?” one friend asks. The others are shocked. “It’s tots the best 100-cal Froyo. Every guy should have a knowledge of it.”
We found this video amusing, but you can decide for yourself. For those who find it offensive, the HST also made a similar video called “Girls Will Be Boys” that features football and lots of food, which might balance out the stereotypes in this one.
Photo by Meredith H. Keffer, Crimson Staff Photographer.
