Sections
Not every senior thesis gets accepted to  the Festival de Cannes or praised by Michael Lewis and The  Wall Street Journal, but that's not necessarily a reflection on the  thesis writer. In fact, many of the College's most successful alumni  didn't even write a thesis. And many of those who did might agree with Conan C. O'Brien '85: "A lot of hard work [goes] into  [a] thesis. And no one is ever going to care."
During  last week's Commencement, we decided to check out the Harvard University  Archives to unearth a few theses (alas, we couldn't get a hold of any Radcliffe ones there) written by future movers and shakers  while they were just lowly undergraduates.
B.J.  NOVAK '01
Current claim to fame: Actor who plays Ryan  on "The Office." Also a writer and co-executive producer for the show.
Concentration:  Literature
Title: “To Be or Not to Be”: Hollywood’s  Answers to Hamlet’s Question
Page count: 83
Excerpt:  “And of course, in the case of this soliloquy, the forces of text and  culture are deeply intertwined: the cultural significances of 'To be or  not to be' are necessarily born of its appearance in the play’s text;  and of the vast range of possible textual meanings of the soliloquy, the  set chosen to be highlighted in an individual production is inevitably  based, to some substantial degree, on how it reflects cultural  conceptions of the speech.”
 
 
CONAN C. O'BRIEN  ’85
Current claim to fame: Twitter personality.
Concentration:  History and Literature
Title: “The ‘Old Child’ in Faulkner  and O’Connor”
Page Count: 72
Excerpt: “By  establishing a close correlation between such disparate Southern  Renaissance writers as Faulkner and O’Connor we can begin to appreciate  the power of the ‘old child’s’ significance. This [...] motif merits our  closer examination—first because it is a figure which recurs throughout  the literature of this period and second, because the ‘old child’  represents these Southern Renaissance writers need to dramatize the  bitter argument that rages within them."
 
 
NICHOLAS  D. KRISTOF '81
Current claim to fame: Pulitzer  Prize-winning journalist.
Concentration: Government
Title:  “Freedom of the Press in High School Newspapers”
Page count:  141
Excerpt: “There is no  agreement that students, soldiers or prisoners should be granted even  the most basic rights of free press of free speech. Of these groups that  society excludes from the blanket of free expression, the largest and  most important is students [...] [who are] frequently are forbidden to  voice even mild criticism of school officials or policies. In civics  classes they learn of America’s heritage of freedom of expression, but  in journalism classes they discover that this freedom rings hollow in  the schools."
 
 
JIM CRAMER ’77
Current  claim to fame: Host of CNBC's "Mad Money."
Concentration:  Government
Title: “Interest Groups Have Taken Laws Passed  To Protect the Environment and Used Them to Stop Projects That May Be  Beneficial to Society”
Page count: 108
Excerpt:  “Congress did not intend for small community groups to use the  environmental review process to avoid compromising with the majority to  block a project. Nor were environmental laws passed so that a rival  corporation and a hastily-formed community group could attempt to stop  some non-profit hospitals from creating their own clean, cheap power.  But because of the changes in the review process the intent of these  laws has been perverted. They can now be used not only to stop  environmentally damaging projects but to halt or at least delay any  project, no matter how beneficial that project may be.”
 
 
AL  GORE '69
Current claim to fame: Environmentalist.
Concentration:  Government
Title: “The Impact of Television on the Conduct  of the Presidency”
Page count: 84
Excerpt:  “Finally, it has been demonstrated that the change to television has  had profound and lasting effects on the nature of Presidential  leadership [...] and that the inherent bias of the new medium toward the  President has caused a change in the public perception of the national  government system, and that given time the change in perception could  possibly work towards a change in the reality. A key factor in this  trend is the increasing importance of the President’s personality.  Because of this, it is possible to speculate that a ‘role requirement’  of the President in the future might become ‘visual communication.’”
 
 
DAVID  H. SOUTER '61
Current claim to fame: Former Associate  Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.
Concentration:  Philosophy
Title: “Holmes’ Legal Positivism and the  Criticism from a Current Position of Natural Law”
Page Count:  48
Excerpt: “The  controversy about separation of is and ought in law involves a different  sense of ‘morals, ‘one which we have in mind when we say that a certain  act is good or bad in a certain set of circumstances, a sense in which  it is proper to ascribe goodness and badness to human deeds and devices  regardless of the intentions of the agents. For while law cannot deal  with internal states of mind, there is this sense in which moral  judgments deal with the external."
 
 
HENRY A.  KISSINGER '50
Current claim to fame: Foreign policy  guru.
Title: The Meaning of History (Reflections on  Spengler, Toynbee and Kant)
Concentration: Government
Page  Count: 383
Excerpt(s): "History, according to Popper,  has no meaning. It is the chronicle of international crime and mass  murder and takes no account of the tears and suffering of mankind. [...]  There can not consequently exist one universally valid philosophy of  history."
 
 
JOHN F. KENNEDY '40
Current  claim to fame: Former President of the United States.
Title: Appeasement  at Munich (The Inevitable Result of the Slowness of Conversion of the  British Democracy from a Disarmament to a Rearmament Policy.)
Concentration: Government
Page  Count: 147
Excerpt(s): "Democracy['s] [...]  reprentativies [sic] cannot run contrary to the basic wishes of  the people in any game of bluff. [...] [I]n a dictatorship the people,  even if they wished, are often powerless to impress their wishes on the  dictator until it is too late. This advantage is conceded to the  dictator but is felt that in the long run under a democratic system, the  united support of the people once the war is decided on, will prove to  be a balancing factor. It is true that in the meantime democracy will  suffer strategic defeats that may jeopardize their ultimate hope of  victory - but that is the penalty the must be paid. In the end it is  felt the democratic way is the best way."
For more on  undergraduate theses written by prominent College alumni, check out this 1987 Crimson article, "Theses of the  Rich and the Famous."
Sections
While everyone is familiar with the squirrels that dwell on campus,  there have been a surprising  number of sightings of more predatory creatures—hawks.
Anja C. Slim, a postdoctoral fellow at the School of Engineering  and  Applied Sciences, snapped these photos of a red-tailed hawk nest  earlier  this week outside of Pierce Hall (29 Oxford Street, Cambridge)  with her  husband Joel C. Miller, a postdoctoral fellow at the School of  Public  Health.
Slim said that the hawks, which usually mate for  life, have been  spotted by colleagues in the same location since 2003.
Enjoy the photos!
