News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Tim Murphy is no stranger to sharing his football knowledge. But this spring, he’ll be teaching a very different audience—that of America’s deployed troops.
Murphy, who is entering his 17th season at the helm of the Harvard football team, is one of five coaches selected to be a part of the 2010 USO/Morale Entertainment Coaches’ Tour. He will be traveling, along with four other American coaches, to Germany and southwest Asia starting May 23 to visit with troops stationed in both locations.
West Point’s Rick Ellerson, Oregon’s Chip Kelly, Illinois’ Ron Zook, and Texas Tech’s Tommy Tuberville will join Murphy on the tour.
On the trip, which will take the coaches to eight countries in nine days, the quintet will pose for pictures, share their football strategies and experiences, and deliver athletic gear from their schools to the troops. The military men will get some additional time for R&R with the coaches, participating in combines and flag-football games to test out their skills.
This is Murphy’s first trip with the Coaches’ Tour, which will conclude at Andrews Airforce Base in Maryland on May 31.
Former Yale coach Jack Siedlecki was on the inaugural tour in 2008, and big names like former Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis and Ohio State’s Jim Tressel headline a list of 11 past participants.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The list of temporary structures in the Yard – which already boasts the Native American wetu outside of Matthews and the various sculptures that appeared for Arts First weekend – grew once again this week with the addition of a wooden gazebo outside of Grays Hall.  This time, however, the new arrival comes bearing food.
According to the woman handing out cookies and coffee yesterday, the gazebo has traditionally been stationed in the Yard during Commencement each year. But this year, the Committee on Common Spaces (the same people who brought you the colorful chairs in the Yard) decided to set it up a few weeks early so that non-seniors can see and enjoy it too.
The Committee will be giving out snacks to hungry students for the rest of the week. Below is the schedule.
TODAY, until 3 p.m. Cheese and crackers and frozen cranberry juice.
Wednesday, 12:30 - 3 p.m. Kettle corn, but in front of Lehman Hall instead of Grays.
Thursday, 2 - 3 p.m. Klondike bars, back in front of Grays.
Sections
In this series, columnist Maya E. Shwayder discusses music around campus and in her life. Have other suggestions for songs? Leave a comment or send an e-mail to flyby@thecrimson.com.
Ah, the reading period playlist.
It must be the perfect combination of pump-me-up and tune-me-out. Stimulating, yet supremely ignorable, and able to keep you in your Lamont cubicle-studying-rut for as long as it takes. This is not an easy balance to come by. Distractions abound, not in the least messing around with your iTunes, while trying to create said inimitable playlist.
It would be presumptuous of me to try to prescribe that playlist for you. If we know anything about music, it is an incredibly personal entity. Instead, what I’ve done here is capture the different flavors of reading period; the stages our minds go through from the last day of classes to walking out of that last final, into the sun, triumphant.
Here’s your reading period, encapsulated.
Starting out:
• Help! –The Beatles: You didn’t go to enough lectures. Your TF has no clue who you are. You still haven’t turned your part of the study guide you’re writing with your friends. You haven’t cracked a book open since February. Whatever your problem, your gchat status is probably going to read “HALP!”
• I will Survive – Gloria Gaynor: …cause you will. No, really, you’ll survive. As long as you know how to love! And stay off Facebook for more than half an hour at a time.
• Living on a Prayer – Jon Bon Jovi: You gotta hooold ooon to what you got! Your best friend’s borrowed notes will prolly help a whole lot! You got each other, and that’s a lot of slidessssss, so give it a shot!
• Always Look on the Bright Side of Life – Monty Python’s Life of Brian/Spamalot: Need I say more? *wistful whistle*
Stress busters:
• Just Dance – Lady Gaga: Gonna be okay…daa daa doo doo do just daaance you’re not gonna faaaiiil…daa daa doo doo so just dance!
• Life is a Highway – Tom Cochrane: Just ride those Af-Am 10 notes all night long baby, and remember that 3 years or less from now, your grade in this class is probably not going to matter at all. Also if you prefer the Rascal Flatts version I’m totally judging you.
• No Stress – Laurent Wolf: It’s techno. It’s awesome. It talks about having sex instead of doing work. Let yourself live vicariously through this one.
Brain break:
• Goldberg Variations – J.S. Bach: I love me some solo piano music, and Bach always prove to be simultaneously the most relaxing but still engaging and stimulating music I know. Perfect if you need to keep your brain in gear but stop peddling for a bit.
• Literally, anything – Mozart: Added bonus: this music has been shown to increase your spatial-temporal reasoning abilities. Yeah I’m not sure what that means either, but hey, it can’t hurt!
In a groove and sailin’ smooth:
• Anything with a strong beat in a language you don’t speak: No, seriously. No one’s judging you for that K-pop. And hey, those Koreans can be pretty hot.
• Movie soundtracks: There’s a reason why this music is always in the background: it’s background music. So put it on in your background and create the ambience you need.
Pump Me Up, Scotty!
• Gaga: Beat-ful, totally unnecessary lyrics, energetic tempos, and they all just kinda sound the same. Nice.
• Madonna: I need an explanation?
FREEDOMMMMMMMMM!!!!!!!
• Nessun Dorma – From “Turandot” by Puccini: The final dramatic chords of this aria end on the words “I will win! I will win!” Great for just before you walk into that exam.
• 1812 Overture –Tchaikovsky: Reserve this for when that paper’s done, then feel free to dance around your room imitating the timpani player.
• Ode to Joy, from the Ninth Symphony – Beethoven: “O friends, no more these sounds! Let us sing more cheerful songs, more full of joy!”
Maya Shwayder '10-’11,is a psychology concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Photo by Kane Hsieh/The Harvard Crimson.
