News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For a short period last semester as elections took place, the Undergraduate Council occupied the foreground of campus discussion before it inevitably faded back into its regular obscurity. The election controversy called into question the sturdiness of the UC’s electoral mechanisms when allegations over a possible vote rigging engulfed the body in a fight to regain its composure. In response, the UC’s Election Reform Task Force recently endorsed 11 recommendations meant to improve election integrity by drastically increasing ballot security and redefining the Election Commission. However, the proposed reforms are excessive, and the UC should instead focus its attention and resources on programs that will more directly and beneficially impact student life on campus.
First, the suggestions put forth by the commission include new voting software that would require five of eight election “trustees” to enter an electronic password to access ballot results. Although the UC makes a solid effort to address concerns over corruption, these changes may ultimately do little to dispel students’ worries that elections are never impervious to manipulation. So long as there are computer science wonks, accusations of hacking will inevitably resurface in future elections. Besides, it bears mentioning that the allegations last semester were proven false, making this response seem like an overreaction that could ultimately have negative consequences if trustees resign or disagree with each other as happened this fall.
Second, the UC will offer a stipend to students who serve on the Election Commission. We strongly believe that the funds that the UC will direct toward improving software and paying students to serve on the Election Commission are better suited for initiatives that can serve more tangible benefits to Harvard students. As stated above, complete electoral reform is, in this case, virtually impossible. The UC should instead focus its energies on what it was intended to accomplish—namely, the improvement of student life—rather than waste resources and energy working to bolster its electoral arm.
That being said, we do understand the UC’s reasoning for wanting to increase stipends for students who serve on the Election Commission. Though we do not agree this is the best use of money, we still encourage students who care about the process to compete for these commission seats, as that will better safeguard future elections against insider maneuvering. It will also bring the UC closer to the students they represent, ultimately making it a more viable institution.
Though we take issue with the seemingly hyper-secure voting software changes to come, we commend the non-election proposals passed at the UC meeting for responding well to student demands. The establishment of the Crimson Forum is a good example of an idea that will benefit all of Harvard. Intended to be be an online discussion thread that is designed to incorporate all undergraduates into a single virtual community, it will allow students to share their thoughts on school-related issues. The UC has a specific niche to fill on campus—improving student life—and measures like the Crimson Forum are the best way to do so. The UC would be much better off devoting its resources to such programs, rather than wasting time, money, and resources making its elections needlessly secure.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Though most of the newly-inducted Leverett freshmen opened their doors to boisterous,  camouflaged, letter-bearing Leverett upperclassmen  on Thursday morning, a few were greeted by something entirely different:  the semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally  publish a so-called humor magazine—more commonly known as the Lampoon.
As Leverett HoCo visited freshmen with real housing letters in hand, the Lampoon did some express delivery of their own with fake Leverett  housing letters. Some of the freshman recipients were not even assigned  to the House.
But the Lampoon's deception took a grossly insensitive turn with the worst part of the prank: the freshmen who were "placed" in Leverett were gifted with T-shirts featuring an image of the Leverett towers above the phrase "Lever Forget"—drawing an all-too-unsubtle  parallel between the gray towers and the World Trade Center.
"The t-shirts were really tasteless  and heartless," said Meghan J. Smith '13, one of the pranked freshmen. "I don't know what kind of group would do this. [9/11]  was a tragedy for thousands of people, and not only did it effect students  around the world, but even students who go to Harvard."
Although they fell victim to the Lampoon's trickery,  Smith and her blockmates were eventually placed in Leverett anyway. But other pranked freshmen, like Taryn I. Kurcz '13, discovered  later in the morning that they were not actually assigned to Leverett.
"When the group who was doing the trick came to our room, we were  just so excited that we found out we 'got into' Leverett," Kurcz said. She and her blockmates later found out that they had actually  been placed in Currier.
In an e-mail to the Leverett  House open list, House masters Howard Georgi '68 and Ann B. Georgi wrote that the Leverett students and staff "had nothing to do with this."
"It would have been obvious to anyone with even rudimentary morals  and decency that this immature hoax was cruel and inappropriate," the e-mail stated.
Leverett HoCo co-chair Tiantong Wen '11 called the prank "upsetting"—on behalf of parties beyond the House.
"It was disrespectful to the entire Leverett community, which  put in so many hours to ensure that Housing Day was a success," Wen said. "More  importantly, it was upsetting because it was disrespectful to all of  the people whose lives have been affected by the events of September  11th."
Wen said that Leverett HoCo  members refused to let the prank get the better of them, and they appeared  in Annenberg just as enthusiastic as ever to share with freshmen the  joy of being part of the Leverett community
"After all," Wen said, "that spirit and joy—and not the kind of tasteless and  hurtful 'humor' exhibited by the Lampoon—is really what housing day  is all about."
