News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Updated 5:15 p.m. Saturday
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith publicly confirmed for the first time in a letter to the Faculty that a committee had found psychology professor Marc D. Hauser "solely responsible" for eight instances of scientific misconduct in his laboratory.
"After careful review of the investigating committee’s confidential report and opportunities for Professor Hauser to respond, I accepted the committee’s findings and immediately moved to fulfill our obligations to the funding agencies and scientific community and to impose appropriate sanctions," Smith wrote.
Hauser, the author of "Moral Minds: How Nature Designed Our Universal Sense of Right and Wrong" whose research focuses on the cognitive function of primates, came under public scrutiny last week after a three-year internal investigation found evidence of scientific misconduct.
Citing confidentiality policies, Smith did not reveal what sanctions Hauser would face, only outlining possible punishments such as “involuntary leave, the imposition of additional oversight on a faculty member’s research lab, and appropriately severe restrictions on a faculty member’s ability to apply for research grants, to admit graduate students, and to supervise undergraduate research.”
Hauser will be on leave for the 2010-2011 school year. An automated email reply from Hauser’s inbox stated he was “working furiously on a book, and thus will only be checking e-mail irregularly.”
According to the letter, the sanctions that Hauser faces may go beyond Harvard. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts is inquiring into the matter, as are the Office of Research Integrity at the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation's Inspector General.
Three published articles containing Hauser's research had either been retracted or would be edited to remove unsupported findings, Smith said. In the five other instances, falsified information did not make it into published articles.
In the wake of the findings of misconduct against a well-known professor, Smith announced he would form a committee to review the Faculty's "communication and confidentiality practices" after a finding of misconduct. The investigation of Hauser's lab was first revealed by the Boston Globe—before the University publicly acknowledged any investigation.
From the beginning of the letter, Smith did not hide his sadness at such a serious finding against one of his colleagues.
"No dean wants to see a member of the faculty found responsible for scientific misconduct, for such misconduct strikes at the core of our academic values," he wrote. "Rigid adherence to the scientific method and scrupulous attention to the integrity of research results are values we expect in every one of our faculty, students, and staff."
—Check TheCrimson.com for updates.
—Staff writer William N. White can be reached at wwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith has publicly confirmed that psychology professor Marc D. Hauser is responsible for eight instances of scientific misconduct. Although the dean did not specify what exactly Hauser’s fate will be, Smith did say that the University will definitely be imposing sanctions on Hauser, who is now on a year-long leave of absence.
Need more evidence than that? Well, here it is: in a document released to the Chronicle of Higher Education, one of Hauser's former research assistants outlined how he and his peers became convinced that Hauser was up to some monkey business.
The document, a copy of the assistant’s statement (given in 2007) to the faculty committee investigating Hauser, offers a first glimpse into what was actually amiss in Hauser’s laboratory. University officials have continued to remain mum about the specific allegations of misconduct discovered during their three-year investigation.
Hauser’s research involved gauging monkeys’ ability to understand sound patterns, which is seen as a stepping-stone to language acquisition. In one experiment, Hauser and a research assistant separately noted how the same laboratory monkeys were reacting to a pattern of tones.  When a third assistant analyzed these observations, Hauser’s data appeared to show that the monkeys were able to notice changes in the pattern—but the other set of data pointed to no such effect.
The third assistant, along with others in the lab, suggested that the data be double-checked. Hauser apparently refused.
“i [sic] am getting a bit pissed here,” he wrote in one e-mail. “There were no inconsistencies!”
But this was untrue, as a review of the videotaped monkeys—conducted without Hauser’s knowledge by a graduate student and the assistant who analyzed the data—would later show.
Click here to read more of the Chronicle of Higher Education's analysis of the assistant's statement.
For more updates on Hauser, check TheCrimson.com.
Photo by Polina Bartik/The Harvard Crimson.
