News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The men’s basketball team will dearly miss a pair of seniors from last season, neither of whom is named Jeremy Lin ’10.
On opening night this coming Saturday, Harvard will have just five healthy big men—juniors co-captain Keith Wright and Andrew Van Nest, sophomore Jeff Georgatos, and freshmen Ugo Okam and Tom Hamel. In light of this lack of experience, the Crimson will surely be pining for the likes of Doug Miller ’10 and Pat Magnarelli ’10.
Together, the two big men combined for 10.1 points and 6.7 rebounds in 34.2 minutes per game last season. Though their numbers were not gaudy, Miller (a co-captain last year) and Magnarelli provided a toughness and experience that this year’s unproven frontcourt lacks.
“Doug didn’t get a lot of credit last year, but he did so many things for our team and helped us win,” junior co-captain Oliver McNally said.
The same can be said for Magnarelli. The talented big man, who averaged 10.8 points and 6.3 rebounds per game his sophomore year, was beset with knee and ankle injuries for much of his career (he missed the entire season his junior year) but remained a remarkably efficient offensive player, shooting 58.8 percent and averaging 1.53 points per shot.
This year’s cast of post players includes a pair of talents in Wright and sophomore Kyle Casey, the reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Year (who will miss the start of the season with a broken foot), but the Crimson will also rely heavily on a handful of unknowns.
Van Nest—who missed the entire season his freshman year with a shoulder injury—and Georgatos have played a total of 15 and 13 games, respectively, with no starts between them. Okam has the physical tools to contribute down the road, but the Nigeria native is still a very raw prospect. Hamel is a walk-on who is unlikely to make an impact on the stat sheet.
This thin front line highlights the value of last year’s entire senior class, not just Lin. With all the crazy variables that determine the outcome of a season, the luxury of having two very capable big men in Miller and Magnarelli was likely overlooked.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Yesterday night, the Harvard-Radcliffe Chinese Student Association Iron Chef competition began, unexpectedly, with an original rap to the instrumental of “Like a G6” delivered by Joshua C. Zhang ’14 and Eric Lu ’14. The rap set the stage for the irreverent tone of the evening, established the rules of the competition, and announced the prize: a $30 gift card to Finale.
The three teams participating in the Iron Chef competition were told a few days ago that they would have to make three dishes, including a dessert, that all had to utilize the secret ingredient: pineapple. During the day, each team camped out in a different Yard kitchen to make their dishes.
As the spectators ate free fried rice and lo mein from the Kong, the teams presented their dishes to the judges: Sue Brown, dean of Elm Yard; Jose Chang, a HUPD officer; and Katie W. Steele, director of freshman programming.
The first team to present was styled General Tao’s Army, and their dishes featured the pineapple not only as an ingredient, but also as a key decorative element of their presentation. The second team, which was from the Harvard Vietnamese Association, created dishes that mixed traditional Vietnamese food with French cuisine. The third team, which featured members of the CSA board, created meals inspired by food they had eaten at restaurants in China over the summer—including a pineapple upside-down cake coated in pineapple cream cheese frosting.
After sampling all the food, the judges announced their decision—the HVA team won the prize with a resounding victory. However, Steele was quick to add that she was very impressed by all the teams.
At the end of the night, Lu, who is a freshman representative to the CSA, said, “The event was a success. There was a good turnout and everyone had a lot of fun. We learned a little bit more about different cultures and their cooking styles.”
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
The only thing more important than having Harvard spirit in your heart at this year’s Game is wearing it on your sleeve—with an anti-Yale T-shirt. Once again, various students and organizations are offering T-shirts that will hopefully propel the Crimson to a win. Here is a sampling:
FALE: Originally sold by Albert Chen '09, Allie P. Fixsen '09, and Aneesh Kulkarni '10 before the 2008 Harvard-Yale game, the FALE shirts are back—and the proceeds from this year’s sales will be donated to charity. Hemali A. Thakkar '11 has also joined the group, which is selling the shirts at faleshirts.com for $15. The money will go to both the Jimmy Fund and Tiyatien Health, a social justice organization based in Liberia. Microsoft will match the donation, according to Thakkar.
Yale, We Got Yo T-Shirt: Inspired by Antoine Dodson, the Asian American Brotherhood—which sold last year’s Kanye T-shirts—is offering shirts that feature Dodson himself and read, “You done left fingerprints and all. You are sooo dumb.” The shirts, $10 each, can be pre-ordered here and will also be on sale outside of the Science Center, according to a Facebook event.
Hide Your Kids, Hide Your Wife: Antoine Dodson also makes an appearance on these Bed Intruder T-shirts, designed by Spenser R. Goodman '14. The shirts, which proclaim, “We gon’ find you" on the back, are $12 each and can be pre-ordered here.
Glenn Beck Got One Thing Right: The Harvard College Democrats feature yet another controversial Republican on their Harvard-Yale T-shirts—this year’s read, “Glenn Beck got one thing right…he dropped out of Yale.” The shirts, which will be available later this week, cost $10 and can be purchased in front of the Science Center or from any board member, according to Dems President Jason Q. Berkenfeld '11.
Google: The winner of this year’s Harvard College Fund Undergraduate Committee T-shirt contest reads, “Google Safety School…Did you mean: Yale.” Three hundred shirts will be given out at the Beat Yale Thankathon on Nov. 16 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., where students can write thank you notes to alumni donors.
What other Harvard-Yale shirts are out there? Let us know in the comments or by e-mailing flyby@thecrimson.com.
Gallery includes only images that we have received permission to publish.
