News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Postseason play was short-lived for the Harvard women’s basketball team.
Despite a second half that saw the Crimson (20-9, 11-3 Ivy) outscore Syracuse (23-10, 7-9 Big East), there was already too big of a hole for it to matter. Harvard fell in the first round of the WNIT, 86-67, Thursday night at Manley Field House.
“We didn’t play well in the first half at all,” Crimson coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said.  “I was pretty disappointed, because I thought we practiced well, I thought we were ready. It appeared that we had all our pieces in place to compete with [Syracuse]. We took some really big shots early that didn’t fall, and that got under our skin.”
Sophomore Brogan Berry led Harvard with 15 points, shooting 6-of-10 from the field and 3-of-6 from behind the arc.  Freshman Victoria Lippert scored 13 points, while junior co-captain Christine Matera added 12. Junior forward Emma Markley had 10 points along with four rebounds.
The Crimson made only 10 shots in the first half, shooting just 26.3 percent from behind the arc and 35.7 percent from the field. The Orange, one other hand, shot 58.8 percent from the field and connected on both of its three-point attempts.
“I had a lot of good looks in the first half,” Matera said. “I think the team had a lot of good shots in the first half against their zone—we just didn’t make them.”
It wasn’t only poor shooting that hurt the Crimson, but poor shot selection as well. Nineteen of Harvard’s 28 first-half shots were three-point attempts, only five of which connected.
“Offensively, we were very one-dimensional,” Delaney-Smith added. “We had spent the second half of the year going inside to our post players. Whether we end up taking that shot or whatever, we want to at least go through the low post with the ball. I don’t think we passed the ball into the paint or brought the ball into the paint once in the first half.”
Syracuse forward Kayla Alexander led all scorers with 22 points, including 16 in the first half. She also had six rebounds and two blocks.
“[Alexander] is 6’4” and a tremendous athlete,” Delaney-Smith said. “So that’s a tough matchup for us. You need to double that kind of a player.”
“I think maybe we were put back on our heels by their height and their athleticism,” Berry added. “And I think that threw us out of our game of getting the ball inside and getting easy ball movement.”
Harvard was outrebounded in the first half, 27-6.
“We did not rebound well, and this a problem that we have been plagued with all year,” Delaney-Smith said.
After starting out in a 5-0 hole, the Crimson tightened the game to 12-10 off two foul shots by junior forward Emma Markley. But Harvard would get no closer for the rest of the game, as the Orange used a 17-4 run to put the game permanently out of reach with 8:57 left in the first half.
Syracuse would go on to score 20 points in the final 6:39 of the half, leading, 55-30, at the break.
The Crimson would reverse trends as it came out strong in the second half, especially on the defensive end, holding the Orange to just 30.4-percent shooting and seven field goals.
“We had a great second half,” Berry said. “We played intense, we played together as a team.”
“I’m proud of what we did in the second half,” Delaney-Smith added. “I thought we came out fighting.”
Alexander, who gave Harvard so much trouble in the first half, was virtually taken out of the game in the second, scoring only six points and converting just one field goal.
The Crimson was also able to operate its offense more smoothly in the second half, outscoring Syracuse, 38-32.
“We got the ball into the paint almost every possession, and every time we did, good things happened,” Delaney-Smith said.
Berry finished the game second on the all-time single-season assist list with 169 helpers.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With lights shining and ESPN cameras rolling, J.P. O’Connor stood where he had waited to be for four years.
Staring down Cal Poly’s Chase Pami in the 157 lb. finals at the NCAA Wrestling Championships, O’Connor had one opponent left between him and an elusive national title. Amid all the added fanfare that comes with college wrestling’s biggest stage, the Crimson co-captain emerged from his match on Saturday night at the Qwest Center in Omaha, Neb. just as he had always envisioned—victorious.
O’Connor sealed the first perfect season in Harvard wrestling history—35-0—with the program’s third national championship, topping Pami, 6-4, in the decisive bout.
“It didn’t start sinking in until half an hour ago,” O’Connor said. “I ran over and gave [Crimson] coach [Jay] Weiss a big hug and pointed up towards my family and tried to take in the moment, but I was just exhausted.”
The Harvard standout was understandably fatigued after powering through a field of 33 grapplers at 157 lbs., picking up his third All-American honor along the way. Yet even against the best competition in the country, top-ranked O’Connor rarely appeared challenged. The senior edged his first four opponents by a cumulative score of 42-6, even earning major decisions in the first round and in the semifinals.
“[O’Connor] scored more points in the tournament than he has in the last three months,” Weiss said. “He was dominating throughout the whole tournament. He’s never wrestled better—it was amazing.”
Still, in order to finally hoist his trophy, O’Connor would have to face an old, all-too-familiar foe. Seventh-ranked Pami eliminated O’Connor in the championships a year ago, and although the Crimson grappler got the upper hand in a matchup earlier this season, the Cal Poly senior was not ready to concede.
“[Pami] came right out and took me down, firing hard right off the bat,” O’Connor said. “I knew I needed to pick up the pace and match his intensity.”
To Weiss’ relief, the Harvard superstar rose to the occasion.
Trailing 2-0, O’Connor began to move his feet much more actively, spinning away underneath Pami. Although the Cal Poly grappler tried to hold O’Connor’s foot, the Crimson wrestler pulled away for an escape at 2:21 of the first.
Once the wrestlers returned to neutral, O’Connor showed the focus that carried him to the second-highest winning percentage in school history.
“At last year’s national championship, [O’Connor] lost to Pami with like 12 seconds left,” Weiss said. “I knew that would be a motivating factor.”
So when Pami caught O’Connor’s leg again with a minute remaining, the Harvard All-American went to a knee and wrapped behind his opponent, keeping just a toe in the boundary to earn two points of his own on the edge of the mat.
“He almost had a takedown on the edge, but I scrambled and scrambled and scrambled and rode him out,” O’Connor said.
From there, the Crimson co-captain proved why he earned the top ranking in the nation. Opening the second period with a reverse, O’Connor took a 5-2 lead that he would not relinquish. As Pami made a number of charges through the second and third frames, O’Connor held strong to capture the title. The senior slowly removed his headgear with wide eyes after the referee raised his hand.
“[The championship] means everything,” O’Connor said. “I’ve been working towards this goal since I was a little kid, and definitely since I stepped on campus at Harvard, so it’s nice to end my college career on that note. Just talking about it puts a huge smile on my face.”
And as rewarding as the victory was for O’Connor, the Crimson program also rejoiced at crowning a third champion alongside John Harkness ’38 and Jesse Jantzen ’04.
“Jesse kind of paved the way in 2004, and people realized that you can set the goal of a national championship at Harvard,” Weiss said. “J.P. did the same thing this weekend. Now we’ve got guys saying, ‘I’m next.’ It’s exciting.”
The Crimson certainly hopes it can maintain this winning attitude, as it bids farewell to co-captain Louis Caputo (184) as well. Caputo—a two-time All-American himself—had a disappointing end to his career, bowing out to longtime nemesis Phil Keddy of Iowa in the second round of the tournament. Yet his sustained excellence through four years promise to influence the next generation of Harvard grapplers, including rookie Steven Keith (125), the Crimson’s only other representative at NCAAs.
“Louis didn’t have the performance he wanted, but that doesn’t change anything in how I look at him or how anyone in the program looks at him,” O’Connor said. “[Caputo] has done as much for Harvard wrestling as anyone has.”
But without question, the day belonged to O’Connor, who earned a place among his long-time heroes by tying Jantzen for the most wins in program history. O’Connor’s career record of 132-16 stands as a testament to four solid years in Cambridge.
“It’s an absolute honor to even be mentioned among those two people [Harkness and Jantzen],” O’Connor said. “The history of Harvard wrestling extends far beyond what I’ve done for the program.”
Yet as O’Connor hangs up his Crimson singlet on a perfect season and a storied career, the three-time All-American leaves a truly singular legacy, both on and off the mat.
“You know how I feel about him,” Weiss said of his co-captain. “He is a better person than he is a wrestler, and he’s a national champion.”
—Staff writer Max N. Brondfield can be reached at mbrondf@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For most people, the idea of writing a senior thesis is so daunting that they don’t even bother; for others, it’s a chance to show their community what all of their hard work and research has come down to. But for Anna K. Barnett-Hart ’09, who is currently a financial analyst at Morgan Stanley, her senior thesis resulted not only with honors in economics at graduation but also with an acknowledgment in author Michael Lewis’s latest book, “The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine.”
As the Wall Street Journal blog reports, “Lewis praises ‘A.K. Barnett-Hart, a Harvard undergraduate who had just written a thesis about the market for subprime mortgage-backed CDOs that remains more interesting than any single piece of Wall Street research on the subject’.”
Bartnett-Hart’s thesis, entitled “The Story of the CDO Market Meltdown: An Empirical Analysis,” was awarded summa cum laude after she turned it in a year ago, today. She won the Harvard Hoopes Prize for her thesis – a prestigious award given each year for outstanding theses, papers, or final projects by junior or seniors.
Bartnett-Hart’s findings? As she explains in her abstract, her research “suggest[s] that the problems in the CDO [Collateralized Debt Obligations, for the non-ec types out there] market were caused by a combination of poorly constructed CDOs, irresponsible underwriting practices, and flawed credit rating procedures.” Seems simple enough. But why couldn’t someone with more experience than an undergrad offer the same insight?
As Lewis told WSJ blog reporters, “[Bartnett-Hart’s thesis] was a classic example of the innocent going to Wall Street and asking the right questions. [It] shows there were ways to discover things that everyone should have wanted to know. That it took a 22-year-old Harvard student to find them out is just outrageous.”
Moral of the story, fellow Harvard undergraduates: your simplicity and inexperience can actually be to your advantage. Secondary lesson: write a thesis.
