Sections
First there were the AOL chat rooms, the pioneer of forums for online creepers and the occasional renegade tween to unite nationwide. Then MySpace came along and ratcheted it up a notch, giving a face to the cyber freak in the form of the emo bathroom mirror photoshoot. And even for the high-brow college crowd, Facebook arrived to provide the perfect venue for creeping clandestinely—without compromising class. But no site has exploded onto the social networking scene quite as absurdly and gloriously as Chatroulette.
Apparently created by a 17-year-old Russian techie bored of his Moscow friends and looking for some foreign excitement, the Internet’s undeniably creepiest creation yet began with nothing but high hopes and good intentions. The premise is bizarre, yet strangely endearing. You simply type in those magical letters, click “Start,” and find yourself suddenly transported to a face-to-face webcam encounter with anyone from lonely middle-aged men to drunken New Zealand rugby players.
And although critics of Chatroulette have viciously attacked it for being voyeuristic and perverted, they fail to see past its suspicious exterior and into its passionate, pure heart. A quick click of the “Next” button breezes you right past the disturbing and on to the hilarious or heartfelt. I promise, there is something on Chatroulette for everyone. Whether you are looking to engage in meaningful conversation with a potential soul mate or you just want to peruse the comically diverse array of rouletters, I guarantee drinking in the warm and welcoming environment of rouletting will soon replace ripping shots solo as the new staple of your Saturday night pregame.
And if you are one of those people responsible for Chatroulette’s tainted reputation because of your flavor for tomfoolery, be forewarned: you’d be surprised whom you stumble upon. Ex-high school hook ups, siblings, even professors—nothing would shock me (I’m lookin’ at you, Drew Faust).  Trash it all you want, but don’t worry; I’ll still raise my glass to you when I find you Friday night at 2 a.m. spinning that virtual wheel.
Sections
In theory, Chatroulette is one of the best things ever dreamed up for the Internet. You come home, you’re bored, and within seconds there’s a whole world of excited cyber-friends just itching to chat you up. Yeah, right.
The two times I’ve logged into the bootleg Web site, I didn’t exactly land on people interested in sharing a meaningful, late-night chat (that is, the few times I was lucky enough to get people on the other end and not just full-screen close-ups of some very excited parts of the male anatomy).
I mean, come on fellow Chatrouletters. No, I do not want to see some greasy wife-beater-wearing man-animal playing with himself every third time I press the “Next” button. No, I do not want to get paired up with some prepubescent munchkin who claims that he happens to go to Harvard, too.
And no, I definitely don’t want to see that kid from section smirking at me from his MacBook (yeah, I saw YOU, Harvard...).
What’s worse, if by some miracle you make it far enough through the deluge of wasted college kids begging you to rip off your shirt and squealing middle-school girls to find someone that’s actually worth vid-chatting, he’ll probably “Next” you as soon as you reject his strip poker e-vite.
Or worse, he doesn’t even give you a strip poker e-vite.
OMG. I’m not cute enough for Chatroulette? FML.
Chatting online with strangers is only ever one of two things: creepy or demoralizing. Remember when you deleted your MySpace account circa sixth grade because you started getting friend requests from SeXaayGuy69 and LetzCyber4ever? That’s the same reason we should all just close the Chatroulette tab for good.
Sections
For David “Dave” W. Liang ’00, the phrase “East meets West” doesn’t only apply to fusion cuisine. The term can also refer to his musical style, which he features in his performance group The Shanghai Restoration Project (SRP), making its first Harvard appearance in Sever 113 last Saturday.
According to Liang, the “restoration” in the title refers to a cultural restoration of the Shanghai jazz of the 1930s, which consisted of Chinese lyrics sung over Western jazz tunes. Liang seeks out these old pieces of music and remixes them with his own beats and harmonics, adding a modern flair to these long-lost songs.
“They’re pretty contemporary, very much like electronica, very new age, with Eastern elements,” said Joselyn A. Lai ’13, an Education/Political Co-Chair for the Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association, which hosted the performance.
Audience member Plas T. James II ’13 also gave a positive review. “This guy has this funky kind of feeling, feels like you can get down and really go at it,” he said.
Since its conception, SRP has enjoyed widespread popularity. BBC and NBC used Liang’s music during the 2008 Beijing Olympics; it has also been featured in Louis Vuitton ads as well as a recent episode of “The L Word.”
Liang cited his family and Harvard as major influences in the creation of SRP. Though he trained as a classical and jazz pianist, he said that he was inspired by his grandfather, who played the Chinese flute. While at Harvard, Liang gained composing experience by writing the music to a Hasty Pudding production. Additionally, while performing with the Krokodiloes during their 1997 China tour, Liang was first introduced to Shanghainese jazz. This initial interest in the music stayed with him, even during a three-year sidetrack working as a consultant.
“I didn’t know what I was going to do. I wanted to work in the [music] industry, but there’s so much risk,” said Liang. “And when you leave Harvard, it’s much more daunting because you see your classmates on the fast track to medicine or law school.” However, Liang finally took that risk and started producing with Bad Boy Records before founding SRP.
Liang said he hopes to inspire students with his successes. “The first thing to take away [from the performance] is that it is possible to go to Harvard and pursue a less traditional path,” he said.
Sections
Class Day Speakers cross most seniors’ minds only briefly at the beginning of the year, promptly disappearing from consciousness until the announcement is made. Then they start complaining. The actual process of picking, however, is much more labored.
The Senior Class Committee, made up of Class Marshals elected earlier in the year, goes through months of meetings, hundreds of names, and hours of deliberations before they are finally able to submit their choice for speaker to the Alumni Association.
This year, the saga began with a foray into internet voting technology. “We added a poll of all the seniors at the very beginning of the year, so we made sure to include everyone’s preferences concretely,” explains First Class Marshal Nworah B. Ayogu ’10.
Post-polling, the committee begins to meet to discuss possible speakers. The initial range of potential invites is long and eclectic; past speakers have included Mother Teresa, Bill Clinton, Conan O’Brien ’85 and Sacha Baron Cohen in character as Ali G.
SECURING THE ENGAGEMENT
After much deliberation, this year’s committee settled on Christiane Amanpour, CNN foreign correspondent and internationally respected journalist. Amanpour is a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, in addition to being named an honarary citizen of the city of Sarajevo due to her in-depth coverage of the war in Bosnia during the 1990s. She has provided award-winning correspondence from, among other places, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Rwanda and Somalia. “There are many, many rounds of deliberation, but from the beginning she was one of our foremost choices,” says Second Class Marshal Larry D. Arbuthnott ’10.
“Seniors this year are graduating into very uncertain times, and Christiane has spent her life in the most turbulent areas of the world,” says Arbuthnott.
“We know she’ll give an amazing speech,” says Ayogu. “She is highly qualified and has a very impressive list of accomplishments.”
From there, the Committee is left to wait while the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) works out the details of engaging the speaker.
“Once they have made their decision, it is up to us to reach out to the speakers, explain what class day is, and what is involved,” says Courtney D. Shurtleff, Director of College Alumni Programs for the HAA, which serves as the official liaison to the invited speakers.
The Committee announced Christiane Amanpour as Class Day Speaker on Feb. 17, 2010, the earliest time in recent history that they have been able to do so. “The Committee has put in hours and hours and hours of work, and they have taken their job very seriously,” says Shurtleff.
AIMING TO PLEASE
After the announcement is made, the Committee devotes itself to collecting reactions. “We try to take into account people’s response to the decision versus their response to the actual quality of the speech,” Arbuthnott adds, citing as an example students’ displeasure at writer J.K. Rowling’s stint as Commencement Speaker versus their positive reaction to her actual speech.
But the Committee must  wait until Commencement Day to have their choice validated. Response among their peers is often quite strong one way or the other, and the Committee is forced to sit by as everyone opines, hoping that their class understands the amount of thought that went into their choice.
“We know that you can’t please everybody,” says Arbuthnott. “Some people want a comedian, and some people want someone who has changed the world. We coalesced around one name who we think will benefit the whole audience in her speech.”
Although one unnamed senior responded with a quizzical “Who?”, this year’s seniors seem to appreciate the choice, or at least do not oppose it, and many point to the unique advantages that she has as the latest Class Day Speaker.
“I think it’s really great that they picked an Iranian woman to speak. She has so much experience in parts of the world that are puzzles to us, and I think she will be able to shed light and new perspective,” says Layla Amjadi ’10.
“The choice sends a positive message of international awareness, and points to her career as a form of public service through her reporting of and attention to crises around the world,” adds Courtney L. Blair ’10.
“Even if people did not previously know who she was, once they look her up, read her Wikipedia, and read her articles, it is hard to challenge her relevance,” says Arbuthnott.
And if that’s still not enough, there’s always her cameo appearance on “Gilmore Girls.”
Sections
I walk into a third-floor classroom of Boylston Hall and take a seat. It’s the first day of section, and after we all shuffle around and take out our books, our Dutch TF gets a little perky and asks us for introductions: “Name, year, and a fun fact! Be creative!”
This third bit always seems to inspire a few under-the-breath groans from everyone seated around the table, as we all mull over something PG-rated and charming to tell the new class (the fact that you’re probably the only kid in class who’s had a threesome, even if technically classified as a “fun fact,” may not be appropriate to whip out).
Some kids, I’ve noticed, use the same one every time: “I once lit my toe on fire; I was five.” Everyone chuckles. Some kids are awkward, and just tell you they’re really not that interesting and hence have nothing to say (words of advice: just make something up). Anyhow, as we’re all playing the fun-fact game, the TF finally looks to me. As I begin my introduction, “Hi, my name is Cather...” I suddenly get cut off by a friend in the class. “No, call her...ha...call her Dirty Cathy!”
The TF looks to me quizzically, tilting her head to the side, and asks “Dirty...Cathy?” I know. This nickname sounds either like I’m trying to recreate Christina Aguilera’s assless-chaps days, rolling around in mud and proclaiming that I’m “too dirrrty to clean my act up,” or that I’m simply just someone who forgoes bathing on a regular basis. In either case, I sound like I have some serious issues, be they sexual or hygienic.
In reality, the nickname stems from something really innocent, and not Britney-Spears-proclaiming-to-still-be-a-virgin-in-’03 innocent. I mean actually innocent. I got the nickname freshman year, while my friends and I were all sitting around our common room in Weld, which I can now see from my seat in Boylston. As I was leaving to go shower in the hallway bathroom, a friend turned and asked, “Why do you need to shower right now?” Jokingly, someone replied, “Because she’s dirty.” And that’s it. Some buffoon turned and loudly proclaimed, “Oh my God, we’ve got it. Dirty Cathy!”
And it stuck. I’d like to say that’s the only reason the nickname’s been around, even two years later. In reality, the seemingly innocent joke transformed itself into a nickname for an “alter ego” that my friends insist I have.
Now, when I talk about an “alter ego,” I don’t mean it in the DSM-IV sense of a symptom of Multiple Personality Disorder. Rather, I mean it more along the lines of “someone you’re usually not” (courtesy urbandictionary.com). In this sense, alter egos seem to be everywhere these days: Beyoncé can’t get out in a leotard and spread her legs for the “Single Ladies” dance as herself—it’s her alter ego “Sasha Fierce” who’s hitting the stage. Recently I heard about a Swedish parliament member who went on an all-expenses-paid trip to the south of Spain. He claimed it wasn’t him as a politician accepting gratuities to fund the little booze cruise, but rather his alter ego, a drag queen named Ursula.
At a school where we’re constantly divided between our study-mode selves and our rage-hard-on-a-Friday-night selves, we can come to a point where we look at certain aspects of our personalities or certain behaviors as somehow disconnected from who we are. We trade in our textbooks for tequila and let the good times roll.
I have talked to countless people on campus that can’t remember the last time they had sober sex; would that count as an alter ego? A liquored-up, sexy alter ego? Then there are the people, myself included, who seem to acknowledge everyone they remotely recognize as a dear close friend on Fridays and Saturdays after 10 p.m., only to see them in the dining hall on Sunday and think it would be silly to say hello, since “we’re not even friends really.” Would that count as a drunk/high, Mr.-Rogers-ish-I-love-my-neighbor alter ego?
In reality, I don’t think being a college drunkard actually justifies the making of an “alter ego,” per se. Nevertheless, friends insist that I have another side of me, someone whom they endearingly refer to as “Dirty Cathy.” I won’t get into who “she” is or what “she” does. I’ll just say the name, as obscene as it may sound, never ceases to haunt me.
In a way, it’s nice to be able to wake up the next morning after a particularly rough night out and be able to pass off all of those mortifying moments to someone else; someone who will be buried away until next weekend after the sun goes down.
However, it is just taking the easy way out. Yes, it’s kind of absurd to leave a party at 1 a.m. and buy a box of Cheeze-Its at CVS, only to walk all the way back to the Quad, trusted Cheez-Its in hand, sending ludicrous texts messages in lolcatz lingo, trying to find someone to join the party of one: “oh hai; u wantz to come overz?”
But maybe we should all start embracing this side of ourselves, rather than passing it off on someone else—an alter ego or just an inebriated self that does things our sober persons would never do. Perhaps everyone else has come to terms with this, and I’m just the last one holding on, too terrified to take the blame.
I guess this meshing of personalities must be done little by little if I want to shake the saga of Dirty Cathy. I’ll try to say “Hi” to the bro sitting across the table from me, whom I’ve hugged on the weekends but purposefully avoid eye contact with in section, even if it makes me squirm. If Dirty Cathy can do it, I can do it too.
Sections
“Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are.” —Brillat-Savarin
I was on a date at a Scandinavian-themed restaurant. I pored over every inch of the menu, thrilled that reindeer was an entrée. My dining partner, on the other hand, zeroed in immediately on his dinner.
“I’ll have the sirloin,” he told the waiter.
After the waiter took the order, he explained, “I always order the equivalent of steak and potatoes.”
I winced. The contrast between our attitudes couldn’t have been greater.
Though some might chalk it up to an isolated quirk, I’ve found that our dining choices and table manners are a little too revealing.
The unconscious seems to surface at the dinner table, somewhere between the bread basket and the main course. Sharing food with people has a way of exposing our desires, our insecurities, and our aspirations.
Food, for some, expresses a need for comfort. “I had one girlfriend who only ate at chain restaurants,” a friend of mine confided. “She liked how she always knew exactly what to expect.” Yet another girlfriend of his judged restaurants solely by how clean the bathrooms were, which pretty much ruled out cheap Asian eateries.
I remember one group vacation where one guy refused to eat anywhere except McDonald’s, Wendy’s, or IHOP. Even the most inoffensive of Chinese dim sum items—donuts dusted in sugar, egg tarts—were about as appetizing as baby seal blubber. He eventually had to excuse himself to order a burger.
For others, dining is an expression of who they’d like to be, rather than an assertion of who they are.
I find this particularly true of friends who talk constantly about trying new things. If you can drag them away from their homework and to the dinner table, the story’s a bit different.
When placed into an unfamiliar situation or faced with unfamiliar food, some will renege on their supposed thirst for adventure. One dining companion, when confronted with a real menu rather than an abstract idea, suddenly had a litany of food dislikes, phobias, and only seemed to trust things with chicken in them.
Others use eating exotic food more as a way to bolster their self-image rather than as a mode of pleasure. I remember a lunch where my friend seemed indifferent to the Thai dishes he was sampling. “I love trying new things,” he kept saying, as if stuck on repeat. Whether the food tasted good seemed irrelevant.
Then there’s the question of sharing. You can glean a lot about someone’s generosity and sense of ownership from their table conduct. I was raised in a Chinese family, which means family-style dining and free range to grab food off of someone’s plate or to drop a morsel onto theirs.
I’ve become wary of the idea of “family style” with some people. I somehow always end up eating the less delicious entrée. One time, I’d ordered an offbeat choice of pickled fish. She’d chosen lobster and codfish. “We’ll just split so we can try both,” she proposed. I agreed.
My order came, looking gray, smelly, and slug-like. Hers, bathed in a rosy cream sauce, smelled delicious. I got to try a forkful of it, but “splitting” might have been a generous verb to use.
Fine dining can be the most suggestive of psychological minefields. Dining at a high-end restaurant is to pretend, despite our misgivings, that we belong there.
I had one forgettable date at an elegant Mexican venue that, in addition to an impressive taco bar, featured a pumpkin and goat cheese chili relleno with a pomegranate reduction .
He didn’t seem to enjoy the food so much as the feeling of privilege it gave him. Dinner conversation consisted entirely of how much money he’d made, the bankers he wanted to impress, and the models he’d dated. My company felt entirely superfluous. For him, ordering a lavish meal at a fancy restaurant was a gloss for insecurity, a way to feel important for a few hours.
Maybe my view is too dark. Everyone likes to eat—in their own way. But watch your dining companions closely; you might learn a few things.
Sections
Although she grew up in Arizona, where ethnicity and migration are hot political issues, Jessica Roman-Salazar ’12 came to Harvard unsure of how she wanted to incorporate issues of ethnicity and migration into her college coursework.
As she attempted to choose a concentration, Roman-Salazar knew that her interests lay in working to help underrepresented ethnic groups. Looking for classes and disciplines that interested her, Roman-Salazar tried out several possible concentrations, including the Latin American Studies track of Romance Languages and Literatures. However, she wasn’t satisfied. Roman-Salazar felt that while the requirements for Latin American Studies focused heavily on the politics and social dynamics within Latin America, she really wanted to study these groups after they had immigrated to the United States.
Roman-Salazar’s plans for the future include law school and possibly a career in government or advocacy. Either path she chooses will involve efforts to alleviate the ethnic tensions that exist between residents of Mexican descent and Mexican immigrants who have come to the country illegally.
“I want to work to meet the needs of these different communities,” says Roman-Salazar. “Although they seem similar, they have different ways of living and are really very different. There are lots of leaders in the community that have not understood the relationships between the different kinds of Mexican and immigrant communities in Arizona.”
While Roman-Salazar was able to identify a few courses centered on issues of migration or ethnicity within the United States, she felt that the College’s offerings did not quite fit with her interests.
“I was surprised by the lack of diversity,” she says.
These concerns would eventually lead her to become involved in the creation of a new Ethnic Studies Secondary Field, which allows students such as Roman-Salazar to focus on ethnic groups within this country and on a transnational level.
Around the time that Roman-Salazar was looking into classes that focused on the issues of Hispanic Americans, she became political chair of both Fuerza
Latina and RAZA. Along with these positions, Roman-Salazar inherited the responsibility of advocating for courses in Latino-American studies—a field of interest that would ultimately be encompassed by the ethnic studies secondary.
Previous members of both clubs had been part of study groups for a few years to gain support for such a field, but their progress picked up dramatically last spring. About a year ago, students such as Roman-Salazar began meeting to collaborate with professors in African-American Studies, History, and other disciplines and to discuss the prospect of an ethnic studies program at Harvard.
As part of this study group,  Roman-Salazar helped draft a policy paper that was nearly 30 pages long, explaining what members hoped the program would look like. The five sections of the paper not only included an outline of what they envisioned down the road, but also compared Harvard’s current offerings in ethnicity and human rights to those of other Ivy League schools. But the group ultimately decided not to base its proposal off of any other school’s curriculum, citing the limited resources available for the creation of new programs.
“We looked at a lot of schools, but since we were limited in how far we could go with what we were looking for, it was better for us to start from smaller steps,” Roman-Salazar recalls.
The group worked with a realistic cost estimate in mind, honing in on an initial vision for a committee of professors in other departments who would be willing to teach classes applicable to ethnic studies. They presented their work to the Committee on Undergraduate Studies, which ultimately approved the new committee and the secondary Field, and with the help of a group of alumni donors, the Ethnic Studies Secondary Field was born in December 2009.
FIRST, ABOUT THE SECONDARY
While it is currently experiencing a resurgence at Harvard, the field of ethnic studies has existed since the protest era of the 1970s. For a long time, however, ethnic studies existed only on the fringes of a liberal arts education, criticized for its radical political connotations and its supposed lack of academic rigor.
Several years ago, Harvard had an ethnic studies program, but for reasons that are not clear to even some of the most involved faculty today, it altogether faded away. However, continued student and faculty interest in ethnic studies coalesced in new conversations and, ultimately, the formation of the secondary field and Committee on Ethnic Studies this year.
“A year and a half ago, we wanted to reinvigorate it because it seemed like there was a lot of student and faculty interest in the project,” says Diana Sorensen, Dean of Arts and Humanities, who also serves as a professor in Comparative Literature and Romance Languages and Literatures.
Now, the final product of many months of hard work is reflected in the online Student Handbook under the “Fields of Study” section. The Ethnic Studies Web site boasts four tracks that will allow students to gain “an opportunity to pursue sustained, interdisciplinary study of issues related to ethnicity, migration, indigeneity, and human rights, particularly in Asian American/Transpacific, Native American/Indigenous, and US Latino/American hemispheric topics, with an American focus as well as a transnational one.”
While each track will eventually have its own selection of courses, as of now, students do not need to declare a particular track within the field. However, all students interested in pursuing an Ethnic Studies Secondary must take one of five “portal courses” as an introduction. The Committee on Ethnic Studies hopes that portal courses will help to unify the diverse range of topics within the field by providing an overview of the history of ethnic conflict, human rights, and other issues of ethnicity.
As with all the courses that count for the secondary, portal courses are not listed under the heading “Ethnic Studies.” Instead, these classes are taught by
professors who belong to departments ranging from History to Anthropology. The Committee also brought in two visiting professors: Denise Khor, a recent Ph.D. from UC San Diego and Hua Hsu, a professor at Vassar College and author of “The End of White America?”, the cover story for The Atlantic Monthly in early 2009. Although both visiting scholars are technically based in other departments—History and English, respectively—their courses are directed toward the curriculum of the secondary field.
“Faculty are not appointed to Ethnic Studies, but if you have an appointment in say, the Department of English, and you’re interested in Native Americans, then...your courses are available to people who are interested in ethnic studies,” says Sorensen.
With the curriculum still being set, the only portal course offered this semester is “Ethical Reasoning 11: Human Rights: A Philosophical Introduction,” taught by Mathias Risse, a professor at the Harvard Kennedy School.
In the future, portal courses will be taught by various faculty members on the Committee of Ethnic Studies. For example, Werner Sollors, Ethnic Studies Chair and professor in African and African American Studies, plans to teach “Literature of Migration and Ethnicity: The Case of the United States”, which will also count for the Aesthetic and Interpretive Reasoning.
COMING TOGETHER
Aside from drawing a wide range of professors from different departments and universities, the Committee on Ethnic Studies also represents the culmination of many interest groups and ideas. For years, various groups expressed interest in creating an Asian American Studies program, Latino American Studies program, and Native American Studies program. However, progress was slow. It was only this December that cooperation from a diverse range of minority groups helped pushed Ethnic Studies through.
“With this effort, we tried to include very different groups,” says Roman-Salazar. “Maybe it was just that we brought together the right level of enthusiasm and student involvement and faculty involvement working together.”
Athena Lao ’12, who attended faculty meetings and advocated on behalf of the program along with Roman-Salazar, acknowledges that the current curriculum may be deemed too far-reaching in scope, but is pleased nonetheless with the outcome of the program.
“It could be argued that maybe it’s a little too broad now, but at least we will be able to cover the things like Asian American studies or Native American studies that people have been fighting for,” says Lao.
In addition to representing the interests of a variety of minority groups, Ethnic Studies extends its appeal even further by incorporating studies of human rights into its curriculum and designating it as a distinct track.
Director of the Harvard University Committee on Human Rights Studies Jaqueline Bhabha has been a leader in developing the human rights aspect of the program. She became involved in the Ethnic Studies Secondary in order to create an organized grouping for all human rights courses at the College.
“What we decided to do was to try to include within the Ethnic Studies rubric those courses which otherwise had been somewhat free floating,” Bhabha explains, adding that while there could have been a Human Rights Secondary Field as well, it seemed to enhance the rest of the curriculum.
“The intellectual coherence of the project eventually made itself clear,” says Bhabha.
THE FUTURE OF THE FIELD
According to Stephanie Macaris Alusow, who works in the Special Concentrations Office and as an assistant to Professor Sollors, two students have officially declared Ethnic Studies as a secondary since its inception in December, but many more have expressed interest.
“The first week I probably had about 12 students come to ask about the Secondary Field...the students seem very interested,” she says.
Sollors also cites faculty participation as a gauge of the program’s success so far.
“We have a very large group of faculty members working with us, and that is evidence of positive feedback,” Sollors says.
The next project for the Committee is planning an Ethnic Studies conference which will include representatives from several schools in the Boston area. The event, slated for April 9, hopes to incorporate student papers, alumni panels, and a keynote speaker.
“The main theme of the conference is public art and student performance and how Ethnic Studies is represented in the public sphere and through performance,” says Lao. “It’s really broad; we just really encourage anyone who thinks that their work could fall into the field to submit it.”
While many people involved with the program are pleased with the strides represented by the approval of the Ethnic Studies Secondary, they still recognize the amount of work that remains to be done.
Bhabha expressed her interest in establishing a research or internship program through the Committee to further student involvement, while longer-term goals include building a full concentration and even an Ethnic Studies Department.
“In the future, I’m hoping, when the financial situation is a little better, we can start the process,” says Lao, who hopes to ultimately see those developments.
To ensure the longevity of the program, alumni have been collaborating with faculty and administrators on the Committee to create a professorship in the field of ethnic studies. Such an endowment would last for decades, ensuring the position of a full-time and dedicated ethnic studies professor.
For now, students, faculty, alumni, and administrators are taking a moment to pause and look back on all they have accomplished.
“It’s a very collaborative and exciting moment,” says Sorensen.
Sections
It was raining over the cobblestone alley when one hopelessly lost reporter entered the dimly lit security office of Dunster. This investigator is on the trail of the first meeting of the so-called “Crime Club.” She walks down the narrow stairs. She puts her hand on the doorknob. She’s ready for the shady gathering of adrenaline junkies that is sure to await her. The door creaks open.
Inside, 10 to 15 girls are mingling over bowls of chips and other snacks, chatting about the newest happenings in crime TV.  The Crime Club members seem to have left their revolvers at the door.
The Harvard Crime Club, founded this term by Colleen M. Berryessa ’11, intends to get down to the nitty-gritty in the coming semester. “[The Club] is open to future lawyers, people who want to be in government administration someday, people who want to be defense attorneys,” Berryessa said. “Really anything that you could ever think of that involves crime, including the cheesy TV shows.”
Club members intend to make field trips to justice-related facilities and host panels with criminologists, police, and the FBI. They also hope to get some CSI workshops started and to collaborate with HUPD, the Harvard Shooting Club, and the Harvard Kennedy School Program in Criminal Justice.
Berryessa explained that she started the club as an outlet for undergraduates looking to pursue criminal justice carers at Harvard, given that there are few opportunities for the study of crime or law enforcement on campus.
Securitas officer Richard L. Eliseo, Sr. gave the new club his blessing. “It’ll get more students interested in their surroundings and the world today and in the proper way to record and look at crime,” he said.
One attendee, Madison J. Shelton ’11, explained her interest in criminal psychology. “The mentality of a criminal has always fascinated me,” she said.
Some of the draw, of course, is less than academic: “‘Criminal Minds’ is a fantastic show,” Shelton admitted.
Sections
Even though Senior Bar was totally dead, some lucky Harvardians were busy getting it on. While Chester-the-Molester was on the prowl, Lipps, Inc. was bringing Funkytown to the Pudding this weekend, especially if you happened to be an unsuspecting freshman. If you thought the Shirley Temple-look was back in, think again: a certain foxy genius sported the coif this Saturday with poor results, garnering a total of zero successful shots out of five. The quarrel between yours truly and a certain  Somerville-based academic institution inched toward a resolution this weekend after Grandpa finally found his chair. Apparently someone had locked it in the bathroom and all Jumbo needed was the Key.
Sections
Crazed with laughter and the bitter cold, my roommate and I literally exploded into Asmara, a discreetly nestled Central Square Eritrean eatery, hustling mostly because my feet had frozen (flip-flops offer little in the way of podiatric protection) and, more importantly, because our palates were eager for an escape from dining hall fare.
Asmara’s appeal doesn’t lie in an outward ambience of grandeur; if the dozen glass-top tables anchor the restaurant’s atmosphere in the thoroughly familiar, the more traditional mesobs—woven basket-tables common in Ethiopia and Eritrea—that punctuate the dining space, coupled with the dimly buzzing lighting, compensate by insisting on a thoroughly exotic intimacy.
Let it be known: the food experience at Asmara—in particular, the food itself—is phenomenal. For the uninitiated, Eritrean cuisine is an arcane affair of ginger, coriander, and other spices, making liberal use of aromatics to create savory blends of legumes, leafy veggies, and stewed meats; the stews are served directly on a large injera, a crêpe-like fermented bread that replaces plates, forks, and knives as the Eritrean eating utensil of choice.
Opting for the mesob and bench combo over staid dinner chairs, my roommate and I were forced to devour our sweet-spicy red pepper-smothered chicken and smoked collards—my new go-to plates, no doubt—with only the injera’s help, elbows on thighs and food on our faces. As the couple behind us could attest, the vulnerability inherent in relishing such messy (if delicious) tucker perhaps makes Asmara more appropriate for close friends than first dates: while a nameless fellow diner gave her soiled companion a disinterested stank-eye, my roommate was in quite a different place, busily cackling—as I struggled to stuff myself further, I might add—that with all that damn sauce on my face, I looked more like Heath Ledger’s Joker than I typically do on weekend nights.
Asmara Restaurant, 739 Mass. Ave., Cambridge. (617) 864-7447. Take the Red Line to Central Square and walk towards Harvard. Open M-Th 11:30 a.m.-10:30 p.m., F-Sat 11:30 a.m.-11:30 p.m., Sun 4 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Visa/MasterCard accepted. Appetizers ($7.95-8.95), entrées ($12.95-17.95).
Sections
"Toyota Recall"
Did you have to give back your sweet little Prius? You can unintentionally accelerate through this sour beverage, courtesy of your favorite island nation.Blend the following:
Six-pack Sapporo lager
750 mL sake
One cup lemonade
Ice
Serves everyone in your new Civic
"The Recovery Act"
FM checked the weather forecast for the weekend, and we have bad news for you: it’s gon’ rain. Those late night treks to Lams will have you sniffling soon, but we’d hate to see that stop you from going out.
One bottle cough syrup
12 oz. can of Sprite
Two shots vodka
Splash of pomegranate juice
Sections
In the spirit of the Winter Games, FM presents the events of the Harvard Olympics.
1)  Quad-Shuttle Sprints
2) Scorp Bowl Races at the Kong
3) Chickwich Challenge. 12 Houses, 12 chickwiches (13, with ’berg access)
4) John Harvard Statue piss-off
5) Intramural crew
6) Speedwalking through Cambridge Common at 4 a.m. on a Saturday
7) Bobsledding down Widener steps
8) Ice-dancing on the Charles. Watch out for boats and geese
9) Ec 10 problem set relay
10) Acorn toss (at itinerant tourists)
11) BU-girl-watching at the Spee
12) Read through an entire issue of The Advocate
13) Walk-off between Eleganza and Identities models. Hell, Project East can join in too
14) Widener stacks marathon lovemaking
15) Competitive collar-popping
Sections
While most students are hunched over their desks, sweating over Stat 100 psets, a unique group on campus gathers together to investigate issues like the height of slam dunk contestants or Tiger’s return from scandal. Founded in 2006, the Harvard Sports Analysis Collective is a student-run organization with the goal of researching sports strategy and management. “The only difference, I’d say, between us and the average fan is that we test our ideas after we talk about them,” explained co-president David M. Roher ’12.
Though they describe themselves as normal fans, HSAC likes to look at the quirkier side of athletics. “I looked at whether fat coaches were doing any worse than normal-weight coaches,” Roher said. “I had to find 120 coaches, so for each coach I looked at a bunch of pictures of them on Google Images and coded zero—no, they’re not fat and—one—yes, they are.”
President Emeritus Daniel B. Adler ’10, chipped in, “two for Charlie Weis.” Roher’s findings? No difference.
“You take these very statistically oriented ideas and studies and put them in a way that people who have no experience in statistics, for example me, are able to understand,” said PR Director Elizabeth M. Fryman ’12. In addition to studying the statistics, HSAC holds weekly meetings where they also host notable speakers from the sports community. Anthony Gonzalez, a wide receiver for the Indianapolis Colts, recently joined in on one of their gatherings while he was visiting Harvard Business School for a business education program for NFL players. Other past guests include Rich Gotham, President of the Boston Celtics, and Sam Kennedy, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Boston Red Sox.
Although they may seem super serious when it comes to the game, Roher reminds us that in the end, they’re just normal sports fans­. “I think we do a good job of separating the fan within us to the statisticians. I’m doing that,” he said. “When the Yankees are losing in a playoff game, I’ll turn all my clothes inside out and stand on the couch upside-down. And if they start doing well no one in the room is allowed to move.”
Sections
When the Jumbos—a 15-dollar cab ride away (or, in non-Harvard terms, two stops up the Red Line)—found out about FM’s trip to Somerville on Valentine’s Day, they took the opportunity to show their fellow elite New England private school plenty of Internet love. Below, the warmest of the warm from the comments on The Crimson Web site:
“It’s not like we’re a good school that’s nationally ranked and has an internationally active student body. Nope. We are completely mindless, and our worth is so little that people from Harvard consider us as members of a different planet. The next time you come to Tufts, I will be sure to open my legs just for you because I just can’t control myself when I see someone with a “H” sweatshirt. Oh baby that’s what gets me hot. I just have that little brain power.”
“By the way, not to seem too much like I have a chip on my shoulder (though it’s getting harder to hide that), but my SAT’s beat about 70% of Harvard students’ SAT’s. So suck it, Harvard.”
“Y’all should have gone to BC. End of story.”
Sections
With his new book “The Infinities,” John Banville, explores the life of a dying mathematician across two parallel universes, as seen from the perspective of the Greek gods.  FM sat down with the author to talk about simpler things: “the gray north,” brandy, and a love for words which has translated into an award-winning career.
1. Fifteen Minutes: You’ve stated that you desire to give your prose the “kind of denseness and thickness that poetry has,” and you’ve published novels and plays, but no poetry. Why?
John Banville:  Well, my old friend, the wonderful Irish novelist John McGahern, used to say that “there’s verse and there’s prose and then there’s poetry, and poetry can happen in either.” Since he was a novelist, he used to say that it happened more often in prose.
2. FM:  Your brother and sister are also published writers. Is there ever a feeling of sibling rivalry or competition?
JB: I don’t think so, but then there’s always a feeling of competition or rivalry within families, isn’t there? No, I’m happy for them and they’re happy for me, I think. But of course, they may be working behind the scenes, destroying my reputation.
3. FM: After you finished school you worked as a clerk for Aer Lingus. How did this travel affect you and your writing?
JB: Well, I went to work for the airline because I could get cheap travel or travel for nothing. I did lots of traveling. My first trip was to Rome and to Paris. I was about 18, 19. For an Irish boy to get to Paris or Rome was no great thing. I don’t know if it had any effect on my writing, but it certainly had an effect on me as a person.
4. FM: Where did you most enjoy visiting?
JB: My favorite country, I suppose, is Italy. I think it’s everyone’s favorite country, really. They’ve sorted out the basics of food and drink and sensuality. If I were given the choice of dying and going to heaven, it would be Italy I would go to. I couldn’t live there. Life there would be too sweet and too soft. I need to live in the gray north in order to work.
5. FM: In what ways do you believe growing up in Ireland and being Irish have influenced the content and style of your writing?
JB: All I can say is the most important thing for me is that I write in a peculiar version of English which we speak and write in here. English is not my first language. It’s my mother-tongue, but I don’t feel at home in it, which is a very good thing for a writer. It’s a good thing not to feel at home in your language because you’re constantly examining it from the outside.
6. FM: You’ve lived in both the United States and Ireland. What would you say are some of the biggest differences between the two?
JB: Ireland is the past; America is the future. I mean, I still think of America as the last great hope. I’m a great admirer of America, you know, for all its faults. I get furious at Europe and the easy criticisms of America that Europeans constantly make. Mostly I think because I’ve been there. And of course the people who haven’t been to America know the most about it, as you know, I’m sure.
7. FM: Describe a typical day in your writing process.
JB: A typical day? I work nine to five. I stop in the middle of the day to have bread and cheese and a glass of water.
8. FM: Did you always want to be a writer?
JB: Well, for as far back as I can remember. I started writing when I was about 12. And if I keep at it for another 20 years, I might actually learn how to do it.
9. FM: You won the Booker Prize for “The Sea” (2005) so I think some people would say that you’ve learned how to do it. How did it feel to win the prize and how has it affected you?
JB: Well, it was great fun to win it, and my bank manager was deeply relieved. It hasn’t affected my work. One would be a very poor writer indeed if winning a prize influenced one’s writing.
10. FM: When asked how you would spend the $87,600 check that accompanies receipt of the Booker Prize, you replied, “Good works and strong drink.” We’d love to know your preferences in both those categories.
JB: I thought that was pretty clever, actually. Good works is taking care of the people one loves and people in the periphery of one’s life. Strong drink of course is good wine and good brandy.  Wine would be...a Tuscan wine and brandy would be Hennessy.
11. FM: Your new novel centers around a dying mathematician and his family, as the Greek gods hover above. What sort of statement, if any, does this make about religion and science?
JB: There’s absolutely no statement at all. My model is taken from Franz Kafka who said, “The artist is a man who has nothing to say.” I have nothing to say. I have no statements to make, I have no messages to deliver. I simply want to recreate the world as I see it and to provide delight to readers. No messages.
12. FM: One of the main characters in “The Infinities” has proved the existence of parallel universes. If you could live in a parallel universe, what would it be like?
JB: Oh it would be like this one. This is an amazing place to live. We have four seasons in a year, which is an astonishing thing. Everything changes. Come the end of February here in Ireland, it’s dark and cold, but things are beginning to move, which is an astonishing thing and it’s the greatest gift we could’ve been given. That the year changes, the sky changes from moment to moment. Who would want to be anywhere else?
13. FM: You have said that “Facility in art, or the appearance of facility, is nearly always suspect,” and that you only write about a hundred words a day when working on literary novels. How does this difficulty contribute to the formation of your novels?
JB: I don’t think it’s a difficulty...it’s to do with concentration. When you concentrate that deeply at that level, it’s impossible to write more than a few hundred words a day because every word is chosen. The cadences of every sentence have to be different.
14. FM: What advice would you offer to aspiring writers?
JB: Learn your craft—as simple as that. Don’t imagine that you can begin to express yourself or say things or deliver messages or any of that stuff, but just learn to write. Work away at it. Work away at getting the sentences right. And learn to love words.
15. FM: You’ve described the fact that you didn’t attend university as “a great mistake...I regret not taking that four years of getting drunk and falling in love.” Any retrospective advice for students at Harvard?
JB: Oh, yes. Stay in school. Fall in love. Take the odd can of beer. Live as much as you can.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While most of us are begging our professors to have more midterm reviews or desperately searching for that elusive summer internship, Corporal Thomas Rubel is having his easiest days in a long time.
“This is a vacation for me,” Rubel says.
Tom may have had his last real vacation in the summer of 2003, when there was a lot going through his mind.  He was considering offers to play both football and lacrosse in college.  Although he never picked up a stick until his football coach at Phillips Exeter (who was also the lacrosse coach) insisted, he became a better lacrosse player and captained the team his senior year, earning MVP honors as a defenseman. But when Tom made a decision to sign some papers before his senior year, he wasn’t thinking letters of intent.  Instead, he signed on to be a member of the United States Marine Corps.
In August 2004, Tom departed for basic training at Parris Island, S.C. before entering the School of Infantry at Camp Geiger, N.C. Just before he graduated from the infantry school in March 2005, he was told that a unit was needed overseas.  Ten days later, as an 18-year-old infantryman, Tom Rubel deployed to Fallujah, Iraq. After serving seven months in Fallujah, Tom returned to the states and was selected to try out for the sniper platoon. Out of the 70 who were chosen to begin the tryout, only nine remained at the end, and Tom was one of seven selected to join the platoon. From there, Tom was chosen to attend Scout Sniper School, where he overcame a 70% attrition rate, graduating in June 2006. After returning to his unit as assistant team leader, Tom deployed to Ramadi, Iraq, in September 2006.
“During the tryout to be in the sniper platoon, we started early on Monday and went until Friday night with little food and no sleep. All we did was train, run, and do all-night patrols,” Rubel says.  “You could quit at any time, but I realized that your body is capable of so much more than you think it is. Everything hurt, but it was doable.”
Tom spent nine months in Ramadi and, due to the good reputation he had earned overseas, he was offered a job as a scout sniper instructor at Camp Lejeune, N.C.
“The time in Ramadi was very intense. It was the most dangerous city in Iraq at the time, and my team ran a lot of missions,” Rubel says.  “There were many times when it was just the six of us in our position, going through tough, dangerous engagements, but the guys were great and we were able to get out of them alright everytime.”
When Tom came back from Ramadi, he found it was time to start looking ahead to his future. Although the corporal was mindful of his options for school, Tom wasn’t ready to stop the adventures just yet.  In December of 2008, Tom traveled to Australia, where he spent seven months kiteboarding and working in Newcastle,  New South Wales. Rubel built conrete barriers for Mountain Industries by day and worked at a club by night.
“I got to meet the most real people in Australia,” Rubel recalls.  “I liked working with the salt of the earth type people who were just really good guys. Most people go to Australia and do all the tourist stuff. That’s not me.”
When Tom returned from Australia, he was in the same position as most people anxiously awaiting their first month at Harvard.  He spent that summer as a kiteboarding instructor in Surf City, N.C., before preparing to head back to school as a 23-year-old freshman.
“It was a tough decision for me to come back to school…there is a lot of money in the private sector for former snipers, but I knew that going to school was only going to open doors for me and it certainly wasn’t going to close any,” Rubel says. “When I visited Coach Tillman [after returning from Ramadi, Iraq], he told me he had a lot of good lacrosse players but that he needed some good men. I knew that I wanted to play for him and that he’d bring the right kind of guys here to compete.”
One thing that certainly was a challenge for Tom was thinking about how he would fit in as an older student. Despite the age gap, Tom has managed to blend in seamlessly with the Harvard culture on and off the field.
“I remember when he came into my office and I looked up and saw this guy walking in and I ask, ‘Who are you?’” Harvard coach John Tillman recalls. “He says, ‘Hey I’m Tom Rubel, I’m applying here.’ And I think, ‘Great!’  Then he says, ‘Yeah, I’m just getting out of the Marine Corps,’ and I say ‘Great!’ He’s like any other college student, though. He blends in really well and is just a happy-go-lucky kind of guy.”
Although Tom is older and in an unusual situation, he doesn’t shy away from doing things the right way.  Rather than seeking to live off-campus or surrounding himself with people closer to his age, Tom is enjoying living with three freshman roommates in Canaday Hall.
“I was really nervous coming back to school and fitting into a college setting,” Rubel says. “But, I’ve got three great roommates, and I look at them the same way I look at my teammates—like little brothers. It makes me different from them, but it allows me to be in a position to help them.  Everything’s been working out great.
On the field, Tom is currently recovering from back surgery he underwent this past fall to correct a ruptured disc.  Although he’s almost back to 100 percent, he’s been finding his niche on the team as a role model and leader while he continues his recovery.
“I’m a freshman in terms of knowing the team and the game, but when it comes to toughness and being a man, I can teach the guys things by showing up every day and setting an example,” Rubel says.  “I think my biggest strength is my toughness and life experience. I won’t complain. I tell them that it’s really not that bad—no matter how hard practice is, we’re still lucky. We’re at Harvard, playing a fun game. No one is shooting at us, and when practice is over in a few hours, we’ll be able to go home.”
Even though the men’s lacrosse team hasn’t even begun the season, Tom’s presence on the team has made an immediate impact.
“His disposition is always very solid,” Tillman says. “He’s always very disciplined, very organized.  He’s always doing whatever it takes. He’s fantastic.”
After spending time as a sniper, kiteboard instructor, and construction worker in Australia, it’s not hard to imagine that Harvard might seem, well, boring to Tom.  Although he recognizes that Harvard can be a bubble, he remains cognizant of the opportunities that he’s been granted.
“I do realize that it’s a privilege to be here,” Rubel says. “I’m just thankful that I have four years of my life planned, and I’m just enjoying it.  I try to take care of what I can take care of, and I know there will be more opportunities at the end of the tunnel.”
—Staff writer Colin Whelehan can be reached at whelehan@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The only things sophomore Melanie Baskind loves more than peanut butter are soccer and lacrosse. This year, the Harvard soccer standout has decided to pursue both of her long-time interests by joining the Crimson women’s lacrosse team.
“I just want to be happy [and] feel like I have no regrets throughout college,” Baskind said. “Playing lacrosse is a huge part of that.”
Through high school, Baskind was a three-sport athlete, captaining both the soccer and lacrosse teams and playing on the ice hockey team at Framingham High School, located 20 minutes from Cambridge. The Massachusetts native led her high school’s lacrosse team to back-to-back state championships in 2006 and 2007 and was selected as a first-team All-American for both soccer and lacrosse.
But when Baskind came to Harvard, she was faced with the difficult decision of picking one sport to focus on. She settled on soccer.
“Soccer was my love from the start,” Baskind said. “It was a combination between loving the girls, having the team, and loving the sport…It just made sense.”
As a freshman, Baskind led the Crimson soccer team to an Ancient Eight championship, earning the Ivy League Rookie of the Year award along the way.
But Baskind could never let go of her great memories of lacrosse. Although she did not begin playing lacrosse until her freshman year of high school at the urging of her sister, who was senior captain of Framingham’s lacrosse team at the time, Baskind nevertheless developed a strong attachment to the sport.
“[Lacrosse is] a little bit faster, because you can run at full speed,” Baskind said. “I like the contrast…I really enjoy the differences between the sports.”
Reflecting back, Baskind is glad that she focused on soccer during her first year in Cambridge, because it gave her the opportunity to grow as a person and evaluate her goals.
“I’m happy I didn’t play last year,” Baskind said. “I think it was the right decision. I didn’t think I was ready just in terms of finding a place in the soccer team socially, figuring out my concentration, and making friends my freshman year.”
But with a year’s worth of maturity under her belt, Baskind decided that she was ready to rekindle her love for lacrosse. She talked with both soccer coach Ray Leone and lacrosse coach Lisa Miller and worked out a schedule where she can fully participate in lacrosse while keeping up with soccer.
Although Baskind practices full time with the lacrosse team, she continues to attend soccer practices in order to keep up to date on what her teammates are working on. Baskind plans on practicing for soccer rigorously over the summer to make up for the lost time.
“A couple years ago, I thought she was the best player in Massachusetts for lacrosse, and [Leone] scooped her up before I arrived,” Miller said. “We’re just really happy. Two-sport athletes in the Ivies used to exist all the time in the 80s and the 90s. And I think it’s a way to create bonds between teams, and then generate a little more interest for a crowd.”
With the start of the lacrosse season in early February, Baskind jumped right back into the sport that she excelled in throughout high school. Even though she is one year removed from competition, Baskind has no problem keeping up with her teammates.
“She’s one of those kids who plays at speed all the time,” Miller said. “She has that kind of hardness already because she’s played in big games. I thought she might be a little bit out of rhythm, and yet it was like [fellow teammate and newcomer] Jennifer VanderMeulen and Mel Baskind had been playing together for decades.”
Indeed, Baskind’s diligence and experience have evoked nothing but praise from her fellow teammates.
“Mel has really taken a leadership role already on the team,” VanderMeulen said. “She is a great player who makes the players around her better. Her quick speed and stick skills have made an immediate impact on our team. She has a great field sense, and I think that comes from her being a soccer player as well. She knows where to be and when to be [there].”
According to her teammates, Baskind’s greatest quality is her personality, a mixture of humility with competitiveness, which helps motivate her on the field and improve her skills off the field.
“As a teammate, [Baskind] is not afraid to ask for help,” VanderMeulen said. “She honors the opinions of anyone. For instance, the other day she asked me to help her with her stick and did not look down at me for being a freshman.”
As the lacrosse team looks forward to its first game of the year tomorrow, there’s little doubt that Melanie Baskind will be an essential piece of Harvard’s game plan. As long as the dining hall keeps serving peanut butter, Baskind will be happy with her full plate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Netting a goal in the final second of its last game of the 2009 season, the Harvard women’s lacrosse team ended things with a bang, capturing a 9-8 win over Boston College. The victory capped off a rollercoaster of a season, as the team experienced exciting upsets and many tough losses. The Crimson wrapped up the season 6-10 overall and 2-5 in the Ivy League.
Although a rollercoaster can provide thrills, Harvard hopes for a steadier performance this year, beginning with its first game tomorrow at UMass in Amherst.
Despite the loss of three players to graduation, the team has replenished its ranks, taking on 10 new ones.
“The class of 2009 was a great class and really helped us through the coaching change and every other system change,” co-captain Delia Pais said. “But we’ve now added a very strong freshman class, so their loss is not something we can’t overcome. [The seniors] were helpful, but we’ve been trying to build a structure that survives graduation and brings in a new class ready to take up the mantle of the team.”
In addition to a wave of freshmen, the 2010 season will see the debut of sophomore midfielder Melanie Baskind. Already a talented soccer player, the team is eager to see what she’ll bring to the lacrosse field.
Although the Crimson has many new faces, the team will receive a lot of support from its returning players. Pais returns after a very strong junior season, in which she led the team with 29 ground balls and caused 13 turnovers. Pais’ fellow co-captain, attack Sara Flood, notched 16 assists and 32 draw controls, both team highs.
Another key contributor will be junior midfielder Jess Halpern. In her sophomore season, Halpern was named the Ivy League’s Offensive Player of the Week twice and earned a spot on the All-Ivy First Team.
A large share of the offensive responsibility will also fall on sophomore Tyler Petropulos, who finished last season third on the team with 23 goals while tying Pais’ top mark of 29 ground balls.
Harvard coach Lisa Miller believes that the addition of new players will build depth and take pressure off of players like Petropulos.
“I think that this year we’re going to have breaks where [Petropulos] can take breaks on attack and defensively,” Miller said. “We have depth—she’s not going to have to carry as much of the load as she did last year.”
Also contributing to a deeper roster is the presence of two game-tested goalies—senior Katherine Martino and sophomore Kerry Clark, who is also a Crimson news editor. Miller plans to play both goalies between the pipes based on the opponent at hand.
“I think that they both have a different style, so depending on our opponent, that’s the way it will work out,” Miller said.
To prepare for its season, the Crimson has been focusing on improving the fundamentals of the game—little things that, according to Flood, cost the team wins in the past.
“We had a couple of games last year where we potentially could’ve had a few more wins, but we got off track in terms of the fundamentals, and that put us in a hole,” she said.
The co-captain further stressed the importance of mastering the basic elements of the game.
“It’s a great way to attack the season,” she said. “Once the little things go right, the bigger concept plays can happen from there.”
Besides strengthening their skills, the women have been working on developing strong communication, something important both on and off the field.
“The [team] dynamic is very good, because we have a very vocal and open team,” Pais said. “We need the freshmen, and we need them to be vocal. The lines of communication are wide open between the veterans and the freshmen.”
Harvard will need to apply the skills that are stressed in practice in order to cope with a daunting schedule.
New this year to that schedule is Johns Hopkins, a formidable team bolstered by a fast offense and the expert skills of midfielder Angela Hughes—a senior who played for two years on the U.S. Developmental Team.
Also in the schedule is a match against No. 3 Penn, which enters the season as the three-time defending Ivy League champion. Last year, the Crimson fell hard to the Quakers, 18-9, but Harvard will get another shot at them on the road on March 15.
Other Ivy opponents should pose significant challenges as well—four Ancient Eight teams are ranked in the top 20 nationally.
“All of the Ivy games are usually difficult,” Pais said. “It’s a good league for lacrosse. Most of those will be tough, but we’re ready to play those games because those are the most exciting too.”
Harvard looks to hit the ground running as, after a four-game road stretch, the Crimson will take to Jordan Field for its home opener against No. 12 Boston University on March 17.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The sun beats down on a dirt-covered Ben Smith and several of his exhausted-looking Harvard lacrosse teammates. Sundays are normally a day off for most college sports teams; a day for each player to rest, recover, and think only about himself. But this is not the case for the Crimson—a team whose goal is to be more than average.
These guys are workhorses, physically fit and trained to carry out a specific task—play together to win. But today they have traded their sticks in for hammers and wrenches to help build a house with Habitat for Humanity.
A handful of sweaty guys stand in front of a 30-ft. ladder at a house construction site in Lynn, Mass. They exchange blank stares, each one hoping someone else is going to volunteer first to climb up and finish nailing down the side paneling.
When Crimson coach John Tillman told his team that he was going to work to help give each of them the opportunity to meet their full potential as a person, the Harvard men probably didn’t think reaching literal new heights would be part of that. No one, perhaps, except the senior defenseman Smith, who coordinated the multitude of community service events the team has participated in this year.
In the past two seasons, while the Crimson has excelled on the lacrosse field, it has also found a knack for community service.  Sam Slaughter ’09 was integral to getting the team involved with service events last season. Currently, Slaughter is in Africa working with communities in need.
“Last year’s seniors definitely lit the torch that Ben is now passing,” said senior Jason Duboe, Smith’s roommate.
Community outreach has become just one more way in which the Crimson can grow into a more cohesive, goal-oriented unit. And Smith has become the unofficial coordinator of these events.
“Ben was pretty much in charge of the whole thing,” sophomore Paul Pate said. “He reaches out and coordinates with Phillips Brooks House. He sets us up into our teams for the projects. It’s basically his thing that he has really taken charge of. He leads the effort and makes everything happen.”
The Harvard lacrosse team has participated in projects with Habitat for Humanity and MetroLacrosse, a Boston-based non-profit organization providing underprivileged kids with opportunities for athletic and academic success.
“If not for Ben,” Duboe explained, “I’m not sure how organized this tradition of giving back would be. He has really paved the road for us to follow this year and for guys to follow in the future.”
Smith is from Longmeadow, Mass., a typical New England town with a great tradition of lacrosse. He was introduced to the sport in third grade but didn’t start taking it seriously until just before entering high school. At Tabor Academy, Smith made a name for himself first on the ice and then on the field.
“I was actually more of a hockey player,” Smith laughed. “I didn’t even consider playing college lacrosse until junior year, when I got a letter from Coach Anderson at Harvard. And then I thought, well, this is a possibility.”
At the time though, Smith couldn’t foresee that halfway through his college career, he’d be introduced to a new coach who would help cultivate an entirely new passion for Smith—community outreach.
“We tell guys straight up that we’re going to push and challenge them here, and that we’re going to ask them to do community service,” said Tillman, now in his third season with the Crimson. “But we also tell them that they’re going to have a lot of fun.”
In the fall, players worked through MetroLacrosse to teach lacrosse clinics in urban areas and tutor those same kids for the SSAT that is a requirement for admission to private high schools like Tabor.
“I think what really got me going the past couple years was noticing how excited it got the guys and how much closer it brought everyone together,” Smith said. “There were just so many positives that I realized, ‘Let’s just do this as much as possible.’ It teaches us something about ourselves as individuals and brings us closer together.”
On the lacrosse field, Smith helps coordinate and run a team-oriented style of defense. He came to Harvard knowing that playing time was not necessarily going to be easy to come by, but he embraced the challenge and climbed his way to a starting position.
“Ben has been a guy that has honestly worked his way up to his position,” Duboe said. “He didn’t get a lot of playing time as a freshman, but he willed it to happen. He watches more film than anybody and gets in extra lifts—he’s very disciplined.”
Last season, Smith picked up a total of 14 ground balls and caused two turnovers. His commitment to his teammates and to forming a strong connection with them will be crucial to rebuilding this season’s defense after losing a number of seniors last year.
The Crimson will look to Smith to continue to step up his game on the lacrosse field in order to fill the big shoes left by last year’s graduating class.
If his leadership through community outreach is any indication of how willing he is to assume responsibility, then coaches, fans and opponents can expect to see great things from Smith’s game this year.
“We want [an athlete] to meet his full potential as a person first, a student second, and a player third,” Tillman said. “We’re going to do our best to set a guy up to be successful in all of those areas. [And] we know that if we’re talking about leadership, discipline, honesty, and being tough, it’s going to help in every aspect of his life.”
Back on the ground in Lynn, a couple of guys tentatively step forward from the circle. For them, it will be a long ascent up the ladder to the remaining patch of siding that needs to be secured to the house. Down below, their teammates cheer them on and watch in awe—or perhaps horror—as they balance on nothing but a thin piece of scaffolding.
At the end of the day, the siding gets nailed up, and just as they have been taught to do, the players have accomplished their objective. In the process, they saw glimpses of bravery and teamwork that they can carry onto the lacrosse field.
“At the end of the season, our goal isn’t just to have a perfect record,” Smith said. “We want to have grown as individuals into better-equipped leaders on and off the field. If we have done this, then we’ll win games too.”
—Staff writer Jessica L. Flakne can be reached at jflakne@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming off a 2009 season in which it surpassed all expectations, the Harvard men’s lacrosse team is geared up for an even bigger and better run in 2010.
After finishing the season ranked 17th  in the country with an 8-5 record, the team earned a No. 12 ranking in the LaxNews and Inside Lacrosse 2010 preseason national polls.
The Crimson returns its four leading scorers while also bringing in an impressive freshman class ranked third-best in the country according to Inside Lacrosse.  The group is headlined by midfielder Jack Doyle–the second-highest rated recruit in the nation–and attack Peter Schwartz, who was named New England Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association (NEILA) Preseason Co-Rookie of the Year.
“We were very excited about the class,” said third-season Harvard coach John Tillman.  “They have a chance to take this program and do some things that haven’t happened here in a very long time. What they brought [was] a very high commitment level, a high expectation level and a lot of energy and enthusiasm.”
Youth will be a key to this year’s team as the roster carries 28 freshmen and sophomores and just seven seniors.
Tillman can only hope that at least one of those freshmen can give him the same sort of first-year production that he got out of 2009 NEILA Rookie of the Year Jeff Cohen, who led Harvard with 34 goals (ninth on the Crimson’s all-time single-season list) and 41 points in his first season.  Though Cohen’s 2.62 goals per game average was seventh in the nation, the attack still sees room for improvement in his play.
“I’m trying to improve some things I didn’t do so well last year like riding and picking up ground balls,” the sophomore said. “I’m trying to let the game come to me, not trying to do too much, and trying to finish the opportunities I get.”
Cohen is joined on the attack by junior and fellow Long Islander Dean Gibbons, who was named to the NEILA Preseason All-New England team for the upcoming season.  Gibbons’ 21 goals and 27 points both ranked second on the team.  Sophomore Kevin Vaughan, who had five goals and seven assists as a rookie, will be in the mix, and Schwartz will also compete for time at the position.
“I think that we will see [Schwartz] getting some significant playing time this spring,” Tillman said of the freshman.  “He was a guy in the fall who all the coaches agreed was always on the field when good things happened.”
The team is also expecting a big year out of senior midfielder Jason Duboe, a candidate for the Lowe’s Senior Class Award and an Inside-Lacrosse Preseason All-America honorable mention.  Duboe was tied for third on the Crimson with 19 points in 2009.  He will be joined at offensive midfield by senior co-captain Travis Burr, the NEILA All-New England second-team selection whose 16 goals in 2009 ranked third on the team.  Sophomore Jesse Fehr, who had a team-high 11 assists in 2009, is also expected to contribute at midfield.
The defense is led by Burrs’ fellow captain and Inside Lacrosse Preseason All-America honorable mention selection Billy Geist.  Last year, Geist picked up 20 ground balls and led a Harvard defense that ranked third nationally in scoring defense, allowing on average just 6.69 goals per game.
“We play a very team-oriented defense,” sophomore Paul Pate said. “It’s not really an individual sort of thing, but it’s very focused on communicating with each other and sliding across the field.”
Pate and the rest of that unit are set to defend a still-unnamed starting goalie. Following the graduation of three-year starter Joe Pike ’09, the team is left with a three-way battle for the position. Senior Sam Michel, sophomore Christian Coates, and freshman Harry Krieger are competing for the 2010 starting job.
“We aren’t sure [of the goalie] right now,” Tillman said. “They all have different strengths. All the guys have shown strong performances at times, and I think that’s a good thing for us, it’s a real healthy competition.”
Whomever Tillman chooses to play between the pipes will have a difficult task ahead of him.  The team faces a tough schedule, with half of its 12 games coming against teams ranked by Inside Lacrosse–at home versus No. 2 Duke, No. 7 Princeton, and No. 15 Brown, and away against No. 6 Cornell, No. 13 Georgetown, and No. 17 UMass.
If the Crimson is going to succeed with this schedule and make its first NCAA tournament since 2006, it will have to pull out some close contests.  Last season, four of the team’s five losses were by two goals or less, crippling its tournament chances.
“A shot here and a turnover there, and it could have been our game,” Tillman said. “Two years ago it wouldn’t have even been close. We’ve now put ourselves in a position to win some games.  We’ve learned how to compete and how to play at that level, but now we have to get over that hump and learn what it takes to get over that hump consistently.”
Coming off of a solid 2009 season, opposing teams will be eager to take down Harvard in 2010.
“We were kind of able to sneak up on some teams last year,” Cohen said.  “We’re not going to be able to do that this year.  Teams are going to know we have talent.  We’re just taking it one game at a time and trying to get better and to play our best lacrosse every day.”
His teammates are well aware of that extra target, but don’t think it will affect their play this season.
“We’ve got a lot of young guys playing and we’ve got some great leadership,” senior Ben Smith said. “I think it’s going to shape up to be something special.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Returning the conference’s most prolific scorer, an experienced head coach, and two battle-tested goalkeepers, the Harvard women’s lacrosse team appears to have the experience necessary to be an Ivy League contender.
But if the Crimson hopes to find itself atop the Ancient Eight at season’s end, it will need help from a far more inexperienced group—its freshman class.
With nine first-years featured on its 21-person roster, the class of 2013 will play a major role in determining the success—or failure—of this year’s team.
“The freshmen are going to jump right in,” Harvard coach Lisa Miller said. “[It will be] trial by fire.”
But while most coaches might see a young and inexperienced lineup—Miller expects to start at least four or five rookies—as a disadvantage, some members of the Crimson squad see it as a secret weapon.
“We’re really young,” freshman Jennifer VanderMeulen said. “But I actually think it’s going to be to our advantage, because people aren’t expecting us.”
With that said, Miller’s second recruiting class at Harvard did not fly under the radar. The Crimson’s rookie class is made up of six players from either the U.S. Lacrosse or Under Armor All-America Teams and features members who passed up offers from such powerhouse programs as Northwestern and Princeton.
“It’s a good class,” said Miller, who coached at Syracuse for 10 seasons.  “Their skill is good. Their game understanding is good. It’s a class comparable to my recruiting class at Syracuse that had the two All-Americans and Big East Defender of the Year.”
On top of their skills and game understanding, the strongest aspect of the Crimson’s newcomers may be their athleticism.
“They’re fast kids, and they’re going to link the two halves of the field together,” co-captain Delia Pais said. “It’s an area of the game that we’ve lacked in years previous, and now it’s come into place.”
But Miller and her freshmen understand that they cannot simply rely on their speed to create open shots for themselves, as most of them were able to do in high school. In preparation for the much faster and more physical environment of collegiate play, Miller has tried to emulate a game-like environment in practice to get her players up to speed before tomorrow’s opener against UMass.
One freshman who is expected to make an impact from the Crimson’s first game is VanderMeulen, a 5’8” attack out of Liverpool, N.Y. VanderMeulen received interest from top collegiate lacrosse programs throughout her four years at Liverpool High School, where she set the school record for goals scored with 213.
But despite offers from Princeton, Duke, Johns Hopkins, and Northwestern, VanderMeulen chose Harvard because of the chance it offered to help change the program’s direction.
“What I loved about Harvard was that I had an opportunity to make a difference,” VanderMeulen said. “I wasn’t just going to be fed into the machine and kicked back out.”
Now that she’s with the Crimson, VanderMeulen’s teammates are hopeful that she can continue to use her tall frame and powerful shot to light up the scoreboard at the collegiate level.
Joining VanderMeulen are four other rookies from the Empire State who are expected to make an immediate impact. Danielle Tetreault, a native of Guilderland, N.Y., is likely to receive significant minutes at midfield right away.
“[Tetreault]’s a hustler,” co-captain Sara Flood said. “She’s always giving 100 percent.”
VanderMeulen, who battled against Tetreault numerous times throughout high school, remembers playing against the scrappy midfielder well.
“We always kind of butted heads,” VanderMeulen said. “But now it’s so weird because she’s one of my great friends.”
Joining Tetreault at midfield from the freshman class are Alexis Dal Col and Micaela Cyr. While Dal Col possesses a dangerous shot, Cyr uses her speed and quickness to create opportunities.
The combination of a strong freshman class and an experienced core of older players could bring huge rewards for Harvard this spring.
“They have a lot of talent,” Flood said. “We sort of need them to step up really early.”
But any pressure that might accompany the high stakes of being thrown into the fire right away does not seem to bother the nine youngsters.
“None of the freshmen have crumbled under the pressure,” VanderMeulen said. “Luckily we are going to be assets to the team early on, and we wanted to show [Coach Miller] that she can expect a lot from us, and that we’ll perform for her.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Playing as an unknown freshman can sometimes be a blessing in disguise. The opposing teams don’t have a full scouting report to go on and usually don’t have hours of tape to watch to dissect a player’s tendencies. While this may explain junior Jess Halpern’s breakout freshman campaign—which earned her the Ivy League Rookie of the Year award—it makes her exceptional sophomore season even more impressive.
“I thought last year she had a good year, and she had a good year with a lot of attention—she was getting double- and triple-teamed,” said third-year Harvard coach Lisa Miller. “They were sending everything they had at her early.”
The “good year” was good enough to lead the Ivy League in goals per game (2.88) and points per game (3.44) and to get Halpern named to the All-Ivy First Team.
“She is awesome,” co-captain Sara Flood said. “She’s just so athletic. Her moves are just unbelievable. She’s a great dodger, and she goes 100 percent all the time—she’s always working really hard on the field.”
Yet while Halpern may have enjoyed individual success in her first two seasons, her team’s performance has been far from outstanding.
“We had very high hopes for my freshman season going in, and we did really well,” said Halpern of Harvard’s 9-7 finish. “We were the underdogs in a lot of our games and came out victorious—we just did really well. We had really high hopes going into our sophomore season. Unfortunately, we had a little bit of a rut, but we finished strong.”
While the rut included a five-game losing streak, the Crimson did manage to end the season with two strong victories, including a convincing 11-7 win over a then-No. 20 Cornell team to finish the season at 6-10. Halpern scored four goals in the game.
The junior is optimistic that Harvard can carry that momentum into this season and hopefully put the Crimson lacrosse team on the national map.
“Going into the season, I’m so excited, and I think we are going to prove to a lot of people that Harvard [lacrosse] is on the rise,” Halpern said.
If that’s going to happen, everyone on the team is going to have step up their level of play—perhaps none more than Halpern.
After graduating second-leading scorer Kaitlin Martin ’09 last spring, Miller knew that adjustments had to be made to compensate for the loss of scoring. The first adjustment was to move Halpern to attack.
“As a midfielder, I got really tired by the end of the game,” Halpern said. “I think my coach realized that and noticed that my production level in the second half wasn’t as good as in the first half. And as a result of that, [Miller] told me she’s going put me on attack so I’m not tired, and I’ll be strong throughout the entire game.”
But a change of position won’t be the only adjustment Halpern will have to embrace this upcoming season. The jump from sophomore to junior is a big one—and she is ready to take on the increased leadership role that comes along with it.
“I feel like now that I am a junior, I’m starting to take on a more vocal role, and it’s important to be able to motivate my teammates and push them to be the best that they can be,” Halpern said. “I lead by example in the fact that I have a really strong work ethic, and every day I come to practice, and I work so hard. And I think working hard resonates through the team. It trickles down, and if you see someone working hard, it makes you want to work even harder.”
Halpern knows that this work ethic and experience will be invaluable to the team, especially given the nine-deep freshman class, who will look to her along with the two captains for leadership.
But Halpern will also look to them to help take on some of the scoring load.
“I may not be scoring as much this year, because we have so many versatile players,” she explained. “We are all going to be scoring.”
While Halpern has had a lot of practice leading a younger generation on the field, she has also had a lot of practice leading off the field as well.
In addition to playing on the lacrosse team, Halpern has been involved with MetroLacrosse during her time in Cambridge. The program aims to mentor and tutor younger lacrosse players in the greater Boston area in hopes of getting them a better chance at getting into a good prep school and then eventually into a good college.
“[The kids] love coming and meeting all of us—we are their role models, and I love giving back,” Halpern said.
Unfortunately for Halpern’s opponents, she won’t be as kind to the other Ivy League
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s the spring of 1995, and all across the East Coast young lacrosse players are cradling sticks they can barely lift, scrambling for ground balls, and chewing through orange mouth guards. Far off the lacrosse radar, in Long Grove, Illinois, is a boy who will grow up to be a bigger college lacrosse star than nearly all of them.
His name is Jason Duboe, and right now he’s wearing a baseball mitt. The youngster, undersized but speedy, is playing shortstop when someone hits a deep ball.
“He would run across the field to get it and then run to first base and make the play,” recalled  Duboe’s father Fred, a longtime baseball man.
Fast-forward 15 years, and Duboe is a decorated midfielder for the Harvard men’s lacrosse team. A two-time NEILA All-New England first-team and All-Ivy selection, the senior has garnered honors this year before he’s even played a game, having been named a preseason All-American by Inside Lacrosse and one of 20 nominees for the Lowe’s Senior Class Award.
Any lacrosse player who had seen him play sports as a kid would’ve recognized his speed and tireless effort as belonging on the lacrosse field. Duboe was always a lacrosse player. All he needed was a stick.
“He’s always motivated by having something to prove,” Fred explained. “Even when he didn’t, he thought that he did. That finally paid off in lacrosse.”
In lacrosse, Duboe had a lot to prove. He had to prove to his football coach that he wasn’t slacking.
“The football coaches always wanted the guys to do track in the spring,” he explained. “They really resented people going from football to play lacrosse in the spring because they thought it was a ‘burnout sport.’”
And he had to prove to college coaches from the East that he could play- no small task given that he was from Illinois, far away from hotbeds such as Maryland, Long Island, and upstate New York.
When the midfielder first picked up the game, it was as a weekend activity, roughly akin to throwing around a football.
“We messed around with sticks all the time on the weekend,” he recalled. “It was more of a hobby than it was a sport or passion.”
But the game quickly grew on Duboe.
“It kind of combined a lot of what I found to be fun and interesting about other sports—the contact of football, the hand-eye coordination of baseball.”
Before long, it was impossible to separate Duboe and his lacrosse stick.
“A neighbor last night told me that she always thought my son got locked out of the house,” noted Jason’s mother, Sue-Ellen. “Because she saw him throwing the lacrosse ball against the wall for nights on end.”
But wall ball in the dark wasn’t going to attract college coaches. Neither was his high school’s improvement, which climaxed in a trip to the state final four his junior year.
So Duboe headed east, hitting up all the camps and recruiting tournaments with Team Illinois, where he caught the eye of Division I coaches, including Harvard’s Scott Anderson.
“They recognized that he had raw skills but he was athletic enough and motivated enough,” Fred recalled. “I think that’s one of his strongest suits—his willingness to put in extra hours.”
Duboe turned heads quickly upon his arrival in Cambridge.
“I noticed what a phenomenal athlete he was,” said Ben Smith, Duboe’s roommate for three years and a senior defenseman for the Crimson. “I was a little surprised because he’s from Illinois. It’s not a lacrosse hotbed. He was in great shape. His work ethic was pretty phenomenal.”
After leading his class in scoring his freshman year, Duboe became the team’s leading scorer in his sophomore campaign, earning his first round of all-Ivy and all-New England honors.
“It’s easy to get open and score goals when the guys around you are so much better and play so selflessly,” Duboe said.
He switched roles the following year, when he was second on the team in assists while spending some of his time at defensive midfield.
And while he didn’t register as many points as in his sophomore year, his on-the-field play started to resemble his off-the-field leadership.
“He’s one of the first guys to let me know if I did well,” Smith said. “In tough times, he’s there for me…He’s honest too. When my study habits aren’t good or I need to pick up my game, he’ll let me know…he carries that character on and off the field.”
And when he comes home in the summer, he helps out high school players looking to play in college by teaching them to play and helping them navigate the recruiting process. One of his protégés, Jarrid Puzes, is a freshman defenseman for the University of Virginia. Grateful for the help he was given by 2008 Division I Midfielder of the Year Steve Brooks, Duboe has worked to pass his wisdom on to younger players. And lacrosse in Illinois has expanded, partly because of the efforts and example set by players such as Brooks and Duboe, going from 8 or 10 Division I-bound athletes when the Crimson’s midfielder graduated from Adlai Stevenson to 18 or 20 this past year.
But teaching lacrosse is far from Duboe’s only contribution—community involvement was part of the reason behind his nomination for the Lowe’s Award, in addition to his success on the field.
Children seem to be especially important for the midfielder, who tutors inner city youth and is active in Big Brothers/Big Sisters and the G.I.V.E program, in which he tutors in special education. Duboe has also worked for Elite College Admissions in addition to community service work for Habitat for Humanity, the Walk for Humanity, and local homeless shelters.
“He always had a good heart for kids,” Fred recalled. “When we went to White Sox games, he would always give money to kids outside Comiskey Park.”
While lacrosse may be what he’s best known for, the senior has been involved in community service much longer, as he and his family coordinated the Sweetheart Dance at the Center for Enriched Living starting when Duboe was seven. And because the firm he’s joining, Summit Partners, is also involved with community service, it looks as though community involvement will stay with the senior long after college.
But it may be the end of the road for his lacrosse career.
“[There’s a] really, really elite class of guys coming out of my year including our [Harvard] class,” he said. “There’s not a lot of guys playing in the MLL. It’s really difficult to break in. If I can, I will.”
Finding post-collegiate lacrosse opportunities will be a challenge. But it’s nothing more daunting than what he faced in high school as a lacrosse player from Illinois looking to catch up with the East coast guys.
Now they’re chasing him.
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For two Harvard alumnae, their Olympic dreams came true last night.
And for three more, the 2010 Games end with a disappointing silver.
Jennifer Botterill ’02-’03 and Sarah Vaillancourt ’08-’09 took home Olympic gold in front of a home crowd at Canada Hockey Place in Vancouver last night, as the Canadian women’s hockey team defeated the United States, 2-0.
Canada jumped out to a 1-0 lead 14 minutes into the game, when Botterill gave a nice feed to teammate Marie-Philip Poulin-Nadeau—just after the Americans were held scoreless on a 5-on-3 power play.
Three minutes later, Poulin-Nadeau lit the lamp again, and though American goaltender Jessie Vetter would settle down to play spectacular hockey in the second two periods, Canadian netminder Shannon Szabados was unbeatable.
Szabados made 28 saves to earn the clean sheet and help the Canadians to their third-straight gold medal.
For Americans Angela Ruggiero ’02-’04, Julie Chu ’06-’07, and Caitlin Cahow ’07-’08, the silver medal will have to do.
Ruggiero, who played in her record-251st game for Team USA, will likely retire after these Games. She was elected to the International Olympic Committee on Wednesday.
It is the fourth medal for Ruggiero and Botterill, the third for Chu, and the second for Cahow and Vaillancourt.
All five alumnae had multi-point tournaments, with Vaillancourt leading Harvard scorers with eight points on three goals and five assists.
—KATE LEIST
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During lay-up lines last Friday night, as posters of Jeremy Lin made their way through the bleachers, Harvard players and coaches stopped for a moment and looked at the crowd—blacked-out and boisterous. They whispered to one another, pointed at people and posters (one impromptu sign read, “Hey Cornell, Andy Katz came to see us, not you!”). Smiles crept across their faces.
I felt chills.
The crowd was a monument to the Crimson’s season, a symbol of the progress the program has made over the past three years, the culmination of a determined effort to make basketball matter on campus. Although Harvard’s players and coaches have been adamant about staying focused on the present, those smiles betrayed a feeling of satisfaction, of having, in some sense, fulfilled a part of their vision.
Of course, Cornell defeated the Crimson at Lavietes Pavilion, 79-70, effectively ending Harvard’s shot at the Ivy League title. But by no means does that end the Crimson’s season. Many monuments—tangible, like the season wins record, and intangible, like those smiles during warm-ups—are within Harvard’s grasp.
Sitting at 96th in the RPI, the 18-6 Crimson is on the verge of breaking the program record of 19 wins and could crack 10 conference victories for the first time since 1996-97. More importantly, Harvard has an excellent chance at making a post-season tournament such as the College Basketball Invitational or the CollegeInsider.com Tournament, and a decent shot at the National Invitational Tournament if it manages to win out.
The fate of the rest of the Ivy League could be determined this Friday night when Princeton, which sits one and a half games back from the Big Red, travels to Ithaca. A Tiger victory would prolong the race and possibly lead to a one-game playoff between the two teams in the future. But, if Cornell wins (the more likely outcome), it will essentially clinch the conference title and approach the rest of the Ivy schedule with its NCAA tournament seed in mind, whereas the Tigers, like Harvard, will be fighting for a bid to another post-season tournament.
The rest of the Ivies are looking to play spoiler. A single upset can define a season and provide a springboard into the next year. Brown, Columbia, Penn, and Yale are fighting for fourth place in the conference, but the seniors on those teams are more concerned with getting one last memorable win.
So this weekend—on which Senior Night falls for half the teams in the conference—marks the beginning of the final chapter for the season. Regardless of whether or not a team is playing for hardware, each still has a shot at a storybook ending.
BROWN (10-17, 4-6 Ivy) at HARVARD (18-6, 7-3 Ivy)
The Bears had perhaps the best weekend of any team in the league last Friday and Saturday with a sweep over the Killer P’s on the road. Their win over Princeton was a shocker and placed Cornell in the driver’s seat for the Ivy title. The reason for Brown’s resurgence comes in the frontcourt, where Matt Mullery and Peter Sullivan have dominated the paint.
When the Crimson traveled to Providence two weeks ago, the Bears led by as many as six points in the second half, but Harvard left with an 81-67 victory. Kyle Casey tied a career high with 27 points and Doug Miller scored a season-best 12 points, as the duo topped the Brown combo of Mullery and Sullivan, who had 7 and 21 points, respectively.
I sound like a broken record at this point, but the Crimson hopes to see minutes from injured forwards Keith Wright, Pat Magnarelli, and Andrew Van Nest. If any of those players can be effective, Harvard can neutralize the Bears frontcourt once again and earn the season sweep.
Pick: Harvard 75, Brown 66
PRINCETON (16-7, 7-2 Ivy) at CORNELL (23-4, 9-1 Ivy)
The Ivy title rides on this game. If the Tigers win, they’re only a half-game back, whereas if the Big Red prevails, Cornell’s magic number will be one with three games to play.
The last matchup between these two teams came down to the final shot—a missed three by Douglas Davis—but at that point Princeton was playing its best basketball. This time, the Tigers are coming off their worst loss of the season, and the Big Red can smell its third straight conference championship. Ryan Wittman, Louis Dale, and Jeff Foote are too good to lose their penultimate home game. I see Cornell coming out on fire and winning.
Pick: Cornell 60, Princeton 51
YALE (10-17, 4-6 Ivy) at DARTMOUTH (5-19, 1-9 Ivy)
The burden of a winless conference record is finally off the Big Green’s back. The Lions had to miss 40 shots, including 21 three-pointers, for it to happen, but Dartmouth picked up an ugly 48-44 win at home.
I expect a return to the mean this week. Yale lost two uncompetitive games to Princeton and Penn, but it still has more talent than the Big Green. Much like in the first meeting—a 69-56 win—the Bulldogs should win handily.
Pick: Yale 68, Dartmouth 54
PENN (5-18, 4-5 Ivy) at COLUMBIA (9-15, 3-7 Ivy)
Columbia’s season is on life support. An embarrassing loss to Dartmouth and a listless effort in Cambridge have left the Lions in seventh place in the conference.
The Quakers, on the other hand, pulled off a minor upset at Yale Saturday, and continue to rise. Zack Rosen is a legitimate All-Ivy point guard, and, if he were on Cornell, Princeton, or Harvard, would be a candidate for Player of the Year. Columbia beat Penn 66-62 earlier in the season, but I see the roles being reversed this time around.
Pick: Penn 69, Columbia 64
BROWN at DARTMOUTH
The Saturday schedule is perhaps the worst line-up of games all season. Each matchup has blowout potential, and this one is no exception. Brown is hitting its stride, and Dartmouth is still lousy. The good news is that the Big Green’s season is mercifully nearing its end.
Pick: Brown 74, Dartmouth 61
PRINCETON at COLUMBIA
Win or lose on Friday, the Tigers will have an awful lot to play for against the Lions. After the way Columbia rolled over against the Crimson, I have a tough time envisioning it defeating a team as talented and disciplined as Princeton. For that reason, I give the edge to the Tigers.
Pick: Princeton 55, Columbia 45
PENN at CORNELL
The Big Red has a chance to avenge the one blemish on its resume—a resounding loss to the Quakers on Feb. 2. With the game being the last home contest for Cornell’s highly decorated senior class, I expect Newman Arena will be rowdy. Those seniors will look to impress the faithful by redeeming that earlier loss by as wide a margin as it possibly can.
Pick: Cornell 86, Penn 66
YALE at HARVARD
In the hardwood version of The Game, Harvard students see Dan McGeary, Miller, Magnarelli, and, of course, Lin for the final time. What these players have meant to Crimson basketball is obvious, and I expect the crowd will honor them by heckling the Elis and referees in the most creative and obnoxious ways allowed under sportsmanship standards.
The last meeting between these two teams was a dogfight and could have gone either way. I think the emotional lift of Senior Night will give Harvard an edge this time around. I’m picking the Crimson by nine.
Pick: Harvard 76, Yale 65
RECORD LAST WEEK: 4-4 (To date: 23-9)
—Staff writer Timothy J. Walsh can be reached at twalsh@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For students who wish to cut corners with their studies, the Undergraduate Council’s recent vote to allocate funds for the creation of an online study guide library seems almost too good to be true. Student-generated study guides—succinct little packages of reading summaries, source analyses, or useful formulas—often allow students to quickly scan through the basics of a semester-long course without ever having to attend a lecture or crack open a book.
While a great number of Harvard undergrads only use study guides as a study supplement rather than as a substitute for attending class and completing assigned readings, the overwhelming clamor for the creation of a study guide library—a method for all students to have easy access to study guides—is an unfortunate reflection of many students’ desire to avoid going to class and doing their homework.
Yet, as the existence and circulation of study guides is simply a fact of college life and in light of the demand for such a collection, the UC was correct in going forward with the creation of a study guide library. After all, the construction of an online study guide library was a central plank in the campaign platform of current UC President and Vice President Johnny F. Bowman ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11. It is all too easy for student representatives to let proposed initiatives slide once in office, and Bowman and Hysen’s leadership in this push for a library reflects their commitment to campaign promises.
Regardless of whether study guides are good or bad, the creation of a study guide library open to all students of the College will at least allow for equal access to these guides. Many social organizations and sports teams already circulate study guides over internal lists, giving members an advantage over those without such connections. Moreover, some TFs provide additional study materials to their students, such as lecture outlines and explanations of readings, which give some students within a class an edge over their peers in other sections. An open study guide library presumably would level the playing field and counter some of these inequities.
That being said, students should be aware that the official nature of the proposed study guide library provides no assurance that the study guides posted on it should be taken at their word. These guides are created by students and are subject to individual student interpretation (or misinterpretation) of course content. Since there is no oversight from course instructors or TFs, some material on study guides might be just plain wrong. Any student who decides to use a study guide as a replacement for attending class or doing readings does so at his or her own risk.
Those in charge of designing and overseeing the online study guide library must be careful as well. The public and official status of the project introduces a plethora of potentially sticky issues related to intellectual property. Students who create study guides often lose control over what happens to their work once it is shared with others and may not want it posted online. Some study guides that get circulated around campus were created several years ago, and their authors might have concerns about their ideas becoming public. Moreover, because study guides are not official academic documents, they may be cobbled together in a variety of questionable ways. Some might contain whole passages copied verbatim from professor’s copyrighted lectures. Others may lift information directly from Internet sources without properly acknowledging the true author. The individuals responsible for the study guide library must be able to navigate these murky waters if the library is to succeed.
Given the complex ethical and legal issues at play, the UC made the responsible decision to pass legislation that explicitly states that the implementation of the library is contingent on the approval of College deans and another vote by the UC—it would not have been wise to go forward with a project like this without the administration’s support. By putting themselves at the mercy of the deans’ approval, the UC is doing a good job of preempting the type of student government-University Hall clashing that has caused problems for the UC in the past and stymied some of its previous plans.
In the end, we hope that the administration does come through and approve the Bowman-Hysen plan for a study guide library. They have clearly put a lot of thought into the project, and the student body, in voting the ticket into office, has at least implicitly expressed its approval for the initiative. Though the pervasive use of study guides is troubling in its implications, if a study guide library is what students want, then the College should at least be open to their wishes.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A season is at stake this weekend as the Harvard women’s hockey team heads into the opening round of ECAC playoffs as the third seed. The No. 4 Crimson (18-6-5, 12-6-2 ECAC) will host sixth-seeded Princeton (13-12-4, 11-7-4) in a best-of-three quarterfinal series at Bright Hockey Center, playing its first match tonight at 7 p.m. on coveted home ice.
Harvard has finished up a strong regular season and is coming off a 2-1 win over St. Lawrence and a 3-3 tie with Clarkson last weekend to clinch its seed in the playoffs. The Crimson is respected as a force to be reckoned with, ranking second in the ECAC with 3.14 goals per game and lighting the lamp 69 times in 22 conference contests. The squad also ranks third in the country in scoring defense with 1.48 goals permitted per game and sixth in the nation on the penalty kill (104 of 116, .897.)
Knowing this, Harvard is going into its opening series against the Tigers with momentum.
“Our kids expect to win every game and know they can compete with anyone on the other side of the ice,” Crimson coach Katey Stone said. “It’s been a great thing to see our kids transform themselves into a real confident machine.”
But every great season has its end, and Harvard must get past Princeton to continue in the ECAC playoffs and hopefully on to the NCAA Tournament. But the Tigers aren’t going to make it easy for them.
Although Princeton is the No. 6 seed, it was able to claim three of four points from the Crimson in conference play. In its first contest, Harvard lost, 2-1, in overtime to the Tigers, and in their second match, the teams tied, 3-3.
“Princeton is a feisty team,” junior forward Kate Buesser said. “They work really hard, and they’ve got a bunch of very skilled forwards and a strong defense.”
But the Crimson is ready for them.
“We are looking forward to the challenge of using our own speed and our own skills to beat them this weekend,” Buesser said. “We are hoping to use some of the skills we’ve been working on to surprise them and to take advantage of them right out of the gates.”
“I think we know that we haven’t played 60 minutes of really good hockey against them yet,” Stone added.
To do this, the team will have to stop Tigers sophomore forward Paula Romanchuk and junior defender Sasha Sherry, two Princeton players who recently earned third-team All-ECAC honors and are significant presences on the ice.
But this isn’t fazing the members of the Harvard squad.
“We pay attention to who is coming in, and we give them respect in knowing who they are,” Buesser said. “But on the same token, this weekend is about us, and that’s what we are focusing on right now.”
With its speed and strong defense, the Crimson has reason for its confidence. Its freshman goaltender, Laura Bellamy, is going into this weekend with more experience than the last time she faced the Tigers. The teams’ second contest had been her first career start, as she stepped in between the pipes in senior Christina Kessler’s absence.
This crucial match is also important for Stone on a personal level. With Harvard’s win over St. Lawrence last Friday, Stone is currently tied for the all-time Division I record for victories with 337. Defeating Princeton would give her sole possession of the title.
“It’s certainly attributed to all of the support and great players that we’ve had in the program,” Stone said. “Nobody breaks records without the help of a lot of people...I guess records are made to be broken, and it would be nice to get them out of the way and to just keep moving on.”
As the Crimson fights to keep its season alive and to help its coach break a record, a lot is at stake at Bright Hockey Center this weekend. Only one team will move on.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The crowd was excited and rooting for its team’s first victory, but the Harvard men’s volleyball team could not come through for its fans.
Despite a strong showing in the first set, the Crimson (0-7) went down to No. 9 UC Santa Barbara (7-8), 3-0, last night at the Malkin Athletic Center.
The injury-riddled home squad could not take advantage of early leads and made too many errors to give the Gauchos the win.
“We competed well,” Harvard coach Brian Baise said. “But we gave up points in streaks and couldn’t get the momentum back. [His players] showed a lot of guts and grit out there.”
The Crimson started off with a 4-1 lead in the first game, but Santa Barbara quickly turned things around, dominating the middle of the opening game.
Despite the shift in momentum, Harvard managed to respond and cut the lead to one point, but the Gauchos went on a 3-0 run to give them the first game, 30-26.
The Crimson made a crucial error on set point, giving Santa Barbara the set on a rotation error.
“We lost focus out there sometimes,” co-captain Gil Weintraub said. “Being out of rotation was just an example of the team losing focus.”
Harvard came out strong in the second set, but the Gauchos dashed all hopes of a Crimson comeback.
On a crucial point for Harvard, a spike by sophomore Matt Jones was originally called in—which would have ended a 2-0 run by Santa Barbara—but the head referee overruled the decision, giving the Gauchos a 12-9 lead.
The Crimson had a chance to get back into the match after Baise called a timeout, and with renewed focus, Harvard cut Santa Barbara’s lead late in the set.
After Todd Travis of the Gauchos went flying face-first into the stands to keep the ball alive, Jones ended the rally with a kill, bringing his team within striking distance.
But the Crimson fell apart soon after, handing the set to Santa Barbara on a service error by co-captain Erik Kuld, 30-22.
“We got in trouble in the second game because we were passing really badly,” Jones said. “There were a lot of positives, but we just needed to play more consistently throughout the whole game.”
Harvard tried to extend the match by taking the third set, but the eventual outcome remained the same.
The Crimson stayed close with the Gauchos for the opening points, but the visitors went on a 9-3 run midway through the set to take a 20-13 lead.
Baise called a timeout to refocus his team, and at first, his strategy seemed to work.
Sophomore Nikola Ivica got an ace on the first play coming out of the break, but Santa Barbara’s Dylan Davis responded with a kill on the next point to shift the momentum.
The Gauchos took full advantage of the swing, going on a run to reach match point.
The match ended anticlimactically when Kulb made a service error to lose the game, 30-21, dashing Harvard’s hopes of winning its first match this season.
“[Santa Barbara] was the hardest opponent we’ve faced all season,” Weintraub said. “We have players coming in and out of injury, so it’s difficult to keep the consistency to beat these teams.”
Despite a tough loss, the Crimson seeks to pull out its first victory of the season on Saturday afternoon at home against Rutgers-Newark.
Even though Harvard has yet to win a match, chances look good this weekend, especially following last night’s strong offensive output.
“It was one of the best offensive matches we’ve played all season,” Baise said. “We have a long way to go, but there are lots of positive things and we’re making progress.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The European Union was initially hailed throughout the world as “the European miracle,” a triumph for supranational organizations and international unity. Banded together in a monetary and trade-based union, the EU experienced rapidly rising living conditions and surprisingly harmonious relations. The last few months have shown, however, that the EU’s economic foundations were fundamentally flawed. Monetary and fiscal policy are deeply related, so a monetary union in which each subunit pursues its own fiscal policy is destined to fail. The best and most practical solution for the European Union is to pursue deeper political and fiscal integration, because the status quo is untenable.
In the EU, monetary policy is controlled by the European Central Bank, and most of the member countries have joined the “Eurozone,” the term for the monetary area in which the Euro is used. Thus, one central bank controls the supply of money for the EU, and individual countries do not have control over inflation targeting, interest rates, and other monetary issues. Yet at the same time, each country is in control of how much its central government spends and the solvency of its financial system, so Germany independently controls its expenditures and tax receipts, and Greece does the same.
Basic macroeconomics teaches that fiscal and monetary policy are related; therefore, governments and central banks must sometimes be able to take wide-ranging action on both during crises. As George Soros wrote in the Financial Times on Monday, “When the financial system is in danger of collapsing, the central bank can provide liquidity, but only a Treasury can deal with problems of solvency.” Europe is now experiencing an unfortunate situation where member countries can create unsustainable deficits or be home to failing financial systems and for this reason place the entire economic system and currency at risk. Greece’s current fiscal situation, in which the government is struggling immensely to pay the bills and teetering on the edge of financial collapse, is a prime example of this, as a Greek default could create a dangerous run on the Euro, which would negatively affect all of Europe because of the united monetary policy. And Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and Italy unfortunately are not far behind when it comes to rapidly approaching fiscal crises.
Now, richer member states are understandably hesitant to bail out their flailing colleagues, hesitant at the idea of saving governments that clearly acted as irresponsible economic stewards. Yet they really do not have a choice in the short-term, as any European national failure would absolutely devastate the continent as a whole. In addition, blame does not lie entirely on some admittedly inept governments. While it would be hard to find a country that was managed with as little economic integrity as Greece, all of Europe’s countries had access to easy credit and were members of a very lightly regulated financial system for the last decade. No Eurozone country was complaining about the structure of the economic system when Europe was thriving in the earlier part of the decade, and therefore, everyone now bears the responsibility to save the system and change it going forward.
The major step the EU must take is to develop more political and fiscal integration. The optimal economic solution would be a fully integrated fiscal system in which a central European government made decisions in a structure similar to the U.S. Thus, monetary and fiscal policy would be coordinated on the same scope, and Europeans would not have to worry about a single member state bringing down the entire economy, just as no one worries about California’s fiscal problems hurting the stability of the dollar. European countries, accustomed to full sovereignty, are used to full independence, and therefore an intermediate step to fiscal and political integration might be the creation of a European Monetary Fund that follows a set of fixed processes for assistance to struggling states. In the long term, however, the only feasible solution that will prevent such situations from occurring again is a stronger political union that will coordinate economic policies on a larger scale.
Ravi N. Mulani ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Too soon!”
One of my hobbies used to be telling people that I found certain jokes offensive based upon my peculiar life experiences. I had to stop because people started taking me seriously. Whenever I entered a room, they would freeze and pull out long, neatly typed lists of verboten topics.  “We can’t talk about ice-climbing, those little tabs they put on bags of bread, ice dancing, manatees, transsexuals, carburetors, or people whose cousins are exceptional chess players.” “Or whaling,” I would add with a heavy sigh, sinking down next to them.
But other than the things you can’t talk about, what is there to talk about? Everything is so fragmented these days. Our base of shared reference is constantly eroding and it seems like there’s a new internet meme to follow every morning, so that the only thing people can reliably talk about in common are the massive shocks, sometimes seismic, that catch everyone’s attention.
This is not to say that people have not always made jokes about shared disasters too soon after the fact. There’s a very tasteless reference in Aristophanes’ Clouds to some skinny, pale philosophy students who look “like the prisoners from Pylos.” And this was 423 BC! But the tendency to allude to communal tragedies as a source of kinship with an audience that increasingly hasn’t read the same books, seen the same movies, or learned the same historical facts—except for the big shocking ones—has only become more pronounced in recent years.
Sept. 11 stemmed this tide for a time, at least until Gilbert Gottfried tried to breach it at the Friars’ Club. Now even it has crept into the comedy vernacular, entering the routines of mainstream artists like Sarah Silverman. The Holocaust, long a staple of the joke equivalent of “Do Not Call” lists, has generated an ever-increasing volume of jests thanks to its continuing power to shock. And the “too-soon” breed of joke has proliferated over the past few years. From Steve Irwin to Brittany Murphy, jokesters circle celebrities like vultures, waiting to swoop in with ill-timed jests. Michael Jackson, already an object of mirth, scarcely had the usual brief grace period before jokes about him began pouring in.
But it’s hard to blame people.
Over the past fifty years, there has been a seismic shift in the material society declares offensive. Fifty years ago, people made jokes about Poles, segregation existed, and Playboy was a radical new concept. Now, people get into and out of cars without underwear, sensitivity prevails, and certain isolated individuals still make jokes about Poles. H. L. Mencken called Puritanism “the haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy.” Now Puritanism is gone, its place is occupied by political correctness: the creeping fear that someone, somewhere may be offended. This discomfort around certain words, thoughts, and events is rich terrain for comedy.
But it only goes so far. There is a strong sense of “clearance” associated with certain types of humor. If you’re the only member of a particular demographic in a group of sensitive humorists, you exert almost imperial control over whether or not a joke dies, simply by modulating your facial expression. (“Norwegians are so Scandinavian, they lack the ability to find jokes funny!” my hypothetical friends crow. “That’s not funny,” I reply.)
The recent Pfoho housing video, copying a popular internet meme that depicts Hitler reacting to things with shock and subtitles, has triggered one of the discussions that this sort of humor usually ignites. Hitler has long been a safe target for jokes—even during World War II, he was mocked with broad general remarks that I assume people with small mustaches find insulting. Now he’s a cultural staple, from The Producers to Inglourious Basterds, and the vast well-meaning meme machine can make him respond indignantly to the iPad or the news that he’s been assigned to Adams House.
But some people find this offensive. The Pfoho list erupted in emails worrying that people would be offended by the video. Is Hitler too soon? Who decides? How far can a joke about Hitler go before it becomes a joke that hurts too many people to be funny? (Speaking as Hitler, I’m kind of offended that my image is being used to promote a house where there is diversity and very little spoken German, but maybe I don’t have clearance to speak as Hitler anyway.)
The problem is connection. If we had more in common, we wouldn’t need “too soon.” If everybody in the country were forced to read Moby Dick, our range of available jokes would skyrocket. “A squeeze of the hand is as good as a Fleshlight to a blind man,” we’d say, elbowing each other in the ribs suggestively and guffawing.
Instead, we do what we must. “Too soon!” people intone, after someone tosses a J. D. Salinger joke into a crowded room. But is it? We’re just trying to connect. Besides, it’s that or these Pole jokes I’ve been preparing.
Alexandra A. Petri ’10 is an English concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past two months, much ado has been made over a New York Times/CBS poll claiming Americans are doing more and buying less. The poll echoes conventional wisdom: The recession is rapidly resetting American values. In the past two years we’ve become thriftier, more social, and less materialistic. We are, to quote one particularly overeager writer at Time magazine, “seeing the rise of the citizen consumer—and the beginnings of a responsibility revolution.”
This is a feel-good story, a silver lining in our economic cloud. I’d love to believe it.  But in all likelihood, the heart-warming fable is just that and nothing more. Thrift is the new black; frugality is merely en vogue.
Old habits die slowly, and American consumerism is more than just a habit. Although we’re certainly purchasing fewer luxury items, this is mostly likely not due to a sudden moral transformation. Consumerism is deeply etched in our national identity. Despite the severity of the recession, it will take much more pressure before Americans abandon the kid-in-the-candy store culture that has defined public life over the past three decades.
Last fall, James Surowiecki, a financial columnist at the New Yorker, argued that although personal spending is down and national savings are up, this is almost entirely attributable to the fact that most Americans simply have less money to spend. Much of the decrease in spending fits into two predictable categories: gas and cars. A similar phenomenon, Surowiecki notes, occurred in 1991-1992—right after “Fortune” prematurely hailed the “death of conspicuous consumption.” Since Surowiecki penned his column, non-automobile retail sales shot back up in January.
Americans are surely spending less than we did two years ago. But there’s no evidence this trend will last longer than the recession itself. Although the NYT/CBS poll produced some insightful findings, it’s likely it suffered from a common flaw: response bias. Americans in lower income brackets may very well be truthfully reporting spending habits—they have little to spend. Wealthier Americans, however, may only be making their consumption less conspicuous. According to a recent study by the Hartman Group, “The Theatrics of Thrift,” upper-class Americans’ commitment to frugality is likely symbolic at best. In most circles, it’s not socially acceptable to claim you’re not cutting back during a recession. While the rich might not be buying BMWs, their “life experiences” still cost money. Taking the family to Bermuda still isn’t cheap.
Although the pollsters at NYT/CBS claim their findings span all income brackets, this hardly seems plausible. While the wealthy make the required gestures, middle and lower-income Americans have little disposable income because they’re struggling with day-to-day expenses. Wages have not increased for the average American in years, and the costs of healthcare, energy, rent, home ownership, and food are rising. The average household budget hasn’t suffered primarily from the purchase of a new SUV or big screen TV. Although consumers of all income levels have certainly conflated necessities with luxuries, lower and middle-income households have been spending less chiefly because they can’t control the spiraling costs of American life.
Our history has shown that Americans have a strange relationship with frugality and consumerism. On the one hand, American culture has inherited a Puritan sense of thrift. On the other, we show our efficacy by purchasing goods to furnish our private domains. On one hand, wasteful spending is a vice, a worldly self-indulgence our grandparents warned us about. On the other, ownership of things is the well-deserved fruit of labor. Consumer society appeals to both high and low American values.
It’s often asserted that our current generation is more hedonistic than those of the past. In some respects this is most likely true, but it’s only half the story. Americans don’t partake in consumer society merely because if delivers material goods, but also because it satisfies our social aspirations.  The things we buy are meant to give us a sense of autonomy, dignity, and respect. Consumerism tends to alienate us from each other. Yet we often seek, and occasionally achieve, meaning from it. It both threatens and sustains our national identity.
This tension isn’t likely to disappear as quickly as some would like. The talking heads underestimate the extent to which the invisible hand has a tight grip not only on our wallets, but on our moral sentiments.  Still, it will be interesting to see if Americans return to their shopping spree habits in the coming years. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of our GDP and most economists say that in the long run our recovery depends on just such a return. A true end to consumerism will depend on a restructuring of our economy, and ultimately, a social movement.
Raúl A. Carillo ’10 is a social studies concentrator in Lowell House. His column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School Professor Lawrence Lessig delivered an interactive lecture on the legal implications of free culture in the digital era yesterday, accompanied by a soundtrack of Soulja Boy, Beatles, and Girl Talk.
Lessig currently serves as the director of the Edmond J. Safra Foundation Center for Ethics at Harvard. He is also founder of the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School and a founding board member of Creative Commons, a non-profit group that focuses on expanding the sharing of creative content.
In his speech, Lessig discussed current United States copyright laws and the principle of fair use of intellectual material, calling for reduced legal restrictions on copyright, particularly with regards to content available on the Internet.
“The question is, how do we ensure a platform for creativity that can include the widest range of our culture?” he asked. “What does it mean to have proper copyright policies?”
Lessig also stressed the importance of the Internet in the development of a “remix culture”—in which people constantly build upon and combine existing creative content—pointing to YouTube videos as examples.
“Today, rather than gathering around the back lawn and on corners…people gather in this digital environment, on this platform and, using free internet platform, share bits of culture they make,” Lessig said. “[Remix culture’s] importance has nothing to do with the technique. What’s important here is that this technique has been democratized.”
According to Lessig, creative content should be allowed to be “mashed and remixed without a complicated set of controls built on top.”
“The issue is with the copyright law, which can only be solved by Congress,” he added.
“I think one point [Lessig] was touching on was…moving the issues to the federal level,” said James Losey, a member of the group Open Technology Initiative, which studies the social and economic impact of open technologies. “The qualm is beyond just the content providers.”
Yesterday’s Wireside Chat, which was co-organized by Harvard’s Berkman Center for Internet and Society and the Open Video Alliance organization, was broadcast live over the Internet and included questions for Lessig submitted through Twitter.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Administrators and student representatives debated the practical and ethical implications of the Undergraduate Council’s proposed online study guide tool at the Committee on Undergraduate Education meeting yesterday afternoon.
The issue was raised in the context of a discussion about whether the College should consider implementing an academic honor code.
While some committee members thought implementing an honor code policy was an undeniably positive step, one student said an honor code might be more symbolic than effective.
The committee discussed an article about breaches of academic integrity at schools with and without honor codes, which showed that the symbolic agreements tended to have concrete effects.
Discussion moved to the UC’s proposed study guide tool, which UC President John F. Bowman ’11 pitched to the committee as a way to mitigate a perceived inequality.
“A significant percentage of Harvard students use study guides that they themselves did not author and so the question that myself and the UC is trying to solve is how to diminish the gap between those who have access to the study guides and those who don’t,” Bowman said after the meeting.
He also said that study guides are useful to students who engage in a lot of extracurricular activities and have time-pressed schedules.
This prompted a discussion of how classes are largely scheduled between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., which enables students to maximize extracurricular commitments.
Many committee members voiced concern that access to study guides could discourage investment in course reading or detract from a student’s growth in a course.
For example, some committee members said that while the tool could promote collaborative learning in the sciences, it could become a shortcut for learning in the humanities if students split up reading assignments and read one another’s notes.
Bowman said he was receptive to any faculty input, including the idea of streamlining the focus of the project to be more of an interactive wiki where students and faculty worked together to craft a learning tool.
“I feel like there are very useful guides out there that don’t necessarily compromise academic integrity that will if anything give students a better perspective on the course as a whole,” Bowman said after the meeting.
The committee also discussed “Crimson Commons,” a UC project that Chair of the UC Education Committee Joseph Kim ’12 said he hopes will become a student-run advising forum.
Committee members debated whether such a forum could start to compete with other advising systems that dispense similar information, an issue which Kim said he intended to address in future discourse related to the project.
—Staff writer Julie R. Barzilay can be reached at jbarzilay13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
George Papadopoulos—a former United Research Incorporated (URS) project manager for Harvard construction projects in Allston—was arraigned Tuesday morning for embezzling millions of dollars from Harvard and the Massachusetts Port Authority to spend on hotel rooms, home improvements, and Armani suits.
Papadopoulos has been accused of sending both Harvard and the Massachusetts Port Authority inflated bills for the amount he had stolen to cover up his theft, in addition to submitting more than 250 falsified expense reports between 2004 and 2008.
Additionally, prosecutors allege that Papadopoulos attempted to steal $3 million while vice president of URS, and $15,000 from STV, the New York engineering firm that hired him after his termination at URS.
Papadopoulos faces a total of four counts of larceny: three counts for his thefts from URS, Harvard, and the Massachusetts Port Authority, and one count for his theft from STV.
According to court documents, Papadopoulos spent more than $1 million in personal credit card expenses, in addition to $515,000 on home improvements and $110,000 on Armani clothing.
URS is the construction management firm that is currently overseeing the building of the $1 billion Allston Science Complex. The University is planning to halt construction of the complex this spring, when the foundation of the structure has been completed, but well before it is ready for occupants.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to a recent study by Harvard’s Center for Policy Education Research (CEPR), two indicators of teacher effectiveness include whether instructors were hired before or after the beginning of the school year and where they received their undergraduate education—factors typically not rewarded with increased pay.
Earlier this week researchers affiliated with the Graduate School of Education presented their findings on the variables that influence teacher effectiveness to North Carolina’s Charlotte-Mecklenburg school board.
The researchers had collected data from the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school district for the study.
The research was carried out as part of CEPR’s Strategic Data Project, which aims to use data analysis to inform policy that affects student achievement.
“It is our vision that district and state leaders will decide that deep and rigorous analysis is essential for decision-making and policy-making,” said Sarah Glover, executive director of the Strategic Data Project (SDP).
In the study, which was SDP’s first to be completed and released, indicators of teacher performance were based on students’ math and reading scores.
Though teachers with advanced degrees tend to have higher salaries, these advanced qualifications were found to have little bearing on teacher effectiveness.
According to the study, “teachers improve rapidly in early years,” but this trend flattens out after the fourth year.
Students who have worked in the public school system said they found this finding unsurprising.
“From my own experience, the first two years determine how long you stay in the classroom and also how effective you are,” said Allison L. Sikora ’11, a participant in the Undergraduate Teacher Education Program, which assists students in earning educator licensures to teach middle or high school in Massachusetts upon graduating.
According to Jon Fullerton—one of the lead researchers of the study and executive director of CEPR—such research is intended “to identify areas of strength and concern for districts to allow them to think more strategically about how they can get the most effective teachers in front of the students who need them.”
—Staff writer Amira Abulafi can be reached at abulafi@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When it comes to popular topics at Memorial Church, sex is not high up on the list.
But according to Divinity School Professor Stephanie A. Paulsell−who spoke about the relationship between sex, Christianity, and friendship at Memorial Church last night−people of faith should not feel so uncomfortable talking about sex.
“I’ve been talking about sex in Memorial Church all year long,” said Paulsell, a professor of the practice of ministry studies.
According to Paulsell, by being more attentive to the “goodness of body,” people become more attentive to the “goodness of Creation.”
When it comes to the relationship between sex and God, Paulsell said that sex makes us regard the world with “reverence and love.”
Paulsell likened sex to a friendship, saying that sexual partners should be as determined to give pleasure as they are to receive it.
This lecture is part of this year’s Lenten Speaker Series, which is organized by the Harvard Chaplains. The series, entitled “What’s Sex Got to Do With It,” is aimed at providing an open environment for people to examine sex from a religious perspective, said Episcopal Chaplain Robert B. Tobin.
“We believe that for a lot of people of faith, the relationship between religious faith and sexual ethics is a really big question and is not talked openly nowadays,” said Tobin, one of the organizers of the event.
Makazi Ife Mtingwa, a student at the Extension School, said that she attended the lecture in hopes of receiving “a good structured education about sex” and learning how to make “the right decisions about sex.”
During the question and answer section, a member from the audience asked Paulsell about her thoughts on the popularity of casual sex on college campus and its violation of the sacredness of sex.
“Ask the college students,” replied Paulsell, followed by nervous laughter from the audience.
Another student recounted that students frequently do not think about the consequences of casual sexual activity.
The next lecture in the series, “Can’t Get No Satisfaction: Why Christians Can’t Agree About Sex,” will be given by Dale B. Martin, a professor of religious studies at Yale, on March 4 at Memorial Church.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A electron microscope image taken by Harvard scientists recently won first place in the photography category of the prestigious International Science and Engineering Visualization Challenge.
The competition, sponsored by the journal Science in conjunction with the National Science Foundation, presented the award to Sung Hoon Kang, Boaz Pokroy, and Joanna Aizenberg from the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
“It was a wonderful surprise,” said Kang, a graduate student in Aizenberg’s Biomineralization and Biomimetics Lab.
The award-winning photograph depicts tiny plastic fibers, each with the diameter of one-five hundredths of a strand of hair, latching onto an equally miniscule plastic sphere.
The scientists said their winning photograph—entitled “Save Our Earth. Let’s Go Green”—embodies the theme of environmental sustainability.
The image conveys an idea of many fingers lifting up a green earth above the environmental crisis, according to Aizenberg, who is a professor of materials science at SEAS as well as a Radcliffe Fellow.
“It’s a metaphor that many hands are needed to save the earth,” Aizenberg said.
The photograph also symbolizes the lab’s goal of learning from nature to create energy-efficient and environmentally friendly materials, she said.
The photograph was first published in last January’s issue of Science as part of a paper detailing the properties of a self-assembling polymer, whose tiny hair-like fibers can act as an adhesive.
The researchers said they were grateful for the opportunity to bring less acccessible scientific concepts into public attention.
“Somehow science has always been perceived as boring or even harmful,” Aizenberg said. “I honestly believe that [by] presenting it in aesthetic ways to the public, we can send a message that science at its core is focused on problems of societal importance.”
—Staff writer Helen X. Yang can be reached at hxyang@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Professor Jody Freeman will return to the Law School faculty next month after having served as counsel to the Office of Energy and Climate Change (OECC) in the White House since January 2009.
Freeman will also resume her position as Director of the Environmental Law Program at the Law School, which she founded four years ago.
While working in the White House, Freeman—who had planned to serve roughly a year in President Barack Obama’s administration—spearheaded a proposal to create national fuel efficiency standards and reduce emissions.
Barely a week after Obama’s inauguration, Freeman had already pushed his environmental agenda forward, according to Freeman’s colleague, Georgetown Law School Professor Richard Lazarus. Six days after he was sworn in, the president issued three formal measures on energy and climate change.
“That is classic Jody Freeman,” Lazarus said. “While the economy was cratering, while there’s a war in Iraq and in Afghanistan, Freeman was able to make the biggest push in higher emissions standards this country has ever seen.”
According to Lazarus, Freeman was the architect of the new motor vehicles emissions standards policy, which required her to build a consensus among the auto industry, environmentalists, the Department of Transportation, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
“The number of pieces that had to be put together [was] mind-boggling,” Lazarus said.
Carol Browner, the director of the OECC, wrote in an e-mailed statement to The Crimson that Freeman will continue to serve as “an important policy expert” on environmental law issues.
“[Freeman] made a significant contribution to the president’s effort to transition our nation to a clean energy economy,” Browner wrote.
When Lazarus heard Freeman would be leaving the White House, he said he immediately phoned her to ask if she would teach at Georgetown.
Lazarus said he believes other law schools made a similar phone call.
“Harvard is very lucky,” Lazarus said. “When she comes back she’ll be even better.”
Lazarus added that he would not be surprised if Freeman was asked to serve in a higher role in the president’s administration—perhaps as Administrator of the EPA or as Chairmen of the Counsel on Environmental Policy if Obama serves a second term.
As an academic, Freeman does not have to worry about past or future conflicts of interest in the private sector, Lazarus said, making her an attractive candidate for future service.
According to a Law School press release, Freeman—who could not be interviewed by The Crimson—has recently been appointed to an endowed chair in public law named after Archibald Cox Jr., the former Solicitor General and Watergate prosecutor.
—Staff writer Zoe A.Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Kennedy School student Bob Overbeek announced last week that he plans to pursue the Republican nomination for Michigan’s third congressional district election in November.
Overbeek, who will graduate in May, will seek office in his hometown of Wyoming, a suburb of Grand Rapids.
The seat will be vacated by Rep. Vernon Ehlers, who has served nine consecutive terms. The Republican primary is set to be held on Aug. 3, and the general election will take place on Nov. 2.
“I’m going to fight for the opportunity to serve the people of west Michigan,” Overbeek said. “I’m just a hard-working person.”
“It’s pretty clear that politicians and leaders today are quickly losing [the support of] those whom we’re serving, the people,” Overbeek said, adding that he will not be part of “the business-as-usual crowd in west Michigan.”
With these sentiments in mind, Overbeek said he will bring an unconventional attitude to a dysfunctional political scene. “I think ‘big money’ in politics is counter to good governance, [and] I refuse to be beholden to anyone else but the people,” he said.
After completing his undergraduate studies in Michigan, Overbeek enlisted in the Air Force and served in Afghanistan. There, Overbeek said, he “had the opportunity to learn what service is all about.”
Seeking further education at the midpoint of his career, Overbeek chose to pursue the Mid-Career Master in Public Administration program at the Kennedy School. Overbeek said that the program motivates students to think about politics in unconventional ways. He also said hehopes to put the political techniques and theories he learned into practice during his campaign.
“Students get one shot at life, one shot to leave the world a better place than they found it,” said Steve Jarding, a lecturer who has worked with Overbeek in his time at the Kennedy School.
Overbeek said he looks forward to enlarging the scope of his campaign through the creation of a “home-grown” movement. Speaking of the possible involvement of his peers at the Kennedy School, Overbeek added that he “would welcome the opportunity to have them on board in any capacity.”
—Staff writer Andrew Z. Lorey can be reached at alorey@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University administrators and members of the Harvard Allston Task Force met for the first time with leaders of the Allston Work Team—the faculty-led committee charged with establishing recommendations for Harvard’s campus development—yesterday morning to discuss Harvard’s role in the Allston-Brighton community.
The meeting comes two months after University President Drew G. Faust announced the creation of the Work Team in Dec. 2009, when the University announced it would indefinitely halt construction on the Allston Science Complex in the spring due to financial constraints.
Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp, who oversees the University’s capital planning functions, described yesterday’s meeting as “very productive” in an e-mailed statement.
“We discussed the Work Team’s initial phase, the community’s thoughts, and are considering the best ways to continue our engagement with the community,” Lapp wrote.
Others present at the meeting included Harvard Business School’s Senior Associate Dean for Planning and University Affairs Peter Tufano ’79, Director of the Institute of Politics Bill Purcell, and Graduate School of Design Professor Alex Krieger, all of whom co-chair the Work Team.
The University’s decision to halt construction on the $1 billion project—the first component of Harvard’s amibitious 50-year plan to construct a campus across the Charles River—left many Allston residents angry at the time, but, in their words, not surprised.
Allston resident Harry Mattison, who is a member of the Harvard Allston Task Force, said he did not know what to make of the Work Team’s progress in the past couple of months.
“I don’t know the details of what they’re doing,” Mattison said. “I think everyone who is involved is sincere and committed to their work; I just don’t have a sense of what their work is and how it relates to the Allston community.”
Mattison added that he hopes the Work Team will balance the needs of both Allston residents and the University as the process unfolds.
“Hopefully it will become more of a collaboration and less of a mystery as time moves on,” Mattison added.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Economics Department voted at an executive committee meeting comprised of tenured faculty on Feb. 9 to nominate Professor Gita Gopinath for tenure. University President Drew G. Faust will make a final decision regarding Gopinath’s tenure after rounds of meetings with faculty members, Economics Chair John Y. Campbell, and other field experts.
The promotion case for Gita is a “very strong one,” Campbell said.  “I have no reason to be concerned, honestly.”
Gopinath works in the field of international macroeconomics. Currently, Kenneth S. Rogoff and Richard N. Cooper are the only professors in the Economics Department who work in this area, according to Campbell.
“We think it is important to have young talent in the area as well,” Campbell said. “Many of the most important, interesting economic questions of the day concern macroeconomics.”
“[Gopinath] straddles both international finance and some macro, and macro is an area where we are not as strong as we could be,” said Economics Professor Claudia Goldin, who is currently on leave.
Campbell praised Gopinath’s ability to move between theory and data analysis, and her strong skills as a teacher.
“She has worked with some of our best Ph.D. students,” Campbell said.  “She is really becoming a professional leader in terms of training economists.”
“She is the complete package,” he added.
Gopinath, who was born in India, was the first woman to leave her town to pursue a bachelor’s degree.
“A lot of people [in Mysore] didn’t have the opportunity that I had,” Gopinath said.  During her undergraduate years at Delhi University, Gopinath decided to join the university’s economics honors program in the midst of India’s financial crisis in the early 1990’s.
“I think that my time [at Harvard] and before has helped me understand [that crisis] better,” Gopinath said.
Gopinath earned masters degrees in economics from the Delhi School of Economics and the University of Washington. She then completed her Ph.D. from Princeton University, writing her doctoral thesis on international capital flow and real interest rates in developing countries. After receiving her Ph.D., she taught at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, before joining Harvard University in 2005.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 25, 2010
An earlier version of the Feb. 26 news story "Economics Department Votes For Gopinath's Tenure" incorrectly stated that Professor Gita Gopinath was the first woman to leave her town to pursue a bachelor’s degree. In fact, she was one of the few who had such an opportunity, according to Gopinath.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Associate Professor of Anthropology Kimberly Theidon had no idea that her 2004 book of essays, “Entre Prójimos,” inspired the Oscar-nominated documentary “The Milk of Sorrow” until the film started to win awards last year.
“The Milk of Sorrow,” directed by Peruvian film writer and producer Claudia Llosa, explores the tragic aftermath of Peru’s infamous “Shining Path” uprising in the 1980s and early 1990s.
The film focuses on sexual violence against women and takes its title from the Peruvian myth that the women raped by members of the armed forces during the uprising transmitted their suffering to their children through their breast milk.
After winning the Berlin International Film Festival’s highest prize—the Golden Bear—“The Milk of Sorrow” was nominated for Best Foreign Language Picture at this year’s Academy Awards.
“I think the movie’s very powerful,” Theidon said. “It’s a very respectful treatment of an extremely difficult topic—sexual violence and its legacies. It’s not a film of gruesome images and horrific stories.”
Theidon, who first learned of “The Milk of Sorrow’s” existence last year when friends began sending her congratulatory e-mails on the film’s growing success, said she has never met Llosa in person and only corresponded with her through e-mail. Theidon also said that though she was not consulted during the production of the film, she has no complaints about the finished product and is considering a trip to Los Angeles for the Oscar party a week from Sunday.
“I was [touched] by the idea of making a movie where [the] audience would feel the burden of inheriting pain and violence,” Llosa wrote in an e-mail to The Crimson. “But at the same time, [it would] show how they are able to redeem themselves and put an end with all this sorrow.
Artistically, the film’s use of “magical realism”—an artistic technique often used to characterize works of Latin-American literature and art such as the film “Pan’s Labyrinth” and the novels of Gabriel Garcia-Marquez—has drawn much critical praise, including from Theidon herself.
“Yes, violence haunts the film and the viewer,” Theidon said. “But the director employed ‘magical realism’ to take real stories and symbolically transform them into powerful images and a powerful film.
“This is art as a political intervention,” she added.
“I think it’s important to understand that my book was a work of anthropology,” Theidon said. “The film draws upon my ethnographic research, and adds a powerful touch of magical realism.”
Theidon’s “Entre Prójimos” will soon be published in English under the title of “Intimate Enemies: Violence and Reconciliation in Peru.”
Llosa plans to attend a Harvard screening and discussion of her film, which will be coordinated by the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies later this spring.
Anthropology Department Chair Theodore C. Bestor said that Llosa’s film illustrates the rare phenomenon of an anthropologist’s work becoming the basis of a critically acclaimed film.
“It’s a nice reminder of the way anthropology connects to important issues that people really care about,” he said.
—Staff writer James K. McAuley can be reached at mcauley@fas.harvard.edu
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A carbon monoxide leak in Adams House forced the evacuation of residents of Russell Hall and Westmorly Court last night.
The carbon monoxide alarm, which was likely set off after wind and rain caused a downdraft through a chimney, resulted in the odorless gas leaking into two rooms in C-entryway, Adams House Master John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67 said at 10:30 p.m. yesterday.
Students and tutors were allowed to return to their rooms at around 9:45 p.m., just in time for Carpe Noctum, the Adams stein club. As a precaution, residents in the two rooms were asked to sleep elsewhere, though they were allowed to collect their belongings.
As emergency officials investigated the source of the gas, Harvard University Police Department, Cambridge Police Department, and Cambridge Fire Department vehicles stood guard on and around Plympton Street. Securitas employees kept passers-by away from the sidewalk where the buildings are located.
Some displaced students huddled in Randolph Hall, located across the street, waiting for an indication as to when they would be allowed back to their rooms.
One of those students, Crystal Chang ’10, said a security official told her, “Don’t you see the alarms? You can’t be in the House anymore.”
A handful also sought refuge in the Quincy House dining hall, which had been designated as a meeting point by Adams House Allston Burr Resident Dean Sharon L. Howell.
Howell said at 9:15 p.m. last night that fire department officials were going room by room in C-entryway to pinpoint the leak and make sure students had evacuated.
Emergency officials isolated the leak and opened a window for ventilation, causing a quick restoration to normal carbon monoxide levels.
“Literally within a matter of minutes, the level of carbon monoxide was found well below any threshold of concern,” Palfrey said.
An investigation will take place today to confirm the exact source of carbon monoxide and the cause of the leak.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
All dressed up with no place to go?  With our new Weekend Party Roundup series, you'll always have plans for your two favorite nights of the week.
Venetian Ball 2010
Who: Center for European Studies
What: Complete with masks, foreigners, and maybe, just maybe, some Euro trance.
When: 9 p.m. - 2 a.m. Friday, Feb. 26. Tickets are $15 at the Harvard Box Office
Where: 27 Kirkland Street
Jersey Shore Theme Party
Who: Sigma Chi
What: Girls should wear crazy high platform shoes and tight tops. We recommend the gents wear tank tops and plenty of cologne. Pre-party suggestions? Tan. For sure.
When: 10 p.m. - 2 a.m. Friday, Feb. 26.
Where: 1124 Mass. Ave
Toga Club
Who: Leverett Stein Club
What: No reason necessary for this celebration. Don your best toga and come enjoy others' togas, pita, hummus, grapes, assorted sodas, wine, and beer (for those who are 21+...sorry, freshmen).
When: 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. Friday, Feb. 26.
Where: Leverett JCR
Editor's Note: Feb. 26, 2010
An earlier version of this post included an event that was not intended to be open to the public. The listing has since been removed.
Correction: Feb. 27, 2010
An earlier version of this post stated incorrectly that the Toga Club party was scheduled for 10 p.m. - 2 a..m. In fact, the party was scheduled for 9 p.m. - 11 p.m. 
Sections
Stepping into Adams House's FDR Suite brings an immediate blast of warm air and the soft glow of a wood-burning fireplace. Augmenting the light of the fireplace, genuine Edison bulbs emit amber light from a turn-of-the-century chandelier. Despite the constant gray of Cambridge in February, the light streaming through the large French windows in Adams B-17 is crystal clear.
The FDR suite provides visitors with an intimate glimpse into the undergraduate life of our nation's 32nd president. Tomorrow, Adams House will feature a glimpse into his familial life as Curtis Roosevelt, FDR's eldest grandson, delivers the third annual FDR Memorial Lecture.
The lecture, titled "Past as Prologue – FDR, Obama, & the Perils of First Year Politics," seeks to draw comparisons between President Roosevelt's first years in office and the beginning of President Obama's first term. As Curtis Roosevelt explains, "President Roosevelt [Class of 1904] was elected at a time of economic uncertainty. In 1933 and 1934, he had to deal with a variety of issues that were both controversial and damaging to his public approval. If you had told anyone in 1933 that the Democratic Party would win big in the 1934 midterm elections, they would have thought that you were crazy. Obama faces similar challenges, but what remains to be seen is how he deals with them."
The lecture will take place Saturday at 4:30 p.m. in Adams House dining hall. Tickets are still available at the Harvard Box Office. After the lecture, there will be a gala dinner to benefit the FDR Suite Project, "an all-volunteer effort to restore Roosevelt’s student rooms in Wesmorly to their 1904 appearance as the only memorial to Franklin Delano Roosevelt at Harvard."
Sections
You tweet. We tweet. Now Conan  O’Brien also tweets. “Today I connected all the freckles on my arm  with a Sharpie," he wrote. "It spells out RIKSHAZ9LIRK. Clearly I am The Chosen  One.”
Well, the former Lampoon president may no longer be the chosen one for The Tonight Show, but he is now definitely the chosen one on Twitter.
The Hollywood Reporter revealed that within three hours of O'Brien’s  inaugural tweet on Wednesday, his Twitter  page had already  attracted more than 100,000 fans. With new followers signing up every  minute, his feed will probably hit the half-million mark soon.
Although O’Brien poked  fun at the popular  microblogging site on The Tonight Show as recently as last June, his bio blurb now reads, “I had a show. Then I had a different show. Now  I have a Twitter account.” Posting a photo of himself with a monkey on  his back, O’Brien stuck to his usual wacky—and sarcastic—style  as he wrote his first tweet: "Today I interviewed  a squirrel in my backyard and then threw to commercial. Somebody help  me.”
Whatever help it was that he needed,  a lot of fans have certainly answered his cry. And  as far as we know, his Twitter "show" (which, as of this posting, has about 399,000 followers) seems here to stay.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Among casual sports fans, her name may not earn the immediate recognition of Bode Miller, Apolo Anton Ohno, or Lindsey Vonn, but when it came to selecting a representative, Olympic athletes chose Angela Ruggiero ’02-’04 of the US women’s hockey team, currently competing for a gold medal as I write.
Ruggiero was selected to the International Olympic Committee’s Athletes’ Commission, which represents the concerns of athletes to the IOC.
The 2004 Patty Kazmaier Award winner, Ruggiero won gold with the team in 1998 in Nagano before taking silver with the team in Salt Lake City and bronze in Turin.
When interviewed by NBC after the first period, Ruggiero said she was “thrilled” to be selected to the 19-person committee. Ruggiero was selected for an eight-year term along with bobsledder Adam Pengilly of Great Britain.
The selection will allow Ruggiero to express the views of athletes in Olympic planning. But it won’t help her against Canada, which currently has a two-goal lead in the gold-medal game.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
