News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“It takes five.”
Everyone’s seen those Adidas commercials reminding people that teams—not individuals—win games.
But just in case Seattle University (6-9) missed those ads, the Harvard men’s basketball team (10-3) decided to personally deliver the message to KeyArena in its 92-71 win yesterday afternoon.
The hype leading up to the game focused on the showdown between Crimson co-captain Jeremy Lin and the Redhawks’ Charles Garcia—two do-it-all stars making headlines on opposite coasts. But as the game unfolded, efforts from Lin’s supporting cast carried the day.
In fact, it was sophomore Keith Wright who found the net most frequently in the opening minutes. The forward had been charged with guarding Garcia, and the pair went shot-for-shot.
“I don’t really think about the stats,” Wright said. “I just try to play hard.”
Meanwhile, Harvard was able to weave through the Redhawks’ pressure early, something the team had anticipated prior to the game.
“I think we had a great start,” freshman Brandyn Curry said. “That was one of the keys. Coach said that they’re a scrappy team and we’d have to handle the pressure early. I think we did a great job doing that.”
Before 10 minutes had passed, the Crimson had gained a double-digit lead, one it would never relinquish.
At this juncture, Garcia was struggling to put his shots in the basket while being guarded by freshman Kyle Casey, who shared defensive responsibilities with Wright.
“[Garcia’s] a great player, really big, athletic, can handle the ball,” Casey said. “I think we did a pretty good job. We slowed him down and came away with the victory.”
Meanwhile, Casey was hitting his own shots at the other end of the court.
“I think I just came off the bench and played with a lot of energy,” he said. “I started to play my role even better. We executed our stuff and I just happened to be finishing a lot today.”
Harvard would end the half with a 21-point lead, but shortly after the break, the Redhawks staged a rally. Garcia was hitting his shots and the lead diminished from 21 to 11.
The Crimson quickly righted the ship after taking a 30-second timeout. Quick baskets from Casey and Lin put distance between the squads, and though Seattle would continue to play Harvard even, it couldn’t mount a comeback as the Crimson cruised to a 21-point win.
“We really played exactly how we practice,” Wright said.
Garcia had 19 points, but his efforts were thwarted by the production of Casey and Wright. The freshman matched Garcia’s offense with 19 points of his own, and Wright finished with 16 points and three blocks.
Those two nearly cancelled out the scoring of the Redhawks’ top two scorers: Garcia and Chris Gweth, who scored 17 points. But the Crimson had Lin, who once again led the way with 21 points, four steals, two rebounds, and three assists.
“He was just Jeremy today,” Curry said. “It’s not surprising, it’s not unusual for him, it’s kind of expected. He’s a great player, one the best playmakers in the country.”
Harvard also got production on the perimeter from freshmen Christian Webster, who had 12 points and five assists, and Curry, who had seven points to go with a game-high six assists.
“It’s my job to find the open man,” Curry said. “That’s the other part of getting assists…[My teammates] were making baskets.”
With the victory, the Crimson set a new team record for non-conference wins. Harvard will look to extend that record in its final non-league matchup tomorrow at Santa Clara.
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
J-Term will officially begin on Jan. 4, but we at FlyBy know better than anyone that it will be difficult to make the coming three weeks into anything other than a colossal waste of time. So, in the spirit of genuine or—who are we kidding?—feigned intellectualism, we've compiled a list of reading recommendations from several campus mailing lists. We've also provided, of course, the requisite value judgment on each title.
Some of these books are ones you've probably heard of before, others are ones you haven't. But since none of them are assigned in any classes you’re currently taking, all are sure to qualify as reading you might actually do.
Because we know both how good it feels to actually finish a book and how rarely that actually happens at Harvard, the titles are arranged roughly from shortest to longest. (Thanks to the members of the Eliot, Mather, Pfoho, and FUP mailing lists for providing the recommendations.)
Now, without further ado, the list:
Best way to remember what life was like before Expos
Curious George and Me
Author: H.A. Rey
Page Count: 56
Pitch: Aww, you don't need us to explain this one.
Best short classic
Mrs. Dalloway
Author: Virginia Woolf
Page Count: 216
Pitch: Taking place in a single day, this novel follows a London society woman (Mrs. Dalloway) as she prepares for a party that she is to give that night.
Best way to be an eighth grade nerd all over again
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy
Author: Douglas Adams
Page Count: 224
Pitch: A classic, funny, science fiction novel you just have to read at some point.
Best (pretty short) philosophical novel
Ishmael: An Adventure of the Mind and Spirit
Author: Daniel Quinn
Page Count: 263
Pitch: A Socratic dialogue between a man and a gorilla named Ishmael who attempts to debunk the “myth” of human supremacy.
Best collection of bizarre short stories
Salmonella Men on Planet Porno: Stories
Author: Yatsutaka Tsutsui
Page Count: 272
Pitch: The title says it all.
Best book-that-was-so-much-better-than-the-movie
The Road
Author: Cormac McCarthy
Page Count: 304
Pitch: An apocalyptic journey of a man and his son.
Best book for learning how to…well, you know
The Kama Sutra
Author: Philosopher/scholar Mallanga Vatsyayana, aka some Indian dude of antiquity
Page Count: 320
Pitch: An illustrated guide to every sex position under the sun.
Best book to make you seem like a post-modern intellectual
The Unbearable Lightness of Being
Author: Milan Kundera
Page Count: 320
Pitch: A philosophical novel of Prague during the tumultuous year of 1968.
Best book to make you seem culturally aware
The God of Small Things 
Author: Arundhati Roy
Page Count: 336
Pitch: A controversial Booker Prize winner about two brothers siblings, India, and circumstance.
Best forgotten classic
The Master and Margarita
Author: Mikhail Bulgakov
Page Count: 350
Pitch: A novel about the Devil visiting the atheistic USSR.
Best book by a Cambridge local
The Brief and Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao
Author: Junot Diaz
Page Count: 352
Pitch: A poignant and funny novel about an overweight Dominican boy in New Jersey.
Best pretentious book by an author absolutely no one has heard of
Dictionary of the Khazars
Author: Milorad Pavic
Page Count: 352
Pitch: This novel, written in dictionary form, doesn’t have a conventional plot or structure, although it’s loosely based on the mass conversion of the Khazar people to Judaism in the 8th or 9th century. According to the author, there’s also an allegorical connection with Serbia...
Best contemporary classic
Atonement
Author: Ian McEwan
Page Count: 368
Pitch: A beautiful novel about a girl, the devastating consequences of a lie she tells, and her attempts to atone for it later in life.
Best beach read
How To Be Single
Author: Liz Tuccillo
Page Count: 368
Pitch: A spunky novel that follows the love lives of five New York women.
Best selection from Oprah’s Book Club (even though it's now kind of a joke)
The House of Sand and Fog
Author: Andre Dubus III
Page Count: 365
Pitch: A darker novel about the conflict between an unstable woman trying to get her house back and the Iranian family that now lives in it.
Best book about food
The Omnivore’s Dilemma
Author: Michael Pollan
Page Count: 464 pages
Pitch: A seasoned journalist’s quest to uncover the origins of the foods Americans eat everyday.
Best book that spawned an international controversy and several deaths 
The Satanic Verses
Author: Salman Rushdie
Page Count: 576
Pitch: Inspired in part by the life of the Prophet Muhammad, this contemporary novel angered segments of the Muslim community so much that the Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa against its author in 1989. Despite all the threats, however, Rushdie has spoken at Harvard before.
Best big, engrossing page-turner
The Poisonwood Bible
Author: Barbara Kingsolver
Page Count: 576
Pitch: A powerful novel about a missionary family who moves to Belgian Congo in 1959.
Best long novel on the list that’s more than worth the time it takes to read
A Prayer for Owen Meany
Author: John Irving
Page Count:  672
Pitch: This novel tells the story of Owen Meany, an unforgettable character who believes himself to be an instrument of God.
