News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The first weekend of Crimson action is full of big games, but the marquee event takes place in just a matter of hours, when No. 10 men’s soccer (0-0) takes on No. 13 Stanford (0-1) at Soldier Field Soccer Stadium in a battle of NCAA tournament hopefuls. Even the UC has gotten on the bandwagon, promoting free T-shirts and other items at the big 7 pm game under the lights.
With Hurricane Earl politely skirting the Boston area, Crimson fans have no excuse to skip a contest that features intrigue up and down the pitch. Can sophomore Brian Rogers and a crew of young forwards carry the offensive load following the departure of standout Andre Akpan ’10? Will junior goaltender Austin Harms withstand the pressure of a diminished defense in the absence of MLS draftee Kwaku Nyamekye ’10?
The national media seems to think so, given Harvard’s solid ranking, but the Cardinal will provide quite a test.
Even though Stanford returns just four starters, the 13th-ranked squad features senior Bobby Warshaw, an NSCAA All-American and the team’s leading scorer last season—from the central defense position. The Cardinal suffered a 2-1 upset defeat at the hands of lowly Vermont earlier this week, so look for the visitors to be out for blood against the Crimson. If Harvard can contain Warshaw early, it has a very good chance of sending Stanford home with a winless road trip.
ALSO WATCH FOR:
Women’s volleyball and men’s water polo opened their respective seasons with grueling tournaments. The Crimson women are hosting the Harvard Invitational with matches against Bryant and Boston College today after dropping an opening contest against Eastern Illinois, 3-1, last night. Water polo is also enjoying its opener close to home, as the team competes in the MIT Invitational with three matches in the next two days.
Field hockey looks to start strong in 2010 just as it did a year ago. The Crimson takes on Holy Cross and Bryant this weekend in rematches of games that went Harvard’s way last season. The Crimson defeated the Crusaders, 4-1, in 2009, and topped the Bulldogs, 4-2, so the contests today and Monday will be a good indicator of Harvard’s progress.
Finally, women’s soccer will try to improve upon last night’s season-opening 2-2 tie against Long Island as it takes on New Hampshire on the road tomorrow. Unlike the field hockey team, Harvard soccer must strive to avoid a lackluster start that dogged the Crimson in 2009.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We just realized that HUDS, which used to stand for Harvard University Dining Services, has now officially changed its name to Harvard University Hospitality & Dining Services. That's right—HUHDS. Here's the explanation that was printed on last week's dhall table tents:
"Our mission is to create both great food and experiences that foster friendship, encourage learning, and cultivate community, and our name has evolved to reflect that broader role. So it sounds the same when you pronounce it, it feels the same when you enjoy it, but now we're HUHDS instead of HUDS."
So what will this new HUHDS bring? According to the table tent: better vegetarian options, roasted vegetables at the deli bar, and "more easily identifiable" entrees. Just in case you were wondering.
Photo by Michelle L. Quach/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Hurricane Earl passed over Cambridge last night with more of a whimper than a bang, but this Saturday afternoon finds the residents of Currier with a flooded house on their hands. The flooding does not appear to be related to the hurricane and last night's rainfall, but it has closed the house's dining hall for the time being, according to e-mails sent over Currierwire.
Plans for this afternoon's house barbecue appear to be on, but the dining hall will be closed for the foreseeable future.  House administrators could not be reached for comment this afternoon, but according to chatter over the house e-mail list, the various wings of Currier appear to be slowly opening up. Tuchman and Daniels were accessible via open emergency exits.
A "big ass puddle" outside of the dining hall appears to have been cleaned up.  We've contacted house administrators to get more information on the flooding but haven't been able to reach them. We'll get back to you with comment from them when it arrives.
For now: Quadlyfe!
Photo by Sharon Kim/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Over the summer, Oona’s Experienced Clothing—the Mass. Ave. shop that has provided outfits for themed parties and Halloween alike for 38 years—was redecorated, rearranged, and retagged, according to the shop’s new owner 24-year-old Eleanor “Ellie” Mueller.While Mueller said that the renovations “weren’t emotionally difficult, just a lot of work,” she also said that there remains “a constant to-do list.” The shop reopened on August 1.
Mueller said that she is excited about her new position in Cambridge. A Vassar College graduate with a degree in film, Mueller describes herself as an “art history dork” and recalls that “even when I took an economics class in college, I was most excited for the history aspect of what I would be learning.”
“The history is really why I liked vintage clothing to begin with,” she said. “From an artistic standpoint, there are more textures and colors and there is usually a higher quality because it needed to last.  People didn’t have as much clothing in the past, so they invested more of their time and income on an individual piece.  I love examining the way things work and connecting the dots all over the place.  This business is more like a puzzle, which is very satisfying.”
Mueller was able to express this passion for all things history in her redecorating process.  Oona’s is now separated into four different rooms: women’s clothing, men’s clothing, one for more costume type pieces and coats, and a boudoir room with a new vanity table and an armoire of some of the more delicate pieces.
“The first thing I asked myself during the redecorating process was what kind of a space Harvard students would enjoy. And I thought of it becoming a sort of voyeuristic pleasure space of sneaking in on someone else’s living space.” Mueller said she drew inspiration from Citizen Kane and Sherlock Holmes, “and even Diane Arbus’s photographs that focused on outliers and the normal people that just never got photographed.”
But what’s the best part about being a vintage clothing storeowner?  For Mueller, it’s playing matchmaker. “I really like helping people find things. Each piece is different, so you’re finding it a home and you should really find the right person for it. That’s why I feel like the business didn’t, and hopefully won’t, get old for me.”
Photo by the Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Welcome back to school! Though the bagillion-degree weather and impending hurricane have been keeping frisbee playing to a low, Flyby wondered why some people have already found themselves in the library when homework hasn't really kicked in yet. Here's what they said...
Kristin Barclay, Freshman Greys Hall
Spotted: Farnsworth Room, 3rd Floor
Q: What are you working on right now? 
A: Physics 16.
Q: What's your hardest class this semester? 
A. Physics 16.
Q: Favorite study spot in Lamont?
A: Well I have only been to Lamont three times and this is my third time at this table. So I guess this table.
Q: When did you decide your classes?
A: I pretty much knew my classes before shopping period. There were only 5 that I was considering.
Q: Do you know what you're going to concentrate in? 
A: I think computer science.
Q: On a scale of 1 to workaholic, where would you say you fall?
A: Workaholic minus 2.
Q: On a scale of peaceful to lonely? 
A: Pretty  much lonely. This particular room is pretty bad. Maybe if we were out  in the other parts of the library it wouldn't be so lonely.
Q: List three adjectives to describe Lamont right now?
A: I honestly don't know. A little bit creepy.
Q: If Lamont were open later than 10 p.m. tonight, would you stay?
A: Yes, definitely.
Q: Do you plan to be here all weekend?
A: Hopefully this problem set won't take that long.
Billy Goulston. Sophomore, Dunster House,  Folklore & Mythology or English
Spotted: Lobby
Q: What are you working on right now? 
A: I'm not working. I am here for the AC.
Q: No really, what are you working on?
A: I told you. I am just here for the AC. I swear.
Q: What's your hardest class this semester? 
A: No idea. I am not in any hard classes.
Q: Favorite study spot in Lamont?
A: I  don't study in Lamont. I study in my room. I mean I am usually just  here for the Cafe. But it's not open, so I'm just here for the AC. The  AC is pretty good right here.
Q: On a scale of 1 to workaholic, where would you say you fall?
A:Probably somewhere around a 2 or a 3.
Q: On a scale of peaceful to lonely?
A: I would say it is tranquil.
Q: List three adjectives to describe Lamont right now?
A: Is there a word for library-like? Okay never mind. How about: Tactile. Literary. Multistoried.
Q: Are you aware it's a long weekend? 
A: Wait we don't have classes on Monday? Holy shit.
Brent Ho, Senior, Dunster House, Math
Spotted: 2nd floor group study room
Q: What are you working on right now?
A: I'm helping a friend pick out classes. I'm just an old fogey senior helping a freshman who went to my high school.
Q: What's the hardest class you picked out for her?
A: I told her to take Math 25. Not sure if she'll do it.
Q: Favorite study spot in Lamont?
A: I like the third floor open area.
Q: Where will you study the most this year?
A: I  have a single, so probably in my room. I really like Cabot Library and  the Loeb Music Library. I like to borrow a CD and just listen to it.  Last year I checked out every single library here. Every day I went to a  new library.
Q: Why?
A: Because I had 3 free hours each day and I wanted to switch it up. I'm a math concentrator so I like the Math Library too.
Q: On a scale of peaceful to lonely? 
A: It's pretty lonely. During finals it gets pretty stinky here. People stay here 24/7 and don't shower and stuff.
Q: List three adjectives to describe Lamont right now?
A: Empty, stench-free, I don't know.
Frank, Bag-checker & Security
Spotted: bag-checking desk
Q: Is this the quietest you have ever seen Lamont? 
A: Yes. It's usually pretty crazy here.
Q: And do you prefer it when it's quiet or when there's a lot of people?
A: Middle ground. . . where you are busy but it's not too crazy.
Q: What type of students do you think are here right now?
A: Freshman who are trying to find their way around.
Q: How long have you worked here?
A: A few years. But I move around and work at all of the libraries.
Q: Which is your favorite?
A: The Littauer Arts Library [Fine Arts Library in Littauer]. There's never a headache there.
Photo by Kane Hsieh/The Harvard Crimson.
