News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Right after the International Women’s Day, the Indian Upper House took a great step toward gender equality by approving a bill that proposes an amendment mandating that a third of legislative seats be reserved for women for the next 15 years. The quota bill, despite being a fairly crude way of increasing women’s participation in the state legislature, constitutes significant progress toward the goal of gender equality in India; nevertheless, in the future, similar bills should be refined so as not to lead to corollary discrimination toward other groups.
The quota bill constitutes progress toward eradicating the barriers that prevent gender equality because it would directly address the party boss-controlled electoral system that helps foster gender-based discrimination. The bill will allow women to enter the political realm and actively work to change a society that, despite having had a few female political leaders in the past, is still widely unequal.
Leaders of the three parties opposing the bill raised the concern that women would not vote independently, instead serving as proxies for male family members. This argument seems both condescending and misplaced: First, it implies that all elected women will become unaware pawns susceptible to coercion from close family members; second, it doesn’t take into account the possibility—and hope—that elected women will ultimately cast their own votes, no matter the outside forces attempting to sway their decisions.
Despite the possibility of external influence over the elected women’s votes, the quota bill still encourages a long-lasting culture of gender equality. The legislative effects of the quota bill will expire in 15 years, but in that time the bill will allow women’s decision-making power to be present in Indians’ everyday lives, thus helping entrench the concept of gender equality in Indian culture.
However, despite these benefits, the bill presents a much deeper problem than that of the vote manipulation. Some fear that it might distort the fragile equilibrium concerning the parliamentary representation of the different religious and ethnic groups that constitute Indian society. Former Member of Parliament Syed Shahabuddin argues that the quota bill might cut Muslim representation in half; if that is the case, the legislation might, in the long run, undermine the ethnic and religious stability of the county. The Indian Parliament should therefore consider refining some aspects of the bill to prevent against discrimination.
India’s decision to bring a larger number of women into its legislature is commendable—it represents a move toward greater gender equality in India. However, any future reforms similar to the quota bill should aim to  minimize the detrimental effect on the non-involved groups. If not, raising the condition of one minority could hurt another—an unintended and detrimental side effect that undermines the aim of otherwise positive legislation.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While searching for a Bollywood film at an Indo-Pak store my eye was drawn to shelves of Fair & Lovely products that promised a brighter future with whiter skin. A series of commercials for Pond’s White Beauty showed a mini soap opera of dark-skinned Miss World, Priyanka Chopra, lightening her skin to attract her ex-boyfriend, Bollywood star Saif Ali Khan. South Asian matrimonial ads posted on the wall advertise that the bachlorette is “fair,” and bachelor ads usually clarify that this is a quality they are looking for; this allows one to have a fair and lovely spouse and procreate lighter-complexioned children.
Some Caucasians reading this might be incredulous to learn about people’s quest to become lighter. In one episode of “The Office,” Michael Scott, the goofy boss, attends an Indian party with his white girlfriend. An old Indian couple praises his blonde partner, “She’s very fair,” to which the clueless Michael replies: “Yeah, she’s very fair. And kind.” After all, why would it mean otherwise? Why would people want to get lighter? In the era of tanning, brown is the new white.
But for some, it’s more complicated. Until recently, popular African-American magazines like Ebony featured bleaching products to lighten dark skin, and they are still popular in African-American grocery stores in addition to Latin American, Caribbean, and Asian ones. Celebrities of color like Sammy Sosa have become whiter over time. This year, Senate majority leader Harry Reid brought attention to his belief that President Barack Obama was able to be elected as an African-American for his light skin. While his comment was certainly a political faux pas, a study by the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business seems to confirm his opinion. Subjects who perceived Obama as lighter were more likely to vote for him; the results were confirmed by similar study with a control, fake candidate.
Self-esteem issues related to skin color now travel the opposite road as well. It’s certainly true that skin color consciousness doesn’t just affect immigrant or colored communities. The greatest skin issue that affected girls in my high school (and still do, I am told) was the quest for an Angelina Jolie tan. I remember girls coming to school with radiant, orange skin. This was not a result of carotene over-consumption but, I was told at first, a natural tan that guys “found hot.” Since this was in sunny Georgia, this was plausible, but inevitably I would find that this garish hue was the product of weekly trips to the tanning salon and layers of tanning products.
While the desire for darker skin is very different from that for lighter skin, which has deep roots in colonization and slavery, they are both issues with little publicized, problematic health consequences. Many skin-lightening creams contain the chemical hydroquinone, which can lead to cancer, the strong steroid clobetasol propionate, and the poisons mercury and arsenic. Tanning is no better. Even indoor tanning lamps (UV radiation) cause melanoma and squamous cell cancer, not to mention the psychological turmoil of striving for the imagined “ideal” skin color.
That certainly sounds frightening, but few people know, or care, about the side-effects changing skin color. I still know some people who think that this is the key to getting the perfect guy, the perfect life. I know it’s too much to ask society to change racial problems overnight, but there is certainly more we can do. In America, we can at least ask teachers to bring attention to skin-esteem in schools, doctors to look out for their patients, the Food and Drug Administration to regulate dangerous products, the Federal Commercial Commission to regulate commercials with negative racial overtones, and consumer watchdog groups to play a more creative and important role.
I’m still waiting for a parody of the Pond’s White Beauty episode, showing Saif Ali Khan pining over a discolored Priyanka Chopra, victim of her creams. With tactics like these, perhaps one day society can learn Michael Scott’s truth: “fair and kind” makes more sense than “fair and lovely.”
Nafees A. Syed ’11, a Crimson editorial writer, is a government concentrator in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The end is near. The dizzying debate over healthcare that has left us in a nauseous national malaise is ending. So says the president. If he has his way, the most transformative social reform of our lifetime will be enacted by the time we recover from spring break.
The White House hopes that by setting a “finish line” that is within reach, lawmakers will rediscover the sense of urgency they’ve lost. “We are very close” to the end of “our journey,” announced the president Saturday. “Now is the time!” he exhorted. (Apparently even more so than the last time that was also “the time.”) We must finish this, the line goes, if for no reason other than we are so close to finishing. One more step, and we can solve this crisis. Or, in the words of this newspaper’s Monday staff editorial, “solve a pressing national issue.”
If only.
Language heralding a grand finale may be good politics, but it’s dangerously delusional. Passing the bill will hardly solve a “pressing national issue” and will be no ultimate solution. More precisely, it may give cause for short term celebration, but it will only help create the next great American crisis.
Now healthcare reform, if enacted, will certainly do some much needed things. But to cast the vote as the end of the problem, as a crisis averted, is wishful thinking at best. We should know better.
Why? Because it’s an entitlement. Mandate health insurance for all, and the government is obligated to provide it for those who cannot—no matter the cost. And in the long term, no matter how laudable a goal, that will prove disastrous.
The President says the bill is paid for and so we shouldn’t worry. The Congressional Budget Office agrees—provided the Congress of 2018 is as willing as the Congress of 2010 to tax health plans in 2018 and provided that those much-maligned insurance company profits remain sufficiently high that taxing them yields ample government revenue to fund the very programs meant to keep those companies in check.
But that’s the short term. The problem with entitlements is never in the short term. It comes later, when future legislators feel generous, when programs expand beyond their original intent, and when past commitments exceed present budgets.
Remember: At its inception Medicare was solvent, financed by a tax simple enough that President Johnson explained it at the bill’s signing. Social Security was intended to save us from the very kind of fiscal catastrophe toward which it is driving us. The State Children’s Health Insurance Program served children. Medicaid covered far fewer patients than it will post-reform, and most doctors actually accepted the coverage.
Today Medicare and Medicaid expenditures represent five percent of our GDP. In 2035, they will represent 10 percent and by 2080, 17 percent. We will spend 20 percent more on Social Security in 2035 than we do today. And we already cannot afford it.
Oh, here I go, just another Republican harping on the debt to be obstructionist. No. This is not a criticism of the plan’s provisions—even if criticism is warranted. This is not a justification for inaction. This is about something more fundamental: It is a critique of what we think the healthcare bill represents—or doesn’t. Already committed to billions of dollars of debt-creating entitlements, we are on the verge of committing ourselves to billions more, assuring ourselves that it will be okay because somehow this time it will be different.
We just don’t care. We have developed a certain collective apathy for this mounting debt. As threatening as the Social Security-Medicare-Medicaid triumvirate is, we’ve heard about it so much that we shrug it off and turn to a crisis that is much more interesting. (This is why if you’re still reading this you’re either my mother, avoiding a midterm, or so despondent from not being placed in Kirkland that you refuse to join in on Housing Day festivities.) After all, in Credit Card Nation, a new purchase is much more thrilling than paying off last year’s spending.
But won’t the bill’s promised savings to individuals make a difference? Unlikely. At the all-for-naught Healthcare Summit, an aid had to correct the president that, yes, a CBO projection shows premiums will be forced up for some. The website for the President’s proposal explains that individuals who have employer coverage will “likely” see lower premiums. For a bill that’s been sold on the premise of affordability, one would like some more certainty. And to cover their bases, they add: “And remember, the cost of doing nothing is high. In 10 years, healthcare spending for each employee at an average big company will be $28,530.” Translation: Just in case we’re wrong, remember we’re damned if we do, damned if we don’t. Comforting, right?
Yes, healthcare reform is a noble cause.  In the short term, it may even cut some costs. But no matter what the president says, passing a bill ends no “journey.”  It won’t “solve a pressing national issue.”  Odds are it will make one worse.  And we must be honest enough with ourselves to see that.
Mark A. Isaacson ’11 is a government concentrator in Kirkland House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We address this op-ed to Beth Simmons (Director, Weatherhead Center for International Affairs), Jeffry Frieden and James Robinson (Acting Directors, WCIA), and Drew Faust (President, Harvard University).
We write as gravely concerned students and student group leaders representing over 16 groups throughout Harvard University. Our entire constituency can be viewed online.
We are disturbed by the racist and inhumane comments of Martin Kramer, Visiting Scholar at the National Security Studies Program at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. We have become even more alarmed that rather than taking a dissociating or even strictly neutral stance against such extremist and hateful statements, the Weatherhead Center issued a defensive response.
At the Herzliya Conference in Israel last month, Mr. Kramer, who in his own words provides advice on “U.S. policy options in the Middle East,” advocated measures to diminish Palestinian birth rates as a means of population control. Mr. Kramer stated that Israel’s siege on Gaza, which prohibits the entry of crucial humanitarian supplies, helps “break Gaza’s runaway population growth and there is some evidence that they have.” He suggests that this phenomenon “may begin to crack the culture of martyrdom, which demands a constant supply of superfluous young men.” Mr. Kramer’s public call to halt food, medicine, and humanitarian aid—which he calls “pro-natal subsidies”—would read as a cruel joke if it did not so egregiously violate the most basic norms of human decency. Such statements have been echoed by people in power and have even been directed at Israel’s Palestinian citizens: At the same conference in 2003, Israel’s current Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called Palestinian citizens of Israel a “demographic threat.”
Harvard professor Stephen M. Walt commented, “What if a prominent academic at Harvard declared that the United States had to make food scarcer for Hispanics so that they would have fewer children? Or what if someone at a prominent think tank noted that black Americans have higher crime rates than some other groups, and therefore it made good sense to put an end to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and other welfare programs, because that would discourage African Americans from reproducing and thus constitute an effective anti-crime program?”
Had Mr. Kramer’s comments been directed at any other marginalized or minority groups—leaving aside the enormous challenge faced by Palestinians living in the impoverished enclosure of Gaza—we believe that the Weatherhead Center would not have hesitated to classify them as racist and hateful. It has described Mr. Kramer’s proclamations as “controversial,” an alarming position since less than a century ago similar remarks were made against African Americans and Jews. The characterization of his statements as merely “controversial” is offensive and dismisses their deeply racist nature.
Since the Weatherhead Center provides Mr. Kramer with a legitimizing and prominent public platform, we wonder whether it views any policy call as ethically disgraceful. We are troubled that the center has presented little to no diversity of viewpoints on the Israel-Palestine conflict. The only notable statements on the conflict emerging from the center are Mr. Kramer’s.
However, we believe that the Weatherhead Center has an opportunity to rectify the damage caused by Mr. Kramer’s repugnant statements and redeem its esteem with the student body. First, we ask that the Weatherhead Center not renew Mr. Kramer’s fellowship or affiliation with the NSSP. Second, we call on the center to establish a committee of faculty and students to recommend the adoption of a set of vetting practices for incoming fellows that uphold a set of principles unified on non-racism, in concert with Harvard University’s own commitment to non-discriminatory practices and diversity of viewpoints. We are concerned that the defense of Mr. Kramer’s statement reflects a violation of basic principles to which the Weatherhead Center and Harvard University claim to adhere. The above measures are an effective way for the center and the University to make amends.
Johnny F.  Bowman ’11 is president of the Undergraduate Council and a sociology concentrator in Pforzheimer House. Maryam Monalisa Gharavi is a Ph.D. candidate in Comparative Literature and co-founder of GSAS Capoeira Angola. Abdelnasser A. Rashid ’11 is president of the Harvard Islamic Society, board member of the Palestine Solidarity Committee, and a social studies concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
My spring break plans for this year: go home to see the family who, at an alarming rate, seem to be forgetting that I ever existed, and to hang out with the old friends whom I now encounter only through Facebook notifications and the occasional drunk dial. Also: eat Mom’s cooking, catch up on sleep, and think about catching up on course reading before deciding to catch up on TV instead. Pretty standard.
Of course, that’s before I fly out to Wichita, Kansas, drive around for a day, and then fly back—all by myself.
Now before you raise an eyebrow, did you know that Kansas is home to the Flint Hills, the last expanse of real tallgrass prairie in the whole country—a landscape that, according to one YouTube video, brings grown men to tears when they see it at sunrise? And did you know that it costs $35 a day to rent a Chevy Aveo out of Wichita, which is cheaper than in Kansas City or even Topeka? And last but not least, did you know that I have a free roundtrip ticket sitting around from this one time I gave up my seat on an overbooked flight, and that the week after spring break, it’ll expire forever?
But I should probably backtrack just a little further to explain how I got the idea of flying to flyover country in the first place.
Recently, my family was notified that we were allowed to apply for permanent residency in the United States. It’s a bit of news that we find both welcome and funny, considering that we came to this country in 1992. We first lived in New York City, in one of those neighborhoods in Queens where playing with the Greek and Puerto Rican kids often meant that no one had any idea what anyone else was saying.
We moved shortly thereafter to western Michigan. I learned how to spell during those elementary school years, thanks to the last names of my classmates—they were either Bosnian refugees (the humanitarian-minded evangelicals of the Upper Midwest had lobbied at the time to accept those fleeing the conflict in the Balkans) or the blonde-haired, blue-eyed descendants of Dutch settlers.
And then we moved again to the suburbs of Philadelphia, and we now reside in the same county that gave birth to Harry Elkins Widener, Kobe Bryant, and that guy who did the “I Love College” song. The malls are sleek, and the riche are nouveau. It’s a great place to pick up mild disaffection.
During all that, I’ve also been to both coasts, the Deep South, the no-longer-real-because-they-voted-for-Obama South, and to Louisville. I’ve seen both ends of the Mississippi River and four out of five Great Lakes (I’m missing Ontario, in case you’re wondering). I’ve also been to Alaska, although only for the layover at Anchorage. And during all that, my family had to remember that we were still strangers in a strange land.
But I’ve never been to the Great Plains, although it seems to be important for you Americans (if there’s anything to regret, it’s that I won’t be able to talk like this anymore). A lot of history happened there, a lot of food is grown there, and a lot of the better college football and basketball teams play there. It’s the Heartland. So instead of Cancún or the Keys or even godless New York, it feels appropriate to make a pilgrimage out to Kansas.
The process of naturalization is all about questions: Do you know when the Declaration was signed? Do you habla inglés? Did you, by any chance, stuff a balloon in your rectum before boarding that flight back from Bangkok? But if they’re going to ask questions like that, they should also ask: What have you bothered to see, and whom did you get to know? In fact, they should ask that of everyone—immigrant, student, citizen, presidential candidate—because what could be more important to living in a country than knowing what’s out there?
And when I tell people my spring break plans and they give me the “he must think he’s quirky” look, I say that I don’t have enough time to be doing much else with a free plane ticket, or that it’s tough finding companions for a $600 day trip, or that, you know, it’s been really hard this semester and I need to go out there and find myself.
But to be honest, it’s just that after 18 years, I’m facing the prospect of staying here for good, and now I’d love to see the prairie.
-Hyung W. Kim ’11 is a Government concentrator in Leverett House. He keeps his eyes on the prize.
Sections
By 10:30 p.m., the line of twenty-somethings waiting to enter Club Oberon for Friday night’s “Jerkus Circus” curved its way from Arrow Street all the way to Mass Ave. Good-natured anticipation bubbled in the crisp night air ,and Val Raptis, a friend of some of the performers, was confident that it would be a good show. Raptis remarked that her friends “have no limits to entertain,” quickly adding, “but they don’t cross lines.”
The show opened with the Steamy Bohemians, a sizzling duo comprised of singers Lainey “Danger” Schulbaum and Niki “Chicken Fingers” Luparelli, who created, produced, and hosted “Jerkus Circus.” The sopranos offered a song before introducing the hodge-podge of acts to follow.
The bill included burlesque dancers from “Babes in Boinkland,” the naked comedian Andy O’Fiesh, Alex the Jester, who simultaneously played two recorders in a round of “Row, Row, Row Your Boat,” aerialist Eliza Blaze, who contorted in a hoop suspended from cords; and Pete Tino the Human Floor, who, naturally, doubled as a human dartboard.
The diversity of the bill reflected what the Steamy Bohemians claim was their initial motivation to create “Jerkus Circus” five years ago. “We want to entertain people, want people to be uncensored and free,” Schulbaum said. So they created this format for misfit entertainers, hoping to “subvert gender norms and expectations” along the way.
Gender roles were certainly subverted, as audience members watched a man transform into a woman in front of their very eyes. In a similar vein, comedian Mary Dolan instructed the crowd, “Be free, my friends. This is America. You’re at the Jerkus Circus.”
Whether inspired by Dolan’s words or not, the audience enthusiastically responded to the acts in the easy atmosphere of Club Oberon. Erin E. Wood, the Theater Operations Coordinator at Oberon, stressed that this is an access venue, welcoming many different types of shows and acts.
“We are excited to provide something new and different in the area,” Wood said.
Patrons such as Sarah M. Amatucci, whose friend discovered Jerkus Circus on Facebook, was unsure how the event would turn out. By the end of the evening however, she was left speechless, managing only, “So good...so unique.”
Sections
I began to worry after I’d eaten my seventh banana in two days.
I had embarked on a three-day raw food veganism challenge, relying on fruit, salads, and some unroasted convenience store nuts to fill my uncooked days.
I had no blender, knives, or kitchen. I did, however, have a lot of homework, social commitments at restaurants, and HUDS produce. I already knew that gourmet raw food—which I had sampled at all-raw Grezzo in the North End—was a sensory delight. But my DIY approach smacked of banana-infested, blender-lacking monotony.
Well, at least I knew I wasn’t going at it alone. Raw food has become more mainstream in recent years, receiving attention in the popular press and heralded in documentaries such as “Supercharge Me!”, where one woman ate raw for a month and filmed the results. Boston itself is home to a number of raw foodists, with an online group boasting 516 members and 145 meet-ups.
Enthusiasts use words such as “living,” “enzymes,” and “glow.” They liken eating raw to ingesting life and energy. They also make dubious scientific claims. “All cooked food is devoid of enzymes, furthermore cooking food changes the molecular structure of the food and renders it toxic,” claims www.living-foods.com. Raw foodists will eat at least 75 percent raw, with approaching 100 percent as the ideal.
So what can you eat on a raw food vegan diet? In an (unroasted) nutshell: raw fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, sprouts.
Yes, that’s it.
That’s how I found myself unwrapping banana number three before class. Then I ate an orange and polished off a bag of raw almonds, on top of a bag of raw cashews.
As the day wore on, I realized I had to entirely reconceptualize food. The world is not designed for the fruit-munching, crudite-worshipping raw foodies of the world. Strict adherents will not heat anything above 115 degrees Farenheit; they claim that above this temperature, food loses vital nutrients and enzymes. That includes water.
Around 4 p.m., tired and feeling bloated from eating six servings of nuts, three oranges, four bananas, raspberries, cantaloupe, baby carrots, and a salad, I gave into my first cooked sin.
Coffee. Made from roasted coffee beans and boiled water. I should have just thrown in a well-done, factory-farmed steak to complete my philandering ways.
After being thrown off track, I went back to Mother Raw with another HUDS-bestowed banana. I looked in the mirror to check my physical progress: my eyes and skin weren’t glowing, but on the plus side, I didn’t look more monkey-like.
Day Two was a lot easier until it came to lunch. I was in a rush, but also sick of endless meals of fruit. So I wrapped a dill pickle in a lettuce leaf and drizzled some honey on it. Sort of like a hot dog. Was the pickle raw? Was honey vegan? Hadn’t it been pasteurized?
Annoyed, I began typing a list of pathetic dining-hall recipes on my laptop.
“Add one dill pickle to limp lettuce leaf,” I wrote bitterly. “Drizzle with honey. Eat with guilt, defiance.”
If I had endless time and kitchen equipment, I’d have attempted the recipes in “Raw Food, Real World” by Matthew Kenney and Sarma Melngailis. Written by a photogenic and now defunct couple, the book touted the benefits of raw food with a kind of sexy, spiritual zeal. Pastas, lasagnas, and crackers were re-imagined with ribbons of squash, nut pastes, and dehydrated vegetable pulp. Raw chocolate ganache tart, anyone?
On the plus side, all the fiber from oranges, beyond promoting digestive regularity, also kept hunger pangs at bay. During seminar, I got my first rush of raw food moral superiority when I wasn’t tempted by a giant bowl of cheese cubes.
“I’m on a raw food vegan diet,” I announced proudly.
One classmate said, point blank: “You’re going to die.”
I can say with confidence that I’m still alive after my foray into fruitarianism (there are also raw juicearians and sproutarians; exactly what it sounds like).
One: I did not starve. I’ll credit that to the amazing banana. The sweet, starchy fruit was to my experiment what potatoes were to the Irish.
Two: There was a spare, poetic beauty in eating raw. Decision-making was decluttered; I spent less time choosing (should I eat the popcorn chicken or the steamed fish?) and more time chewing (I guess I’ll grab another banana).
Three: My strategy of eating a lot of fruit would not be sustainable over the long term. If I’d attempted to live entirely raw for a prolonged period of time, I’d run the risk of reduced bone density and fertility issues. Vitamin B-12 deficiencies are another constant concern for vegans, who have to put more thought into their diets to make sure they’re getting enough nutrients. Richard W. Wrangham, author of “Catching Fire: How Cooking Made Us Human,” makes a convincing argument that cooking is what allowed Homo sapiens to evolve into the large-brained, small-gutted creatures we are today.
I don’t doubt that some people are able to healthfully eat raw. But all the questionable claims began to wear on me. And as I perused an online message board, I noticed that there was an entire section dedicated to raw vegan food pet diets. One person posted a link to RawFedCats.com. Another poster noted that his wife’s hair had been falling out. And one thread rhapsodized about water fasting.
So once I broke my diet with a meal of ribs and beer, I didn’t look back. I can always tack on that banana for dessert.
Sections
Richard W. Wrangham, Currier’s House Master since 2008, has studied man’s hairier cousin—the chimpanzee—since his days as an undergraduate at Oxford University. His book, “Catching Fire: How Cooking Made Us Human,” published last May, suggests that modern man owes his unique evolutionary trajectory to his ability to cook his food. FM caught him in a rare free moment to find out more about his time in Africa, his book, and the time he sampled raw monkey.
1.
Fifteen Minutes: What is “Catching Fire” about?
Richard W. Wrangham:  The story of “Catching Fire” is the story of what cooking does for humans, and it comes into three parts. First of all, it shows that even though nutritional scientists have not given very much attention to this, the first big impact of cooking is to increase the amount of energy we get out of our food. This second thing it does is draw attention to the fact that humans appear to be biologically adapted to eating their food cooked. And the third part of the book looks at what it means for the human species to be adapted in this way, and there I think about both our anatomy and our behavior, and we can look at our anatomy and say that we’re biologically adapted to cooking in the sense that we have small intestines and small teeth.
2.
FM:  Has it been difficult to balance House life and your duties as Currier’s House Master with promoting your book?
RWW: I think that everyone who is a housemaster knows that they have to juggle their lives in all sorts of ways, because the demands of teaching and research are themselves enough to create a very busy life together with being a housemaster. It’s an intense and enjoyable experience.
3.
FM: With your interest in research and your successful writing career, what made you decide to live with undergrads at Harvard?
RWW: I had been teaching at Harvard for 19 years before I started getting engaged with the houses at all. My wife and I had just started experiencing the traditional empty nest. Our third son had gone off to college, and we were thinking about moving away from the suburbs where we had lived because of the good schools there. When the opportunity for housemaster came up, we realized that it would be a wonderful new way to experience Harvard and life in general, so we lost three sons and we gained 380 sons and daughters.
4.
FM: You’re from Britain, which is known here in America for having bad food. Did you like the food around you growing up?
RWW: I’ve never been so insulted in my life. I do fieldwork in remote places for a lot of my life, and it helps me that I am willing to eat beans and rice for weeks and months at a time. Whether that comes from having had relatively uninteresting food in England, I’m not prepared to say.
5.
FM: So what was your education like?
RWW: As I approached the end of high school I wrote endless letters in the hope of finding a position in a national park in Africa. I ended up spending nine months living in western Zambia in a national park at the age of 17. It was about the size of Switzerland, and it had about 20 people living in it. It was a wonderful introduction to the bush, and since then I have been traveling to Africa almost every year. I went to Oxford University and studied zoology because it was a great way to be able to continue going to really interesting habitats and living with wild animals.
6.
FM: What was it like working with Jane Goodall as a student?
RWW: The training that you get at a typical university like Oxford is directed at ensuring that conclusions are based on generalizations across many individuals, many samples, many populations. What Jane Goodall did was to stress the interest and the value in looking at individual differences. She introduced me to a community of 50 chimpanzees where, in order to understand the way that the society worked, one had to pay attention to each individual personality, each individual family, and each individual’s strategies for negotiating their complex social world.
7.
FM: Obviously there are many differences between life here in the ivory tower and life in the savanna, but what are some similarities?
RWW: Oh, similarities between chimpanzees and undergraduates, you mean? Well, chimpanzees like to show off by making a lot of noise and roaring about, and occasionally undergraduates will do the same.
8.
FM: One of the main ideas in your book is that cooking your food makes it more nutritious. How did you come to this realization?
RWW: When I study chimpanzees, I sometimes try to survive on chimpanzee foods for a whole day, and the short story is that you end up being very hungry. I slowly realized that there must be something very special about cooked foods compared to raw foods, and I was astonished to find that within the nutritional literature, there is very little said about the consequences of cooking for the amount of calories that we get in our food. It took me some time to assemble all of the relevant information to be able to show that this was so.
9.
FM: “Catching Fire” has gotten lots of good publicity. What is the most been the most exciting or unusual venue for you in promoting it?
RWW: I think the one I’m looking forward to most is that it’s been shortlisted for the Los Angeles Times science book prize for this year, so I’m invited to go attend the ceremony. But I’ve been able to speak about this in interesting places around the world, like Salamanca in Spain and Alexandria in Egypt. I think perhaps the Alexandria experience was greatest because that was a conference where the aim was to bring evolutionary thinking to a culture in which there is tremendous resistance to it.
10.
FM: Was the audience polite, or were they unwilling to believe your claims?
RWW: Everyone was very courteous, and there was no open hostility, but at the same time, afterwards I did have people coming to me saying they didn’t believe a word of it because humans were created only a few thousand years ago.
11.
FM: Some of your hypotheses about gender roles in human evolution could be construed as your saying that women are supposed to do the domestic work of cooking. Have you gotten any angry letters or e-mails saying that you have cast women in an unfavorable light?
FWW: I’ve had no letters of that type. There are people who occasionally ask me about it in a manner that suggests that they might be making the moralistic fallacy of thinking that an analysis of the situation is in any way prescripted. So I’ve been fairly careful, I think, in the way I talk and the way I write to point out that that is not the case. I personally think that the less defined that gender roles are the better, because it gives people the freedom to do what they want to do. I enjoy the fact that I live in a society in which sometimes men do the cooking and sometimes women do the cooking.
12.
FM: In your house, who does the cooking?
RWW: Guess what—we live in Currier, so in our house the kitchen staff do the cooking, and they do a fantastic job. We thought that when we moved into Currier, we would eat maybe half the time with students and then have half the time to ourselves, but actually we almost never cook for ourselves.
13.
FM: Have you ever tried to prepare a meal similar to one that the first humans would have had?
RWW: I haven’t tried to prepare a first human meal, but I often eat chimpanzee foods. It’s very difficult to fill your belly with them. I’ve eaten a little bit of the meat that chimpanzees eat because they sometimes kill monkeys, and after chewing parts of the body they leave the rest. That gives me the opportunity to see what the monkeys taste like. The answer is that they taste like probably any other really tough raw meat. I was interested in particular because there are some monkeys that they eat more than others, so I was wondering if the ones that they don’t eat so much taste bad. The meat does not taste bad, but I realize now that I should have chewed their skin, and that’s what I’ll do next time I find one of those species left by the chimps.
14.
FM: Don’t you worry about bacteria or getting sick from eating the raw meat?
RWW: Well, I wouldn’t swallow it. I would just chew it a little bit and spit it out.
15.
FM: So now that this book is done, what are you thinking of for your next project?
RWW: I’m not sure. This book is half of a book that I drafted about five years ago, and I’m wondering if I will take up the half that did not get published and complete that. It’s a book about the evolution of violence and peace. So I had a book previously with Dale Peterson called “Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence” and I think that there are more stories to tell about the evolutionary biology behind our propensity for violence and non-violence.
Sections
So, you played with “Star Wars” androids as a child? It’s okay; we did too. Once. 15 years ago (translation: between Episodes VI and I). A childhood celebrating Optimus Prime, a socially unfulfilling adolescence, a stunning but dateless rendition of the robot at prom—these are all things that got you into Harvard. But it’s time to leave them behind and upgrade to YOU v2.0. The robots, mega-bots, and Ca-BOTs must go.
After all, we spend every single Friday and Saturday night selflessly—no, heroically—risking life and liver to convince Facebook that Harvard students aren’t robots, programmed exclusively to study, pass exams, and engage in occasional human interaction. So leave the robots on the awkward dance floor of your middle school gymnasium, or at least in Lamont; don’t force us to fight them on the midnight shuttle. Otherwise Harvard College Standup Society’s “robololz”, funny as it is, might leave us in robotearz.
Then again, maybe there is something to this trend? Parties kept sketchily dark, omnipresent cheap handles of vodka—we have these tried-and-true methods of maximizing our allure, but what could beat covering ourselves in a cardboard box and tinfoil? We still prefer the vintage and more bohemian-chic alternative: paper bags.
Sections
Her name is Brogan A. Berry ’12, and people always say she looks like a squirrel, frolicking in the yard, nibbling on nuts, and stowing things away for winter. She knows how to use a Bumpit like Snooki, will laugh at the worst of your jokes, and went for the price of $100 last Thursday at Tommy Doyle’s.
The semi-annual date auction, put on by the Harvard Cancer Society, revealed such alluring facts about its contestants. Everything from genuine romantic desire to squirrel-related curiosities led to charitable ends, with the event bringing in just short of $1,500 in less than two hours. And with bombshells the likes of Jackie M. Alemany ’11 (“My stock is always rising!”) and Jeremy S. Lin ’10 (“People always say I look like every other Asian guy”), 10 of the 12 auctionees were priced in the triple digits. David F. Boswell ’10, who said on his registration sheet that he liked “auctioning off his body for noble causes” in his free time, went for $0, as he was unfortunately not present at the auction.
Although the group’s largest fundraiser each year is Relay for Life, Harvard Cancer Society president Kevin W. Chi ’10 noted the importance of connecting to undergraduates in different ways. “It’s hard to engage college students by saying that there’s a lecture series given by researchers,” said Chi. “You have to work with your audience and catch their attention with something a little more fun. That opens doors for talking about what we really do and what this money is going towards.”
Emily A. Hughes ’11, who brought in the top bid at $202, and also bid on a few of her friends, echoed Chi’s sentiments. “It’s a cause that really hits close to home, and it’s a fun twist on a fundraiser,” she said. “There’s a standard set of ways to raise money, and this is kind of a curveball that’s great to do once in a while.”
Leaving the event with charitable feelings high and romantic prospects even higher, the successful bidders had a lot to look forward to. Lin, one of the star auctionees of the show who went for a second-lowest $69, gave a tantalizing glimpse of what lay in store for that romantic dinner: “I paid for a girl’s meal at Qdoba once. We had a two-for-one coupon.”
Sections
According to a recent Boston Herald article, you passed out next to an empty couch last weekend with genitalia sharpie-d on your hairless chest because of a “troubled economy,” disparaging job prospects, and our worries about our “parents’ ability to pay for tuition.” Whatever, we’re over it. FM presents its own reasons why Harvard is hitting the bottle.
1)  Harvard girls.
2) Harvard guys.
3) Rubinoff is cheaper than water.
4) Professor Kaiser isn’t in to you. Let the tears roll.
5) Spring is here! As the sun touches your skin for the first time in months, the
boost in vitamin D will mean your liver’s return to health. Or something.
6) To forget some of the images locked in your mind from Primal Scream. Yes,
they’re still with you.
7) You might take off your pants outside ’Noch’s.
8)You might almost hook up with a prefrosh.
9) In your inebriated haze, you can still hold on to the delusion that you will
one day lose your virginity.
10) In your inebriated haze, you can still hold on to the delusion that you didn’t
lose your virginity in the basement of a certain final club.
11) Midterms are over—you need something to drink that’s not coffee.
12) Jesus’ first miracle turned water to wine.
13) To develop a repertoire of sketchy photos that will haunt your future
political career.
14) You can only remember the lyrics to “Don’t Stop Believing” when you’re
drunk.
15) The Charles is melting.
Sections
Sticking around campus for spring break? Jealous of your friends who are sunbathing in the tropics? Well, you can still pretend to go on vacation by leaving Harvard Square. Sure, it may be cold, but at the end of the day you’ll be glad you forewent travel expenses for some local exploration.
1. Eat Your Heart Out
With all the d-halls closed, you can reward yourself by splurging on meals during Boston’s Restaurant Week. Sample various fancy cuisines with prix fixe lunch and dinner menus at all of the city’s top restaurants. Find the details at http://restaurantweekboston.com/.
March 14-19 and 21-26 at participating restaurants.
2. Go For The Green
Head down to Southie, the Irish capital of Boston, for their annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade on Sunday. On the actual holiday, check out the third annual “Erin Go Beehive” party at the Beehive in the South End, complete with traditional music and Irish step dancing.
Sunday, March 14, 1 p.m., parade begins at Broadway T station
Wednesday, March 17, 5 p.m., The Beehive, 541 Tremont St., Boston
3. Skiing Is Sexy
If you’re looking to go farther from the Harvard Bubble, take a day trip out to the slopes.  Wachusett Mountain has a shuttle service on Saturdays and Sundays that runs directly from the commuter rail station at Fitchburg to the mountain for added convenience. Information is at http://www.wachusett.com.
March 14 and before: $49 for weekend all-day lift tickets; After March 15: $46
4. “You Want Fried Rice With That?”
Pretend you’ve actually crossed the globe with a trip into Asian cuisine. Gorge yourself on dim sum at China Pearl, or make your way to the Super 88 in Allston, a Chinese grocery and restaurant mecca, to stock up on all the essentials.
Super 88: 1 Brighton Ave, Allston
China Pearl: 9 Tyler Street, Boston
5. Get Some (Art-Loving) Ass
Feel cultured for free at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. During the week, check out their series on the Films of British Documentarian Kim Longinotto in addition to the art.Series runs March 17-26, Museum of Fine Arts, 465 Huntington Ave., Boston. Admission free for students, $6-$8 for film screenings.
Sections
It’s not easy being a grad student at Harvard. While members of the College stress over cold breakfasts and the prospect of living in Mather, their comrades over at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences are paying rent, planning careers, and enduring a workload that makes Life Sci 1b look like a walk in the park. All of this means that opportunities for fun—and for community—are few and far between.
Not so for the Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (HGWISE), who spent last Saturday afternoon on a guided tour of the Matfield Maple Farm. More than 20 students made the journey down to West Bridgeport, Mass. to see how maple sap is extracted from trees and then made into syrup.
HGWISE organizes monthly events, ranging from the  serious—speeches on work-life balance, for instance—to the social. “We are trying to have fun, trying to build a community that women can go to when they need suggestions or advice,” said Shan Lou, organizer of the event.
“HGWISE likes to give us the opportunity to meet other people who are in similar situations to us,” said Primrose J. Boynton. The scientists seemed to enjoy the chance to discuss their common experiences and interests, from fungi to telescopes to the gender question.
The maple farm itself was a model of sustainability, and its owner Richard Forbes a man on a mission as he illuminated the secrets behind the syrup. Followed closely by the women of Harvard science, Forbes explained the intricate assembly of taps and tubes that drain the sweet sap from the trees. Back in the rustic wooden shed that doubled as a gift shop, he demonstrated the hydraulic system that slowly boils 40 gallons of sap down to one gallon of delicious maple syrup.
Gazing with pride over the expanse of his farm and the llamas that roamed there, Forbes explained that his tours were helping to show the world another way of thinking about open spaces. “We get people from all over the world,” he said. ”We send syrup all over the world too—even to Mozambique!”
The HGWISE crowd left pleased to have swapped stories, tapped into their inner farm girls, and, of course, bought inordinate quantites of maple syrup. Although its focus is on support for women in science, HGWISE’s events are notably open to anyone in the Harvard community. Except maybe Larry Summers.
Sections
Pisces Feb 19 - March 20
He’s a sociopath.
Aries Mar 21 - Apr 19
Spring break is rearing its tropical head and you are banking on a second lease on life. Sure, Aries, your hyperactive imagination and hot head may have stirred up a Molotov cocktail last month, but this weekend  is going to be great for you, whether it wants to be or not.
Taurus Apr 20 - May 20
Sometimes, Taurus, you take life by the horns a little too earnestly. Maybe on camera. Or with your estranged, slightly-less-attractive ex. Luckily, your Taurean charisma, can-do attitude, and blissful ignorance of your own actions are smoothing everything over this week quite nicely. As always, look forward to a fun and forgettable spring break.
Gemini May 21 - June 20
Everything is better with twins, they say. But this week, Gemini, The new moon, sun, Jupiter, Mercury, and Uranus are all up in your tenth house of glory. You’re going to need to go from seeing double to a one-track mind in no time. Kick your social side to the curb or kiss success goodbye.
Cancer June 21 - July 22
This week is the prelude to a life-changing journey, Cancer. It’s game time. Meanwhile, your ninth house of justice is crammed with a nagging sense of civic responsibility. Whether jury duty calls or that subpoena finally arrives in your drop box, embrace what life tosses at you or that journey to Jamaica might well turn into a sojourn to the slammer.
Leo July 23 - Aug 22
There’s no such thing as a cowardly lion. But sometimes you just need to back the fuck down, Leo. You might be creeping on your ex or lurking in all the wrong places, but it’s time to find your calling elsewhere. The end of the week will offer an opportunity to act on some new exciting social options, so approach with caution and care. For once.
Virgo Aug 23 - Sept 22
Ah, Virgo. Pure, certainly. Chaste, perhaps. But you’re not as naïve as he or she thinks you are, and you need to prove it this month. Whether it’s a toxic friend or a trifling significant other, time to cash in your V-card for a better model.
Libra Sept 23 - Oct 22
You may be an expert on keeping life in balance, Libra, but this week is tipping the scales. Some negative energy on Thursday may test your emotions, but try to keep some perspective. Unless you’re in Winthrop. Sorry.
Scorpio Oct 23 - Nov 21
I have nothing to say to you, Scorpio. You’re going to have an epic month but some miserable friends are going to hate your venomous guts if you don’t adopt some sensitivity. Try to focus on others and your good fortune might not come back to bite you.
Sagittarius Nov 22 - Dec 21
Whatever you do, don’t drink the tequila. Trust me.
Capricorn Dec 22 - Jan 19
Capricorn, you know you’re complex. But complexity can sometimes come off as arrogance or ennui, and that special someone isn’t having it this month. Try to use that intellect to your advantage and win them over once again.
Aquarius Jan 20 - Feb 18
This is going to be a blue month for you, Aquarius. The good kind. Whether it’s tropical waters or everyone’s choice classy potable (HPNOTIQ), spring break is going to be cool, sweet, and delicious. You might also consider a vigorous shower the next morning, in any case.
Sections
Last Wednesday evening, in Harvard’s Malkin Athletic Center, all the ladies—and not just the single ones—channeled their inner Beyoncé, learning the first minute of the dance to her acclaimed song, “Single Ladies (Put a Ring On It).” At 7:15 p.m., the mezzanine area reached capacity as 40 women of all ages shook their hips, pointed to their ring fingers, and shouted, in the words of the world-renowned artist, “’Cause if you liked it then you should have put a ring on it.”
The class’s peppy blonde instructor, Cristina Hoff, sported a fanny pack and fuschia headset, and began by teaching the group how to execute one of the dance’s signature moves: the iconic hand flip. Balanced on the balls of their feet, with heads tilted down, students punched the air in unison and, after only a few minutes, had let loose. The “Sasha ferocity” was palpable, with one participant even donning the black long-sleeved leotard and black tights seen in the music video.
After several minutes of laughter and missteps, Hoff split the class into three groups, and while each group performed what they had learned, shrieks of encouragement and “Go girl!” resounded throughout the room. For most participants, it didn’t matter whether he “put a ring on it” because, by the workshop’s end, everyone in the room was dancing like a diva.
Hoff, who danced professionally and specializes in jazz and hip-hop, drew energy from the room’s enthusiasm. “The event was a huge success and I attribute that to the positive energy of the class participants,” she said.
“We absolutely loved it!” confirmed Sofia Vallila, a Ph.D. student and one of the workshop’s attendees. Amongst participants, if you were a single lady, you were proud to be one, and if you weren’t, you were still proud to be a lady. Last week’s workshop—not simply a dance class, but a welcome confidence-booster for Harvard’s women—proved that maybe everybody needs a “Single Ladies” dance party every once in a while.
Sections
Hey Rabbah Sara Hurwitz, first female Orthodox rabbi, what is your favorite Jewish holiday?
Yom Kippur. I consider myself a Yom Kippur Jew. I think having the opportunity to have a day engaged in prayer and reconnection to God is a gift, and to not focus on one’s physical self, but to have a clean slate and to think about [one’s] past self and future is something people take for granted, but it is a gift.
Sections
Jody Cukier Siegler ’79 is the type of person who, when asked if she minds being recorded during an interview, says, “Just as long as you don’t give it to, you know, the House Un-American Activities people.” She is the type of person who says things like, “Are you sure you want to know about this?”  Or, “So that’s kind of what I thought when I got there, in 3,000 words or less.” Why she’s still in California, even though she grew up in New York: “I’m being held hostage here by my husband who adores the climate.”
Or: “I was never culturally prepared from my time at Harvard how extraordinary and mind-bogglingly fabulous being a mother and running a family would be.”
Thirty years ago, before family, jobs, and graduation, Jody and her roommates got a letter, early one morning, saying that they’d be living in Mather House together for the next three years. It was the worst thing that could have happened to them, some of them thought: Mather with its new architecture and ugly towers. You had to walk so far to class. Their seventh choice out of twelve. But it all turned out fine, they said—they loved it. Things worked out.
Today is Housing Day at Harvard, which is about where you will live for the next three years. It is also about you waking up, tired and still half-drunk, realizing that the people opening the letter in those chairs across the room are going to be “your college roommates,” the ones that you’ll tell stories about when you’re older, the godparents to your kids, your aging links to youth and beauty. You’re stuck with them, for life, whether they’re a part of your life or not.
Jody is speaking on the phone a continent away, somewhere near Los Angeles. She might be sitting in a chair in her dining room. A land phone rings every once in a while and she pauses to see the caller. A dog barks in the background. In the middle of speaking about a roommate in New York she ushers her husband pleasantly out the door: “He’s looking longingly at the kitchen counter like, ‘Can I get lunch today or is that a lost cause?’” She settles in and keeps talking.
She had a big rooming group—their era’s equivalent of a blocking group—and she’s going through them all: Claire, Carole, Susie, Leslie, and the men—Mike, Tim, Ed and Jim. Thirty years ago they were in Mather, sharing a bathroom door—it had a lock. Thirty years ago Jody was a coast away, time stretching like land in front of her: this is what she talks about, curled up with phone neck-and-shouldered, legs crossed, making sure her interviewer is still interested every once in a while—“Am I rambling?  No? Oh okay good!”—sounding genuinely surprised every time I’m still there.
AS IT WAS
In the 1970s, when Jody and her rooming group were at Harvard, their school, like the rest of the country, was tired. The Sixties had been exhausting. They began conservatively enough, with 2,000 students gathered in front of Widener on a spring day in 1961 to register their displeasure at the abandonment of the handwritten Latin diploma. In April of 1969, protestors took over University Hall. Faculty members prowled the outside of Widener Library, protecting against fire-bombers. Someone wrote on a physics blackboard: “no class today, no ruling class tomorrow.”
In his book, “The Harvard Century,” Richard Norton Smith ’75 writes, “Battered by Vietnam and Watergate, drained by inflation, adrift under commonplace leadership, Americans turned inward in the Seventies. So did Harvard.” The sheets of protective plastic hastily thrown up over the windows of the president’s office in ’69 were still there, but they never needed to serve their purpose. Government professor Stanley H. Hoffman said about the student body, “They have the bizarre notion that a university is for studying.” David C. McClelland, a Harvard psychologist, made a name for himself selling theories about human behavior to government agencies and corporations. “In the Sixties, if you said ‘business,’ people spat on you,” he said. “Now I’m a hero.”
In a final gasp of giving in to liberal Sixties sentiments, the Seventies were also ultimately home to the final joining of Harvard and Radcliffe—in the spring of 1975 students were admitted to both colleges by the same committee. In the fall of 1975, Jody and her roommates came to Cambridge.
This was the era of disco, of Earth, Wind and Fire and the Commodores. Jody and the others had record players in their rooms. They threw parties and jazz concerts in Mather courtyard. When the weather was nice they would run power-cord extensions out the windows and type their papers outside, on their Smith Corona electric typewriters. They screened movies in the Science Center: once, during the newest 007 film, someone spliced in a hardcore pornographic scene right after the movie alluded to a Bond tryst.
This was a time when Winthrop House had an endowed fund for ice cream sundaes every weekend. It was also a time when the administration put women well inside the Yard for safety: Stoughton and Thayer rather than Wigglesworth. When one of Jody’s suitemates, Susie Case Peterson ’79, graduated, she lived in an apartment in Boston where her landlord was a heroin addict. One night he used his spare key to break into her room while she was sleeping, but she didn’t know if he meant to harm her or just rip her off. He passed out cold in the kitchen, sprawled on the floor.
On weekends, the rooming group might wander around the back of MIT and walk along the railroad tracks, throw rocks through the windows. Back then it was a wasteland of abandoned warehouses and graffiti. This was when Reverend Gomes came to Harvard (“He couldn’t have been that much older than us!”). Yo-Yo Ma ’76 was an undergraduate, and in the introductory music classes he would play examples of the pieces being taught. Vietnam was over, but lighter protests died hard: hot breakfast was gone due to budget cuts, but the so-called Egg Shell Alliance marched in the Yard and won it back.
THE GANG
Jody came from Long Island, N.Y. She would return home during the summer to get a taste of the real world, once working on the boardwalk in Wildwood, N.J., living in a two-bedroom apartment with four girls she’d never met (after being told that it sounded like “Jersey Shore,” she says, “That’s exactly what it was. Well, no, except for the guido part. It was actually a bunch of French Canadians, who I don’t want to offend.”)
But at Harvard, Jody at first fought to adapt. Her father was an immigrant Auschwitz survivor, and her mother was born and raised in Brooklyn. Neither of them went to college. “I remember her mother always used to want to come up and sleep in our college dorm,” says Claire Goodman Cloud ’79, who became Jody’s roommate.  “She had never been to college, so she wanted to feel what it was like.”
Claire helped with the transition—“Claire, about as quintessential Manhattan as you can get, but not ‘that’ person,” says Jody. Claire’s father is Roy M. Goodman ’51, a state senator from Manhattan who held office from 1969 to 2002: the Statesman of the State Senate, they called him.
At Harvard, Claire was the captain of the swimming team. “I was decidedly not the best swimmer,” she says. “I was the best cheerleader but not the best swimmer.” She brought Jody along with her to be the manager.
It was Claire who brought the other girls together, gathering Carole B. Markin ’80, Leslie J. Berg ’80 and Susie Peterson Case ’79 from Stoughton. “She’s the glue,” Susie says.
The four girls lived together their sophomore year. They shared a bathroom with five other sophomores who had known each other at Exeter. The next year the group went in three separate directions: Jody and Claire stayed together, as did Leslie and Carole, with Suzie attaching herself to another group. Leslie and Carole both ended up taking a year off before graduating, and upon returning they lived off-campus.
Their class in Mather was larger than both the junior and senior classes. The class of ’79 in total was the largest Harvard had seen in recent memory. A caveat to this was the male-female ratio.
“The grad schools were nine to one, undergrad was three to one,” says Susie. “There were just a lot of men everywhere.”
“All the guys knew who you were,” says Carole. Then she thought about it for a moment. “If you were vaguely decent-looking then they knew who you were.” She remembers eating dinner and walking out and all the guys watching, heads turning.
Jim D. Auran ’79, part of the male half of the room group, was on the other side of that divide. “There just weren’t enough girls, you know? All the girls were taken after Freshman Week.”
Jim and Ed W. Harris ’79 were roommates freshman year, along with Tim E. McGee ’79. “I remember that when I first met Jim,” Ed says, “he had just moved in and I was moving in behind him and I was blown away by his amazing stereo system.” Now a lawyer in Wyoming, he is reserved but friendly: after being thanked for agreeing to an interview, he says, “Oh, you bet. Hold on just a minute while I shut my door.” Ed played alto sax in the Harvard Band, becoming drill master senior year.
As sophomores, the three men picked up Mike Ericksen ’79 and lived together in Mather for the next three years. It was as seniors that the group lived next-door to Claire and Jody, in adjoining rooms with a bathroom in between. “The suites in Mather were huge with these joining bathrooms,” explains Jim, “so you get lots of people—your rooming group became quite extended.”
Slightly embarrassed to admit that what kept him busy at Harvard was his work, Jim says, “I was trying to be an overachiever. I was doing a lot of research.” The research, into an obscure eye pigment that no one else was studying, turned into his thesis and eventually his career as an ophthalmologist.
Writing was not his forte, according to Jim. He says this in various ways: concerning the paper that he co-wrote with a colleague, who ended up writing most of it, and retelling the story of his ill-fated Crimson comp: “I’m a crappy writer.”
But 30 years since his college days, Jim seems to have become more comfortable with his words. Every five years, for each reunion, the Class Report Office at the Harvard Alumni Association compiles anniversary reports made up of biographical entries written by class members. In Jim’s 25th reunion report, he’s forced pleasantly into the medium: “[My] daughters—who each weave their magic as artists, athletes, poets, entertainers, and sprites that dance in the summer night—have enriched my life beyond my wildest expectations.” He writes with precision and poignancy of finding peace on Long Island beaches, gardening with his daughters and biking alone.
Fatherhood is far removed from a twin bed in Mather, but the two mix when the Class of ’79 returns to Cambridge for their reunions.
Reunions are things that Jim feels very strongly about, especially the 25th, the crowning anniversary of them all. “For 25 years I’ve had people tell me that the best week of their lives was their 25th reunion. I thought, well, you know, I guess I’m going to be let down.” Jim is exuberant and he starts talking quickly. “It was like going to Disney World!”
The reunions force roommates to get together. Everyone looks better, he says, more professional: the girls more mature, guys not bald yet and without paunches. You drop your car off and the football team comes and carries your bag. There is a gazebo in the Yard. The weather, of course, is always nice.
Even Leslie made it back. She hadn’t planned to go, didn’t think she fit the bill: a mother of young children, and how could she up and leave them for four days?  But she did go, at least for an event or two, and she concedes that it was nice. She’s quiet for a minute and then she says, “It’s kind of fun in the moment, but afterwards, life goes right back to normal.”
Ed came back too. One of the things that he says surprised him about the reunion was how little everybody had changed, how they had the same basic personalities.
But when asked if he’s kept in touch with his roommates he answers, “No.” He pauses. “We really haven’t kept in touch very well.” It was different in those days, he says, without e-mail or cell phones, and people spread out across the continent. “I’m very sorry we didn’t because, like I said, we were very good friends. Except for my wife, they were the best friends I’ve ever had.”
Two weeks ago, Jody Cukier Siegler’s daughter died in an accident. She was 13 years old. It happened in California.
Claire and Carole were at the funeral. Claire called me some days later saying that Jody wanted to know if she could have, somehow, a copy of the recording of when we talked. If nothing else, the transcript. Jody wanted to hear what she’d said about her own daughter.
“My daughter is in eighth grade, 13 going on 14. Her primary social interactions are through texting,” Jody had said.
Also: “I feel by the hair of my chinny chin chin that family came my way, and I am so grateful and so glad that I have our daughter and our stepson: two kids, one set of stretch marks.”
Last: “For me it’s a great blended existence, if I can at all control my schedule and be a mom and be home for my daughter—it is a luxury. I feel bad for people who don’t have choices.”
Carole sat shiva with the family. She also e-mailed Leslie, who lives far away on the other side of the country, in Massachusetts. No one had seen Leslie in a long time, and she had only been at the 25th reunion for a day. The way Carole explains it, Leslie was the sanest of them all in adulthood: one career, a straight line. She’d been a professor for years.
Leslie answered the e-mail that night, immediately. Terrible, it was terrible.
THE RED BOOKS
The Harvard Alumni Association keeps copies of the Class Reports—the books with the pictures and stories of Jody, Jim and the rest—at its office on Mt. Auburn Street. There’s a doorman who nods when you walk by. Inside, the ceiling is high, an indoor arboretum, a huge open space with sleek windows letting you see into rooms on upper floors.
Inside the elevators the walls are wood-paneled, edged with brass molding. The control panel glistens, and when you touch the button—six—that’s the first fingerprint on the whole thing.
Exiting the elevator, inside the office proper on the far wall, there’s the Harvard Alumni Association sigil. It’s a huge shield with the letters “HAA” on top and, below, a depiction of a road that narrows to a point, as if far in the distance. The wall decorations are sleek.
There’s a table with four chairs arranged symmetrically around it where they’ve laid out magazines and the recent class reports, heavily stacked.
“Careful; those books can suck you in,” the secretary says. She has a British accent and a phone balanced between her cheek and shoulder.
The regular class reports for the regular reunions—fifth, 10th, 15th, 30th—are Cornell red, paperback, with cardboard covers porous to the touch. But the 25th Anniversary Report is colored crimson, its titular letters in gold trim, the twin shields of Harvard and Radcliffe embossed on the front, raised a little so you can feel them if you run your hands over their rims.
The 25th Anniversary Report is the pride and joy of its makers. It is hardcover. Its pages are glossy. It has pictures—sometimes before-and-afters—next to names, sometimes with large bifocals, crazy haircuts, moustaches.
There is a lot of “life has been good to me.” Someone says, “I enjoy the fribble.” And “I feel extraordinarily grateful for the past 25 years.” There is Kimberly C. who goes on for pages and pages: “On some levels, I am exactly where I thought I would be at this point in my life.” There is David C., whose entire entry reads, “LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: XXXX Fox St., Riverside, CA.” It has a picture from when he was younger, hair wavy and unruly and parted where his nose meets his forehead.
The book is reunion on paper. Everyone is here. Everyone is smiling. It is easier to see old friends like this than in person, by a sickbed, at a funeral. Their pictures are paper playing cards, gathered as if nothing has changed.
Jim had said about “The Red Books,” as the Class Reports are called, “If you ever look through them, it’s like they’re the Book of Life. They tell all these anecdotes. I’m always exhausted staying up all night reading them.” It’s true: the books hold everything in them about the alumni experience. What it means to find the world. What it feels like to be mediocre, or not. Above all, the process of growing distant.
“That’s kind of what you get when you read them,” Jim says. “Just like talking to old farts like me.”
Ed’s entry is simple—just the biographical details. He lives now on a place called The Alleged Ranch. He was born in Loveland, Colo. He does have before and after pictures, and they are set up in the same way, head inclined in the same direction.
Jody’s page starts characteristically: “When I got pregnant and I was told that my blood type was A-, I asked the doctor what held him back from giving me an A+.” Later: “I graduated from Harvard in 1979 B.C. (Before Computers).”
Then she talks about her daughter, how she became a born-again mom. She says the young girl is a brightly shining beacon of love.
She ends with these words: “I could go on, but who would want me to?”
Sections
THE HOME AND THE MAN
One of Harvard’s most visible power couples, the Bhabhas live in a quaint, unmarked cottage near the Radcliffe Quad.  Their quiet street sits a few blocks away from a string of neighborhood businesses on Concord Avenue. Days usually start early in the morning for Homi K. Bhabha, at around 5:30 or 6 a.m. He writes his lectures and works until 7 a.m. or so, when he’ll take Django, his Welsh Springer Spaniel, for a walk around the neighborhood. Around 8 a.m., he shares a light breakfast of Darjeeling tea and fresh fruit with his wife. He speaks with his assistant around 9 a.m. to discuss his schedule for the day, then drives to school, although he admits he should walk. The evening is usually dedicated to a Humanities Center event, where Bhabha participates as a moderator or speaker. Most days end with a dinner with friends or colleagues.
Professor Bhabha and Django greeted us at the door, the morning after he returned from his trip to Germany as a keynote speaker for the Ministry of Education. Showing no signs of jetlag, Bhabha was without his signature glasses in a crisp outfit of jeans, shirt, and a sweater that, only upon a second look, revealed a mix of textures and details.
THE LIVING ROOM
As we entered the living room, Bhabha’s sense of personal style became truly evident. A modern, poppy red couch with a curved back; 19th-century Chinese embroideries and Turkish prayer rugs; a portrait of his grandfather in a mirroredArt Deco frame; a self-portrait made by his son—there isn’t a single time period or style that dominates the living room. Instead, the ambience is personal and authentic. When asked about his influences and inspiration, Bhabha describes the importance of his childhood in India.
“People from all over the world lived in Bombay, which was originally a Portuguese colony before the British took it over, so I grew up in a culture that was very mixed. It was mixed at the upper, wealthier level, but Bombay is also a city where people come to make their fortune from all over India, so less fortunate people, from the South, North and West of India, also gathered,” he says. “When I say my style is eclectic, it’s fusion. It’s pulling together different things from very different traditions and cultures and putting them together, reassembling them. I’m interested in assemblage, putting things together, and giving each element that you take from a different culture a new meaning as you put it in a new context.”
This theme is most apparent in two of Bhabha’s favorite items. In a corner between two panel windows is a print by French artist Leger depicting a woman with her hand over her head, and right underneath is a piece of an Indian sculpture of a woman also with her hand over her head. Although both items are of completely different time periods, cultures, and media, they echo each other for a distinct effect.
THE DINING ROOM
Outside of work, Bhabha likes to spend his time entertaining friends and family in his dining room. which has light green walls that open onto a wooden porch lined with electric lamps.
“For myself, I’ll make a sandwich and read a book, but for family and friends, it’s a great privilege to cook for them and have them sit around a table,” he says. “In fact, my happiest moments have been a good mixture of family and friends enjoying food and drink together, because that atmosphere has a way of really sparking wonderful conversations that bring great warmth, and I think great warmth and intelligence illuminate a life.”
His specialty is a Parsee dish of lamb or chicken slow-cooked with spiced lentils and vegetables. He became animated as he expressed the importance of bones when cooking meat. “Americans think that no food has bones in it, but it’s the bones that make the dish. I always use the bone, never without.”
Bhabha, who would be entertaining a guest that evening, mused about what he would cook for dinner, then decided on a mushroom soup with Madeira wine and vegetables and a grilled whole fish stuffed with herbs or a seafood risotto. It seems that most evenings the Bhabha home is a place of communion. In fact, the previous night, sculptor Anish Kapoor flew in with Bhabha from London and had spent the night at his home.
But in the end, our visit was about more than artifacts and food. Time itself seemed slower, almost languid, at the Bhabha residence—the dog never barked, but slowly wagged its tail; even the telephone ring was soft and muffled, and quintessential Harvard items such as Blackberrys and laptops seemed worlds away.
Sections
ADAMS
Zachary C. Sifuentes ’97
Resident Tutor
FM: What’s your favorite thing about Adams House?
ZCS: The people. The tutors get involved, the House Masters get involved, but even people like our security guard will participate in things like Drag Night. Our dining hall manager participates in IM sports. He actually just broke his thumb playing IM sports.
LOWELL
Patricia L. Villarreal
Resident Tutor
FM: What makes Lowell stand out above other Houses?
PLV: The location is the best. Our courtyards are by far the nicest. It’s the best because we’re not on the river, but we are close enough to Harvard Yard. But actually a House—not like Adams...the structure of Adams is a bit strange because it was sort of built upon aggregated things. So we are the only “house” House that has that.
QUINCY
Michael Charles
Dining Hall Worker and Card Swiper
FM: Why does the staff like working in Quincy?
MC: We’re always here for you, here to talk to you. You’ll get along with us as well as with your fellow Quincy House peers. Our House Masters are great, so it takes a little bit of pressure off for you to just get your work done and feel good about yourself.
Sections
DUNSTER
Susan Olsen
Dining Hall Cook
FM: What’s your favorite time of the year in Dunster?
SO: My favorite time of the year is Christmas time when they put the great big Christmas tree in the corner, and all the lights are up. It’s kind of a magical place around Christmas time, probably just that because it’s probably a 30-foot Christmas tree, and I’ve never seen anything that big so—right in that corner, it goes all the way up to the second picture, up there.
LEVERETT
Mary E. Correia
Lead Supervisor of Dining Hall Staff
FM: What’s your favorite view in Leverett?
MEC: It’s the first place I’ve worked at with windows, and I love it because I love the daylight, the sunlight, and especially being here on the river, near the water. I also think it’s really cute when they dress up in their bunny costumes and go all around.
MATHER
Arun Malik
Security Guard
FM: What’s your favorite Mather tradition?
AM: Well, it’s a recent tradition, but I’ve noticed when whenever they make the Mather video, each year, they dress up in tights that make them look like clowns and they all have the synchronous dancing, and they play “Our House” or whatever. I think it’s a tradition Mather needs to continue because if you go to YouTube as a freshman and take a look at “Our House” or “Mather the Movie,” you’ll want to move into Mather immediately. You’ll curse the gods that you didn’t win the lottery. But it’s not just watching the videos—it’s watching them make the videos, and the fun they have coming up with the various scripts and ideas. And I hope this becomes a tradition.
Sections
CABOT
Richard A. Johnson
Resident Tutor
FM: If you could say one thing to freshmen as they get psyched for Housing Day, or more specifically, as they get excited to be put into a River House and fear the Quad, what would it be?
RAJ: Once I actually heard a student in the Cabot dining hall refer to the difficulty of having a long-distance relationship and of course I assumed the student was talking about having a girlfriend at Yale or at, I don’t know, NYU or something, but he was actually talking about having a girlfriend, I don’t know, in Dunster. But I’d say, it’s really not that far and that Cabot House is just a really special place. The sophomore and the junior classes that are going to be leading Cabot next year have a lot of energy. They’re working really hard.
CURRIER
Kurt J. Gray
Resident Tutor
FM: What, in your opinion, is the worst part of living in the Quad, if there is one?
KJG: Yeah, I don’t really feel like, especially from my perspective, there is a bad part of being in the Quad. There’s less drunken final club students and maybe if you, like, really hang out with wasted kids from final clubs then that might be a downfall.
PFOHO
Jason Peoples
Assistant to the Resident Dean
FM: What is your favorite part of the PfoHo community?
JP: When new groups of people get to PfoHo [on Housing Day] and see the level of creativity and excitement, it’s instantaneous almost. You have this new person who’s going to be an active member. For many people, that lasts past Housing Day and carries through the year. Housing Day is just a kick-start.
Sections
ELIOT
Michael C. McGaghie ’01
Senior Resident Tutor
FM: What is the most extravagant thing that a student has ever done for you to show their appreciation?
MCM: Someone dressed up as me for Halloween this year. Let’s hope that was a gesture of appreciation.
KIRKLAND
Scott Haywood
Building Manager
FM: What is the most absurd call you have ever received from a student?
SH: That would be the case of the angry beer keg. About six years ago, the boys up in I-34 had an empty beer keg that somehow, on its own, managed to smash the bathroom sink into a thousand pieces. With a straight face they all reported no one knew how it happened. Everyone was out at the time, or supposedly it happened in the middle of the night when they all were asleep. Apparently the keg just rolled across the floor and on its own, hopped up on the sink and smashed it to pieces. Beware of empty kegs.
Also a student named “Someone,” who I believe lives in Eliot House, seems to be awfully busy. Anytime anything happens here that shouldn’t, “Someone” did it. I’m surprised they haven’t been Ad Boarded or have [not] graduated by now.
WINTHROP
Gregg A. Peeples
Resident Dean
FM: As a former Marine and avid athlete, how do you whip Winthrop students into shape?
GAP: I try to have daily all-House training in the courtyard...at sunrise. Surprisingly, attendance is low. I am thinking we should hire a bugler to play “Reveille” every morning, sort of like those loud bells we hear from Lowell. That should help get people up for it.
Sections
Whether they’ve been shacked up in Lamont, Starbucks, or the back of your dining hall, they’ve undoubtedly been working away, huddled over laptops and poring over sticky-noted library books. With the final thesis deadline fast approaching, many are days away from the time when they’ll print, bind, and send a year’s worth of work, research, and sweat out into the universe (or at least university) for final judgment.
Perhaps the only undergraduate undertaking more challenging than writing a senior thesis for your concentration is writing an interdisciplinary thesis for both of your concentrations. Yet for some passionate thesis writers, this joint-concentration endeavor was just the challenge they’d been waiting for.
SEEKING APPROVAL
As demanding as the challenge of writing the interdisciplinary thesis may be, according to some joint-thesis writers, gaining permission to do so can be just as testing.
Alicia C. Beyer ’10, an Economics and History of Art and Architecture joint concentrator, wrote her senior thesis on the factors motivating corporate giving to the arts. Gaining approval for such a project, however, was no easy feat:
“It was challenging getting it approved, and a challenge convincing people that it wasn’t just that I had two very disparate interests and wasn’t willing to compromise, but that I was interested in their intersection,” explains Beyer.
Roger C. Batt ’10, a History of Art and Architecture and Neurobiology joint concentrator, experienced a similar challenge in trying to identify a thesis topic that would fit with both his fields of interests.
“The most challenging part was just getting started and really finding a topic that both [departments] could work with because making a topic work for both a science and a humanities department was really difficult,” explains Batt. “At first they tried to encourage me to pursue a secondary in Art History, but I really wanted to do a joint concentration.”
THE STRUGGLE CONTINUES
Even after gaining approval from their departments, for some joint concentrators, one of their greatest challenges is just keeping both concentrations satisfied.
For Sarah A. Hinkfuss ’10, a joint Environmental Science and Public Policy (ESPP) and Economics concentrator writing her senior thesis on equity in informal water markets overseas, one of the greatest struggles was balancing the requirements and expectations of the two departments.
“Constantly, I was going back and forth. I was always writing and then figuring out what I needed to do and just making sure that what I wanted to do fit the stipulations of both departments,” Hinkfuss says. “It was very frustrating when I felt like I was attacked from both sides. Environmental would say I wasn’t being environmental enough, and economics would say I wasn’t being ‘economics-y’ enough...because I tried to mediate between different areas, it was like no area was satisfied.”
For Batt, finding the balance between Neuroscience and Art History has also been a challenge.
“Neuroscience is interested in methodology, the various scientifically rigorous aspects, whereas art history doesn’t care as much about the science. They care more about the theory. So it’s difficult to balance how much I’m going to give to each concentration.”
Of course, the challenges of undertaking such a massive project extend far beyond pleasing department heads.
For Natasa Kovacevic ’10, whose thesis combines Economics and Neurobiology, one of the greatest obstacles was fielding her own research, a process that was wrought with doubt.
“With a science thesis, especially an empirical one that’s so experiment heavy, you can never be sure of what you’re doing. You can never be sure that you’re going to get the results that you need,” explains Kovacevic.
According to Kovacevic, the threat of gathering potentially useless data loomed until the projects’s end.
“I’m not afraid of putting in a lot of work,” she says. “But it would sometimes be very daunting that no matter how much work I put in I couldn’t know for sure that my experiment would work.”
THE SPARK
So why was it worth it? Why go through the bureaucratic hassle of melding two fields? At the core, it was the writers’ passion that served as their primary motivation. Whether researching water supplies overseas or analyzing corporate giving to the arts, the genuine interest of these writers was what kept them typing.
For Hinkfuss, the challenge of combining two related fields with frequently opposing views was an interesting and novel experience.
“A lot of times, economists and environmentalists are on completely opposite sides of the table, so I was interested in studying them together in order to find the overlaps,” she says.
And beyond this challenge was the allure of producing useful research and data. Since Hinkfuss studied and proposed new policy for a real informal water market, her results have the potential to be put to use.
“I came up with policy suggestions and it’s neat because the people I worked with are the people who are in charge of actually monitoring [the water market], and they’re very interested in what I’ve been doing and my results,” she says. “I’ll have the opportunity to present this and potentially have it become policy.”
Kovacevic’s research results will also have real-life relevance.
“My research could actually yield useful new insights, so I felt like I wasn’t just doing it for the sake of me and my undergraduate thesis, but that it could actually be useful to future researchers in both fields.”
Overall, many joint-concentration thesis writers feel that focusing on two fields was an invaluable experience, one which allowed them to push their research and explore their topic at an even higher level.
“Definitely combining them forced me to bring their two methodologies into consideration and then to complement each other,” says Beyer of her experience writing on both Economics and Art History. “I definitely got things out of combining them that I wouldn’t have gotten from doing them separately.”
For Hinkfuss, the experience of combining Economics and ESPP allowed her to extend her research and analysis beyond what either department could have offered independently.
“If I had been an ESPP concentrator I could have written a thesis like the one I’m writing, but it wouldn’t have had the Economics support, and my thesis wouldn’t be what it is today,” Hinkfuss says.
Although the thesis writers have spent hours in the library pecking away at their computers, Beyer’s perspective of the value of her undertaking extends beyond the confines of the university.
“The real world is very interdisciplinary,” says Beyer. “Only in academia are there these weird, very defined environments, and so that was neat.”
Sections
Beloved house personalities speak out on everything from late-night phone calls to the perks of Quad living.
Adams, Lowell, Quincy
Dunster, Leverett, Mather
Cabot, Currier, Pforzheimer
Eliot, Kirkland, Winthrop
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of Harvard College Evelynn M. Hammonds released yesterday the official report of the Committee to Review the Administrative Board, which recommends a holistic reform of the College’s primary disciplinary body.
The 26-page report proposes increasing the involvement of students in disciplinary procedures, renaming and finetuning the role of the resident dean, and amending the faculty rules on academic dishonesty.
The report, which is divided into three sections, details recommendations that require different methods of approval. Some can be implemented unilaterally by Hammonds and the Ad Board, others require Faculty approval, and yet others have been marked for “further discussion.”
Much of the first section of the Committee’s recommendations have already been implemented, including altering the Resident Dean’s role in Ad Board proceedings and having students answer questions before a small subcommittee of the Ad Board instead of the much larger full board.
A unanimous vote of the Faculty in the fall gave the Faculty Council the power to expel students, overriding the previous rule of requiring the full vote of the Faculty.
After almost a year of keeping the report under wraps, the decision to release it marks a reversal by Hammonds. During the first Faculty meeting of this academic year, Hammonds announced that she would release the report, but then in an interview with The Crimson in October, she said that she had misspoken and did not plan on releasing the report.
Despite the decision to keep the report out of the public eye, many of the its recommendations were widely known before yesterday’s release. In June, The Crimson ran an article detailing many of the report’s recommendations.
“Having had sufficient time to study the report, to begin implementing some of the recommendations and to understand and begin charting next steps, I wanted to respond to requests from students and faculty that the draft report be released publicly,” Hammonds wrote in an e-mailed statement.
Reforms to how the College addresses academic plagiarism will be the next issue Hammonds puts before the Faculty, according to a message to the Harvard College community posted online yesterday.
The Ad Board Review Committee’s academic dishonesty recommendations are two-fold. The Committee suggests extensive revisions to the student handbook and an increase in the range of punishments available to the Ad Board.
Members of the Ad Board Review Committee, who participated in the year-long review process that resulted in the report, said that they were pleased to see the report made public.
“I’m delighted that it’s finally out,” said Donald H. Pfister, a systemic botany professor and a member of the Ad Board Review Committee.
Matthew L. Sundquist ’09, former Undergraduate Council president, said the report was meant to be holistic, so it was important that the entire document be released.
“I think it’s nice to have the whole report out there so that everyone can see that there are a number of different areas for things to be addressed within the board,” Sundquist said.
Former Dean of the College Benedict H. Gross ’71 first proposed that the College review the procedures of the Ad Board in the spring of 2007, and former Dean of the College David R. Pilbeam convened the small review committee in November 2007.
—Staff writer Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 15, 2010
An earlier verison of the Mar. 11 news article "College Dean Releases Ad Board Report" incorrectly stated the title of David R. Pilbeam as "Interim Dean of the College." In fact, he served as Interim Dean of FAS for a few months in 2007 but was soon thereafter appointed Dean of the College.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Economics Department will reinstate junior seminars for the next academic year, due in part to an increase in the number of visiting professors, department leaders said yesterday.
The junior seminar program had been cut for the 2009 to 2010 academic year as a result of cuts in the budget portioned for visiting faculty members in the economics department. The downsizing had forced the department to use its professors to teach larger lecture courses.
But in the fall, the department will boast four and a half full-time equivalent positions for teaching visitors—including visiting professors of Australian and Canadian studies—in comparison to the one and half FTEs in the department this year, according to Economics Department Chair John Y. Campbell.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences administration’s work to restore the department’s visitor budget constituted a “key ingredient” in the reinstatement of the junior seminar program, Campbell said.
The program will consist of six seminars spread over the academic year. Through a lottery application process, up to 18 students will be selected for each seminar, according to Campbell. In previous years, the program offered eight to ten seminars with 16 students each.
The program’s return, which will be officially announced to concentrators later this week, was additionally facilitated by students’ ability to count Harvard Kennedy School courses as economics electives.
The addition of HKS courses, which act as a “supplement to our direct elective offerings,” permits concentrators to practice greater flexibility in their elective choices, beyond the options offered within the economics department, according to Jeffrey Miron, director of undergraduate studies and senior lecturer in economics.
Miron said that he was very involved in finding faculty from a broad range of specialties to teach the seminars.
“We want topics that lend themselves to undergraduate research papers,” he added.
The assortment of faculty “doesn’t cover every field, but there is a nice menu there,” Campbell said.
Junior seminars are non-required undergraduate courses “designed to introduce students to research in a particular field of economics,” according to the course catalogue.
Associate Economics Professor Efraim M. Benmelech, who will teach a junior seminar next year, said that the courses are “an excellent opportunity for students to be engaged in a small class with a professor.”
The small class size makes seminar classes an “educational luxury item,” Campbell said.
“When times get really bad [seminars are] kind of like the hot breakfast—nourishing but expensive to provide,” he added.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a nine-month testing period, Le Whif—inhalable chocolate and coffee invented by Harvard biomedical engineering professor David A. Edwards—will launch its products in cities nationwide and abroad, including London and Tokyo.
In celebration of the official launch, a group of 30 Le Whif employees and fans gathered yesterday in Cambridge restaurant Tory Row to sample the newly released inhalable coffee lipstick-sized tubes—each of which contains the same amount of caffeine as one shot of espresso.
Le Whif—billed as “the taste of chocolate without the calories”—sold over 60,000 tubes of breathable chocolate over the past nine months, and the company will start producing roughly 100,000 tubes a week starting in April.
Le Whif’s global operations manager Thomas D. Hadfield ’08 said that the company plans to launch new flavors this year and hopes to produce an inhalable three-course meal in the indefinite future.
Thus far, the majority of the customer base consists of women between the ages of 18 and 40 who purchased the product online.
At the event, Le Whif employees Jon T. Staff V ’10 and Alexandre J. Terrien ’11 demonstrated how to properly inhale the chocolate.
Guests who joined the festivities were also offered free samples of breathable mint and raspberry chocolate, but those who wished to try the new inhalable coffee had to go next door to Cardullo’s to purchase the tubes for $2 each.
Le Whif will host another launch party in New York today and will continue its tour across the country and overseas.
Le Whif products can be purchased at Cardullo’s in Harvard Square and online at www.lewhif.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
(Part I of this story appeared on March 10, 2010.)
In an effort to foster a more inclusive campus community, Harvard is actively putting its policy into practice.
In accordance with the University’s non-discrimination policy, which was modified in 2006 to include gender identity, University Health Services decided to address the medical needs of transgender people with more equitable insurance coverage.
Each transgender person experiences the process of transition in a different manner—some prefer to avoid medical intervention and others seek the full range of possible treatments, from genital reconstruction to hair removal.
While Harvard’s insurance plan has covered sex hormones since 2006, a new policy adopted in January incorporates coverage for top surgery, meaning mastectomies for transgender men (women transitioning to men) and breast augmentation for transgender women (men transitioning to women).
While the change is greatly appreciated within Harvard’s transgender community, finding full treatment and acceptance from others remain significant challenges.
A HUGE EXPENSE
Prior to the change in the insurance policy, BlueCross BlueShield of Massachusetts—the supplementary health insurance plan for most Harvard affiliates—did not cover sex reassignment surgeries, even with a doctor’s recommendation.
“It’s a huge expense to try to come up with the money to afford surgery, so to have it covered through insurance is a big deal,” says Iain M. Stanford, who is working on a doctoral dissertation in queer theology at the Harvard Divinity School. “Personally, I could not think about surgery unless it were covered by insurance.”
Noah E. Lewis—a staff attorney for the Transgender Legal Defense and Education Fund who has been deliberating with UHS and the insurance company on the inclusion of transgender surgeries in Harvard policies—says that the previous exclusion meant that only the most economically privileged people could access these treatments.
“Transgender exclusions therefore deny medical coverage to the people who need it the most—people who are unable to afford care on their own,” says Lewis, a 2005 graduate of Harvard Law School.
A senior who identifies as a transgender man and asked to remain anonymous says he would not have been able to afford top surgery for several years without insurance coverage, so he did not feel it was worthwhile to begin treatment with the available hormones.
“For me, having top surgery is the key to being able to be perceived as the gender that I am; I could take hormones that would masculinize my face and my voice, but I still wouldn’t pass in public without the top surgery,” he says. “I thought I would have to delay changing my physical body until after I graduate and pay off my student loans, and that was really disheartening.”
Although he will graduate before the insurance begins coverage for students on Aug. 1 of this year, he says that he is thrilled that treatment for transgender people will now be covered.
“It’s going to make a real positive difference for students who come after me,” he says.
COMFORT AT LAST
Lewis, who began working with UHS during his final year of law school, says that he has pushed for further coverage because he knows first-hand the effects of being denied these services and the drastic improvement in health and well-being following treatment.
“The improvement in my health following surgery and hormones was like night and day,” he says. “The way my brain experienced my body finally matched my physical body.”
Lewis says he believes that no one should be denied medical care out of ignorance and outdated prejudice.
“For those who want them, hormones and surgery allow transsexual people to feel comfortable in their bodies for the first time,” he says.
Gregory M. Sensing, who has lived as a man for six years and is awaiting a surgery date in the near future, says he believes that these treatments are medically necessary.
“It’s stressful to go through every day of your life with this conflict of body and mind,” he says. “I’ve become very skilled at disconnecting with my body, and having that one less thing to worry about will make day-to-day life so much easier.”
While members of the transgender community at Harvard are happy that top surgery will now be covered, many agree that the change should have been made long ago.
“This is overdue,” says the senior. “People need access to medical supplies to feel whole, and Harvard is finally catching up in acknowledging that people who identify as trans have medical needs, and they’re meeting those needs.”
PATHOLOGY OR IDENTITY
Although designating this “conflict of body and mind” as a medical condition is necessary to receive medical treatment, many transgender people are uncomfortable that this conflict is classified as a disorder in the most recent edition of the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
While the APA is currently considering a proposal to change the classification of “gender identity disorder” to “gender incongruence” in the next edition of the manual—which will be published in May 2013—most insurance policies still classify being transgender as a disorder.
Consequently, UHS’ new policy stipulates that prior to getting the surgery, individuals must consult a behavioral health professional to evaluate their needs.
“They expect a certain narrative of ‘I’ve always known I’m the other gender and I’m in the wrong body,’” says Stanford, in reference to the requirement of speaking with a psychiatrist before receiving treatment. “There are things we give medical service to but don’t or shouldn’t pathologize.”
Stanford says it would be ideal if people could have access to transgender health services without the associated stigma of transgender as a psychological disorder.
“Having access to medical services is important for our ability to live with integrity, and, at times, it is also a matter of our safety in the world,” he says.
While Sensing also agrees that transgender should not be classified as a disorder, he says that having access to the coverage is more important than the terminology used to describe it.
“Right now I’m concerned with being healthy and being able to afford my healthcare, and this insurance coverage goes a really long way in helping me toward that goal,” he says. “If for the sake of insurance I need to be labeled as having a disorder in order to get the healthcare I need, that’s a small price to pay right now.”
ACCEPTANCE THROUGH EDUCATION
While Sensing says he will tolerate the “disorder” classification since it allows for medical treatment, he says he hopes that this is not a label transgender people will have to carry forever.
“As more people become more enlightened about what it means, they’ll find another way to define it that doesn’t involve stamping us with a disorder,” he says.
Sensing, as well as many other members of the transgender community, are counting on education to spread awareness of transgender issues.
“In some contexts, I’ve seen a lack of acceptance just because there’s not any education or visibility,” Sensing says. “You don’t think something is an issue if you never see it.”
Eva B. Rosenberg ’10, chair of Harvard Transgender Task Force, agrees that the lack of visibility can lead to unintentional discrimination, not only in the search for medical treatment, but also in day-to-day issues such as checking a male/female box on a form, changing one’s name, or using gender-specific restrooms.
“Many individuals and offices across the university are open to transgender issues and learning more about what they can do,” Rosenberg says. “But maybe some employers don’t think they have any trans employees or don’t consider the ways in which their everyday practices could make life harder for gender non-conforming individuals in general.”
While Stanford University is also in the process of developing an insurance policy covering sex reassignment surgery, Harvard is the first Ivy League school to offer coverage for any form of sex reassignment surgery. Members of the transgender community are hopeful that the initiative to be more inclusive of transgender medical needs will spread to other campuses.
“Other institutions look to Harvard and the Ivy Leagues to follow their lead, so I think it’s good that Harvard is doing this now,” says the senior, who hopes to seek sex reassignment surgery within the next few years. “It would’ve been great if they’d been doing it earlier, but it’s still praiseworthy that they’re making this change. This explicitly makes Harvard a more trans-accepting place.”
—Staff Writer Alice E.M. Underwood can be reached at aeunderw@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Korean-American author Chang-rae Lee described writing as an act of improvisation during a discussion yesterday at the Harvard Book Store about his newly released novel “The Surrendered.”
Lee, who called good writing “a spark of emotional truth,” said that the more he plans a novel, the less excited he grows about writing it.
Instead of beginning the event by reading from his fourth novel, Lee took pictures of the audience from the podium for his daughters. A packed house of more than 60 people squeezed into the bookstore to listen to Lee read a selection from his book for more than 20 minutes.
“The Surrendered” interweaves the lives of three characters across time and space in the middle of the 20th century. The novel tells the story of an American soldier, a Korean refugee, and the wife of a missionary, and the way in which their lives are connected by love, war, and history.
“This book is about how the characters...surrender to history,” Lee said. “It is about surrendering to forces out of their control.”
Lee, who is currently the director of Princeton’s creative writing department, was named one of The New Yorker’s 20 best novelists under the age of 40 in 1999. He also received the 1995 Hemingway Foundation/PEN Award for his first novel “Native Speaker.”
After the question-and-answer session, customers with copies of Lee’s novels in hand formed a winding queue to get their books signed by the author.
Boston pharmacist Joe M. O’Day, one of the many customers who waited after the event to get his book signed, said he thought that the event was “excellent.”
“It is such a blessing to be able to see an author you love,” O’Day said.
“He’s a terrific author,” agreed Michael A. Campbell, a marketing assistant at Harvard Book Store. “We’re excited to bring authors of his caliber to Cambridge.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Government officials hailing from Acre, Brazil joined two Harvard professors in a discussion last night about practices for developing local communities while preserving the Amazon Rainforest.
Arnóbio “Binho” Marques, who is currently the governor of Acre, praised the state’s shift in focus over the last 12 years to maintaining biodiversity instead of simply stripping the Amazon of its resources to develop the area.
Marques stressed the importance of “florestania,” which he said stands for a “high quality of life with and in the forest.”
Acre’s deforestation of the Amazon has decreased by nearly 50 percent from 1998 levels, according to Jorge Viana, who was the state governor from 1999 to 2007.
Viana said that with funding from the World Bank, the state was able to improve living standards and quality while it also maintained the area’s natural resources.
The government is currently building highways and changing the local infrastructure to allow for more sustainable development.
The state’s illiteracy rate has decreased from 25 percent to 14 percent, and unemployment dropped from 8 percent to 4 percent, according to Viana.
Additionally, Viana said that the government is working to better connect isolated forest communities through various methods, such as delivering medical supplies to the river communities on boats.
Harvard Law School professor Roberto M. Unger, who also spoke at the event, added that he hopes the government will extend these advances to neighboring states.
“The real future has to be produced by a [global] revolution in the nature of natural resource extraction,” Unger said.
Audience member Lucia Olavarria, originally from Peru, said that she was intrigued by the state’s efforts.
“It was interesting to see how the political movement can achieve such success,” Olavarria said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Building on the theme of this year’s Women’s Week—“strength through solidarity”—a panel discussion last night held in Harvard Hall examined the link between environmental factors and reproductive health.
Billed as “mother/earth,” the event focused on the detrimental effects of pollution and other toxins on maternal health, and featured advocates for social justice Lani Blechman of Hampshire College’s Civil Liberties and Public Policy Program and Trina Jackson of Roxbury-based Alternatives for Community and Environment.
The two panelists touched on issues ranging from controlling overpopulation to placing power plants in low-income areas, which they said affected women’s reproductive health.
“Women are the first environment in which babies live,” Blechman said. “How can pregnant bodies sustain life if they collect toxins and secrete them through breast milk?”
Pernicious effects of toxins released from power plants and other sources of pollution disproportionally affect low-income populations, Jackson said, adding that landfills and other pollutants are more commonly found in poor neighborhoods.
“Toxins are linked to birth defects, miscarriages, and problems with fertility and reproduction, and women in low-income areas are disproportionately exposed to these toxins,” Jackson said.
Blechman and Jackson stressed the importance of giving low-income groups exposed to environmental toxins a say in decisions—such as power plant placement—that impact their health.
“It’s a problem when decisions are made about people who are not included in the decision,” Jackson said. “For me, the decision isn’t about whether to build a coal plant or a nuclear plant—it’s about determining what is right and what is a choice within people’s lived experience.”
Karen A. Narefsky ’11, a Students For Choice member who helped organize the event, said that she hoped the panel raised audience awareness of how environmental factors can affect women’s reproductive health.
“The environment is on people’s minds, reproductive health is on people’s minds,” Narefsky said. “This is a different angle on both of them.”
—Staff writer Alice E.M. Underwood can be reached at aeunderw@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite threats of disciplinary action against freshmen seeking to appease the River Gods, some members of the Class of 2013 nevertheless decided to celebrate Housing Day Eve with gusto.
A number of freshmen braved the security guards, policemen, and resident tutors guarding the River Houses in hopes of gaining admission into the House of their choice.
“The popo? Fuck the popo,” said a freshman, who asked to remain anonymous to avoid disciplinary consequences, in reference to the police.
Last week, the College administration had warned freshmen that the police would be monitoring unsafe activity along the river on the night before Housing Day, when freshmen receive their housing assignments.
In the face of the administration’s increased scrutiny of River Run festivities, some freshman blocking groups took the risk and celebrated by the river. Yet others found different ways to commemorate the night.
“We’re going to the Quad, and we’re doing a Quad run,” said a freshman, who asked to remain anonymous to avoid disciplinary consequences. “That’s right—suck it HUPD [Harvard University Police Department].”
Indeed, Samuel B. Novey ’11 suggested that freshmen invent a new tradition like the Quad run. Novey, an Adams House resident, said that he thinks the College administration is overreacting to the few dangerous components of “a generally positive event,” which he found to be the best part of his freshman year.
Some upperclassmen seemed sympathetic to the freshmen’s cause. One River House resident—who asked to remain anonymous to avoid punishment—hosted around 50 freshmen in his small dorm room.
“I think it’s worth the risk,” the individual said. “River Run is a big event, and you can’t just take it away from people.”
But a number of freshmen decided to abide by the rules established by the Freshman Dean’s Office.
“[The restriction] is probably a good idea,” said Pennypacker resident Joshua R. Wortzel ’13. “There is no need for anyone to get into trouble.”
The First-Year Social Committee hosted an alternative to the River Run. Hundreds of pajama-clad freshmen crowded into Annenberg Hall for a “slumber party,” where some students designed matching T-shirts for members of their blocking groups.
But even some law-abiding freshmen opposed the new restrictions.
Greenough Hall resident Krystal L. Tung ’13 said that while the police should make sure that the situation does not get out of hand, students should still be allowed to float boats down the river without setting them on fire.
Grays Hall resident Shiya Wang ’13 proposed an alternative boat-sailing ritual that does not require presence on the Charles.
“We’re gonna fold a boat, set it on fire, and then flush it in our toilet,” Wang said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Harvard women’s basketball team walked off the court Tuesday night, they knew that the rest of the year would be different. With the season over, weekends would no longer be dominated by traveling and back-to-back competitions, and practices would not consume every free moment of time. For assistant coach Kelly Finley, the end of the women’s season means something entirely different—it allows her to spend a lot more time with a little girl named Avigail.
Avigail Eshet is a spirited eight-year-old that Finley helps care for in her spare time. However, this is not your average babysitting job—Avigail was born with severe familial dysautonomia and requires constant supervision to prevent a medical crisis.
Familial dysautonomia is a rare recessive genetic disorder that results from improper development of the autonomic nervous system. This means that Avigail’s body cannot perform many involuntary nervous responses—such as swallowing, blinking, or turning off adrenaline production if she gets upset—and she does not feel visceral pain. Any time Avigail is distressed, the failure of her nervous system to properly regulate hormones, like adrenaline, puts her at risk for going into a life-threatening dysautonomic crisis.
“Ninety percent of her life we try to prevent her from getting there [to a crisis],” said Avigail’s mother Sigal Yawetz. “She needs someone looking at her 24/7.”
That’s where Kelly Finley comes in.
Finley moved to Boston in 2008 after graduating from Colorado State University with a degree in human development and family studies. But she was also unsure of her career plans. Leaving her days of college basketball stardom behind, Finley decided to volunteer as an assistant coach for the Crimson women’s 2008-2009 season.
“I knew that [Kathy Delaney-Smith] was a very skilled coach and that her kids were very happy,” said Finley, who was recruited by Delaney-Smith out of high school. “I came out here and took the job but had no way to make money.”
At that point, Dan Eshet and Yawetz, Avigail’s parents, entered Kelly’s life. The couple was looking for another person to help look after Avigail, and when they advertised, Finley answered.
While many other babysitters had been intimidated by Avigail’s condition, Finley was prepared for the job. Finley has a sister with a similar condition, although less medically disabled, and she has always been passionate about helping others, especially special-needs children.
“For us, it’s [finding] someone who can be another pair of eyes and be like a big sister,” Yawetz said. “With Kelly it really clicked—she turned into Avigail’s most favorite person in the world. When she sees her, she has a big smile.”
But Avigail isn’t the only person who has benefited from this connection. Finley, who moved to Boston without knowing a single person, was able to find a home away from home in the Eshet-Yawetz household.
More importantly, this second job has allowed Finley to find balance with her demanding coaching position.
“Without that balance, [coaching is] a profession that can consume you to no end. You get so wrapped up in that that you forget the bigger picture in life,” Finley said. “[Working with Avigail], it’s been more beneficial and easier for me than anything else.”
Avigail has made a significant impact in Finley’s life as the coach spends much of her spare time with the Eshet-Yawetz family. Even in the thick of Harvard’s time-intensive basketball season, Finley still eats dinner at Avigail’s home at least once a week.
Finley’s work with Avigail has also influenced her team. The girls have all heard stories of Finley’s job, and Yawetz has brought her other son, one-year-old Yoni, to watch the Crimson play.
“It gives the girls good perspective,” said Finley of her work with Avigail. “A lot of them have so much, and to see that sometimes you need to go outside yourself isn’t a bad thing.”
Finley has made a huge impact in the lives of those around her. Her dedication to Avigail has bonded her with the Eshet-Yawetz family and has allowed her to impart a fresh perspective to her team.
“Basketball is a game,” Finley said. “The point of the game is to help the girls on the team be the best people they can be.”
If the Harvard women follow Finley’s example, they will be able to find a similarly balanced life on and off the court.
—Staff writer Alexandra J. Mihalek can be reached at amihalek@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Perhaps the most surprising thing about the Nordic ski team’s rise this year is that the team’s assistant coach is a former softball recruit who had never cross country skied before college.
Coming to Cambridge as an undergraduate after a high school softball career put her at near-celebrity status in her hometown, Sara Cushman ’97 found herself drawn to sports more outside of the limelight.
“It was a little bit anticlimactic playing softball in college,” she said. “I’d always been on these really good teams and we’d have this huge following. It was a big event in my town, the softball games.”
Cushman excelled on the softball field early, earning All-Ivy status in the sport as a freshman. But at the same time, she was becoming increasingly interested in Nordic skiing, a sport she had decided to take up after her First-Year Outdoor Program trip.
“I was fairly obsessed with obscure sports my whole life,” Cushman said. “It just so happened that my FOP leader was on the Nordic ski team. Before school started, I got a chance to talk to her about joining the team, and it seemed like something I was going to be able to do.”
For two years, Cushman balanced softball with Nordic skiing. Her status on the ski team grew quickly, and she was named captain of the Nordic team her senior year.
“She came in [to Harvard] to play softball and got addicted to aerobic sports,” said Chris City ’94, the Nordic team’s head coach and a college teammate of Cushman’s. “You don’t see that coming from someone who’s used to running 90 feet at a time.”
But once Cushman found her passion for endurance sports, a different springtime activity—flat water sprint kayaking—drew her away from the diamond.
“It was really kind of random,” she recalled. “I was sculling in the summers. Somehow through that connection, I heard that the U.S. canoe and kayak team was trying to bring women into the sport, so I went to this development camp in San Diego.”
The kayaking world was small, and Cushman rose through it quickly. Before long, she was working out at the Olympic training center in Lake Placid and trying to earn a spot on the team.
Eventually ,Cushman began to realize that she wasn’t going to be one of the top two kayakers in the country, and the lack of competition came to bore her.
“The sport is so small that basically the only competitions are Olympic trials or U.S. nationals,” she said. “One of the reasons I stopped continuing with it was because there wasn’t that competitive outlet there if you were not on the national team.”
As her kayaking career came to a close, Cushman returned to the first “obscure” sports team that had captured her heart—the Crimson Nordic ski team, for which she served as the head coach from 1997 to 2002.
In the meantime, Cushman picked up a third endurance sport, one even more unusual than her first two: cyclo-cross—short distance bike racing which requires competitors to carry their bikes over parts of the race course.
“[It’s] continuing with my theme of really obscure sports,” she said.
With the head coaching position “essentially voluntary” as Cushman described it, reality soon set in, and the obscure sports star turned to a more conventional path—law school.
But Boston College Law School couldn’t keep Cushman away from the Crimson for too long. In the fall of 2008, the cyclo-cross racer returned as an assistant coach for the Nordic team.
“I heard that Chris [City] was the coach,” she recalled. “Chris and I skied together, and I thought it’d be really fun to work with him. I was just remembering how fun it was to coach the first time around, and I thought it’d be a nice way to balance out my life.”
Cushman quickly jelled with the athletes.
“She’s great,” said Nordic women’s captain Audrey Mangan. “Sara’s personality plays well with the team...She jokes around and makes techno dance CD mixes. She’s really fun.”
And City has appreciated Cushman’s dedication to the team.
“She jumps in to do things all the time,” he said. “She does it because she loves the team...It’s more than a job for her...She gives so much more than you could ever ask of an assistant coach...I hope Sara’s with us for many years to come.”
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just a week after the closing ceremonies of the Vancouver Games, Canada had another reason to celebrate.
In the top level of U.S. collegiate squash, two Canadians shone above the rest in their respective tournaments. Harvard co-captain Colin West ended his distinguished career on a high note after finally capturing the trophy that eluded him for so long, while freshman counterpart Laura Gemmell capped off her first season with the same accolade—a national individual title.
Although Gemmell proved her dominance during just her first year as a Crimson athlete, it took much longer for her counterpart, Colin West, to reach the same point. Four years longer, in fact.
Four years is an eternity when you’re ranked top five nationwide but cannot reach No. 1. Four years is over 35,000 hours focused on one thing: beating and being the best.
It was not until this season, his final year, that West became a champion, winning the College Squash Association Individual Championships with an 11-9, 13-11, 11-1 win over Princeton’s No. 1 Todd Harrity.
Finishing his senior season with a 16-1 record, West ended his career at Harvard with a total of 50 wins and nine losses. Starting for the Crimson at the No. 3 position his freshman year, West’s climb to No. 1 has been impressive as he’s defeated almost every opponent he’s faced.
But there was one, the one who got away. As the saying goes, in order to be the best you must beat the best. Even with the Pool Trophy, West’s season ended on a bittersweet note because he didn’t have the opportunity to play the former No. 1.
Trinity’s two-time Pool Trophy champion Baset Chaudry, the top-ranked player in the nation throughout the season, voluntarily pulled out of the tournament after an unsportsmanlike incident in which he physically confronted Yale freshman Kenneth Chan at the College Squash Association team finals.
Not only was it unfortunate for Chaundry’s reputation, which was scrutinized after ESPN aired video of the incident, but also for the squash players who wanted a chance to take him down, especially West. This year, West slipped by Chaudry, taking a victory in a preseason match-up, but then lost to his Bantam rival 3-0 during the season. Each with a win, this third game was a can’t-miss match-up.
But then Chaudry lost it. It’s understandable for an athlete of his caliber to have a primal desire to win, but Baset, not only did you ruin it for yourself, you ruined it for your competition (and an eager squash audience).
Now, we can only keep our fingers crossed that West and Chaudry meet some day if and when they go pro.
Professional squash is still way long down the road for the precocious Gemmell.
Having already captured the individual title in her freshman year, Gemmel’s future opponents will need to bring more to the squash court if they want to knock her off the top.
Just look at the competition for Gemmell. Topping the list is Nour Bahgat, the Trinity sophomore who finished the 2008-2009 season with a 17-0 record on her way to winning the individuals title. Gemmell never got a chance to face Bahgat since the sophomore, the top-ranked player coming into the season, slipped down the ranks, losing the No. 1 position to fellow teammate and finalist of the Ramsay Cup, Pamela Hathway.
The two other competitors ranked above Gemmell in the preseason (the frosh was pegged fourth) were Kristin Lange from Penn and Toby Eyre from Williams. Gemmell swept them both, and the score-lines show that neither was much of a challenge for her.
A current junior, the Bantams’ Hathway will most likely be Gemmell’s top competitor next year barring any upstarts in the freshman class. Hathway, ranked 26th in the preseason rankings, worked her way up the ladder, cementing her spot as the No. 1 for Trinity and giving Gemmell a fight in the championship game. The battle went to five games with the Harvard freshman emerging as the winner of the 2010 Ramsay Cup.
Two great squash players, one embarking on a professional career while the other is finishing merely her first year at Harvard. One thing we can be sure of: we haven’t heard the last from either.
—Staff writers Alex Sopko and Brian A. Campos can be reached at sopko@fas.harvard.edu and bcampos@fas.harvard.edu, respectively.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s March, and that means it’s time for Madness. But while you’re anxiously researching sleeper picks for your bracket, it’s worth pointing out that for some sports, tourney time is already here.
Eight teams have qualified for this year’s NCAA women’s hockey championship, including fourth-seeded Harvard, who finished third in regular-season ECAC play and was bounced in the conference semifinals.
Yes, you heard that right. The Crimson has secured the only home-ice berth from the ECAC, despite being the third-best program in conference play. Now how the heck did that happen?
Harvard entered play last weekend fourth in both the polls and the computer rankings, and a tournament championship would surely secure the squad its second home NCAA game in three seasons.
Then the Crimson fell to Clarkson, then ranked sixth by the computers, on Friday night, and the chances of a top-four seed looked slim.
But after Harvard lost, everything else fell in its favor. New Hampshire, sitting in fifth and looking like a prime candidate to grab home-ice advantage, got walloped, 4-0, by then-unranked Boston University in the Hockey East semifinals.
Clarkson became the heir apparent to the No. 4 slot, and the Golden Knights promptly lost to Cornell in overtime of the ECAC championship.
And the Big Red, despite winning both the conference regular-season and tournament titles, went a miserable 1-6 in non-conference play during the regular season, leaving the Crimson—with its stronger schedule—as the last team standing.
Harvard went 1-3-4 against the tournament field this season, losing to Cornell once and Clarkson twice. It recorded ties against the Big Red, the Golden Knights, New Hampshire, and Minnesota, and it defeated the Gophers—the No. 3 seed—1-0 at Bright in December.
The Crimson will host Cornell Friday night at 7 p.m. at Bright Hockey Center, with the winner advancing to play either No. 1 Mercyhurst or No. 8 BU next Friday in the Frozen Four.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we've been posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses. Click here to read more about our project.
Majestically situated on the banks of the Charles, Eliot House has a lot to offer the lucky freshmen placed here. With a vibrant community, a gorgeous courtyard, loving House Masters, and a wealth of facilities, this House is truly an all-inclusive package. Freshmen assigned to Eliot will have no reason to envy any of their (less fortunate) peers.
Dining Hall: The Eliot dining hall is spacious and welcoming, with dark wooden paneling and bronze chandeliers. The staff is very friendly, making sure to enforce dining restrictions so all Eliotites can find seats. The House grill is known for its delicious egg-and-cheese sandwiches as well as its succulent omelettes. The House organizes seven formal three-course dinners a year, though places are limited.
At night, the dining hall is transformed into a giant study hall with students scrambling to finish p-sets. Brain break offerings keep students happy, and Charles W. Eliot—the namesake of the House who graduated from the College in 1853—is perched over them, ready to help. During good weather, the dining hall staff will prepare a barbecue-type meal in the courtyard, complete with music and games. Sunday brunch is accompanied by live music performances put on by students.
Score: +14,000 for great events, +400 for the food, -350 for the creepy ghost, -500 for dining restrictions, +30,000 for an awesome atmosphere
Common Spaces: Eliot House has several classrooms in the basement, as well as a big study room. However, they can feel claustrophobic. The Junior Common Room is cozy but a bit small. The Inferno, Eliot’s grille, offers scrumptious alternatives to Corn Busts. Those with high cholesterol levels, beware!
Almost every common room in the House has a piano, some of which are located near student rooms. The Tower Room even features the piano of Leonard Bernstein ’39. Eliot House also boasts a library with a private study room. It is located in C-entryway, right under Ground Zero, the party suite. But who studies on Saturday nights anyway?
Score: +1,000 for lots of rooms, +300 for pianos, -200 for their placement, +1,000 for the library
Rooms: Rooms vary greatly, from walkthrough doubles to duplex octoplets. However, singles are guaranteed for seniors, and a River view is an option. Some rooms will have the occasional unwanted pests, leading to occasional fits of shrieking. As for party suites, Eliot has a selection of notorious rooms. Ground Zero has become a regular stop for freshmen on a Saturday night, and so has the Cockpit. This year, a sophomore blocking group christened their eight-man duplex The Octagon and threw raging parties every couple of weeks.
Score: +1,000,000 for senior singles, +20,000 for scenic River views, -50,000 for cockroaches, +20,000 for sweet parties
House Spirit: The only House with a toast, Eliot boasts a tight-knit community that is active and vibrant. The mighty mastodon is the House mascot, and it appears in six hidden locations around the House. The Eliot House Committee constantly plans House-wide events from Charles Eliot Day to the Date Auction. Moreover, stein clubs have become themed with a release of a publicity video preceding the weekly event. To keep away unwanted dinner guests, impromptu pantless dinners take place, building House solidarity and leading to hilarious awkward moments. New traditions keep sprouting up every year. For instance, the polar bear run has become an annual favorite and is usually announced by the ghost of Charles Eliot. Last year, Eliot pranked Adams House by "borrowing" their video game machine.
Score: +5,000 for HoCo events, +4,000 for the Eliot toast, -5,000 for being able to eat in your underwear every now and then, +7,000 for themed stein clubs, +100,000 for knocking Adams off its high horse
Location: Nestled between Kirkland and Winthrop, Eliot enjoys a quiet location by the River. Come wintertime, though, the extra couple of minutes of walking to the science buildings take will seem like infinity.
Score: +35,000 for calm privacy, -50,000 for the walk to the Northwest Labs in sub-zero wind chills
Quirks: To start, town criers announce events and happenings during meals, and announcements end with “Floreat Domus de Eliot."
Our administrators are great. House Master Lino Pertile gives intricate multi-lingual speeches at House dinners praising the House and its residents. House Master teas feature homemade English scones by House Master Anna Bensted in addition to Pertile's fascinating stories. Allston Burr Resident Dean Michael R. Canfield used the Eliot woodshop to make the cribs for his twins. Oh, and there's the ghost of Charles Eliot, who is said to help any student with p-sets if asked nicely. We're not quite sure, though, whether he knows multivariable calculus.
Then, there are the perks. Eliotites have access to the back gate, which is across the street from the Weld Boat House. There's the Golden Arm, which is basically a movie theater with five rows of couches that's available in the basement for movie screenings. A dark room, dance studio, and a gym are also available to students.
Last but not least, Eliot Fête, the spring formal, is awesome. Desperate Kirklanders are rumored to have crawled through the servery in order to sneak into Fête, and the same swing band has played at the Fête for over a decade.
 Score: +300 for the town criers, +88,000 for the House Masters, +500 for the ghost of Eliot possibly being helpful, -7,000 for the ghost of Eliot possibly being not helpful, +91,200 for the facilities, +infinity for Fête
Committee Ranking: 1 out of 12. Congratulations, and Floreat Domus de Eliot!
Our Rankings:
1. Eliot
2. Adams
3. Kirkland
4. Pfoho
5. Lowell
5. Mather
7. Quincy
8. Currier
9. Leverett
10. Dunster
11. Cabot
12. Winthrop
Photo by Keren E. Rohe '13, Crimson Staff Photographer
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we've been posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses. Click here to read more about our project.
One of the best parts about living in Adams House is knowing that throngs of Quadlings, River rats, and even claustrophobic Quincy residents would trade a whole GPA point to live in your gold-brushed abode. That’s right, be jealous. Be very jealous. We bet your House Master didn’t carry the Olympic torch.
Dining Hall: Rather than deeming space “tight,” we’ll call it cozy. Of course, there are those two words: dining restrictions. Sucks for you if you're not in Adams, but the tightest interhouse dining restrictions on campus keep the riff-raff out of this Gold Coast haven. Hardwood floors, vaulted ceilings, and floor-to-ceiling windows make this elegant dining hall the perfect space for House events. Lucy is a friendly card swiper, but the real gems work the grill, whipping up omelettes and commiserating with students about menu choices.
Score: +10 if you're an elitist
Common Spaces: Reserve in advance. The Adams Lower Common Room and Upper Common Room are great for hosting meetings, study groups, and so on, but book them ahead of time. The Adams library is another cozy space with its own group of regular study-fiends. Nook-like common spaces dot the halls of Adams entryways, and the underground muraled tunnels lead to what used to be the Adams pool and is now used as a theater of sorts. For the athletically inclined, the Adams gym is a little lacking. The “dungeon” has six machines and a separate weight room. The upside is that the large television gets a pretty decent cable package.
Score: +30 for the Coolidge Room, -7 for the "dungeon"
Rooms: Run the gamut. Rumor has it H- and I-entryways used to be the servants’ quarters, which is perhaps why upperclassmen housing is mostly in A-, B-, and C-entryways. Claverly Hall, built in 1893, was the first of the Gold Coast dormitories, luxurious alternatives to Yard living for someone of Harvard’s most privileged students. Apthorp House, now home to Adams House Masters Judith S. Palfrey '67 and John G. "Sean" Palfrey '67, is the oldest part of Adams, built in 1760. Four lucky seniors each year live in the Adams’ elusive senior house. The Adams House Guest Suite (renamed the FDR Suite) can be booked by Harvard affiliates for $100 per night.
Score: -100 for thin walls, +400 for senior house
House Spirit: The Adams House Committee does a great job of planning events during the year, including Drag Night, the Harvard-Yale tailgate, Winter Feast, Winter Formal, Chocoholica, and Spring Formal. In addition, this year’s FDR Gala truly reflected Adams stately past (FDR’s grandson flew in from France to attend).
Score: +500 for awesome events
Location: Central. Nestled between Harvard Square shops and final clubs and just a short hop, skip, and jump away from the Yard, Adams real estate is unbeatable, figuratively and literally situated on the edge of the Mass. Avenue divide. You'll be literally a minute or two away from Boloco's, Tommy’s Value Convenience Store, Qdoba, and anything else in the Square.
Score: +5,000 unless you like seclusion, -300 if you hate final clubs
Quirks: Go ask someone what Gold Coasting means.
Score: +20 for mystery
Committee Rank: 2 of 12. Nice job!
Our Rankings So Far:
2. Adams
3. Kirkland
4. Pfoho
5. Lowell
5. Mather
7. Quincy
8. Currier
9. Leverett
10. Dunster
11. Cabot
12. Winthrop
Sections
Down the street, our neighbors in Adams House appear to have put up a banner. Looks like it's a message for any freshmen who just happen to be strolling by, not doing River Run.
We snapped a photo, but in case you can't see it clearly, the banner reads: "If you lived in Adams House, you'd be home now."
Photo by Xi Yu '13, Crimson Staff Writer.
