News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Entering his 35th season as the Scott Mead ’77 Head Coach for Harvard Men’s Tennis, Dave Fish ’72 is an oracle of sorts when it comes to tennis. Lucky for us, he imparted some wisdom as the Crimson got off to a strong start at the Northeast Invitational in Flushing, N. Y.
Though tennis is a technically a spring sport, a fall schedule of six individual tournaments plays a large role in the team’s training.
“Individual tournaments are very interesting developmentally,” Fish said. “Unlike a dual match where you may play somebody in your position, in an individual tournament if you beat someone who’s close to your ability, then you get to play someone who’s probably a little better. If you get on a roll, by the end of the tournament, your confidence is at an entirely different level.”
This type of focused atmosphere ties in well with team goals, as the Crimson looks to dethrone reining Ivy League champion Columbia.
“Our goal has been to be in better shape this year,” Fish said. “I don’t think that any coach could ever argue with that as a condition for our team. And I think our team is committed to doing that work.”
Fish emphasizes the importance of learning from mistakes and the personal development that characterizes the fall, as he leads a young Crimson squad into a promising year.
“I’ve watched teams grow tremendously when players carry the right attitude toward their missteps,” Fish said. “It’s simply the nature of sports, of the chemistry of the game. You’re high one day and you’re down the next day… There’s a phrase ‘you either win or learn,’ and that’s what we try to do.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Arianna Huffington, co-founder and editor-in-chief of The Huffington Post, came to Harvard to promote her newest book, "Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream." While  in Cambridge, she sat down with The Crimson for a few minutes at the  Charles Hotel to talk about the book, the future of journalism, and  where students fit in. 
