Sections
In this four-part series, FlyBy will dish out the details of each House’s Brain Break so that you know where to go when those evening munchies hit.
 
Round 2: Mather vs. Dunster vs. Leverett
Evaluation Day: Wednesday
Mather: A
Brain Break Begins: 8:30 p.m.
The concrete construct harbored what is undeniably a superb brain break. The standard bagels, bread, and accompanying spreads were abundant. The drink machines were on and a full complement of cereal and coffee was available. That night’s special, an assortment of vegetables, was available as well.
It was hard to find anything wrong with this brain break, as fresh vegetables are a rare find after dinner ends, and all the items were still available at 8:54 p.m.—well done Mather!
Dunster: A
Brain Break Begins: 8:35 p.m.
Mather’s nearby rival did not fail to rise to the challenge—Dunster’s brain break was equally on point, and even one-upped Mather with the addition of cream pie and chocolate cake. We won’t count the lack of cream pie against Mather, but the cream pie did prove to be the tie-breaker between Dunster and Mather.
The Moose emerged the victor tonight precisely because of its dessert options. At 9:00 p.m. all the food was still available.
Leverett: A-
Brain Break Begins: 9:00 p.m.
Leverett had a strong spread of sundries, but did not offer the healthy vegetables that the other neighborhood brain breaks had offered. In lieu of the veggies was an array of sugar cookies, chocolate chip cookies, and rocky road brownies. There were also a few waffles, but those were devoured quickly by the hungry hares. There was a healthy supply of coffee available, but the variety of coffee left something to be desired for caffeine connoisseurs. All in all, Lev was good, but not good enough to be king of its hood.
Winner of Round 2: Dunster
Previous Results
Round 1: Quincy vs. Lowell vs. Adams
Sections
This red-tailed hawk was spotted yesterday afternoon in Kirkland courtyard. Yes, it is clutching a dead squirrel.
We asked Michael C. Cioffi '11, who sent a picture of the bird over Kirkland's open list, to share some more photos. Here they are.
We hear that red-tailed hawks are pretty common around here, but we've never noticed them before. If you encounter any further hawk (or other animal) sightings, let us know! Send your pics to flyby@thecrimson.com.
Photos courtesy of Michael C. Cioffi '11.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's  been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Who ever said that the fashion industry  can’t be academic? Just this week, Vogue Magazine seems to have been dispatching  its highest-ranking editors to make the rounds to various Ivy League  schools, giving talks on topics from aesthetic inspiration to eating  disorders.
While Anna Wintour, the magazine’s  editor-in-chief, spoke at a Harvard business school panel discussion on Tuesday (along with designer Michael Kors),  Yale hosted Vogue's former American editor-at-large André Leon Talley for an event sponsored jointly by Ezra Stiles College and the student group YCouture. While there, Talley, clad in one of his signature couture  robes, spoke on the inspiration he received from his grandmother and  urged his audience to seek for similar inspiration in their own lives.
Dartmouth  has just admitted two  Haitian students from Port-au-Prince’s  Université Quisqueya, which was destroyed in January’s earthquake.  The pair will start classes on Monday and will be primarily focusing  on economics and environmental studies.
At Princeton, local Princeton  borough and township officials are considering discontinuing the Dinky train service, which connects the university with Princeton  Junction station. Even though the Dinky service has been around since  the mid-19th century, it looks like local officials could  institute a rapid transit bus system instead.
Meanwhile, down in New York, things  are heating up at The Columbia Spectator. On Thursday, the newspaper  printed a less-than-flattering  review of chef Tom Colicchio’s  restaurant, Colicchio & Sons. New York Magazine’s Gael Greene  tweeted the post, it appeared on the magazine’s Grub Street blog, one thing led to another, and Colicchio himself  eventually called up the blog to ask: “Since when did you start reprinting  reviews from college newspapers?” Beware the power of college media,  Tom. Beware.
