News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s tennis team lost in the first round of the NCAA tournament to Georgia, 4-0, yesterday at the Hoke Sloan Tennis Center in Clemson, S.C. The No. 19 Bulldogs (13-8, 8-3 SEC) will move on to play Clemson in the second round, while the No. 39 Crimson (14-8, 6-1 Ivy) returns to Cambridge having made the national tournament for the first time since 2006.
“Just making it into NCAAs was one of our team goals at the beginning of the year,” sophomore Holly Cao said.
“We achieved our goal,” junior captain Samantha Rosekrans added. “As the underdog, we knew we had nothing to lose, so we wanted to have fun with it. We knew that the pressure was not on us.”
With this relaxed mindset, Harvard eyed an upset over the favored Bulldogs. But Georgia, coming off a loss to South Carolina in the SEC tournament quarterfinal, had no plans to give the Crimson its first NCAA win since 2005.
The Bulldogs took an early lead with two quick victories on the doubles courts to secure the opening point.
No. 8 Georgia duo Chelsey Gullickson and Nadja Gilchrist defeated the first-team All-Ivy pair of Cao and Rosekrans, 8-1, on the top doubles court.
“They were just better than us, and we weren’t able to close the gap,” Cao said.
At No. 3, Harvard junior Agnes Sibilski and sophomore Samantha Gridley lost by the same margin.
On the No. 2 court, the second-team All-Ivy duo of rookies Kristin Norton and Hideko Tachibana were leading their opponents, 5-4, when the doubles point was decided.
“It’s very rare that freshmen play to that height,” Rosekrans said. “Everyone is very impressed by them.”
In singles, the Bulldogs earned their second point at No. 5 with a 6-1, 6-1 win by Cameron Ellis over Sibilski. Georgia racked up its third point with a victory by Lara Fakhoury over freshman Alexandra Lehman by the same score.
At the brink of defeat, the Crimson fought to keep its season alive, but to no avail. At No. 3 Norton, who made the All-Ivy Second Team at singles, lost to Yvette Hyndman, 6-2, 6-3.
The other three matches did not play to completion.
“I think we did a pretty good job overall, said Cao. “It could have been easily 4-3. We just didn’t get to finish.”
Rosekrans won the only set of the day for Harvard with a 7-5 first-set victory at No. 4, and was leading, 3-1, when Georgia clinched.
No. 73 and unanimous first-team All-Ivy pick Cao lost her first set, 6-4, to No. 12 Gullickson on the No. 1 court, although she was leading, 5-2, in the second when play stopped.
“I played pretty well overall, but I think I could have hung in there more in the first set,” Cao said. “I always believe I can compete against the top players in the nation. It’s just unfortunate that the match was decided before I finished the second set.”
The unanimous Ivy League Rookie of the Year Tachibana played neck-and-neck with No. 48 Gilchrist before losing the first set in a tiebreak.
With the loss, the Crimson now faces the difficult task to improve upon this season’s performance in 2011.
“We are hoping to go into next year with the motivation to reach NCAAs again and hopefully win in the first round,” Rosekrans said.
—Staff writer Eric L. Michel can be reached at emichel@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Remember when we posted pictures of a hawk spotted in Kirkland courtyard? Well, we just discovered a blog—compiled by Holly Hutchison, the administrator for the Folklore and Mythology department—that has everything you ever wanted to know about hawks at Harvard.
Hutchison had never been a “serious” bird-watcher until she saw a crowd observing a red-tailed hawk near Lamont Library in mid-June of 2009 that piqued her curiosity. Since that day, she has been observing hawks at Harvard, photographing and shooting videos of them, and mapping their location all over the Yard and beyond.
The blog, called “Hawks at Harvard,” is a map of Hutchison’s developing interests. She began the project interested in red-tailed hawks’ birdsongs, reading books and online articles to learn more. These materials were “really helpful in giving me some pointers on a few more things to be looking for, and explaining some of what I was seeing/hearing,” she wrote in her blog.
Hutchison focused on the sounds that birds like hawks and robins emit (“kreeeeeet-kreet-kreet” versus "chip-chip"), which help her locate the hawks. However, her main project has been to follow two red-tailed hawks and their parents on First Church, Memorial Church, and Memorial Hall, writing and taking pictures of the creatures as they feed, preen, and fly. “I’m coming to realize that we’ve had red-tailed hawks living at Harvard for years now. I think they live on the north edge of the Yard, whereas my office is on the southern edge. But sometimes they do fly down to where we can see them,” Hutchison wrote.
Even though red-tailed hawks are common to North America, Hutchison’s pursuit of the birds has been challenging, due to lighting conditions and the hawks’ own behavior. In one of her earlier posts, she noted, “As they grow, the juvenile red-tails become more elusive.” Another difficulty for Hutchison has been the mockingbirds, who imitate hawk sounds, and the surrounding traffic, which obscures the hawks’ screams. Hutchison has also written that watching hawks can be time-consuming: one hawk she observed stayed perched on First Church’s weather vane for forty minutes.
Hutchison could not be reached for comment, but you can check out her blog here.
Photo courtesy of Doviende - CC BY 2.0.
Sections
Charla Nash—the 55-year-old who had her hands and face ripped off by a berserk chimpanzee in February 2009—will be admitted to an undisclosed Harvard-affiliated hospital to determine whether she is a potential candidate for face and hand transplant surgery, the Boston Globe is reporting.
The evaluation will take several months to complete before a conclusion is reached.
“I’m caustically optimistic,” said Dr. Bohdan Pomahac, who led the team that performed nation’s second face transplant last year, in an interview with the Associated Press.
Nash sustained her injury after attempting to help her neighbor recapture her 200-pound chimpanzee, which, in a rage, tore off Nash’s eyelids, nose, lips, and hands.
The victim has since appeared on Oprah, during which she unveiled her mauled face.
Nash’s family is suing her neighbor for $50 million and intends to sue the state for $150 million, for inability in preventing the attack, according to the Globe. The chimpanzee was shot and killed by police soon after the incident.
Chi King/CC BY 2.0
