News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“There is nothing in this country that I haven’t been able to accomplish with the right amount of man-flirting,” one of my international friends half-jokingly said to me. I laughed and nodded my head in agreement. It was punch season and we had been talking about final clubs, echoing the type of conversation much of the campus has during this time. As we weighed in on the true implications of the punch process, the conversation took an interesting turn.
“Do you realize we’re going to be doing this our entire lives?” I said, “Grad school interviews, job interviews—they’re all punch processes in their own right.”
“God, I hope not,” my friend replied.
The truth is, Harvard students, no matter what your opinion on or experience with final clubs, you’re more familiar with them than you think. From that big shot professor’s office hours to that consulting group recruitment dinner, we are all “punching,” i.e. trying to gain acceptance or an “in,” for one elite social group or another.
Leaving out controversy over the day-to-day practices of final clubs, the principles they stand for are those that govern much of our human nature. We are drawn to people we perceive as friendly and confident. We have our long-standing groups of friends—networks that aren’t impenetrable but are difficult to become a part of due to the longstanding relationships. Final clubs are an institutionalized version of Harvard’s natural social scene.
Love it or leave it, social exclusiveness is not an original concept and not an entity you can remove from any college campus. Living in America, we are fortunate enough to be part of an imperfect meritocracy. However, it’s naïve to think that our meritocracy doesn’t include social intelligence and personal connections alongside academic accomplishments and perseverance. The knowledge you earn in your four years at Harvard will be less valuable if you’re unable to find the right person or the right opportunity to use it. This concept doesn’t just apply to the social circles of a select few; it applies to any field of study at Harvard. Want to work at that cutting-edge physics lab? You’re going to have to convince the professor running the lab first.
Admittedly, final clubs are less discrete about the purpose of their punch process than that professor or Teach For America recruiter. No one from an academic or professional institution is going to tell you that their reason for an interview is to see if they like you. But after you’ve paraphrased your personal statement and discussed your extracurriculars, doesn’t it still come down to that? Whoever is sitting across the table is going to form their opinion of you based on your confidence and your poise—in short, how interesting and likeable a person you can be.
In a strange way, the socially competitive aspect of Harvard helps prepare us for future careers and opportunities. It has been said that there’s no worse judgment than that of your peers. In that case, interviewing for med school should be a breeze compared to punching the Porcellian Club. Grabbing lunch with your internship supervisor—nothing compared to that coffee date with your Sabliére match.
This is not to downplay the differences between the selection processes. Graduate schools, jobs, and internships base the larger part of their selection process on the academic and extracurricular accomplishments that their applicants have accumulated over a lifetime. Final clubs base their selection largely on the personalities their applicants display during a handful of events. The pressure of punching does not equate to the pressure of applying to graduate school. Nevertheless, both processes of advancement require a certain amount of social savvy on the part of aspiring members.
Final clubs may be the purest embodiment of the concept that social intelligence is often a means to an end, but they’re not the only one. In our future endeavors, we will be judged not just on the accomplishments listed on our resumes but on the strength of our personalities and character. Its not a truth we like to accept, but it’s a truth we stand to lose a great deal by if we deny.
Natalia Nedzhvetskaya ’13, a Crimson editorial comper, lives in Quincy H 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The over-committed, over-stressed, and under-rested individual is a familiar character in the daily lives of Harvard students. Extracurricular stress is new to no one, and we often find ourselves neck-deep in non-academic work before we know it—so much so that the Committee on Student Life met last week to discuss the intensity of Harvard's extracurricular activities. However, regardless of the University's efforts to reduce the amount of stress that students feel because of their extracurricular activities, students will continue to take on extracurricular commitments and thus more stress. Doing so is their choice, and the University cannot change this despite its best attempts.
It is unsurprising that Harvard students tend to take on significant responsibilities beyond their academics, since Harvard looks to admit individuals who demonstrate initiative and leadership experience outside of the classroom. Many student organizations are geared toward rewarding leadership and thus induce stressful competition. Yet as expected, given that students coming to Harvard are generally accustomed to a competitive atmosphere. Still, it is important for students to remember that they are most effective in positions and organizations that they enjoy being a part of, and that taking on leadership positions simply for the sake of having such a title ultimately defeats the purpose of leadership and creates more stress than necessary.
Extracurricular participation may often aid in pre-professional skill-building or in learning concepts not readily available in the classroom. In this light, it is understandable that students would want to take on and take advantage of many activities. Still, the availability of such activities should not undermine the value of extracurricular activities that do not necessarily accomplish these goals. Many student organizations such as cultural groups, social groups, and athletic teams provide valuable and unparalleled experiences, and students ought to take advantage of these opportunities.  These activities can simply serve as enjoyable activities rather than pre-professional ventures.
Regarding University’s involvement in students’ extracurricular lives, the most that administrators or advisors should do is emphasize the risks of over-committing and over-extending oneself. Advisors ought to give students advice regarding their extracurricular commitments, but it is ultimately the decision and the responsibility of students either to act on this advice or to ignore it entirely.  Still, if students are better informed, they will have more to consider when making the choice to increase or decrease their extracurricular commitments.
Giving students the responsibility to manage their involvement in college will serve to better prepare them for life after Harvard, when the ability to balance multiple commitments will be a necessary skill. Provided students are not overextending themselves to the degree that their academics, health, or happiness suffer, they should be given the freedom to take on as many responsibilities as they believe they can maintain.
Still, students should not overlook the benefits of Harvard’s liberal arts education while getting caught up in extracurricular commitments. The benefits conferred by a liberal arts education may not become apparent until years down the road when individuals are able to apply the knowledge and skills they learned in the classroom, not just the practical proficiencies they acquired from extracurricular activities. College may be the only time that students can acquire and hone these skills without being expected to demonstrate them immediately—although the choice is left to them, we encourage students to take advantage of this time and of the academic gains that Harvard has to offer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a fantastic weekend wandering the side streets of the Old City of Jerusalem with a group of religious overseas students from my program, I went to friend a few of them on Facebook. For one of them—a girl named Esther Petrack—I didn’t find a profile. Instead, I discovered a fan page devoted to someone with her name. My jaw dropped.
As a result of her appearance on “America’s Next Top Model” this season, Esther, a graduate of a Modern Orthodox Jewish high school in Brookline, has received a tremendous amount of censure from her community and her religious Jewish brethren. But although she takes full responsibility for her choices, she told me, there is far more to her tale than meets the eye. Of course, this shouldn’t come as much of a surprise. Her name in Hebrew, after all, is similar to the root for the word “hidden.” And as I discovered over the course of my interview with her, this Orthodox Jewish rebel possesses an even more striking beauty than is at first apparent—a determination to respect the traditional community that raised her even when many from that community have denounced her.
Much of the criticism Esther has received stemmed from her audition, in which she was edited to appear as though she had sacrificed her religion upon Tyra Banks’s altar. In the episode, after Esther explains her upbringing as a Modern Orthodox Jew, Banks retorts that contestants on her show must work every single day, including Saturdays. She asks if Esther would compete regardless. Esther’s four-word response—“I would do it”—was widely seen as, as one writer for Tablet Magazine put it, a “severe” and devastating “blow” to “the Modern Orthodox experiment.”
In reality, Esther cannot recall a single moment over the course of the show when she was forced to compromise her religious beliefs (her discussion with Banks during the audition was actually a 15-minute long “conversation about Shabbat,” she explained). Nonetheless, posing scantily clad for millions of viewers on a weekly basis is a far cry from what the founders of Modern Orthodox Judaism envisioned. To that end, although some in her community have been more open to her decision than others, she told me, a top administrator in her high school recently instructed the students to “pray for her soul.” “It’s more than just ‘you shouldn’t have appeared on national TV in your bathing suit,’” she explained, referring to her school’s reaction. “It’s also partially, ‘you are not what we espouse. You are not what we look for in a human being.’”
Esther, to be sure, fully anticipated this backlash, despite the fact that she still identifies as Orthodox. “If you’re coming from where I’m coming from,” she explained, “you’d have to be stupid or naïve to think that you can audition on ‘America’s Next Top Model’ [and] just go home and have everyone give you a hug.” 
 
But this is far from her whole story.
 
Historically, Orthodox Jews who go against the wishes of their communities in the national spotlight have also cast tremendous aspersions on those who raised them. Some years ago, for example, Noah R. Feldman ’92, a current Harvard law professor who attended the same Brookline high school as Esther, found himself and his Korean-American fiancée cropped out of his high school’s alumni photo. In retaliation, in 2007, he penned a feature for the New York Times Magazine that made a huge splash in the Orthodox world. Similarly, Shalom Auslander, another Orthodox expatriate, recently wrote a biting memoir in which he recounted how he was humiliated, abused, and “raised like a veal” by his community in Monsey, New York.
What differentiates Esther from these defectors—and, indeed, makes her that much more elegant—is that she actually made every effort to protect her community even as she was blatantly defying it. In order to distance herself temporarily from her high school and prevent, as she put it, “pull[ing her community] in” with her, Esther refrained as much as possible from performing Jewish rituals while on camera. “I didn’t feel like I had to make excuses for what I did,” she said. “But I knew that a lot of people wouldn’t want to identify with me in the future. So I didn’t identify with them publicly.” Even while she was pursuing a dream that could not be more at odds with her upbringing, Esther was still extremely cognizant about how her decision would affect her community. And she had the maturity to acknowledge that while she may have her disagreements with her community, its members still deserve her respect.
As an Orthodox Jew myself, I understand Esther’s community’s disapproval of her life choices. Nevertheless, there is still much to admire in the way Esther decided to pursue those choices. Although numerous commentators in the Jewish blogosphere have accused Esther of damaging the Modern Orthodox enterprise, this charge glosses over the tremendous thought that actually went into her decision. In realizing how her ambitions differed from those of her community, Esther attempted to affirm both, pursuing her own while respecting the others. Therefore, instead of condemning her outright, Esther’s detractors ought to take a hint from her name, and delve beyond appearances in order to uncover the truth that hides within.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House currently studying abroad at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
We read with concern the Oct. 21 Fifteen Minutes scrutiny "Accommodate to Learn," which opened with an anecdote about a student with a disability who was required to re-take Expository Writing 10 after not completing the course's final paper. Because the reporters' organization of their story may lead some readers to infer that the Expository Writing Program was insensitive to a student's disability and his need for accommodation—and because the reporters never contacted the Writing Program to ask how we respond to students with disabilities—we write to make the facts clear.
Those of us teaching in and administering the Writing Program take great care in how we respond to students identified by the Accessible Education Office as needing accommodations for their disabilities. We work every semester with the AEO staff and the Freshman Dean's Office to determine fair accommodation for students with disabilities and medical issues.  Many students with disabilities or other issues that affect their work communicate this information to their preceptors and as a result we are able to adjust deadlines in a way that lets those students complete their work in an appropriate timeframe.
Thomas R. Jehn and Karen L. Heath
Cambridge, Mass.
Oct. 21, 2010
Thomas R. Jehn, Ph.D., is the Sosland Director for the Harvard College Writing Program and Karen L. Heath serves as the Senior Preceptor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
Vice President of Communications at the International Bottled Water Association and former big tobacco lobbyist Tom J. Lauria’s defense of bottled water and its role on college campuses is nothing more than an industry lobbyist’s attempt to push a non-essential use of our most essential resource onto college campuses. As a student activist who has lead a successful bottled water-free campus campaign with Think Outside the Bottle for Seattle University, I know firsthand that this initiative is good for the environment, for democracy, and for our public water systems.
Furthermore, Mr. Lauria misstates the purpose of this growing student movement. Our goal is to challenge corporate control of water and to promote, protect, and ensure funding for strong public water systems.
Why? Water is a basic human right, not a high-priced commodity. Through misleading marketing and enormous advertising budgets, Mr. Lauria’s clients (e.g. Nestlé) have attempted to convince students and communities that the only place to get clean, safe water is from a bottle.
But the fact is, bottled water is less regulated than tap and up to half of it comes from our public water systems, sold back to us at thousands of times the price!
Perhaps most disturbing is the corporate water grab. Corporations like Nestlé are pumping an estimated 1,862,486,080 gallons of fresh water every year and have even engaged five states in legal battles over water rights. In the process, they are taking away local communities’ rights to their own water, draining watersheds, and using up to 2000 times more energy than our public water systems would.
That’s why students across the country are turning the tide on decades of misleading marketing and starting to Think Outside the Bottle.
At Seattle U, once students became educated about the social and environmental impacts of bottled water, there was overwhelming support for the campaign. In fact, our bottled water consumption declined by 50 percent without even placing a ban.
Since launching the campaign in 2007, I watched Seattle U’s student body transform as students collaborated and worked towards creating a sustainable campus. Most importantly, I saw the capacity of our generation to make a difference.
Right now schools all around the nation are building this movement; already, nine campuses in the U.S. (including fellow Ivy Leaguer Brown) have some type of “water ban” on their campuses, and dozens more are launching new campaigns every year. The Crimson Staff had it right: Harvard University should join us.
Spencer L. Black
Seattle,  Wash.
Oct. 26, 2010
Spencer Black is a fourth year Environmental Studies with Specialization in Natural Sciences student at Seattle University. He is the founding president of the Natural Leaders Club of Seattle U and the student campaign organizer for Corporate Accountability International.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
OK, dog owners in and around Harvard College, I know that you think your dogs are the most adorable things in the world. They’re small and cheerful and amusing, but without the added burden of actual emotional interaction. They’ll love you forever and like you for always and all you have to give them in return is a place to poop and canned food to eat. It’s a pretty sweet deal, and congratulations on filling the void in your lives with a dumb, fuzzy friend.
However, follow everyone else’s example and keep it to yourselves. Take me, for example.
I personally prefer to fill the empty void in my life with alcohol, not furry parasites. And yet out of respect for others, I limit my public displays of affection for alcohol to two nights a week. (My private displays are another matter.) Physics majors who fill the void with Starcraft II manage to lock it up and save it for the LAN party, and hipsters who fill it with obscure music keep their headphones on and their mouths shut. Even football players can keep the game on the field and out of my way.
Why can’t you do the same?
I’m not saying I hate dogs. I can appreciate them for their cleverness and their wily ways of fooling us into feeding them. Power to you, small mammal. But there comes a point in the life of every higher-thinking being when enough is enough. They need to stay out of my dining hall entrance and the Yard, which is not a public park, and also out of the Quad lawn. In short, they need to stop being imposed on me.
I didn’t choose to bring dogs into this place. I don’t think they’re that cute. Some of them are little and irritating, some of them are big and doofy and clumsy. End of story. I can twist the adjectives to be polite — “tiny” or “toy,” “klutzy” or “cuddly” — but we all know what I mean: “Oh God your dog is annoying but you love it so much that I will be nice.” It’s like 24/7 ugly baby syndrome. You know, when someone has that one-in-two-million-chance super ugly baby and you have to pretend it’s cute because babies are supposed to be? I live this awkwardness every time I “meet” someone’s dog (yes, they use that word). And why? These are not babies; it’s not like I’m implying the owner is ugly, or that she and her husband are a genetic landmine, if I think their bichon frise looks like a real-life creepy Snuggle bear. It just does.
I don’t ask you to compliment me on that great deal I got on a 30-rack last week. No social norm says that you have to act incredibly interested in what level of Starcraft your friend has reached. And yet we all have to pretend to like your dog and think it’s adorable when it pisses on our legs. Nobody is obligated to pretend it’s cute when a drunk person does that.
Dingoes eat babies, and dogs are mini-dingoes. When our Puritan forefathers founded this College, they let dogs and cows in the Yard and kept women and minorities out. We have reversed one of those things, now let’s get after reversing the other.
Sections
Every year, countless pumpkins become silent victims to knife-wielding humans, who are inexplicably inspired to carve cute smiley faces into them. Physics students are a bit more sadistic than ordinary people, however. Not content to just chop and splatter these pumpkins, they drop and shatter them with the help of some liquid nitrogen and a few flights of stairs.
Last Friday afternoon, the Society of Physics Students organized a pumpkin drop event that promised not only exploding pumpkins, but also a generous variety of free baked goods and apple cider.
The pumpkin drop itself is arguably a testament to Isaac Newton, but the event also goes conveniently well with a gastronomic appreciation of the illustrious Cucurbita mixta.
“You test the theory of gravity by throwing pumpkins off a roof,” explained Tom S. Rice ’12, vice president of SPS. “The 12 pies we get to eat are also a huge draw for holding this event, though.”
About 50 to 60 students arrived at the Jefferson Building to observe the spectacle, near which a large plastic tarp was laid out on the ground.
While the first frozen pumpkin missed its mark (at an acceleration rate of 9.81 m/s^2, of course) and found its end just short of the tarp, the slew of pumpkins that followed exploded right on target.
Pumpkins frozen in liquid nitrogen were the event’s crowd pleasers, bursting upon impact with a satisfying “pop” into hundreds of still-smoking shards, unlike the room-temperature pumpkins, which splattered or split into halves.
To mark the event’s conclusion, Vijay Jain ’11 announced a final experiment, displaying two pumpkins of varying sizes to test if they would hit the ground at the same time.
“Modern-day Galileo, are we?” said Nikko S.S. Pomata ’13.
Unfortunately, the experiment failed to corroborate Newton’s theories when the pumpkins landed at different times, but nobody seemed to mind.
“I think it turned out better this year than last year,” said Joanna F. Behrman ’13, who organized the event.
“Pies, cakes, cider, spectacular explosions—it was a smashing success!”
Sections
While the Harvard-Yale Game is all about letting loose, old habits die hard, and shutting off your brain can be tougher than you think. So we’ve taken a cerebral approach to analyzing some of this year’s decidedly uncerebral Harvard-Yale T-shirt designs.
Design One presents Yale as analogous to “jail” by playing off the recognizable visual style of the board game “Monopoly,” a popular 20th-century pastime played by members of the middle class in imitation of the real estate dealings of the moneyed elite. The front of the design presents an image of a jailed convict, with the words “In Yale” flanking the ominous barred window. The prisoner’s enigmatic gaze confronts the beholder, challenging the viewer to imagine the atrocities that must occur at the nation’s second best college. The back of the design is even bleaker, featuring a candid glimpse of the police brutality and animal cruelty that plague Yale’s urban campus. Harvard, on the other hand, has recently seen no violence whatsoever.
Design Two alludes to the recent film “The Social Network.” Imitating the font and composition of the movie posters, this design presents Yale as “the woeful network,” twisting the famed tagline into “You don’t get to 500 million friends. You just don’t.” This design is a bit obvious in its exploitation of Harvard’s recent glamorization, and its attack on Yale is a little misdirected. After all, they too had an alum influence hundreds of millions of lives, invade our privacy, define the decade, and recently get the Hollywood biopic treatment.
Design Nine depicts a well-drawn cartoon bulldog in front of a faded-out Yale, with an asterisk that reads “Safety School Since 1701.” While this design is considerably less clever than its competitors, the bulldog is extremely well-depicted and frankly, adorable. The blue chiaroscuro on the folds of bulldog flesh is especially convincing and—dare we say—cuddly. The main weakness of this poster is in the message; accusing Yale of being a safety school only reinforces the stereotype that Harvard kids are condescending and snotty. But just look at that chiaroscuro.
Sections
Patrick C. Staropoli ’12 may sit behind you in class, but he’d undoubtedly be in front of you on the racetrack. When he’s home in southern Florida, the dark-haired junior neurobiology concentrator in Mather moonlights as a professional racecar driver in the American Speed Association Late Model Series, a regional version of NASCAR.
Staropoli started racing go-karts at the age of 13, and moved up to the fast and furious world of racecar driving in high school. He was inspired by his father and grandfather, both veteran racecar drivers who took him to his first race track at the tender age of six months.
“There are a lot of kids who are racing now because of Jeff Gordon, but Patrick’s racing because he likes to race,” said Joe E. Winchell, a veteran racecar driver from Florida who has raced with Staropoli and his father in the past. According to Anthony A. Sandora, a member of Staropoli’s crew, their routine simply starts up when he gets back to Florida. “When he’s home, we’ll be working in the garage, wondering who is actually going to be at the race track, what times people will be running, and how stiff the competition will be when we get there,” said Sandora.
This summer Staropoli won an impressive two out of the five races in which he entered. Racing tests a driver’s physical strength and endurance­—the car will go about 160 miles per hour on the straightaways, and about 90 miles per hour around the corners. “It’s not like driving a car on a road,” said Staropoli. “It’s a lot of g-force on your body.” While he’s at Harvard, Staropoli keeps up with the newest adjustments to the car’s technology, which he explains is a critical part of the sport.
Although New England doesn’t hold racing’s biggest fanbase, he enjoys spreading the racing love. “There’s definitely a big 180 from Florida­—when I’m home I’m in my element and surrounded by people who are passionate about racing too. At school, I like trying to introduce my friends to it,” he said.
Staropoli’s dedication to the sport makes him well regarded in the racing community, explained Winchell. “If you’re called a racer, that means a lot. You’re not just doing it for whatever reason. We consider Patrick a racer.”
Sections
The word “nika” means “to give” in Zulu. For the NIKA Water Company, this namesake is no coincidence; it’s the inspiration for the company’s overall objective.
NIKA, which Kara M. Kubarych ’13 co-founded in high school, donates 100 percent of its profits (currently $350,000, according to the company) to clean water projects in developing countries. A certified carbon neutral company, NIKA’s current ventures include reforestation and drilling water wells, among others.
“We’re not asking anyone to do anything earth-shattering,” said Kubarych. “If you’re going to buy a bottle of water, why not help benefit people who don’t have clean water?”
Kubarych, who created NIKA in her hometown of San Diego, said she is trying to bring the company to Boston and change its brand perception. “In San Diego, it was known as ‘that brand with the cute designs on the front,’” she said. But Kubarych said she feels that Harvard students appreciate NIKA’s mission, adding, “Harvard students have been very excited to see the merging of private and public sectors.”
In one form of support, several students have started up a consulting group on campus specifically to address the needs of NIKA. “[W]e want to establish NIKA teams in different campuses and get them in vending machines in major Boston schools,” NIKA consultant J. Sebastian Garcia ’13, who is also a Crimson business editor, wrote in an e-mail. “We really just want to feed off the energy of college students who are really receptive to NIKA’s mission and are willing to help out.”
However, Resource Efficiency Program Co-Captain Samantha L. Houston ’11 wrote in an e-mail that she has concerns about some of NIKA’s practices, such as potentially “perpetuating the prestige of bottled water in the US, which is on the whole bad for the environment.”
Yet despite her concerns, “I would opt for NIKA before other brands,” Houston wrote.
Sections
My very first hit of Extra Strength 5-Hour Energy came around 7 a.m. in late November of my freshman year, just as the first rays of sun penetrated the windows on the third floor of Lamont Library. Six other souls from my Expos class and I had been camping out in the reading room since 8 p.m. the night before, our stay punctuated only by a short break around 1 a.m. to refuel on greasy chicken fingers and crab rangoons. Two paragraphs shy of being done and four hours away from the deadline, I needed a boost to see me through to the finish line.
Hours later in class, my Expos preceptor pried the empty plastic vial from my fingers. To this day, I’m still suspicious that it was the sound of the heavy pumping of my heart, revving on overdrive from that self-induced adrenaline rush, that tipped her off.
“Your hands are shaking, you know,” she noted, reading off the ingredients label, “Probably from the 8333% daily value of vitamin B-12 you just shot into your system.”
I should have known that there was something inherently wrong about being carded to buy a drink that bears a label warning users to limit their daily intake to two. But I was young, I was overwhelmed, and God, I was tired of being tired.
My tumultuous relationship with caffeine started off innocently enough. After an upperclassman made a snide comment on how I was nodding off during the second week of classes, I was shamed into finding a solution to combat fatigue that I thought was the by-product of my adjustment period to college life. I began with Earl Grey tea, then a daily dose of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee, always a medium order with three creams and four sugars mixed in. I was soon making religious midnight runs with floormates to Au Bon Pain for extra-large cups of stale hazelnut coffee to tide me over ’til morning after a cup-a-night just wasn’t cutting it. When I began falling asleep in section with my Styrofoam coffee cup in hand, I started adhering to a ritual breakfast of Rice-Krispies squares and  a lukewarm can of Red Bull.
When I had graduated to daily doses of 5-Hour Energy, I was convinced that I had stumbled across some new ambrosia. For $3.25 a bottle plus tax, my mortal self no longer had to succumb to the limiting reagent of sleep. A day’s sleep for me was reduced to the length of naps, if I even chose to sleep at all. All the while, I still had the energy to catch up on all my readings, complete problem sets early, make it to office hours, participate in six or seven different organizations on campus, and I still had hours to spare for weekend socializing and cultivating mint-condition freshman-year friendships. I was living proof that, in spite of warnings of overcommiting, there was a way to have my [coffee] cake and eat it too.
I became so fond of caffeinated beverages that I even took on a part-time job at a café for the perks of free coffee and Red Bulls. My addiction was so infamous that, for my 18th birthday, friends showered me with an 18-pack of 5-Hour and can-after-can of Monster and Amp. Romance for me was a 9 p.m. run to Café Pamplona to refuel on a doubleshot of espresso.
By the tail end of second semester freshman year, I no longer flushed after downing a 5-Hour; my hands no longer twitched and shook. The side effects had disappeared, but so had the guaranteed energy boosts. Even with a Red Bull, I still found myself showing up late to every 9 a.m. class. I was falling asleep in lecture halls again, even though I had my neighbors jab me in the arm with pencils every time I nodded off. Meals became dine-and-dash opportunities instead of sit-down occasions for socializing. I was quickly falling behind in courses because I couldn’t remember a word of what I had read in my caffeine-intoxicated state of mind.
The wake-up call jolting me out of my self-induced insomnia came during my Chinese midterm that spring. Having slept for three hours the night before, I had routinely downed another 5-Hour, certain it would pull me through the exam as it always had. I let my eyes close for what I could have sworn was a few seconds as the professor transitioned between Part A and Part B of the exam. When I opened them, she had just finished reciting a dialogue, and I had completely missed Part B. I totally flunked that entire portion of the test.
Moving out of the Yard freshman year, I threw away every last 5-Hour and Red Bull that I had stashed around my room. Sophomore year, I severed my resume in half, I aimed for a balanced course load instead of a formidable one. Most importantly, I made it a point to ensure that I was sleeping at least six hours a night. Routine replaced caffeine.
This past May marked the yearlong anniversary of my last 5-Hour. It’s an ongoing struggle; around 3 a.m. on particularly depressing nights, a part of me is tempted to head to Tommy’s and give in. But I ain’t got the time for rehab.
—Anna M. Yeung ’12 is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House. She sympathizes with Amy Winehouse.
Sections
In Social Studies 98fu, students take matters into their own hands.
The tutorial, titled “Practicing Democracy: Leadership, Community, and Power,” mobilizes its students to create social change. Students identify an issue that they care about, define it as a project, and work to accomplish established goals by the end of the semester. Every week, through readings in sociology, political science, and social psychology, they learn about storytelling, organizing, and strategizing. But the bulk of their work is in executing their own project.
“It’s not just learning through reading and theory; it’s learning through practice,” said Tyler A. Brandon ’12, who is enrolled in the course.
This year, students are pursuing a wide variety of projects, concerning everything from climate change to AIDS funding to Harvard’s own final clubs. Brandon’s project, called “Munch & Move,” aims to incorporate a nutrition-related education curriculum into the Phillips Brooks House Association’s after-school programs. Emma Q. Wang ’12, another member of the class, is raising awareness and resources for Harvard’s LGBTQ community.
The unique format of the tutorial stems from the background of its professor, Marshall L. Ganz ’64. Ganz entered Harvard College in 1960, but left before graduating to get involved with the Civil Rights Movement and the United Farm Workers of America. Twenty-eight years later, he returned to Harvard to finish his degree and further his education. As a result of his extensive experience as an activist, “Practicing Democracy” is incredibly hands-on.
“Since leadership is a practice, you can’t teach it without doing it,” said Ganz. “It’s just like learning to ride a bike.”
And like learning to ride a bike, practicing leadership inevitably involves falling down and getting back up. Every week in section, students reflect on their projects and give each other constructive criticism.
“I think we’ve grown a lot,” said Brandon. “We’re able to reflect and evaluate ourselves halfway through.”
Wang feels empowered by the experience. “It’s unlike any other class at Harvard,” she said. “As human beings, we’re here to make an impact on the world rather than passively imbibe our textbooks. This is a chance to do something, to create, to shape the world that you’re in.”
Sections
Hey Director of Polling at the Institute of Politics,
John D. Volpe:
A recent IOP study found that over 70 percent of young voters were not sure if they would vote in the midterm elections. How do you think politicians can get more students interested in voting?
"I think that politicians need to honestly engage young people. And it seems relatively simple, but very few politicians have done that effectively in the past few years. Young people were part of everything Obama did, whether it was campaigning or how he spent his time. The issues he talked about were of the utmost importance to them. It was honest conversation that turned into an honest relationship. You can’t turn something on and turn something off."
Sections
One might think that an open pair of eyes is all it takes to avoid running into a wall; but apparently, come this year’s Boston Marathon, it might actually be a new online calculator that helps most to avoid “hitting the wall.”
This new tool, meant to calculate the optimal carbohydrate levels for a runner’s muscles, was recently created by Benjamin I. Rapoport ’03, a long-time marathon runner and M.D.-Ph.D student in the Health Sciences and Technology program at Harvard Medical School and MIT. With the input of one’s weight, age, resting heart rate and target marathon time, the calculator projects the needed carbohydrate consumption and potential best marathon performance times. Would-be marathoners, through this model, can more accurately plan their pre-race diet so as to optimize their performance during the race.
Ironically enough, Rapoport’s efforts to further structure pre-race eating habits came completely outside of the original structure of his own research on brain-machine interfaces. “It was quite a funny story, actually,” says Dr. William M. Kettyle, the professor for an endocrinology class in which Rapoport was enrolled. Rapoport explained to his professor that he would be missing a lecture because he was running the Boston Marathon; Kettyle, as a joke, dared Ben to speak about the science of his experience immediately after finishing the race.
“Ben took me seriously and on the day of the Marathon he came to class,” recalls Kettyle. “He gave a terrific talk on the energy management of running a marathon. Every year since then he has come to the class right after running in the Boston Marathon and has given a talk on this topic.”
His passion for marathon running turned into yearly lectures, and these quickly developed into published research, which Rapoport decided to print in the PLoS (Public Library of Science) Computational Biology journal, and then later, due to demand, as an online calculator located at www.endurancecalculator.com. “I had no idea it would get this big,” he says. “I was just expecting a few academics to be interested in it.”
For those looking forward to the Boston Marathon this spring, Rapoport’s calculator may prove helpful; however, it might still be a good idea to watch out for those walls as well.

 
 

 
 
Sections
Last Thursday evening in the Mather Junior Common Room, a small group of students armed with laptops gathered around a table and started learning to DJ. The event was organized and led by Sarah E. Hankins, a music grad student and non-resident tutor for Mather, who sometimes goes by another name: DJ Super Squirrel.
In her junior year of college, Hankins studied abroad in southern India. One day, she was listening to a folk song by Dar Williams on her headphones and suddenly heard a Tamil film song playing on the radio simultaneously.
“These two songs were playing that sounded totally amazing together,” Hankins said. “I decided that nothing would bring me greater happiness than doing this myself—basically, making mashups.”
Hankins said she wanted to “spread the love” and teach Mather students how to DJ, so she planned Thursday’s DJ training session to go over the basics of production and turntabling. Only seven students went to the session, but their feedback was enthusiastic.
“I’d never actually played with turntables before, so it was a completely new experience,” said Ahmed S. Belal ’12. Belal had previously played around with music production software, but never had the chance to use turntables or to get a thorough walkthrough to mixing and producing songs.
Another Mather junior, Jonathan O. Kola ’12, had also dabbled in mashup production. “It was very cool to scratch, to touch some new turntables, and to hear from DJ Super Squirrel,” he said. Kola, a violinist, hopes to save up and buy some turntables of his own.
Due to the success of Thursday’s event, Hankins said she might host a larger, more widely advertised training session for Harvard students in general.
“Everyone can DJ,” Hankins said. “And it’s a fabulous activity that provides endless enjoyment.”


Sections
It might seem counterintuitive to suppose that a clash between students from two of the country’s finest colleges would spontaneously combust into a medley of drunken messes, but the Harvard-Yale Game is proof that having near perfect SAT scores does not preclude anyone from disastrous behavior.
When talking about The Game, however, very few people actually think about the game itself. To many, the real highlights of that Saturday in November are going to be the pregames and tailgates. On this front, Yale seems to have Harvard beat; time and time again people say the Yale tailgates are more accessible and, surprisingly, more fun. This hasn’t always been the case: Prior to 2004, Harvard tailgates were fairly free-flowing. How and why did the rules change over time? What did undergrads do to bring about such strict rules?
HARVARD-YALE 2002 & 2004
The fuss over dangerous drinking at The Game began in 2002, when, according to past issues of The Crimson and Harvard Magazine, nine students ended up hospitalized with alcohol-related illnesses and a student almost died from alcohol poisoning. The College at that point in time had already sought to curb underage drinking at the tailgate by requiring ID checks to buy alcohol and by banning kegs to discourage dangerous drinking.
The 2004 game did nothing to ease administrative concerns; it was apparently a mess on Crimson wheels, leaving 29 students ousted from the game (11 from Harvard, 15 from Yale, and three others), 97 IDs confiscated, and two people arrested. Further, 30 alcohol-related hospitalizations occurred during or immediately following the Game, and two students were charged with possessing and distributing cocaine. Boston Police Capt. William Evans surveyed the tailgate and found students doing everything from drinking straight out of liquor handles to urinating in public. In a past interview with The Crimson, Evans stated, “I was embarrassed to be a policeman on that field seeing what I had to see.”
CRACKING DOWN: POLICY CHANGES in 2006 & 2008
It’s not much of a surprise, then, that in 2006 the College decided to amend its tailgate policies. Although kegs had been banned since 2002, then-Dean of the College Benedict H. Gross ’71 entered negotiations with the Boston Police Department and decided that the best way to prevent binge drinking at the tailgate was to ban alcohol entirely. Further, all tailgates were required to end at the game’s half-time. By comparison, the rules at Yale the previous year only banned drinking games and required that tailgates end by the beginning of the third quarter.
In 2008, the policies for the Harvard-Yale tailgate were changed again to align them with Boston Police Department regulations on university sporting events. The rules dictated that tailgates begin only two hours before the game and forced them to shut down by the beginning of the game, at noon. House Committees were allowed to again serve wine and beer to 21+ students, but students were not permitted to bring in their own alcohol. Kegs were still outlawed.
RULES 2010
The 2008 rules have remained largely unchanged this year (besides a provision requiring 21+ students to wear a wristband); tailgates can still only begin two hours before the start of the game, and they must completely shut down by noon when the game begins. Tailgaters at that point will be required to clear the tailgate field, either making their way into the game or leaving altogether. “The rules of the tailgate are consistent with the rules of tailgates generally in Boston ...They’re based on a license we have with the city,” says Dean of Student Life Suzy M. Nelson.
Access to alcohol will be largely in the hands of House Committees. According to Julia M. Fifer ’11, Lowell HoCo co-chair, the HoCo tailgates will be in close proximity to each other, hopefully creating a central space for students to hang out with friends. “We don’t have any specific games planned for the Lowell HoCo Tailgate yet, but all the HoCos have joined together to share one sound-system and one big space. We’ll obviously have drinks,” says Fifer. She adds, “In addition to beer and Franzia, we’ll have hot chocolate and other staples.”
THE COMPLAINTS
Still, students don’t seem extremely happy about many of the rules. One of the biggest criticisms of the rules this year, which are essentially the same as they were in 2008, is the requirement that all tailgates shut down at noon. The Undergraduate Council is seeking to negotiate an amendment to these rules. “Because the tailgates close at noon, which obviously stinks compared to Yale, we’re trying to see if we can have the tailgate continue after the game ends. We’re talking to the administration,” says Matthew S. Coe-Odess ’12, committee chair of the UC’s Social Life Task Force.
Another issue is the continued restriction against kegs. “It’s statistically proven that kegs are safer—you’re not gonna shotgun beers and you have to wait your turn to get to the keg so you’re not going to drink as much. Plus it’s environmentally friendlier,” says Coe-Odess.
Interestingly enough, the notorious 2002 and 2004 tailgates were both keg-less, potentially indicating that the policy itself hasn’t done much to curb dangerous drinking. Some argue that banning kegs will actually encourage dangerous drinking. “I find it a pointless regulation—students are still going to be drinking. I’m still going to be drinking,” says an underage member of the class of 2013, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
“I don’t think it’s going to be a problem—I think the restrictions are better than they have been in the past. And I mean, those who want to drink beforehand will find a way to do so,” says Coe-Odess.
Regardless, students are reminded by the Office of Student Life that the rules aren’t meant to stop anyone from having fun. “We want to make sure that people aren’t overindulging in a way that’s unsafe so that no one gets hurt,” says Nelson.
Sections
When Meaghan E. Glisczinski ’11 first met her boyfriend Shomesh E. Chaudhuri ’11 as a freshman, she was immediately captivated by his smile. Or was it his “exotic skin color”? FM caught up with one of Harvard’s couples, and the BF’s roommate, Baltazar A. Zavala ’11, on the pair's third anniversary and did a little investigating. Who knows the man of the hour better, his girlfriend or his best friend?
The GF: Meaghan E.  Glisczinski  ’11
The Boy: Shomesh E.  Chaudhuri ’11
The Roomie: Baltazar A. Zavala ’11
1.    What’s his sexiest physical trait?
GF: Ass
B: Exotic skin color
R: Smile
2.    Least favorite thing about himself?
GF: Shorter than me
B: My GF is just a tiny bit taller than me
R: Stature
3.    Where would he go when he’s feeling sad?
GF: My room
B: My GF’s bed
R: His GF’s room
4.    If he could be a famous person, who would he want to be?
GF: Famous soccer player
B: Thierry Henry
R: Arsenal soccer player
5.    What’s the most embarrassing thing he’s done at Harvard?
GF: He never makes mistakes, so he has nothing to be embarrassed about.
B: In Math 1b, the professor makes fun of me during the exam in front of 200 kids.
R: When Math 21a embarrassed him during a midterm in front of the whole class and over 100 kids laughed at him.
6.    His favorite pick-up line?
GF: If you were a pirate, would you wear your parrot on this shoulder or [put arm around the girl’s shoulder] that shoulder?
B: If you were a pirate, would you wear your parrot on this shoulder or [put arm around the girl’s shoulder] that shoulder?
R: Wanna be more than friends?
7.    What about him sparked his girlfriend’s interest?
GF: His smile
B: My good looks
R: Nothing
8.    In 15 years, he will be…
GF: Still wearing his DHAs to work
B: Prime Minister of Canada
R: Married to Meaghan
9.    His biggest pet peeve?
GF: The Asian tourists in the Yard.
B: When you’re leaving the bathroom, the door handle’s wet and you just washed your hands.
R: Overeager section kids.
10.    What’s one thing that (secretly) annoys him about his GF?
GF: I talk a lot.
B: How every other guy checks her out
R: She’s too tall
11.    His favorite comfort food?
GF: Indian food
B: Chicken curry
R: Ketchup chips from Canada
12.    His favorite cheesy romantic gesture ?
GF: Taking me for a walk along the Charles
B: Pretending I’m a monkey to make her feel better
R: Candy
13. If he were stranded on an island, a) what would he SAY he'd bring, and b) what would he REALLY bring?
GF: a) Water b) Me
B: a)  My girlfriend b) My roommate
R: a) Soccer ball b) His engineering p-set
14.    What reality TV show would he go on?
GF: "ANTM"
B: "ANTM" for guys
R: "Jersey Shore"
15.    What’s something he wishes he could do?
GF: Go into space
B: Swim
R: Be funny
Sections
Last week, New York Magazine published a feature entitled “What Was the Hipster?” The article, which suggests the end of the hipster era, followed a period of increased interest in defining this cultural phenomenon and the September release of the book “Stuff Hipsters Hate.” Roving Reporter went to Café Pamplona to scope out some hipsters in their natural habitat to see what they have to say about all of this attention.
Efe M. Balikcioglu, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences
Abigail F. Guyton, Bard College ’12
Roving Reporter: Would you call yourself a hipster?
Efe M. Balikcioglu: I went to Princeton as an undergraduate. One of the eating clubs was the hipster eating club. It was mainly students from the philosophy and comparative literature departments. They played contemporary, indie, and jazz music. They hosted bands from Brooklyn. I was in that club.
Abigail F. Guyton: No one really calls themselves a hipster. I’m from Georgia, and people in high school might have called me a hipster. I guess you could call me a hipster apologist. I’m sympathetic to their tastes.
RR: Do you think the term hipster is obsolete?
AFG: They certainly seem to be thriving where I go to school. I don’t see an end to that subculture.
RR: What’s the top thing hipster’s hate?
AFG: Sincerity. They have to do everything with irony. They’re afraid to embrace anything.
RR: Are hipsters misunderstood?
AFG: I don’t know. There was an article a few years ago that said that hipsters are a sign of the death of Western Civilization. I wouldn’t give them that much power. They’re far more innocuous than most people think.
RR: Do you notice a lot of hipsters around Harvard?
AFG: I’m struck by a lack of hipsters walking around. There’s an Urban Outfitters and an American Apparel, so there have to be some hipsters [editor’s note: RR went to American Apparel to scout out the hipsters. They just found too many people trying to buy slutty Halloween costumes].
RR: So do real hipsters actually shop at Urban Outfitters?
AFG: Hipsters shop there, but they say they don’t.
EMB: It’s too commercial.
Julian K. Arni, ’11
David Zuluaga ’12
William “Bill” A. Kowalsky, Jr. ’12
All smoking hand-rolled cigarettes, all philosophy concentrators.
RR: How often do you come here?
All: Everyday.
RR: What are you reading?
William “Bill” A. Kowalsky: I don’t want to be put down as having been reading “Deductive Logic.” Put down Murakami—a hipster favorite.
Julian K. Arni: “Theory of Reason Under Uncertainty.” It’s a self-help book.
David Zuluaga: Aristotle’s “Nicomachean Ethics.” Also a self-help book.
RR: Are these for class or for pleasure?
DZ: Both.
RR: Would you say that you’re a hipster?
DZ: I’m from Colombia. That category doesn’t exist there.
WAK: I wouldn’t identify. I’m not a hipster. I’m a stoner.
JKA: I would say that he [WAK] is a hipster.
WAK: Tu quoque [Latin for “you too”] You’re a fucking hipster.
RR: Are you sure you want that printed?
WAK: Print it
RR: Where do Harvard hipsters congregate?
DZ: The Advocate, WHRB.
RR:  What do hipsters hate most?
JKA: Group hikes?
WAK: Bros—the universal enemy of the hipster.
DZ: That’s true.
WAK: That question stretches my imagination.
RR: What would the death of the hipster entail?
WAK: The death of the hipster is when hipsterism becomes the norm. That’s some deep shit there.
RR:  Would you say that the hipster is dead?
JKA: I live in Central Square. I don’t think so.
WAK: It seems like it’s just picking up steam.
Christopher E. Link,
Server at Café Pamplona
RR: Would you classify some of the people that come here as hipster?
Christopher E. Link: Yeah, definitely
RR: And how would you define a hipster?
CEL: To tell you the truth, I don’t know the difference between hipster, indie, et cetera.
RR: Would you say that the hipster as a subculture is dying down?
CEL: I wouldn’t say it’s dying down. When it first started, the classification was more defined. It’s a much broader category now. One hipster might look different from another, but they’d both be considered hipsters. The fact that there’s still videos and websites making fun of hipsters shows that they still exist.
Saúl Roll, Regular at Café Pamplona
RR: Would you say that the era of the hipster is coming to an end?
Saúl Roll: The average lifespan of a fad is a few years. After that, there will always be a residual group who keep up the movement. At this point, you still have some residuals. In fact, there will be a residual group until they all die out. Take the example of the hippies: you can still see some around the Square.
RR: So would you compare the hipsters to the hippies?
SR: The hippies were the last time a fad had such a big effect. But the hipsters aren’t trying to change anything. They’re just a group with certain external characteristics. They’re the latest in a history of groups that like to think they’re the cool ones in the generation.
Yi Jean Chow ’12
RR: Is the hipster subculture still thriving?
Yi Jean Chow: Being alternative is so mainstream that it doesn’t mean anything anymore.
Sections
Capt. Paul E. Mawn ’63 is angry. The times have changed on him. He is a fierce patriot and a proud veteran who served in the Navy like his father before him and his son after him. Alongside a tenth of his classmates, he participated in the Reserve Officer Training Corps—but not for the money, he hastens to add, because there wasn’t any. The native of Lynn, Mass., received a scholarship from the College that covered half of his tuition; he worked and scrounged for the balance of his fees, and when even that wasn’t enough for room and board he slept on a couch in Wigglesworth. Mawn went on to serve for 28 years as a commissioned Naval officer, in active service and the active reserves from Vietnam to Desert Storm. Now he looks with frustration at the place of the military at Harvard.
“There’s a long crimson line of service that has paid the price,” says Mawn. “Freedom isn’t free, and a lot of people aren’t aware of that.”
Harvard talks the talk about service, Mawn fumes, but when it directs its young talent towards the world, it neglects the most important kind. “They don’t consider the military as public service. Anything but the military. They view America as this big bad power with a big stick going after all these Third World countries.”
“The general feeling is that you shouldn’t have anything to do with the military because it’s a trade school,” he says. “Oh, and by the way, it’s fascist.”
Mawn is currently the chairman of Advocates for Harvard ROTC, an organization that reports over 2,400 members who hope to resurrect Harvard’s ties to ROTC and, more broadly, the tradition of national service through the military. It is a plea for the renewed esteem of Harvard’s military past.
Rebecca E. Handlin ’14 is short and thin and tucked into a chair hastily drawn next to the Thayer pool table. She has a lingering, deliberate manner that suggests she is paying proper attention to the people and things around her. She breaks into a goofy grin, and her big blue eyes widen beneath her glasses. There’s something intense about Handlin as she squirms with the discomfort of passion made public but not necessarily shared. “It’s just...have I made it clear how much I love ROTC?”
Handlin was set on military service long before she came to Harvard. Her parents were local public officials, and her brother worked for the military as a civilian. “I always grew up with the idea that giving back was a good thing. Then when it came time to consider colleges and options and so on, I thought, ‘Well, what’s the best way to give back?’ And the military seemed really great for that,” she recalls.
Now she is on track to become a Surface Warfare Officer in the US Navy, with five years of active service and three years in the reserves after graduation. Like all members of ROTC at Harvard, Handlin travels to MIT to fulfill her training requirements. She gushes about her training and the advantages of having two seemingly disparate worlds at her disposal. She remembers with a laugh how she came straight to Freshman Week from her military orientation camp, how in Annenberg she would be asked in those first flurried exchanges of information whether she did FAP, FUP or FOP, and how other freshmen treated her unexpected responses with awed curiosity.
Handlin estimates that she is one of just seven ROTC members in her class. Usually about as many join the military by other means after graduation. Of Mawn’s class, 23 percent served in the military. During the Korean War, he says, the numbers were more like 60 percent, and even as late as 1959, 121 seniors were commissioned as officers. On the Office of Career Services website, the Senior Survey results show the expected paths of Harvard seniors for the next year—military service is a humble mauve streak of one percent near the bottom.
We happy few indeed. Whatever the reasons, and for better or worse, military service is languishing in obscurity at Harvard.
II. A LEGACY OF SERVICE
To get from her dorm to the dining hall, Handlin must pass through the Thayer Gate out of the Yard. Engraved on the wall beside it is an excerpt from Ralph Waldo Emerson’s journals after he watched Harvard’s bicentennial in 1836: “...on that day, the anointed eye saw the crowd of spirits that mingled with the procession in the vacant spaces, year by year, as the classes proceeded, and then the far longer train of ghosts that followed the Company, of the men that wore before us the College honors and the laurels of the state—the long-winding train reaching back into eternity.” At Harvard, an institution so purposively steeped in its history, it is surprisingly easy to ignore the past.
Joshua D. Foote ’10 is sensitive to tradition. Not six months ago he was living in DeWolfe, thriving in the daily bustle of college life and staying up late to argue about the merits of Kantian morality. Now the Navy Ensign serves on a ship where he sleeps in one of three “racks” in a bunk, each of which has just 18 inches of space above it. All of his belongings fit in a space under his rack, as long and as wide as the bed and about 10 inches deep.
His claim to legacy comes both from his family—he is third-generation Navy—and from the deep historical ties between the military and Harvard. “Memories of the military and its proud shared history with Harvard abound on campus,” he writes in an e-mail to The Crimson. “So while my life changed drastically in many ways I never felt far from the military while I was at Harvard—and I don’t feel all that far from Harvard now, because I have the honor of carrying on the tradition of that shared history.”
With his taste for esoterica and his sense for the past, Foote notices what few others do. He rattles off trivia with aplomb. The first Harvard graduate to die in the national service, he writes, was killed in the Pequot War in the 1630s. Seventeen Harvard alumni have received the Medal of Honor, more than any other non-service college. McKinlock Hall, the main building of Leverett House, is a memorial to a World War I casualty from Harvard. And Annenberg was used as an indoor parade field for the ROTC department before it was the freshman dining hall.
For Foote, this is the train of ghosts in the Yard. But if his decision to join the Navy was informed by the past, his own experiences at Harvard were equally important.
“I think some people are under the impression that people in the military are there because they like to fight,” he says. “I’ve never met anybody actually who thinks that way. What my blockmates helped me realize is that the whole reason I am serving is that war is terrible, and because it is, when somebody has to fight it, I want that person to be me and not anybody else that I love.”
Foote once met a man from the class of 1959 who had received a commission in the Navy after doing ROTC. Among the other officers on his ship were another Harvard alumnus, two from Yale, one from Princeton and three from Dartmouth. “Eight Ivy League graduates on one ship,” Foote says. “That doesn’t happen anymore.”
The change, he suggests, has been one in the expression of class distinction; in the past, the elite had the responsibility, as leaders of the nation, to serve in the military. Mawn, like Foote, was compelled by a concept of duty proportionate to privilege. “People have a sense of duty, but it all depends on their own circumstances,” he says. “You don’t expect the lame and the blind to go into the military service, and you don’t expect someone with three generations of unemployment and welfare to become a philanthropist.”
Somehow, in the years since, this ideal has been flipped on its head with respect to military service. Foote tracks it to the divisive legacy of Vietnam, when support for the war was particularly sparse in the upper echelons of academia and among the educated elite. Thus it was not expected of students at top universities to serve in the military. Accordingly, since one’s interests are greatly shaped by the opportunities proposed in one’s surroundings, military service has just not been on the radar for a lot of young men and women.
The shift in attitude turned to radical action in the spring of 1969, when anti-war protesters at Harvard College forcibly occupied University Hall. Police were called in and dispersed the crowd by force, causing an outcry among faculty and students. Hate for war coalesced with hate for soldiers; an ROTC classroom in Shannon Hall was set on fire. Deliberating under fierce pressure, the administration took a series of steps that withdrew support from the ROTC program on campus. The “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy introduced in 1993 prohibits homosexuals from openly serving in the military; this runs contrary to Harvard’s rules on antidiscrimination, so the University still does not recognize ROTC courses. The culture of military service at Harvard has never recovered.
In recent years, there have been strong moves made to heal Harvard’s strained political relationship with the military. ROTC is still absent from campus, but President Drew G. Faust has hinted that a repeal of the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” law might herald a new welcome for the program. She has begun to attend and speak supportively at ROTC commissioning ceremonies, and the color guard for the national anthem has been re-instituted at football and hockey games.
Long gone are the days of ubiquitous scorn. Handlin says that she is met everywhere with gratitude and curiosity. “When I walk around the Harvard campus, I feel warmly welcomed,” she says. “Most people are interested and respectful. When they see the uniform, they say, ‘Wow, that’s the coolest thing ever.’” Far from disdained, she’s a novelty if anything. One male friend refers blithely to her as “The Warrior.”
But animosity has turned to apathy, not admiration. “Universities move towards fashion, and the military is just not in fashion,” says James J. Meeks ’01-’02, who joined the Army after graduation and served in Iraq as a second lieutenant. “It used to be out of fashion, but now I’m not sure if it’s either in or out.”
At colleges with a more visible military culture, Meeks claims, students show great pride in their peers that enter the service. “If you go into the military at Harvard, it’s just odd—it’s just weird,” he says.
III. “COURAGE IN PEACE”
In 2004, Meeks was leading a convoy of prisoners 15 miles west of Fallujah, Iraq, when his truck was struck by an improvised explosive device. His eardrums were punctured, and he had shrapnel all along the right side of his body. He had known full well that getting hit was pretty much inevitable. The social studies concentrator from Newton, Mass., was not at all planning on joining the military until one decisive moment in his senior year: Sept. 11, 2001. “I felt like that was my generation’s call,” says Meeks. “That was when history just changed.”
For many Americans, the cruel shock spasmed and subsided, and then life resumed as before. For Meeks, however, the peacetime mentality was shattered for good. “Our way of life is not necessarily secure,” he says. “It must be guarded vigorously.” This call of duty led him to the Army and then to Iraq, but not without resistance.
Louis Walter Meeks, Jim’s father, grew up on a small farm in Clinton, Mich., then worked his way through University of Michigan Medical School. He was called up to the draft and had a deeply traumatic experience operating on hundreds of critically wounded soldiers, many of whom did not survive.
“He came home to an inhospitable nation and was called ‘baby killer’ when he stepped off the plane on US soil after his deployment,” his son says. “He never spoke about his experiences, really.” After years of hard work to make a better life for his kids, he met Jim’s acceptance into Harvard with joy.
When Jim Meeks told his family that he was joining the military in 2001, he saw his dad cry for the first time. “He looked at me and he said, ‘Everything I’ve done in my life I’ve done so you wouldn’t have to go through what I have, and now you’re choosing to do so?’” Louis Meeks had hoped that Harvard would lead his son into a world of peace and comfort—a world as far as possible from the stifled trauma of his own haunting war story.
Of Jim Meeks’ close circle of six friends, none of whom were in ROTC, four had joined the military within a few years of Sept. 11. The first was Seth W. Moulton ’01, a Platoon Commander in the US Marine Corps who is now a tutor in Quincy House. He had already been to Officer Candidate School the year before; in a way, he says, the rush of volunteers following Sept. 11 had vindicated his extraordinary vigilance. Approval was harder to exact from his family, however. His mother told him that she would only have been more disappointed if he had chosen a life of crime.
“Yeah,” he drawls, as stern irony pulls smiling creases across his face. “She has a way with words.”
But Moulton is serious when it comes to the actual consequences of such harsh dismissal for service men and women. “It’s hard to do something that your peers and your family don’t respect—and it’s especially difficult when that thing itself is hard to do.”
Hard is an understatement. Multivariable calculus is hard; Friday crosswords are hard; driving in rush hour is hard. “My job was to keep 35 young Americans alive,” says Moulton. He ran two tours of Iraq as a Marine Platoon Commander then returned as a Special Assistant to military leadership there.
The will to serve is still strong at the College, to be sure; it has just been redrawn and redirected. Robin Mount, Director of the Office of Career, Research and International Opportunities at OCS, has noticed a lot of student support for military service. “Harvard definitely prides itself on making leaders for all sectors of society,” she says. “But there are other ways of serving the government that are not just in one military capacity.” Education, for instance, is very popular at the moment, both within the country and abroad in places like India and China.
There are plenty of ways to give back, each with its own merits. Yet some forms of service are burdened by moral ambiguity and dangerous partiality, where others are not. Some forms of service involve the possibility of taking other people’s lives, where others do not. Cosmopolitanism is sexy, and Teach for America was nowhere near the Vietnam War.
Jim Meeks is also the co-founder and leader of the 2Seeds Network, an agricultural development project in Tanzania. He is frustrated by this division in what he sees to be an artificial division in the concept of service, another regrettable holdover from the “War That Couldn’t Be Won.” That controversial conflict saw the demise of the national service’s claim to ethical neutrality, as it was no longer considered acceptable that the military remain unswervingly faithful to its commander-in-chief. “That generation has difficulty separating their antagonism towards a certain military conduct from their antagonism towards an institution that obeys its commander of chief no matter what it thinks,” Meeks says.
Thus military service is thought of as less appropriate than other forms. “They shouldn’t be mutually exclusive,” argues Meeks. “I definitely don’t think everyone should join the military, but I think if you’re talking about service then you should talk about it all as one package...Otherwise you’re relegating the defense of the country to a separate part of the population.”
This relegation of duty away from privilege is a far cry from the sense of duty that motivated Mawn and Foote. Of course it’s desirable for Harvard students to pursue more fashionable ways of serving their nation, says Meeks. But for him, that misses a crucial part of the story. “The military is a priori: without it, all the products of cosmopolitanism are moot because they’re always under attack.”
Moulton and Meeks used to work together as ushers in Memorial Church. Above the names of Harvard alumni who lost their lives in war, there is a frieze that encircles the ceiling. “While a bright future beckoned / They freely gave their lives and fondest hopes for us and our allies / That we might learn from them / Courage in peace to spend our lives making a better world for others.”
Jim Meeks certainly did learn the courage to strive after this better world. In July 2003, he graduated from his Officer Candidate School in Fort Benning, Ga.; his parents traveled to attend, and his father had been convinced by his mother to wear his combat ribbon on his jacket lapel. One of the young officers in the younger Meeks’ unit noticed the ribbon and asked the veteran, “Sir, I see you served in Vietnam. Could you tell me about it?”
Caught off-guard, his father replied that he would rather not. The young officer paused, checked himself, and then continued, “Well, please allow me to thank you for your service, sir.”
It was the first time anyone had said that to Louis Meeks in 30 years.
IV. IN QUIET PROCESSION
Every week, Monday through Thursday, Handlin has to get to MIT by 0600 hours for her Physical Training, Leadership Lab or Naval Science classes. Most of the Harvard campus is sound asleep at this time. She is proud of the military life and among her peers, she feels an emissary’s responsibility for her little-regarded calling. “I’m their only contact with the military at the moment, and it may be thus for the rest of their lives, so when I wear my uniform, it better be right.”
Most Harvard ROTC students have a family member who has been in the military. “That’s how we learned about it and saw it as an opportunity available to us,” explains Foote. But it’s not just from family that traditions are born—that we learn what is desirable and what is acceptable. College life offers new connections and new experiences. What was never before on the radar can suddenly appear as an alluring possibility. Moulton joined the military in 2001; his friends did shortly after. He insists that his impact was one of increasing awareness, not of heroic trailblazing. “It was having a friend who did it that made it a reasonable option, that made it accessible, made it seem not so crazy,” he reasons.
As a tutor in Quincy House, Moulton often talks to students who are considering serving in the military. Many of them, he knows, would not be well suited to the path that he had chosen. “But I think some people would really like it, and just need a little bit of encouragement or motivation.”
On the outside of Dexter Gate—just by Wigglesworth, where Mawn slept his clandestine nights in the ’60s—an engraving famously reads “Enter, to Grow in Wisdom.” The other side is harder to see, high above the tunnel that passes beneath, but it gives meaning to the front. “Depart, to Serve Better Thy Country and Thy Kind.”
A long train of ghosts has proceeded out of the Yard, some with uniforms and some without. The inscription does not discriminate between them.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Regular consumption of beverages sweetened with sugar is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome, according to a recent study by the Harvard School of Public Health published online in Diabetes Care last Wednesday.
Researchers at HSPH combined findings from 11 existing studies to produce a single meta-analysis through which they could observe the relationship.
“This study had a lot more power than the previous individual studies, because it pooled together all the cases and all the participants,” said lead author and HSPH nutrition research fellow Vasanti Malik. Combining past research allowed Malik and her team to look at 300,000 participants, according to the press release.
The findings show that those who drink one to two sugar-sweetened beverages every day increase their risk of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome—a condition that often precedes diabetes—by 20 percent compared to those who consume less than one sugary beverage every month, according to Malik. In addition, consuming one additional sugary beverage every day will increase the risk of type 2 diabetes by 15 percent.
“All of these numbers are statistically significant, because they show a clear and significant association between sugar-sweetened beverage intake and diabetes and metabolic syndrome,” said Malik. “This provides a rational for people to limit their intake and to find a healthy alternative.”
While previous research has consistently linked sugary drinks to weight gain and obesity, this particular study connected these drinks—which include sweetened soft drinks, fruit drinks, iced tea, energy drinks, or Vitaminwater—to both type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome, said Malik.
Malik noted that these findings could prove significant to government policy.
“This evidence could have a real public health impact,” Malik said, pointing, for example, to the potential effects of the findings on assisting the fight to eliminate vending machines from schools or to limit on what can be bought with food stamps.
“In New York City, it’s a hot topic debate about whether food stamps should be allowed for purchasing sugar-sweetened beverages.” Malik said. “The evidence of this study can be used for putting policy into place.”
Malik said that no follow-up to the study is planned at this point.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
College students studying foreign languages should take heed of a study recently published by researchers at Harvard Medical School and the University of York, which found that newly acquired words are better integrated in a person’s memory after sleep.
University of Manchester research associate Jakke Tamminen—who spent three months at Harvard last year—and his team studied how brain activity during sleep affects integrating new memories, drawing on previous research about how sleep strengthens memory in general.
The researchers taught volunteers new, made-up words that sounded similar to existing words, such as “cathedruke.”
The volunteers were tested on the words, slept overnight in the lab while researchers measured their brain activity, and then were tested again in the morning. The second test showed that volunteers could recognize more words and at a greater speed after sleep.
Members of the control group, who were tested in the morning and the evening after completing a normal day, were not able to recognize the words more quickly than they had in the morning.
“When you’re just learning a new word, it’s not yet in your brain in a way that it is after sleep,” said Robert A. Stickgold ’66, a co-author of the study and an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
The researchers found that people who experienced the greatest number of sleep spindles exhibited the most significant changes in integration. Sleep spindles are intense bursts of brain activity that reflect how information transfers from deep within the brain in the hippocampus, to the neocortex at the surface.
While the hippocampus stores new memories separately from old ones, the neocortex connects these memories.
Recognition of familiar words was slowed in both groups, which indicates how the new words had been integrated in the volunteers’ “mental dictionary,” Tamminen said. The spindle activity showed how integration worked overnight, but not how recognition speed slowed over time. Tamminen said he is considering other experiments to measure the degree to which new memories are integrated with existing ones.
The study expanded on several previous studies led by M. Gareth Gaskell, a professor in the University of York’s Department of Psychology. Gaskell was originally interested in how new words become a part of the recognition system.
“We had all these bits and pieces that suggested an important part of learning language was involved in sleep and transfer in systems, so we wanted to look at brain processes during sleep,” Gaskell said.
Tamminen is currently expanding upon the study by having both volunteer groups at the lab for 90 minutes to better monitor their activities.
Fei Xu, a professor in the Department of Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, said she saw this as an innovative study and suggested further research on the topic.
“Testing school-aged children might be interesting to extend this study to children who are learning new words and see how sleep affects their memory,” Xu said.
The study was published in the Journal of Neuroscience.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Allston residents expressed frustrations about feeling cut out of the planning process for Harvard’s development in the neighborhood at a Harvard-Allston Task Force Meeting last night.
At group’s first meeting since June, the University formally informed the community about its plans to build an Innovation Lab—a space where people from across the University could discuss and realize their business plans through collaboration—and Tata Hall, an executive education building on the Harvard Business School campus. The projects were originally announced at a press conference on Oct. 14.
The University is hoping to gain approval for construction on the intended site for the Innovation Lab—125 Western Ave., a building that housed the radio station WGBH until 2007—before the holiday season, which would require a fast tracking of the permitting process, according to Boston Redevelopment Authority Senior Project Manager Gerald Autler.
Residents voiced concerns that speeding-up the permissions process would limit the opportunity for meaningful community input on the project, which residents hoped would allow entrepreneurial Allston residents to participate.
“Will [the lab] feel as though it is Harvard only—don’t come in unless you have an ID?” asked Task Force Member Brent Whelan. “Or will it feel like part of the community?”
Residents also referred to the hope that Western Avenue would become a bustling “main street” in Allston, and questioned how the Innovation Lab would fit into that plan.
“Western Ave. is supposed to be the main street of our neighborhood and the center of reactivating our neighborhood,” said Task Force member Harry Mattison, adding that the building should be in line with this vision for the street.
The Innovation Lab, if approved, will sit almost directly across from the now paved-over five acre plot that was intended for Harvard’s Allston Science Complex, a $1 billion construction project that was halted in Dec. 2009 due to financial constraints.
Some Allston residents expressed frustrations that although Harvard halted construction of the Science Complex, it now plans to engage in these two new development projects.
“How can the city of Boston give this developer another permit when they haven’t completed the Science Complex?” asked Allston resident Paul “Chip” Alfred.
The Innovation Lab is estimated to cost the University between $15-$20 million.
At the meeting last night, Harvard also introduced its real estate consultants to the community, and Allston Work Team Co-Chair Bill Purcell presented on the group’s preliminary investigations into the possibility of developing land in Allston with a partner institution.
The Work Team was created in Dec. 2009 and is tasked with drawing up recommendations for the University’s presence in the neighborhood.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Officers arrested a suspect early yesterday morning in connection with a series of armed robberies in the Harvard and MIT areas, relying on the joint efforts of seven police departments and the U.S. Secret Service, according to an alert from the Cambridge Police Department.
The suspect—Santony Joseph, 23, of Malden—was charged with armed robbery, armed robbery with a knife, and receiving stolen property, with other potential charges pending. Joseph’s accomplice, however, was still at large at the time of the arrest, according to the alert.
During the investigation, police were able to locate the suspect in Medford, where detectives from the Brookline and the Cambridge Police Departments saw him operating a vehicle that fit the description from the recent robberies.
Police arrested the suspect after “observing evidence inside the vehicle,” according to the alert.
“Cambridge Police are very happy to have apprehended a suspect with the help of the information sharing and cooperation that took place between the various law enforcement agencies,” wrote Cambridge Police spokesman Daniel M. Riviello in an e-mail.
Riviello added that the U.S. Secret Service became involved to provide technical support for the investigation.
Joseph is possibly connected to the string of eight robberies that have taken place in the past two weeks, the most recent two of which occurred Tuesday night, according to the alert.
The first robbery on Tuesday took place at 9:48 p.m., when two black males robbed a Somerville resident of his laptop, cell phone, and wallet on Shepard Street near Walker Street, right outside of the Quad, according to CPD.
The two black males chased after the victim, and there was no one else on the street, according to Harvard shuttle operator Melvin Washington, Jr, who witnessed part of the robbery while driving the shuttle.
According to Washington, the two suspects slowed down after seeing the shuttle.
“I knew they were going to attack him,” Washington said. Although he did not stop at the crime scene, Washington said he called the police immediately afterward.
About an hour later, MIT suffered a possibly related robbery in which an Albany Street resident was held at knifepoint by two black males while walking to his home, according to CPD.
“I am unaware if these victims [on Tuesday] were affiliated with Harvard or MIT in any way,” Riviello wrote.
At least two Harvard affiliates and four MIT affiliates were involved with potentially connected earlier robberies. The victims of these incidents described the robbers as African-American males, one “very heavy set and the other...tall and thin,” according to a Cambridge Police advisory issued on Tuesday in response to two other robberies, which took place on Monday night.
CPD also convened a meeting yesterday, in which representatives from Somerville, Brookline, Harvard, MIT, and Boston University tried to “formulate a strategy to address these incidents,” according to the alert.
—Staff writer Sirui Li can be reached at sli@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the aim of addressing the intersection of religious and queer identities, Harvard Jewish Law Students Association and BAGELS, the undergraduate Jewish LGBT group, teamed up to host a talk last night given by Doctor Norman P. Spack, who works with transgender children.
A pediatric endocrinologist at Children’s Hospital Boston, Spack described his work as co-director of the Gender Management Service Clinic, which administers puberty blockers to gender-questioning pre-adolescents in order to delay the onset of puberty. This process provides those children who affirm a gender different from their biological sex the time to be certain of their desire to continue pubertal development with the sexual characteristics of the gender with which they identify. Once they reach a certain age—after the medication has prevented the onset of bodily developments for several years—they can be administered hormones specific to their identified gender.
Throughout his talk, Spack invoked religious notions of helping others as central to motivating his work, citing the 12th century Jewish physician and philosopher Maimonides as saying, “If one is able to rescue and does not, he transgresses the injunction from Leviticus: though shalt not stand idly by the blood of thy neighbor.”
Attendee Joanna Ware, Lead Organizer and Training Coordinator of Keshet—a Boston-based Jewish LGBT group whose name is Hebrew for “rainbow”—also emphasized this sentiment of taking a stand, noting the importance of building community for people navigating the interplay of religion and gender in their identity.
“There are GLBT Jews for whom both of those identities are central to who they are in the world, and for whom their Jewish identity is informed by the experiences they’ve had as GLBT people, for better or for worse,” said Ware. She continued by connecting core principles of Judaism—the notion that everyone is formed in the image of God, and that it is important to welcome strangers and treat others with respect—to the role of creating an environment where transgender people can feel welcome.
BAGELS co-president Emily S. Unger ’13 also noted the importance of recognizing the roles of both gender and religion in people’s identities.
“So often you see queer issues and religious issues as only being in conflict with each other,” said Unger. “This event is a great example of how deeply held religious beliefs can actually lead you to help transgender people, and that’s an important realization for Jewish and LGBT communities alike.”
—Staff writer Alice E.M. Underwood can be reached at aeunderw@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sebastián Vélez, a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, was honored with the Award for Service to Humanity by the Humanist Chaplaincy at Harvard in the Kirkland Junior Common Room last night.
The award—which was established last year by Charlie Wilson to honor his son Jamin B. Wilson ’04, a first lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force who died in a car crash in 2006—annually recognizes one Harvard student who has done “something incredible” to improve the world, according to Harvard Humanist Chaplain Greg M. Epstein.
The staff and board of directors of the Humanist Chaplaincy—a chaplaincy for humanist, atheist, agnostic, and nonreligious students and staff—selects the award’s recipient. Epstein said the choice wasn’t a very difficult one this year.
“It was glaringly obvious that Sebastián Vélez deserves an award like this,” he said.
Vélez founded Children of the Border, a non-governmental organization which provides medical care, family planning services, and water and food resources to Haitian and Dominican families, seven years ago. This past January, Vélez was working on a water coordination project in Las Mercedes, Dominican Republic when the earthquake hit Haiti. His team immediately took up the cause, bringing $40,000 worth of aid from the American Humanist Association to Jacmel, a city in Haiti that had not yet received any help.
Many of the poor in places like Haiti and the Dominican Republic automatically assume that religion is good because missionaries who bring them much-needed aid are wealthy, according to Vélez. He said he founded Children of the Border in part to show that “religiousness is not a prerequisite for altruism.” The organization is very explicit about the fact that it is a humanist organization, Vélez added.
He said he was “very happy” to receive the award, adding, “We humanists need to learn by example, rather than looking like a debate club.”
In presenting the award, Epstein also emphasized that it was not just a recognition of an individual, but also a celebration of shared ideals of service that the individual represented.
“We set examples for one another, and this is a very, very powerful one,” he said.
The event was attended by members of the Humanist Chaplaincy, the president of the American Humanist Association, and students who Vélez had worked with on his trips and in his former capacity as a resident tutor in Kirkland House.
The students in attendance said they were not at all surprised that Vélez was given the award. K. Abby Koff ’12, who is a Crimson photo editor, said Vélez was “one of the best Kirkland House tutors there will ever be.”
Annemarie E. Ryu ’13, current associate director of Children of the Border and one of five undergraduates who was working with Vélez at the time, said she considers him both a mentor and a friend.
“It always blows me away how he works so hard and does such a great job with so many things,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With its 3-2 loss to Dartmouth, the Harvard women’s soccer team may have just missed its shot at a three-peat as Ivy League champions, but certain team members still have reason to celebrate.
On Tuesday, ESPN The Magazine named co-captain Katherine Sheeleigh and junior midfielder Melanie Baskind to its Academic All-District team.
For Baskind, the announcement arrives on the heels of a very successful October. On the 23rd, the junior played arguably her best game to date in a 4-0 victory against Princeton, putting two balls into the back of the net and tallying a pair of assists for a career-high six points on the day. A few days later, Baskind was named Ivy League Player of the Week for the second time within a month.
Named to the first team, the Quincy resident is now eligible for Academic All-American honors.
Sheeleigh’s selection marks her second nomination to the Academic squad. Named to the second team, Sheeleigh, too, has made important contributions for the Crimson soccer program. Perhaps most impressive, the forward currently sits atop the leader board of the Ivy League with 0.62 goals and 1.69 points per contest. She also netted one of the goals in the team’s loss to the Big Green. Entering the final weekend of regular season play, Sheeleigh ranks fifth in the Harvard record books with 30 career goals and sixth with 76 points.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At Harvard, it’s never too difficult to find an undergrad with a well-known politician, writer, or academic for a parent. But a well-known baseball player? Doesn’t happen nearly as often.
But that is indeed the case for Marissa Gedman, a freshman defender on the women’s ice hockey team. Gedman’s father, Rich, played 12 Major League seasons from 1980 to 1992 and is recognized around Boston for his 10-year stint as a catcher for the Red Sox.
“For me, it wasn’t any different than having any other dad,” Marissa says of growing up. “When I was younger I probably didn’t even understand that he was famous.”
But though Marissa may not have realized it, before she was born, Rich was a renowned figure among Red Sox Nation. He made his major league debut pinch-hitting for Hall-of-Famer Carl Yastremski in 1980 and finished runner-up in the AL Rookie of the Year voting the following season.
In 1985, a season in which he hit for the cycle and made the All-Star team, Gedman batted .295 with 18 home runs and 80 RBI. The following year, he caught Roger Clemens’ major league record 20-strikeout game and made the All-Star roster once again.
“Sometimes on accident I’ll see him on ESPN Classic,” Marissa says. “It’s so weird, and he gets so embarrassed. Usually we’ll pause it on the Tivo, and we’ll call him down...It’s really funny to see him on TV because he’s so shy and modest.”
Despite his stellar career in baseball, Rich says he never pushed Marissa when she was a child to pursue the sport he loved.
“You let your kids play what they want to play,” he says. “They experiment with everything. Her brothers played hockey, so she wanted to play.”
Marissa, who Rich says started out as a figure skater, found an immediate love in hockey and played with boys in a pee-wee league. Rich remembers that “she just had a blast.”
“My brothers had played hockey before I did, and so that’s kind of how I got into it,” Marissa adds. “Me and my brothers always played little league baseball and hockey. It’s just something we did, so I just kind of followed in their footsteps.”
Rich says that growing up, Marissa had a natural love of athletics that he did not need to promote.
“I didn’t have much influence,” he says. “I would help her whenever she wanted, but she’s very unique. She always wanted to get better. She’d want to go hit at the field and work on base-running and take groundballs...She’s driven on her own, she’s not driven by me. She was dragged around the hockey rinks and baseball fields; it just became part of what we did.”
Despite this innate drive, Marissa says that her father’s work ethic—he went undrafted yet still made his way up to the major leagues—has had a big influence on her own athletic pursuits.
“His story’s a pretty interesting one,” she says. “He always told me he wasn’t the most in shape on the team, he was never the best player on the team, but he could be sure he was the hardest working on the team...When I was younger I wasn’t always the best on the team—even today I’m not the best—but I definitely consider myself a hard worker because of what he taught me, and he definitely developed my work ethic more than I can imagine.”
Yet the lessons Rich have given his daughter have gone beyond the field of competition.
“He always made sure I was a well-rounded kid,” Marissa says. “He always reminded me that, yeah, I’m a hockey player, but I’m primarily a student and I want to be a good person.”
“We didn’t really talk much about how you’re supposed to be or how you’re supposed to act,” Rich adds. “She just took it from people around her...She was there when I was talking to the boys, and she’s the one that sucked it all in.”
The lessons Marissa absorbed certainly have had a positive impact for her on the ice as well. The freshman earned two assists in her first collegiate game last Friday night against Yale, and at Harvard the Framingham-native gets to play in the same city in which her dad was beloved for so many years.
“I think she’s where she wanted to be, and that’s really what’s kind of cool because not many people get that chance,” Rich remarks.
As she has grown older, Marissa says that she has developed a newfound respect for her father’s career and the team he played for.
“I consider myself a Red Sox fan,” she says. “Now I know what it means, how hard he worked for it.”
And as Marissa’s pride in her father has grown, so has Rich’s for his daughter.
“She’s well-rounded as a person,” he says. “She knows where athletics fit; she knows where academics fit. She’s driven to be the best she can be at whatever she’s doing.”
As one might say, like father, like daughter.
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twelfth man, sixth man, home-court advantage—whatever you want to call it, it’s nearly indisputable that a rowdy, impassioned crowd can give its team a step up on the competition.
While home crowds generally overpower those of an away team, when squads get a big fan base to travel with them, the advantage can go either way. Both sides can be just as loud, just as distracting, just as hostile, and just as crazy—causing fumbled snaps, wild penalty shots, and missed free throws.
So since we know that crowds can help to determine the outcome of a game, how can aspects of a game help to determine the crowd?
What makes spectators pull themselves out of bed for an early morning matchup, brave painfully low wind-chills for an afternoon contest, or trudge across the river for a midweek showdown?
Being a sports writer at Harvard, I’ve had the chance to watch the ebb and flow of Crimson fans throughout the seasons of several teams. While sometimes it’s easy to predict that the stands will fill up for a certain game, other times a drove of rowdy spectators appears out of the blue.
Take for instance, Harvard water polo. There are times when it seems like the only fans in attendance are players’ families or roommates that begrudgingly promised to show up. Then there are other games when the stands are filled with raucous fans, yelling so loudly that the opposing players can’t hear themselves think and your ears keep ringing even as you make your way back across the Charles.
But what about theses games creates such a big difference in the crowds?
In the case of water polo, one answer is scheduling. Schedule a game for mid-morning on a Saturday, and you basically guarantee Blodgett will be empty. But schedule that same game on a weekend evening, and you’re likely to get a host of Crimson Crazies cheering on the team before the night’s debauchery begins.
For instance, in a late September, Saturday-night matchup against Iona, Harvard had one of its biggest crowds yet, and the rowdy fans were rewarded with an epic sudden-death showdown where the trash-talking reached an all-time high (though the Crimson ultimately lost).
So in the world of water polo, timing is key.
For Harvard baseball, on the other hand, the number of fans can often be attributed to Mother Nature.
Clearly, the fact that baseball is played outside, while water polo is indoors (at least in Cambridge), means its crowds are more susceptible to the forecast. Though obvious, this effect shouldn’t be underestimated. There have been games where the sun-soaked bleachers are filled at first pitch and then desolately abandoned by the time clouds roll over and the third inning comes around.
But baseball fans also come and go for a reason that extends to all sports: the visiting team. Bigger names mean bigger crowds.
Once again, this trend seems obvious, but it shouldn’t be taken for granted, as the number of spectators at Crimson water polo games almost never vary in proportion with the skill or ranking of the other team.
This idea of opposition affecting attendance leads to perhaps the most powerful aspect through which a game can determine its crowd: rivalry.
There is nothing like pure rivalry—the combined love of competition, “your” team, and bragging rights—to motivate even the most moderate of fans. To see an example of this, we need to look no further than the event that lingers just two weeks away: The Game.
Even the most apathetic of Harvard students put down the books to join generations of alumni in the age-old battle between the Crimson and the Elis. The fact that fans actually need a ticket for The Game is evidence of the overwhelming crowds.
It doesn’t matter if The Game is scheduled at a time when some people are still waking up or if it begins to sleet halfway through; rivalry is the trump card and will ensure that the Crimson has a 12th man at Harvard Stadium.
—Staff writer Madeleine Smith can be reached at smith21@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Shaq challenges you to a race on the Charles, there’s only one way to respond: “Game on.”
The basketball star expressed his intentions to race against Harvard’s top rowers in a four with Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen, and Paul Pierce.
My first thought was “Really, Shaq? Are you sure you don’t want a coxswain?” The Charles is pretty tricky. Perhaps Shaq should recruit a coxswain who knows the river. But knowing O’Neal, he’ll probably just throw Rajon Rondo or Nate Robinson in the bow and hope for the best. (Good luck on the Weeks turn.)
A race between the Celtics and the Crimson has the potential to be one of the most fantastically entertaining events this river has ever seen.
Who could resist a showdown between the city’s two most successful teams?
Boston has 17 NBA Championships. Harvard has 16 national championships (including eight that are considered “unofficial”). And both institutions brag about the legacies of their legendary coaches, Red Auerbach and Harry Parker, each arguably the greatest of all time in his respective sport.
Within the past month, both teams have shown that they’ve still got it. The Crimson heavyweights took second at the 46th Head of the Charles despite clashing oars with another boat, and the Celtics knocked off the much-hyped Heat, 88-80, in their first game of the season.
Since both teams have made a habit of excellence, it’s not surprising that it was the Big Aristotle who proposed their meeting.
Of course, the appeal of this race has little to do with the historical legacies of the two franchises. Just think of all the intrigue that would surround a competition such as this.
Would Shaq fit into the boat? What seat would he row? Would any of them be good? (Personally, I think Garnett, Allen, and Rondo have potential.) Could the Celtics manage to stay afloat or would they finish the race (or the warm-up) with a Charles River baptism?
Only Shaq seems to think he has a chance at winning.
Or does he?
His show, “Shaq Vs,” has demonstrated, unambiguously, that basketball skills do not translate into dominance in other sports. If he didn’t know already, he’s probably figured out that he can’t actually beat any athlete in any given sport. And yet no matter how many times he loses, Shaq’s always ready to give it another shot.
There’s something endearing about an athlete choosing to try his hand at an unfamiliar sport while knowing that he will most likely humiliate himself. By repeatedly subjecting himself to such embarrassment, Shaq has demonstrated the kind of humility you would never see from, say, Kobe Bryant.
As his skills have declined, Shaq has morphed from a dominating low-post threat into a team-first role player and chemistry booster. No longer able to carry teams on his back, he has taken instead to lightening the mood in the locker room.
Shaq has managed to stay relevant in an industry where athletes his age—38 years old—are rare, in part because he doesn’t take himself too seriously.
And I can’t remember the last time a top athlete in one of the “big four” professional sports leagues has so thoroughly embraced Harvard Square and our University. By visiting the Square on move-in day and posing as a statue, Shaq has opened his arms to the community. We should welcome him in turn.
There are many logistical reasons hindering a potential showdown between the Celtics and the Crimson: both teams have very busy schedules, the Charles is frozen for around three months a year, and Shaq would have to find a boat that he could actually fit in. But this kind of event would bring nothing but joy to all involved. We already know Shaq would have fun, but the rowing community probably has more reasons for wanting the race to happen. For a sport ignored by the masses, a competition against a top NBA squad would do wonders for the sport’s visibility.
And for the athletes, it would be a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Even the Harvard rowers who are bound for the Olympics will likely never have another opportunity to compete against such a well-known superstar. If this race happens—and hopefully it will—whichever rowers are lucky enough to be in the four should appreciate the transcendent personality of the center who made it all possible. And then they should proceed to win with open water.
—Staff writer Chistina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
 1: Number of starts by junior quarterback Collier Winters this season, which came in last week’s 30-14 shellacking of Dartmouth.
212: Yards thrown by Winters in the win over the Big Green.
 -18: Yards rushing allowed by Harvard’s defense against Columbia last year. The stout run defense–led by tackles Josue Ortiz and Chuks Obi–will look to again stuff the Lions’ running attack this Saturday at home.
53: Wins against Columbia all-time for Harvard. The Lions have mustered only 14 wins against the Crimson.
 TIME FOR SOME SQUASH 
 5: Final national ranking for the Harvard men’s squash team at the College Squash Association (CSA) National Team Championship last season.
5: Current ranking for the Crimson in the CSA preseason men’s team rankings.
 224: Consecutive matches Trinity College has won. The Bantams will begin the season as the No. 1 men’s squash team in the country.
 EARLY TESTS
 2: Number of games the Harvard women’s hockey team will play this weekend. The Crimson visits second-ranked Cornell tomorrow and travels to Colgate on Saturday.
 4: Goals scored by Harvard in last week’s win over Brown. The goals were scored by four different players, leading to a balanced attack that gave the Crimson its first win of the season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This upcoming weekend, the Harvard women’s soccer team will bid farewell to its departing class of six seniors in its last home game of the regular season.
The Crimson is set to take on Columbia for Senior Day this Saturday at Ohiri Field at 11 a.m.
This year’s seniors—Kerry Kartsonis, Caroline Kutler, Katherine Kuzma, Katherine Sheeleigh, Katherine Thurber, and Gina Wideroff—have been on the Harvard squad for a total of two Ivy League Championships and 36 wins over the course of the last four years, and they will try to finish their collegiate careers with one more home win over the Lions this weekend.
But after Saturday’s matchup is over, the Crimson still has one game left to close out the season.
In a strange twist of scheduling fate, Harvard's game against Fairfield, originally set for Oct. 7 but delayed due to inclement weather, will be played next Thursday, Nov. 11, in Fairfield, Conn.
That means that after the festivities and celebrations of Senior Day, the team will hit the road one more time for a game that now has essentially no bearing on the season’s outcome (the Crimson has already been eliminated from Ivy contention).
But no matter the mix-up, the Harvard team says it’s always excited to take the field.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
While the Republicans are celebrating their recent gains in the House of Representatives, some Harvard alumni might be less than pleased with the election results.
In this election, 13 Harvard alumni ran for governor. 11 lost. (Tom C. Foley '75 has still not conceded in Connecticut.) In fact, the only two Harvard grads who won gubernatorial elections were incumbents: Deval L. Patrick '78 of Massachusetts and John H. Lynch (HBS '79) of New Hampshire.
So why didn't Harvard alumni fare so well this year? In the current "year of anti-elitism," a Harvard diploma may have actually been a disadvantage for candidates.
Samuel Pearson "Terry" Goddard '69, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate in Arizona, noted this fact. "Here in Arizona, it would be a bigger local political advantage to go to one of the local universities," he told The Crimson. Goddard lost his race by more than 10 percentage points.
“Elitism” has become a staple word in our nation’s political discourse. Conservatives, especially members of the Tea Party, have repeatedly leveled this accusation against President Obama and other Democratic leaders.
"I did not go to Yale. I didn’t inherit millions, like my opponent," said Christine O'Donnell, the Delaware Senate Republican Candidate, in a recent advertisement.
Looking at the actions of some Harvard alumni candidates, it may be difficult not to read elitism. For example, Margaret "Meg" C. Whitman (HBS '79) reportedly spent $141 million of her own money on her campaign in California.
So if you're an aspiring politician, be forewarned—association with Harvard's elite reputation may not confer an advantage in the future.
Photo by Kevin H. Lin/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
If you’re looking for a way to fund your final week of J-term frivolity, the Undergraduate Council is here to help. But get your applications in fast—the deadline for Optional Winter Activities Week funding is Sunday, Nov. 7.
The UC is providing the means for students to create their own programs during the OWAW, which will take place from Jan. 16-23. Any Harvard undergraduate can apply for funding on the UC website.
The UC pushed to open housing a week before the start of spring semester for those who wish to do something fun or productive, according to Representative Spenser R. Goodman ’14. “We want to make sure they have that opportunity,” he said.
UC Student Life Chair Senan Ebrahim ’12 said that $20,000 is available for distribution. Although no events have been formally approved yet, he estimated that 15-20 applications have been submitted thus far.
Ebrahim said that the majority of the proposed events are “lighthearted” in nature, some examples being applications for a dance class and a laser tag trip. Ebrahim referred to the OWAW as “Camp Harvard: Part 2.”
Other options will be available through student groups. Leaders  at the IOP have indicated that they plan to offer a variety of  activities during J-term. Although the final program is not yet settled,  it is likely to include a series of political and leadership skills  workshops, a service day, career and internship information sessions  and counseling, and social events. The programming will be intended for a  wide range of Harvard students, from those with substantial previous  involvement at the IOP.

 
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: November 30, 2010
An  earlier version of the Nov. 4 FlyBy post "Apps for Optional Winter  Activities Week Due Soon" used quotes from an interview with a source  that was not on the record. The quotes have been removed.
Sections
In May 2009, shortly after the retirement of Supreme Court Justice David H. Souter '61, Carl M. Loeb University Professor Laurence H. Tribe '62 wrote a short letter to President Obama, in which he laid out the case for appointing the recently departed Dean of Harvard Law School, Elena Kagan, and the case against appointing Sonia M. Sotomayor.  The letter, recently posted by former Bush administration lawyer M. Edward Whelan III '81 on the Ethics and Public Policy Center’s website, has garnered significant attention in the media for Tribe’s frank characterizations of those serving alongside Justice Souter and those being considered to replace him.

In the letter, Tribe describes Sotomayor as "not nearly as smart as she seems to think she is." Noting Sotomayor's "reputation for being something of a bully," Tribe cautions Obama against her appointment, warning that this aggressive bench behavior "could well make her liberal impulses backfire and simply add to the firepower of the Roberts/Alito/Scalia/Thomas wing of the Court."
After urging Obama not to appoint Sotomayor, Tribe counsels Obama to appoint Kagan, "whose combination of intellectual brilliance and political skill would make her a ten-strike, if you’ll forgive [his] reference to bowling." Continuing to praise Kagan, Tribe describes her as "a scholar of the first rank and a star as a teacher" and as someone who "would project a well-grounded image of justice as fairness and of law as codified common sense."
Since the letter was leaked last week, Tribe has refused to discuss what he regards as "confidential advice to the president." He has, however, said that his opinions on Sotomayor have changed, noting "that the reservations [he] expressed about Justice Sotomayor prior to her nomination were amply refuted by the closer study [he] was able to give her record before the president made his decision and were happily negated by her performance as a justice thus far."
