News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
And the dream lives on.
A sweep of Dartmouth in a doubleheader yesterday assured the Harvard softball team of a place in the Ivy League Championship Series against Cornell next weekend.
The Crimson came into the weekend—which featured a pair of home-and-home twinbills against the Big Green—two games ahead of Dartmouth in the North Division standings.
Yesterday afternoon, sophomore first baseman Whitney Shaw hit a three-run homer in the first inning to give Harvard an early lead, and sophomore Rachel Brown and co-captain Margaux Black combined to pitch six scoreless innings as the Crimson cruised to a 9-0 win.
Harvard entered the nightcap with its magic number down to one. Again the Crimson jumped out to a lead in the first inning, thanks in part to a two-RBI single from senior right fielder Jennifer Francis. Brown and Black teamed up once more for seven innings of one-run ball, and Harvard clinched its third North Division title in four years with the 7-1 victory.
Elsewhere, in the South Division, the Big Red continued its dominance. Cornell clinched its division in Game 1 of a doubleheader against Princeton as its ace, Elizabeth Dalrymple, conceded just one run in seven innings and led the Big Red to an 8-1 win.
After another victory over the Tigers in Game 2 yesterday, 7-4, Cornell has an opportunity to clinch home-field advantage for next weekend. Two Big Red wins today or a win and a Harvard loss will send the Crimson to Ithaca for the three-game Ivy League Championship Series.
Next weekend will give the Harvard seniors a chance to bookend their career with Ivy titles. As freshmen, the Crimson swept Penn in the inaugural championship series. If the head-to-head record is any indication—Harvard and Cornell split a doubleheader in Ithaca earlier this season—the title is up for grabs.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Ever since students returned to campus for the spring semester, some have been grumbling about HUDS food not being as delicious or exciting as it was last semester.
“I had so much money saved from this summer, but now, after coming back from J-Term, I’ve eaten out almost every lunch or dinner,” said Kelly M. Salazar ’12 as she waited in line at Boloco.
Many students have echoed Salazar’s sentiments since returning from the January Term. To them, it seems that the dining standards on campus have declined. As a result, some are choosing to eat out rather than consume what they have deemed to be the unappetizing, repetitive menus of the d-hall.
Meanwhile, Blondell Newbon has been working in the Adams House dining hall for 18 years. Having seen more than her share of HUDS food, she said that she has seen very little in terms of changes.
“We change little things, nothing major," she said. "Mainly it’s the beef that kids want, and it’s hard to provide as much as they want.”
And not all students are disillusioned with HUDS.
En route to Quincy for dinner, Rebecca J. Cohen '12 said, “I love the dining halls, the people who work there, and the atmosphere they cultivate. But I do wish they brought back the Korean Beef.”
Photo by Terrell Woods/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
The 27th annual MayFair is today! It's going on right now and will end at around 6 p.m. Over 40 booths are set up in Harvard Square, along with six stages scattered around the area. From 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., RE/MAX is hosting hot air balloon rides in Cambridge Common, and three hair salons are offering $20 haircuts for those yearning to be presentable during the oh-so-stressful reading period.
For more information on what's sure to be a great break from Lamont, check out the Harvard Square Business Association's website.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
At Yale, a postdoctoral fellow Vajinder P. S. Toor was shot and killed outside his Branford, Conn. home on Monday morning. According to The Yale Daily News, Branford police have arrested Lishan Wang, a Chinese national from Beijing, who was arraigned in New Haven Superior Court on Tuesday. Officials said they believe there was a connection between the alleged murderer and the victim from a previous employment situation unrelated to Yale.
Owen Thomas, a junior at Penn’s Wharton School—a defensive end for the Penn football team and a 2009 All-Ivy player—was found dead Monday afternoon in his apartment off-campus, according to The Daily Pennsylvanian. A vigil was held Thursday night for Thomas. The Daily Pennsylvanian reported that he committed suicide.
Also at Penn, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will offer the commencement address to the graduates of Penn’s School of Social Policy and Practice on May 17. As an added bonus, Biden’s daughter, Ashley B. Biden, will receive her diploma at the ceremony.
In the wake of two student deaths resulting from heroin overdose, administrators at Reed College in Oregon received an ultimatum from state officials to confront the drug problem. Some commentators feel that Reed is being scapegoated for a drug problem that is by no means limited to its campus, but, in the meantime, Reed administrators are doing what they can to ensure the safety of their students.
Sections
There’s probably nothing better than festivities on a beautiful day. With delicious food, live music, and free t-shirts, Eliot House students emerged yesterday from working and studying to celebrate the legacy of their House Masters.
The celebration, dubbed Eliot Fest, went from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. and included kebabs and other foods, live student music performances, an egg toss, trivia games, and a garden dedication in the name of the House Masters.
Many students were enthusiastic about the event, which was organized by House Administrator Sue G. Weltman and other Senior Common Room members.
Tian Feng '11, co-chair of the Eliot HoCo, said that the enthusiasm was representative of the "nature of Eliot House, that individual students wanted to contribute and participate."
Warren S. Loegering '12 signed up to play guitar and sing for the event.
“I got the e-mail from Sue and I was like, 'Guys, let’s do this,'" he said. "Playing music is such a good way to give back to the House."
Another shared sentiment of the festival revolved around the bittersweet aspect of the celebration. Lester C. Kim '11 said that he was saddened by the loss of Eliot House Masters Lino Pertile and Anna Bensted but was also enthusiastic about the chance to meet the new Masters.
“Well, I’m sad, but I know they’re off to do great things afterwards, and so I’m excited for them and also excited to see the transition to new Masters and a new Eliot,” he said.
Loegering agreed, adding that Pertile was committed to knowing the students.
"Lino makes such an effort to get to know every person in the House. Seriously, he spends the summer looking over Facebook and learning everybody’s names," he said. "When I first walked into Eliot he was like ‘Hey Warren.' It was awesome."
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
After the recent report that Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein '75 was copied on an e-mail suggesting Goldman knew that Harvard would lose in a $500 million credit default swap, his loyalty to Harvard may have come into question. But it is worth noting that Blankfein has donated millions to Harvard, creating a scholarship fund for lower-income students and endowing a professorship in the Department of History.
Blankfein—a former Social Studies concentrator in Winthrop House—created the Lloyd C. Blankfein Professorship of History in 2004, according to the Harvard University History of Named Chairs, 1991-2004, "in recognition of his own strong interest in the subject."
David R. Armitage, an expert in Western political thought, has held the professorship since 2007. He declined to comment for this blog post.
A Brooklyn native, Blankfein attended both the College and the Law School on a scholarship. He created the Blankfein Family Scholarship Fund, according to the terms of the scholarship, for "deserving undergraduates in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, with a preference for students from New York City with a strong interest in the social sciences and who are interested in a career in law or business."
The status of the scholarship fund is unclear, since there is no mention of it on any Harvard websites—but Blankfein donated a sizeable amount to Harvard in 2004 to augment the fund.
According to Bloomberg, Blankfein also donated $25,000 to the Harvard College Parents Fund both in 2007 and 2008 and $10,000 to the Law School in 2007—in addition to $1 million in 2000 and $1.7 million in 2006 for "general purposes."
As of 2004, when the History of Named Chairs was published, Blankfein co-chaired the FAS Financial Aid Task Force, in addition to serving as a member of other Harvard committees, including the FAS Dean’s Council.  He served as a co-chair or vice chair of the gift steering committees for his 15th, 20th, and 25th reunions.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
