News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just looking at the numbers, Barry Bonds is a baseball god. He has cracked a record 762 career home runs, clinching baseball’s most cherished record, and won seven awards for most valuable player. Yet despite his obvious superiority over other baseball players, nobody reveres Barry Bonds, and many fans no longer respect him. His name is synonymous with lying, cheating, and infamy. Bonds’ records were achieved with the use of a host of chemicals, used as performance enhancers, and his records will forever be tainted with a proverbial asterisk, and many fans’ faith in professional athletics heretofore spurred. It is no question that Americans love to hate athletes who abuse performance-enhancing drugs.
Yet, does the abuse of performance enhancers extend beyond professional sports? It might surprise some to know that in the realm of academics, there is a growing trend, both in high school and in college, of students abusing prescription drugs to boost their ability to study and concentrate on tests.  Use of any type of prescription drug for cognitive gain should be looked down upon with the same amount of social repugnance as juicing up for a sport.
The drugs in question were created to treat attention deficit hyperactive disorder, which is a behavioral disorder that is typified by hyperactivity, an inability to concentrate, and impulsive action. Medications, most commonly the amphetamine Adderall, have been developed to help those who have ADHD concentrate and to improve their ability to work efficiently. A person without ADHD who takes these drugs might feel a surge of motivation and energy and be able to cram for a test the night before.
Prescription-stimulant abuse is very real and more popular than many would think. There has been an estimated 40 percent increase in amphetamine production in the U.S. since 1993. Additionally, in a survey of 11,000 college students, those in schools with tough admission standards were shown to have the highest rates of abuse of Adderall or other stimulants; as many as 25 percent reported using to increase performance. It has also been reported that some teens pop an Adderall pill before taking college-placement exams.
Indeed, Adderall abuse is widespread. But the negative side effects and high risk of dependency notwithstanding, using Adderall without a prescription is the highest form of cheating. The only way to achieve the same elevated cognitive state a second time is to pop a pill again. How can a nation that is so quick to demonize professional athletes who are trying to get an edge artificially, stand by while youth emulate their behavior? Just like tainting a homerun record, students who take Adderall before the SAT are jeopardizing the college admissions process, as well as a lifetime of worthwhile academic achievement by millions of students who chose to not “enhance” their performance. Students who take Adderall in order to study are cheating as much as someone who has a partial answer key to an exam. In reality, surviving college is as much of a game as it is a learning environment, and by consuming a pill, you put an asterisk on every A+ you receive because of it.
Final exams are upon us, here at Harvard. For the typical Harvard student, the pressures to succeed come from all directions: parents, peers, and prospective employers. Those who procrastinate, or feel the need to cram, might choose to swallow a pill in order to be able to study later or more efficiently. You might argue that this is in the name of academia and that nobody gets hurt when people learn more. Yet, in the age where there are pills available for everything, from weight loss to mood elevation, it seems that people are all too willing to forgo hard work in favor of instant gratification. Your straight As might be as impressive as 762 home runs, but by cheating the hard work, you will feel like a washed-up, free-agent, no-respect Barry Bonds.
Peter L. Knudson ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Matthews Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If accusing a politican of being “socialist” is like launching a B-52 Stratofortress-deployed cruise missile, calling him “Marxist” is like rolling up with a horse-drawn ballista—it may be an effective method of attack, but there’s something awfully old-fashioned about it. Reviewing Frederic Jameson for the London Review of Books, Benjamin Kunkel writes that “the U.S. remains a society in which Marxism can be advocated only a little more respectably than pederasty, and lately accusations of socialism erupt from the Republican Party more frequently than since McCarthy’s heyday.” The latter may be true, but I doubt the former is so edgy. Any self-identifying Marxist is likely to be looked on less as a threat than as a curiosity—a sandal-wearing ’60s relic, or a student of philosophy, or a European—at any rate, someone a bit naïve, yet to be initiated into the capitalist wonderland of iPads and Panda Express.
This is no manifesto for Marxism. There’s plenty in it that’s flawed and parts of it that simply fall apart when examined—far too much, in my case, to claim it comfortably as a political system. But it still deserves more than the dismissive brush-off it receives. As a conceptual tool, Marxism remains one of the best theoretical apparatuses for thinking about the modern world. Jameson, in “The Political Unconscious,” calls it the “hermeneutic code that subsumed all others”; Harvard English Professor Stephen J. Greenblatt has said that he is “uneasy with a politics and a literary perspective…untouched by Marxist thought.” Practically, Marxism might not work, but culturally, its resources run deep.
It’s true that “practical” Marxism is currently something of a non-entity in the English-speaking world. This Saturday, May Day—also known as International Workers’ Day—was celebrated in Clerkenwell Green, where a grab bag of causes gathered: Turkish communists blasted “The Internationale” very loudly from very poor speakers, Stalinists and Maoists waved flags and sported shirts silk-screened with their heroes’ faces, firefighters represented their trade union, artists carried a banner with abstract shapes in lieu of a political message, passers-by chatted with a handful of Marxist student groups (astonished to learn they lack U.S. equivalents), Iranians passed out flyers to free New Wave director Jafar Panahi (arrested for “making a film against the regime about the events that followed the election”), and so on and so forth. After the march poured out into Trafalgar Square, a Marxist Day School adjourned in a University of London classroom, where Trotskyite political theorist Alan Woods—his Wikipedia photo showing him buddy-buddy with Chávez—was scheduled to speak on Venezuela and the Fifth International. He was ill, so an organization secretary made the case: “The goal is to expose the class struggle to not just you 25, but the world!” He can’t be accused of asking for too little.
With the students, at least, a kind of self-ironizing quality pervades the activism, a defensive half-smile perpetually pasted on. They understand that the ideology they embrace is commonly considered old, or stodgy, or discredited—some wild-bearded step-brother of socialism; they can rent “La Chinoise” to watch their parents’ generation parody the simultaneous violence and performance of revolution. It’s all quite far from playacting, though. Born around the time the Eastern European experiments were crashing down, they may have a more sober sense of history than Generation Y did, but they’re no less sincere.
Marxists sometimes lament that Marxist theory is taught exclusively at expensive colleges, necessarily breeding armchair socialism; Jameson wrote that “the question about poetry after Auschwitz has been replaced with that of whether you could bear to read Adorno and Horkheimer next to the pool.” And yet—even if this is not in itself a Marxist approach—I think that Marxism has much to offer even those who don’t embrace its active prerogatives. A failure to compass completely what occurs in practice does not translate to a black mark against an approach or a license to disrespect it: As with mathematical models, so too with Marxism.
What can Marxism do? It can teach us how to think in terms of other peoples and classes. It can preserve the ideas of utopia and future potential. And it can encourage the idea of a collective project reaching beyond the present. Since Marx penned the first volume of “Capital” in 1867, holed up in Kentish Town and subsisting largely on monthly £5 checks from Engels, a lot has changed. As a generation, though, we can still come together to define a task for ourselves, to create the way we live rather than experiencing it as a series of events beyond our control.
Part of that means engaging passionately with whatever happens, rather than making jokes about it or laughing it off. Obviously, humor has its place; any society that bans humor loses its internal check (not to mention becomes a great deal less fun to live in). But Marxism is rooted in German idealism. Whatever its practical failures or successes, it teaches how to think on the grand level of history—how to take things seriously.
In the atmosphere of the British election, in which the Labour-Lib Dem-Tory menus seem about equally unappetizing, the opportunity to create a coherent vision for a new and better society is a very tempting one. I, for one, think it worth turning to Marx again to relearn how to think deeply, and without irony, about how our own society can move forward.
Jessica A. Sequeira ’11, a former Crimson associate editorial editor, is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House currently studying abroad at the University of Cambridge. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The recent oil spill in the Gulf of  Mexico has reopened the debate about the best way to extract energy in an environmentally responsible manner. However, the response to this spill has reinforced a regrettable, yet pervasive, myth. The climate-change debate is often portrayed as a battle between man and nature, in which only one side can come out ahead. But an examination of the technological options for energy production tells us that this is not the case.
Ideally, the clean-energy debate would be a purely scientific one—the science of the atmosphere and of energy production is one that can be quantified and studied dispassionately and objectively. Unfortunately, the science tends to get lost in the political noise. In general, Republicans tend to dismiss the effects of climate change or at least believe they are less important than the enormous economic costs of changing energy sources; Democrats tend to put a huge emphasis on stemming climate-change effects, up to and including making sometimes questionable technological decisions.
In fact, there is one win-win solution for everyone, a way to mass produce clean electricity, continue to grow our economy, and sharply reduce greenhouse emissions all at the same time, and it may surprise you: nuclear energy.
Nuclear power is a tailor-made solution to the climate change and energy problems. It is extremely clean, produces enormous amounts of electricity in a very small footprint, and is economically competitive with other forms of electricity. Additionally, uranium resources are abundant compared with other fuels (it could be mined from seawater, for example).
It is very hard to peg the exact costs of any given form of electricity due to the difficulty of estimating the environmental costs of carbon emissions, but depending on how one tabulates carbon-emission costs and subsidies for solar and wind, nuclear energy is either about equivalent in cost or significantly cheaper than any other form of energy.
Furthermore, nuclear energy is immeasurably cleaner than burning coal, oil, or natural gas; the carbon emissions from the entire nuclear-energy cycle about equal that of a wind or hydroelectric plant. Nuclear plants even emit less radioactivity than coal plants, since there are natural radioactive materials mixed in with the coal, which are vented into the air. The footprint of a nuclear plant is miniscule compared to the hundreds of windmills required to generate the electrical output of a single reactor. Nuclear plants also avoid the highly toxic chemicals used in solar-panel production, and again, a single reactor can generate more electricity than many square miles of solar panels exposed to constant sunlight. And the nuclear plant can do this in any weather and around the clock.
It is sometimes said by nuclear’s opponents that the “nuclear waste” problem makes nuclear energy dangerous even today, but this is simply untrue. There is no “nuclear-waste problem.” “Nuclear waste” is an ideological bogeyman, a catch-all phrase used to justify technical rejection of nuclear energy on grounds that are, in fact, purely political. As far as the technology goes, the United States Navy, France, Japan, and others have been safely storing and reprocessing nuclear waste for over half a century. It cannot harm people without passing through a series of steps that can be shown quantitatively to be essentially impossible. Unfortunately, the Obama administration has made this situation more complicated by closing, for entirely political reasons, a planned nuclear-waste repository on which billions have been spent.
For historical reasons, opinion on nuclear energy has become divided along party lines, an unnecessary political judgment on what should be a simple and clear technical question. There is no real ideological reason for this; nuclear energy is not innately conservative or liberal. It is merely a tool that has gained a very unfortunate political labeling. Fortunately, the global-warming crisis has started to remove some of the more emotional opposition to nuclear power, and the question has become somewhat less partisan over the last several years.
A careful combination of nuclear energy for so-called “base load” electricity, plus wind and solar for “peak” generation, would allow an infrastructure that combines nearly zero greenhouse emissions and zero limits on available energy.  And if there is no environmental harm, then energy, in itself, is extraordinarily good. It is directly and very closely correlated with growth in gross domestic product, life expectancy, and quality-of-life measures. It is desirable and essential to human progress; it is what separates us from the Middle Ages.
Nuclear electricity offers both the prospect of using existing and well-understood technology to allow a halt to environmental damage caused by dirty carbon fuels and the prospect of a future of more energy, opportunity, technology, economic growth, and scientific progress. The benefits of clean energy are thus too great to ignore.
Daniel A. Handlin ’11 is an astrophysics concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Crimson editors over the decades have made some memorable attempts to capture exam period in newsprint. The following op-ed, “Beating the System,” won the Dana Reed Prize for undergraduate writing in 1951. The Crimson proudly ran it every reading period until 1962, when it irked one maligned and anonymous grader enough to reply.
The Harvard examination system is designed, according to its promulgators, to test two specific things: knowledge of trends and knowledge of detail. Men approaching the examination problem have three choices: 1.) flunking out; 2.) doing work; or 3.) working out some system of fooling the grader. The first choice of solution is too permanent and the second takes too long.
This article is designed to explain how to achieve the third answer to this perplexing problem by the use of the vague generality, the artful equivocation and the overpowering assumption.
It seems pretty obvious that in any discussion of the various methods whereby the crafty student attempts to show the grader that he knows a lot more than he actually does, the vague generality is the key device. A generality is a vague statement that means nothing by itself, but when placed in an essay on a specific subject very well might mean something to the grader. The true master of a generality is the man who can write a 10-page essay, which means nothing at all to him, and have it mean a great deal to anyone who reads it. The generality writer banks on the knowledge possessed by the grader, hoping the marker will read things into his essay.
Every non-mathematical field in the University has its own set of vague generalities. For instance:
“Hume brought empiricism to its logical extreme.” (Philosophy)
“The whole thing boils down to government rights vs. property rights.” (Government)
“Moby Dick is written on three levels.” (English)
“The Holy Roman Empire was neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire.” (History)
“Locke is a transitional figure.” (Philosophy)
“Marx turned Hegel upside down.” (General Education)
“Any theory of underconsumption and purchasing power must be grounded in the psychology of the people.” (Economics)
“Berlioz is the founder of modern orchestration.” (Music)
“Shaw’s heroes are men of moral passion.” (English)
“Differentiation and integration are fundamental to the dynamic maturation of the human organism.” (Social Relations)
To check the operation of a vague generality under fire, take the typical example, “Hume brought empiricism to its logical extreme.” The question is asked, “Did the philosophical beliefs of Hume represent the spirit of the age in which he lived?” Our hero replies by opening his essay with, “David Hume, the great Scottish philosopher, brought empiricism to its logical extreme. If these be the spirit of the age in which he lived, then he was representative of it.” This generality expert has already taken his position for the essay. Actually he has not the vaguest idea of what Hume really said, or in fact what he said it in, or in fact if he ever said anything at all. But by never bothering to define empiricism, he may write indefinitely on the issue, virtually without contradiction.
Of course, some people are naturally conservative; they avoid taking a position whenever possible. They just don’t want to have to go out on a limb when they don’t know the genus of the tree. For these people, the vague generality must be partially junked and replaced by the artful equivocation, or the art of talking around the point.
The artful equivocation is an almost impossible concept to explain, but it is easy to demonstrate. Let us begin with the question, “Did the philosophical beliefs of Hume represent the spirit of the age in which he lived?”
The equivocator would answer it in this way: “Some people believe that David Hume was not necessarily a great philosopher because his thought was merely a reflection of the conditions around him, colored by his own personality.
“Others, however, strongly support Hume’s greatness on the ground that the force of his personality definitely affected the age in which he lived. It is not a question of the cart before the horse in either case, merely a problem of which came first, the chicken or the egg. In any case, there is much to be said on both sides.”
Just exactly what the equivocator’s answer has to do with the actual question is hard to say. The equivocator writes an essay about the point, but never on it. Consequently, the grader often mentally assumes that the right answer is known by the equivocator and marks the essay as an extension of the point rather than a complete irrelevance. The artful equivocation must imply the writer knows the right answer, but it must never be definite enough to eliminate any possibilities.
There is a third method of dealing with examination questions—that is by the use of overpowering assumption, an assumption so cosmic that it is sometimes accepted. For example, we wrote that it was pretty obvious that the vague generality was the key device in any discussion of examination writing. Why is it obvious? As a matter of fact, it wasn’t obvious at all, but just an arbitrary point from which to start. This is an example of an unwarranted assumption.
In the long run the expert in the use of unwarranted assumption comes off better than the equivocator. He would deal with our question on Hume not by baffling the grader or by fencing him but like this: “It is absurd to discuss whether Hume is representative of the age in which he lived unless we note the progress of that age on all fronts. After all, Hume did not live in a vacuum.”
At this point our assumption expert proceeds to discuss anything which strikes his fancy at the moment. If he can sneak the first assumption past the grader, then the rest is clear sailing. If he fails, he still gets a fair amount of credit for his irrelevant but fact-filled discussion of scientific progress in the 18th century. And it is amazing what some graders will swallow in the name of intellectual freedom.
Donald Carswell ’50 died in March 2005 after a distinguished career at NBC. This op-ed first ran on June 12, 1950.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
1. Theses That Aren’t Mind-Numbingly Dull
VES Senior Theses will be on exhibit at the Carpenter Center until Commencement. View projects on everything from the graphic novel to desks and cars.
Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts, 24 Quincy St., Cambridge. April 19-May 27, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sunday, 1 p.m. to 11 p.m. (Main Gallery). Tuesday-Sunday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. (Sert Gallery). Free.
2. Taste the Rainbow
This weekend kicks off the start of the 26th annual Boston LGBT Film Festival, which runs from May 6 to 16. Tickets to most screenings are $8 for students, but check out the festival’s website for a full listing of times and prices. Some showings are free.
For more info, go to www.bostonlgbtfilmfest.org. Screenings will be held at both the Museum of Fine Arts (465 Huntington Ave., Boston) and The Brattle Theatre (40 Brattle St., Cambridge).
3. Feelin’ Hot, Hot, Hot
For the extreme, make your way out to the New Repertory Theatre in Watertown for their performance of “Hot Mikado,” an adaptation of the Gilbert and Sullivan classic set in 1940s Japan. Directions and tickets are available at www.newrep.org.
321 Arsenal Street, Watertown. May 6, 2 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. May 7 to 8, 8 p.m. May 9, 2pm. Running through May 22. $13 for Student Rush Tickets, available 30 min. before curtain.
4. Lolz, Unscripted
The ImprovBoston Theatre presents “Spice: The Variety of Life.” Who needs reality television reruns when you’ve got all the crazy you can handle just a few T stops away? Check out ImprovBoston.com for tickets.
40 Prospect St., Central Square, Cambridge. Fridays, 8 p.m., through June 18. $12 for students.
5. Clowns, Et Cetera.
For the kid in you who needs some cotton candy after a brutal final, head to the Big Apple Circus, in town until May 16. Check out www.bostix.org/ for half-price tickets.
One City Hall Square (under the big top), Boston. Thursday, May 6, 11 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. Friday, May 7, 11 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. Saturday, May 8, 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Sunday, May 9, 12:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Tickets start at $15.
Sections
1. So You Like That Campy Song-and-Dance Show On FOX?
If you find yourself waiting for the inevitable head-to-head of New Directions and Vocal Adrenaline, catch Idina Menzel, star of “Wicked” and “Rent” and guest star on “Glee,” as she performs with the Boston Pops Orchestra.
Symphony Hall, 301 Mass. Ave., Boston. Thursday, May 6, 8p.m. $30-99.
2. Gin and Jazz
The Museum of Fine Arts has “mfafirstfridays” series, complete with live music and a cash bar. Don your semi-formal wear and pretend to be your 40-year-old self. This month’s entertainment is the Remix Jazz Trio. Sorry, young’uns—it’s 21+ only.
465 Huntington Ave., Boston. Friday, May 7, 5:30-9:30p.m. Free with Harvard ID.
3. Learn to Salsa
Missed out on all the Cinco de Mayo fun? Make the most of your Sunday evening with salsa dancing at the Ryles Jazz Club. Lessons start at 6 p.m. for the beginners.
212 Hampshire St., Inman Square, Cambridge. Sundays, 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. $10.
4. Pop Music Makes the Good Girls Go Bad
Their ship may have already sailed, but that doesn’t mean that Cobra Starship won’t give you a good time. Performing with 3OH!3, Travie McCoy of Gym Class Heroes fame, and I Fight Dragons.
House of Blues, 15 Lansdowne St., Boston. Sunday, May 9, 8 p.m. $25-35.
5. Karaoke All Night Long
Missing the thrill of Asian Karaoke? Limelight Stage + Studios is the closest you’re going to get this side of the Pacific. And for an extra rush, try out their open-mic night on Thursdays, starting at 8 p.m. (sign-up begins an hour earlier).
204 Tremont St., Boston. Thursdays, 8 p.m.-1 a.m., Fridays-Saturdays, 7 p.m. to 1 a.m. $10 cover.
Sections
1. Sore Muscles? No Problems
Relieve those finals-tense muscles and treat yourself to a full-body massage. UHS employs licensed massage therapists who will knead out those knots for a reasonable price—and you can even termbill it.
Open seven days a week. Make an appointment by calling 495-9629. $40 per hour, $25 per half-hour.
2. April Showers Bring May Flowers
Lilacs are the only flowers that have been given their own day for celebration on the calendar, and in honor of their beauty, on Lilac Sunday people are allowed to picnic at the Arnold Arboretum. Purvey the arboretum’s famed lilac collection, enjoy dance performances, and meander aimlessly around the arboretum’s beautiful 265 acres.
Arnold Arboretum. May 9, dawn to dusk. Free. Orange Line to Forest Hills.
3. Natural Is Always Better
Harvest Co-op Market is a must-see for any fan of organic foods. This local establishment sells locally-produced and fair trade products to the public as a not-for-profit enterprise. Check out their website www.harvestcoop.com for monthly specials and sales (avocados for 99 cents each until May 11!).
Central Square. 581 Mass. Ave. 661-1580. Monday through Saturday, 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., Sundays 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
4. Green Thumbs
The First Parish Plant & Craft Fair in Bedford will feature a large selection of locally-grown annuals and perennials, along with herbs and veggies. Crafters and live music will also be on the scene as well as a professional face painter and petting zoo.
May 15, Bedford Commons in Bedford, Mass., via 62 bus.
5. “Here Comes the Sun...”
Nature is the best medicine. Help heal your stressed-out soul with yoga under the sun, outside of Hemenway Gymanaisum.  Bring your yoga mat, water bottle, and all your stress, then let the sweet sunshine and scents of spring do the rest of the work.
May 7, Noon to 1 p.m. Meet in Hemenway front lobby. Free.
Sections
Free things=good things. Go to the crew intro meeting for a free athletic shirt. Go to the Barker Center Café as it’s closing for free coffee. Go to Lamont Café for a free massage from your peers (apparently). Go to the laundry room for free condoms. Go to the career fair for free random shit with company logos. Go to the libraries for free pencils. Go to Mather Lather for free soap. Go to any bulletin board for free thumbtacks. Go to Lowell on Thursdays or Sparks House on Wednesdays for free tea. Go online for Freeze Magazine. Go to the Democracy Center for freedom. Go to MIT for freaks. And don’t go to Harvard if you want to save money.
—Charles R. Melvoin
Harvard is full of memories waiting to be made, so when faced with a decision, always do the more memorable thing. You definitely won’t remember another Saturday afternoon you spent in Lamont writing a paper about how dinosaurs affected the cosmic connections of the universe, but you’ll never forget the time you took a road trip to Maine with your friends in search of the perfect lobster. Don’t be afraid to get off campus and take some risks.
—Jun Li
When in doubt, always outsource opinion—but only take it if you agree, and own your choice. And always be skeptical of the following: Craigslist, that kid in section who “brings in outside reading,” anyone you meet at a club, Square store prices, yourself at an ATM on a Saturday night.
—Asli A. Bashir
Until senior year, I probably spent equal amounts of time talking about the work I had and actually doing that work. Many nights, I begrudgingly dragged myself to Lamont to crank out a paper only to peruse Facebook and Perez for three hours, and maybe inhale a bag of Cheez-Its or two along the way. Not very productive. Then I realized, if you’re going to commit to work, commit to it. If you’re not going to be productive, then don’t bother trying—do something else that’s fun and get it out of your system. In other words, work hard, play hard. It might be a cliché, but only because it’s true. Why unproductively toil away in the library when you could be hanging out on the Claverly steps with your friends in the sunshine?
—Julia M. Spiro
All the advice worth giving in 100 words or less: Go drinking with a professor. Take a class with Jennifer Roberts. Change your concentration. See a movie in Boston. Sneak McDonald’s into the theater. Get spiked cider on the Daedalus roof deck. Go club-hopping in the Alley. Read FM. Wear your retainer. Make art.  Attend Eliot Fête. Write a thesis. Go sake bombing at Takemura. Throw someone a surprise party. Watch Lady Gaga in concert. Quit a student organization. Pass out in a pizza parlor. Invent new slang. Smile a lot. Laugh at yourself. Keep in touch. Ninety-nine. One hundred.
—Jamison A. Hill
My parents and I, we had carried suitcases and under-the-bed storage, lamps, mirrors, and school supplies, lots of them, up five flights to my freshman dorm room in Grays Middle.
My parents and I, we were sweaty. We were tired. We were ready to be done with move in, ready to move on.
But before my parents left, before they kissed me, and waved, and drove back home, my father took me aside.
“Come here,” he said. I followed as he walked away from the other parents and their children. It was sunny still, and the Yard looked the way it should—green and perfect.
He put a hand on my shoulder.
“There’s something I want to tell you,” he said.
This was it, I thought. The speech about drinking or drugs. Boys. I got ready.
He said, “Don’t worry. It’s going to be okay.”
Harvard—it was a word I hardly ever said aloud to myself, let alone others. I had been intimated by numbers. 22,753 applicants. 2,600 with 800 verbal. 2,700 with 800 math. 3,000 valedictorians. 2,109 admitted students.
Of course—it turns out—I was just fine, which I realized as soon as I forgot I went to Harvard, forgot the numbers.
There are a lot of things I will remember about that moment. The weight of his hand on my shoulder, the light. The feeling of knots, untangling in my gut.
My tip? I got it before the first day of school even started. I forget sometimes, but: try to relax.
—Emily C. Graff
Sections
Dorm/House: Lionel/Pforzheimer
Concentration: Psychology
Hometown: Boston, Mass.
Ideal Date: Just going somewhere and enjoying each other’s company, laughing, talking, or eating.
What do you look for in a girl/guy: A girl that has a good sense of humor, a bit of feistiness, and is witty. Also, someone who I can really open up to and connect with.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: In my room, slamming my homework down on the desk hard, and then doing it, all night long.
Your best pick-up line: *mumble* Saywhatifyouwanttogohomewithme
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Those pants make you look great!
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Those pants make you look ginormous!
Favorite childhood activity: Convincing the other kids if they do not trade me Pokémon cards for a vaccine, they will die of cooties.
Sexiest physical trait: My jaw
Best part about Harvard: I’ve met some of the friendliest and coolest people here at Harvard.
Worst part about Harvard: The inevitable possibility that the John Harvard statue will wake up from his slumber and pee on everyone who has wronged him.
Describe yourself in three words: William Bradley Pitt
In 15 minutes you are: Capable of finishing what Jack Bauer takes 24 hours to do.
In 15 years you are: A DILF
Sections
Dorm/House: Hollis/Lowell
Concentration: Music
Hometown: North Salem, N.Y.
Ideal Date: Movie and a dinner—movie first, conversation later.
What do you look for in a girl/guy: The answers to my problem set.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Probably Earth.
Your best pick-up line: Hello, I’m a thief, and I’m here to steal your heart.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Go ahead, you deserve to eat those donuts.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: You look EXACTLY like Marcia Gay Harden.
Favorite childhood activity: Raiding my friends’ pantries
Sexiest physical trait: Eyes.
Best part about Harvard: The people!
Worst part about Harvard: The weather!
Describe yourself in three words: One Hundred Percent.
In 15 minutes you are: Procrastinating like it’s my job.
In 15 years you are: Still smiling (but only as much I’m smiling in that picture...so like, half smiling)
Sections
Dorm/House: Hurlbut/Adams
Concentration: English. Possible secondary in Dramatic Arts.
Hometown: Brookline, Mass.
Ideal Date: Great city, great sushi, even better conversation.
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Intelligence, humor, and an accent. Not in that order.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: I could be anywhere, but I’m undoubtedly in good company.
Your best pick-up line: Do you want something to atone for on Yom Kippur?
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Sorry, I have a boyfriend.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: If I have something to tell you, you probably already know it.
Favorite childhood activity: Creating adulterous situations amongst my Barbies. Seriously.
Sexiest physical trait: My hair (on a good day).
Best part about Harvard: Hands down, walking the Charles in the springtime.
Worst part about Harvard: That it’s not located in Manhattan.
Describe yourself in three words: Cynical optimist. Oxymoron?
In 15 minutes you are: Still G-chatting with Hannah Habte
In 15 years you are: On Broadway.
Sections
Dorm/House: Holworthy/Dunster
Concentration: Government
Hometown: Cambridge, Mass.
Ideal Date: September 16, 2010
What do you look for in a girl/guy: A tall, athletic build that will produce sturdy children.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Perusing craigslist casual encounters.
Your best pick-up line: I’m in a band!
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I’m in a band!
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Sometimes, I feel just like Bambi in that scene where he’s trying to stand up but he can’t because his adorable little legs can’t support his body weight.
Favorite childhood activity: Haberdashery, alchemy, tomfoolery.
Sexiest physical trait: There’s no flaw in Michelangelo’s David. My parents almost named me David.
Best part about Harvard: Primal Scream.
Worst part about Harvard: Primal Scream sober.
Describe yourself in 3 words: Nutritious, judicious, Alex.
In 15 minutes, you are: Living at Harvard.
In 15 years, you are: Living at home.
Sections
Dorm/House:  Weld/Lowell
Concentration: Social Studies
Hometown: Northport, N.Y.
Ideal Date:  Starts at 1 a.m.
What do you look for in a girl/guy: BIG...personality
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Wandering the streets of Cambridge
Your best pick-up line: How much does a polar bear weigh?
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I’m a Kennedy
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Moisture is the essence of wetness, and wetness is the essence of beauty.
Favorite childhood activity: Second base
Sexiest physical trait: Third nipple
Best part about Harvard: Delphic Courtyard
Worst part about Harvard: Delphic Basement
Describe yourself in three words: When in Rome...
In 15 minutes you are: D.F.M.O.
In 15 years you are: Still regretting it
Sections
Lately, Harvard students have been getting a lot of heat from outside the bubble about their perceived sense of style (or lack thereof) in response to Prada’s supposedly Harvard-inspired preppy fall line and the launch of the Harvard Yard brand. Fashion blogger for New York Magazine Amy Odell wrote last fall, “Something fishy seems to be going on at Harvard: The university is trying to be hip, possibly even chic.”
With 3,200 visitors in its first 10 days, an average of 800 unique hits per day, and visitors from over 50 countries, a new website devoted to the style of Harvard and the flavor of Cambridge is cataloguing these sartorial attempts. A eureka moment in Leverett dining hall followed by months of planning and designing the minutiae of the site led Emily X. L. Xie ’12 and Colin Teo ’12 to create the booksandliquor.com, a collection of expressions of personality in the clothes, accessories, and even halls of Harvard.
“We want to just create a forum for discussion for people to think about what they see and just think about it,” said Xie. They admit that they each have very different personal styles and are searching for something interesting that will spark thought and conversation.
The blog’s name, Books & Liquor, refers specifically to the tension and intersection between the academics and liquor of Harvard, and the founders are taking the project with them to their summer destinations: Singapore, Shanghai, and Tokyo.
So what are they looking for? A recent post featured a male student sporting a sharp three-piece gray suit complete with an old-fashioned fob, a tan trench coat with a stylishly popped collar, a briefcase, an umbrella, and a pinched-crown, snapped-brim fedora to top it all off. He flashes the camera a big smile in the series of photos entitled “Singing in the Rain.”
In reference to the individuals featured on their site, Teo says, “These people are happy with what they’re wearing, and it shows. They have style.”
Xie agrees, and the phrase they both gravitate to is “eye-grabbing.”
Who knew the Ivies could be fashion forward? Perhaps Harvard students aren’t all brains and boatshoes.
Sections
Dorm/House: Canaday/Adams
Concentration: African Studies
Hometown: Fair Oaks, Calif.
Ideal Date: If “date” refers to the person...James Franco. If it refers to the activity...anything with James Franco.
What do you look for in a guy: A voice like Cary Grant’s, a demeanor like George Clooney’s, and a face like Lil Wayne’s (tattoos and all).
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Knocking on the door of the Delphic until they let me in.
Your best pick-up line: SO WHAT’S YOUR CONCENTRATION?!?!
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: At the beginning of the year, I told my third grade teacher to go easy on me in regards to spelling because they spell a lot of things differently in Jamaica. She bought it and never marked me down for spelling errors.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: You had me at hello.
Favorite childhood activity: Trying to be Mary-Kate Olsen.
Sexiest physical trait: Ethiopian cheekbones.
Best part about Harvard: The heavy workload actually helps you learn.
Worst part about Harvard: Most people will believe my answer to the previous question.
Describe yourself in three words: HAP (Halfrican American Princess)
In 15 minutes you are: Celebrating my youth.
In 15 years you are: Getting plastic surgery. Heidi Montag style.
Sections
Dorm/House: Stoughton/Cabot
Concentration: Pure Math
Hometown: Christchurch, New Zealand
Ideal Date: Eating granola in Annenberg, or potentially Kirkland if I’m feeling adventurous
What do you look for in a girl/guy: I’m generally after someone who knows all the lyrics to “Wagon Wheel” by the Old Crow Medicine Show
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Most Saturday nights I’m on a horse
Your best pick-up line: Something about New Zealand, I dunno
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Gingers have souls
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: 111,111,111 x 111,111,111 = 12345678987654321
Favorite childhood activity: The times when I used to go to Mt. Doom to destroy the ring of power. Also, playing on the trampoline.
Sexiest physical trait: It definitely used to be my rattail haircut, but that’s gone now.
Best part about Harvard: All the Asian tourists and those guys who take the tours and talk really loud
Worst part about Harvard: Despite being some of the smartest people around, many people think that just because I’m from New Zealand, I will somehow know their friend in Australia. And that I have a British accent. Which they then try to do.
Describe yourself in three words: I like turtles
In 15 minutes you are: Still procrastinating
In 15 years you are: Fully clothed
Sections
Dorm/House: Thayer/Quincy
Concentration: I‘m part of the five-year joint degree program between Harvard and New England Conservatory, so I’m concentrating in English with a secondary in music at Harvard while working on my Master’s in jazz voice at NEC.
Hometown: Dallas, Texas
Ideal Date: Honestly? Ordering take-out and watching movies on the couch. Haha...I need to get out more.
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Chivalrous, sweet, funny, sensitive, hard-working, responsible­...please refer to Prince Charming in Cinderella.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Writing poetry or composing on Garage Band.
Your best pick-up line: I absolutely can’t stand pick-up lines. Say what you mean.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Not into deception. Beauty is truth, man.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: “By all means move at a glacial pace. You know how that thrills me.” (from “The Devil Wears Prada”)
Favorite childhood activity: Laser tag!!!
Sexiest physical trait: Of mine? That’s the most awkward question ever!!!
Best part about Harvard: Everything! I love it!
Worst part about Harvard: Um...I really don’t understand how it can be 1 degree outside. I bought a virtual DVD fireplace for my room to pretend I was warm. :/
Describe yourself in 3 words: So much fierceness ;)
In 15 minutes, you are: Laughing it up with my friends.
In 15 years, you are: A human rights activist and a singer/songwriter/actress/model/dancer. I basically love doing anything artistic. Hmm...except for maybe drawing. My stick figures are not even proportional...so sad.
Sections
Dorm/House: Grays/Lowell
Concentration: Chemistry or Neurobiology
Hometown: San Diego, Calif.
Ideal Date: Take me to Disneyland!
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Classiness, thoughtfulness, and a good sense of humor
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Somewhere with food
Your best pick-up line: My name might not be Luna, but I sure do Lovegood ;)
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I have never told a lie.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: I know it’s you that’s farting. Stop trying to blame it on other people.
Favorite childhood activity: Following my older brother around
Sexiest physical trait: My body’s proportionality
Best part about Harvard: That there are so many opportunities
Worst part about Harvard: That the weather is as bad as the brick ground is uneven
Describe yourself in three words: Happy-go-lucky
In 15 minutes you are: Wishing I wasn’t still in Lamonster...
In 15 years you are: Living happily ever after!
Sections
Dorm/House: Weld/Dunster
Concentration: VES
Hometown: L.A.
Ideal Date: 486 BC
What do you look for in a girl/guy: www.beck.com
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Terabithia
Your best pick-up line: I know it’s not Christmas, but Santa’s lap is always ready.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: “Yeah, I go to USC.”
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: “Yes! I do have a domesticated snow leopard!”
Favorite childhood activity: Being abducted by the extra-terrestrials
Sexiest physical trait: Esophagus
Best part about Harvard: Scientific instruments collection
Worst part about Harvard: Not enough libraries
Describe yourself in three words: !|\||)3#, 133+, B00+aY~Li(!0u$*!
In 15 minutes you are: Living it up
In 15 years you are: Living on an exoplanet
Sections
Dorm/House: Grays/Leverett
Concentration: Economics/Philosophy
Hometown: Newtown, Pa.
Ideal Date: Fancy dinner with surprise tickets to a nice show to follow (good seats are a must), tea/coffee after
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Personality, intellect, class, LOOKS
Where to find you on a Saturday night: On a midnight train going anywhere
Your best pick-up line: “How much does a Polar Bear weigh?”...or, wait, “No Shakespeare poem could ever capture your beauty.”
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: That I was actually an Indian pop star
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: “I don’t know how to put this but I’m kind of a big deal. People know me. I have many leather-bound books and my apartment smells of rich mahogany.”
Favorite childhood activity: Annoying my siblings
Sexiest physical trait: Smile! and the usual.
Best part about Harvard: The people!!
Worst part about Harvard: The rain...
Describe yourself in three words: Sincere, caring, determined
In 15 minutes you are: Wherever you need me to be
In 15 years you are: Still young, but married, and a father. A job would be nice.
Sections
Dorm/House: Canaday/Lowell
Concentration: OEB
Hometown: Montclair, N.J.
Ideal Date: Scarfin’ down hot wings with a hot babe
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Lots and Lots of money. Nah but really...a great personality is always crucial but cute looks never hurt.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Tearin’ up the dance floor obviously.
Your best pick-up line: If beauty were sunlight you’d shine from a million light years away.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Lying’s a sin
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: That I killed a man once.
Favorite childhood activity: Playing with my Ninja Turtles...duh.
Sexiest physical trait: My sexy year-round tan.
Best part about Harvard: This sweet magazine...I forget the name though. Sorry.
Worst part about Harvard: The Salisbury steak.
Describe yourself in 3 words: Sexy...Hot...Beautiful.
In 15 minutes, you are: Done and smoking a cig.
In 15 years, you are: Retired and smoking a cigar.
Sections
7:30 p.m., Saturday night during reading period.
“You want a blanket?” a kind voice asked as I laid my head down and curled up on a UHS exam table.
“Sure,” I answered, my voice shaky.
Not usually one to impose—I don’t even take water when a host offers—I had given up. I was prepared to lay there helplessly until they fixed me.
Unfortunately, no, garden parties had not gotten the best of me. Backyard day drinking was definitely not my scene given that each time I stepped into the sunlight, I was struck with an unbearable headache and an eye that was suddenly tearing up as though I had just been forced to rewatch Marissa Cooper’s tragic death on “The O.C.” (rest in peace, Coop).
When I woke up Saturday morning, ready to complain about only getting three hours of sleep, a quick look in the mirror shut me up. My right eye was completely red. Not red like, “Wow, your eye looks pretty bloodshot.” Red like someone had colored it in with a magic marker.
But I had a group presentation to give and I figured that if I just gave myself a break from my contacts, everything would be fine. Unfortunately, I have always been a die-hard contacts wearer, to the point where I have not updated my glasses prescription since I was 12. And while 12-year-old me didn’t have bad taste in frames, she did have better vision, and these lenses didn’t quite do the trick.
Donning a prescription out of date by nine years, I quickly made the dash from Leverett to meet my group in Mather. With my right eye squeezed shut and one hand blocking my face as I turned it away from the sun’s reach, I felt like a rat or some other nocturnal rodent scurrying painfully into the shock of broad daylight.
Six hours later, I met my blockmates for dinner. “What’s wrong with you?” one of them asked from about 15 feet away. I guess my eye situation had not improved.
I struggled through dinner. Everyone knew something was wrong as I failed to consume the mountain of garlic bread sitting on my plate.  In case you didn’t know, Saturday night is garlic bread night, and the reason Saturday evenings with HUDS will always trump a night out on the Square.
One of my roommates, a veteran of battles with her own eyes, stepped up to the plate. She taught me how to detect a stye, and brought me compresses made from hot tea bags. She also gave dirty looks to the girl at the end of the table who could not stop staring at us.
Not that I could blame her. I was sitting there curled up in a dining hall chair, holding teabags over my eye, and whining dramatically about how “I had just never felt this way before.” I winced each time I looked toward one of the chandeliers overhead, and spent the majority of the meal with my eyes closed, wrapped up in my own world, inserting random comments into the conversation.
After dinner my blockmates decided it was time for a family trip to UHS.  A few close calls with moving vehicles later (“Really, please don’t walk home alone”), they deposited me at Urgent Care. As I sat in the waiting room, realizing that just the light from my BlackBerry screen was headache-inducing, I gave up.
I dutifully followed a nurse to an exam room where I laid down on the table and resigned myself to the hands of UHS.
They were going to bring in an eye specialist, a voice said. “Okay,” I mumbled, not opening my eyes. I had slept five hours in the last two days and I was completely ready to spend the night on that UHS exam table, waiting for someone to ride in and diagnose me.
But I was quickly pulled out of my stupor. I heard the door open again and this time the voice was telling me I had to get up, get on the phone, talk to this specialist, write down this address, get in a cab, you’re going to Boston. What?
Suddenly I was in the office of an opthamologist: it was an infection in my cornea, probably caused by contact overuse (very, very guilty). He gave me antibiotic eye drops (great). I would need to take them every hour (okay). Including overnight (what?!).
So I spent the next few nights being rudely awoken by my obnoxious phone alarm more times than should ever be legal. The next few days were a blur, as I stumbled around in a world I saw through half-20/20, half-foggy vision. I eventually resorted to a pirate-esque eye patch to keep things in one perspective.
So what did I learn this reading period? Update your glasses more than once a decade? Wearing your contacts for 45 hours straight is a terrible idea? Both definitely valid lessons.
But I realized how important it is to find people who won’t run away from you when you come at them with a frighteningly red eye or a pirate eye patch and the inability to take care of yourself.
My project group was probably less than thrilled about my struggles on the day of our big presentation, but instead they offered me reassurance and the opportunity to take a nap if I needed it. My blockmates stuck with me through a tediously long dinner, and brought me the one thing they knew would make me feel better the next night (’Noch’s, duh). And in case I had ignored my alarm, my ever-vigilant father spent the next two nights waking himself up to call me at 1 a.m. And 3 a.m. And 5 a.m.
So reading period may not have turned out to be all the fun I had hoped, but at least I know that even if I decide to become a pirate when I grow up, I’ll still have some friends to crash with during my stays on the mainland.
—Elizabeth C. Pezza ’11 is a Sociology concentrator in Leverett House.  She wants to know: what’s black and white and red all over?
Sections
Dorm/House: Greenough/Leverett
Concentration: Neurobiology
Hometown: Dallas, Texas
Ideal Date: A picnic under the lights at the 50-yard line
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Simplicity and a southern accent
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Noch’s
Your best pick-up line: 36’’ 24’’ 36’’
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: 36’’ 24’’ 36’’
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Never grew out of *NSYNC
Favorite childhood activity: Pillow forts
Sexiest physical trait: A mean stanky legg
Best part about Harvard: Amazing blockmates, PBHA, and the Harvard Cheer Team
Worst part about Harvard: The winter, didn’t have a winter coat ‘til I got here
Describe yourself in three words: Brown and Down
In 15 minutes you are: Probably still getting ready
In 15 years you are: The coolest mom ever
Sections
The world-renowned conservationist and iconic friend of the chimpanzees talks about her past in the field and her future spreading the message of coexistence with our planet.
1. Fifteen Minutes: You traveled to Lake Tanganyika at age 26 without any formal training or university degree. How did you come to work under anthropologist and paleontologist Dr. Louis Leakey?
Jane Goodall: I had gone out to Kenya to stay with a school friend. I had to then get a job, because you don’t sponge on your friends, and I had heard about Louis Leakey. So I went to see him at the museum. I told him I was interested in animals and that ended up with him offering me a job as his secretary. And that’s how it began. Pretty amazing.
2. FM: Is there a single moment or event from your time at Lake Tanganyika that most stands out in your mind?
JG: I would say that there were three special moments. One was the first time that a group of chimpanzees let me close and didn’t run away, because they had been running away for weeks and weeks and weeks and I knew that if the money ran out, that would be it. And then after that, about a year later, Flow had her infant Flint and just after he was able to walk she actually allowed him to come up and reach out and touch my nose. And the third one was about that same time. I was following David Greybeard, who was the first to lose his fear of humans, and I thought I had lost him. I was going through a thick tangle and I found him sitting, waiting—at least it seemed he was waiting. I picked up a palm nut lying on the ground, which they love, and held it out to him and he didn’t want it. He turned his head away, I put my hand closer, he took the nut, dropped it, and then very gently squeezed my hand—which is how chimps reassure each other. So that was a perfect communication using a form of communication that clearly predates words.
3. FM: How long did the process of giving and learning names take?
JG: As soon as I got to recognize them as individuals, I gave them names. There were some in the very early days that I named and then wasn’t quite sure about, so some of the very early names kind of disappeared. But basically, once I was sure, I gave them a name.
4. FM: Gombe, the primary site of your research in Africa, has been the source of over 200 scientific papers, 35 Ph.D. dissertations, more than 30 books, and has contributed even more to general popular knowledge. What do you consider to be your work’s greatest contribution?
JG: Overall, basically that the chimps have shown that there is no sharp line dividing us from the rest of the animal kingdom, that we’re part of the animal kingdom. That’s because there are so many biological similarities and behavioral similarities. Then if we want a more specific contribution, I hope that my work will eventually show the tremendous importance of early experience—the difference between good mothering and bad mothering in chimp society.  The offspring of the mothers who are less protective, less supportive, less affectionate, less playful—they tend to be tense and nervous in their interactions with others and they’re not as successful.
5. FM: What do you believe to be the strongest evidence for the idea of the dividing line between humans and animals “getting blurrier”?
JG: In my mind it’s the biological similarities, tying into and leading into, for example, the emotional similarities. And also the behavioral similarities—for example, the strong family bonds.
6. FM: So what are the greatest similarities that you observe between humans and chimpanzees?
JG: The non-verbal communication, kissing, embracing, holding hands, patting on the back, swaggering, throwing rocks, using tools, making tools, nurturing infants; showing real altruism by rescuing infants, adopting them, caring for them. And then on the reverse side you get this brutal behavior and a kind of primitive inclination to war as well.
7. FM: Do we have anything to learn from them?
JG: That’s where you come back to the tremendous importance of early experience, which human child psychiatrists and psychologists are now talking about all the time. And interestingly, it was the early child psychologists who were far more interested in what I brought back from Gombe than any of the ethologists, because of the mother-infant relationship that I had found.
8. FM: What impact has your observation and research had on your interactions with other human beings?
JG: I don’t really think it has had any. I think that my own interactions with humans were probably determined by my amazing mother and my wonderful family. Perhaps my years with the chimpanzees made me observe humans in a different way, but not really interact with them in a different way.
9. FM: Why do you begin many of your talks speaking in “chimpanzee”?
JG: Because I like to bring the voice of an animal into a space. I have been to so many conferences which are all about animal welfare or animal rights or something like that and people are bickering about who does what and it’s a squabble for money and sometimes the animals become pawns and almost forgotten. So I like to bring that voice right into the space to help us understand that we’re not alone on this planet.
10. FM: Your work has turned to conservation—what do you believe is our place in the natural world?
JG: We are part of and not separate from the animal kingdom. We have to learn to live in greater harmony with the natural world because we are in the process of creating so much destruction that the point will come when mother nature can’t restore herself.
11. FM: What message were you trying to pass on to the Harvard community during the discussion in Sanders?
JG: I think basically that we can’t live through a day without making an impact, that we should spend a bit of time thinking about the consequences of the choices we make each day and realize that if they’re multiplied a billion times you start to see the kind of change that we must have if we care about the world for our future. There’s no point in me trying to kill myself to try to save chimps or forests, or for anybody trying to save anything, if the same old business as usual continues. It’s got to change.
12.
FM: Here at Harvard there is a growing movement to become more “green” and move towards more sustainable development. What do you think is the best thing that students can do in terms of environmental conservation?
JG: You really have to start with yourself and then whether or not you reach out to others really depends on whether or not you’re the right person to do it. Some people are really good at arguing, and that doesn’t really change peoples opinions. But if you can get into their hearts, that’s what’s so important. Make people think about this question: if we’re the most intellectual animals that have ever walked on this planet, which we are, why are we destroying our only home? I think we’ve lost wisdom, the kind of wisdom where people say, “How will this decision affect people generations ahead?” Now we make decisions based on, “How will it help me now or in next year’s shareholders meeting or next year’s political campaign?”
13. FM: And are you hopeful for the future?
JG: I’m hopeful for the future because our Roots & Shoots program is now in 120 countries. So everywhere I go there are all these energetic, enthusiastic and inspired young people showing me, telling me what they’ve done, what they’re going to do to make the world better for people, for animals, for the environment.
14. FM: 2010 is the 50th anniversary of the Jane Goodall Institute. What do you think the next 50 years will bring?
JG: Hopefully, we’re going to build an endowment and this endowment will enable us to absolutely ensure the future of the Gombe research. It will provide security for our sanctuaries for orphaned chimpanzees whose mothers have been shot for bush meat. And it will allow the Roots & Shoots program to get a firmer foundation.
15. FM: And what’s next for you?
JG: That’s in the hands of the good Lord, but—provided I maintain my health and my energy—I will continue to try to reach into some of these places where we haven’t yet reached. Fortunately there are all these amazing, talented, and inspired young people. Hopefully, I can start something and it will grow from that little seed.
Sections
Dorm/House: Holworthy/Currier
Concentration: English
Hometown: London, United Kingdom
Ideal Date: Fly Fishing
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Most people would say a sense of humor, but I’m going to have to go with  ridiculously good looking.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: In my roommate’s bed, if I’m lucky, receiving a lap-dance.
Your best pick-up line: After checking the label at the back of someone’s t-shirt, saying: “Yup, just what I thought. ‘Made In Heaven.’”
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: “I’m never drinking again...”
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: I would have already told it. I’m a very open person.
Favorite childhood activity: Eating Play-Doh.
Sexiest Physical Trait: You tell me.
Best part about Harvard: The people.
Worst part about Harvard: The drinking age.
Describe yourself in three words: Random, crazy, loyal.
In 15 minutes you are: In the library writing my overdue essays...plural.
In 15 years you are: We’ll just have to wait and find out! I live in the present, not in the future.
Sections
Dorm/House: Wigglesworth/Winthrop
Concentration: Neurobiology
Hometown: Palos Verdes, Calif.
Ideal Date: Dinner and Jacuzzi
What do you look for in a girl/guy: Good looks and a better personality
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Tearing up the streets of Cambridge
Your best pick-up line: I can tie a cherry stem into a knot with only my tongue, wanna see?
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I told Harvard I got a 2350 on my SAT...shhhhh!
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: I have always wanted to tell my Spanish TF that she’s a cutie.
Sexiest physical trait: Smile
Best part about Harvard: The women. They are so smart and good-looking.
Worst part about Harvard: The weather
Describe yourself in three words: Tan Man Candy
In 15 minutes you are: Wasting my life away in Lamont Café
In 15 years you are: Wondering when this pre-med sh*t will end, so probably still in school
Sections
She’s beginning to understand me, old Internetta. Each day, she and her lap dog Webosperos know more and more about what I like, how I like it, and how much bean dip that means. She gets how I tick, brotherman, down to the last tock.
Used to be when I’d spend hours Googling myself, I had to sort through the business of Lory Nelson Greaves or Joanne Nelson Greaves. But now when I search, Our Lady of Net recognizes my self-aggrandizing habits and kicks these “lesser” results to the curb.
Same situation for Pandora. Pandy suggested a few jams to me based on what it decided my music tastes were. “I cannot be distilled!” I scoffed into the empty place on my laptop where other laptops have mics. “Behold, I am inscrutable!”
But instead of proving my own indecipherably, I was introduced to the Spanish sensation, Buika, as well as a host of exciting new bands, each of whom—without exception, I loved. (If you’re carrying a toddler right now, drop him and go check out Buika’s “Mi Niña Lola.” If you’re not, still check her out.)
Straight and simple, Internetta was right—she knew more about me than I knew about me, and as people who know about me know about me, I know about me. Is this a good thing? Bad thing? Rad thing?
Maybe I should be thrilled with the intimacy between me and The Net. Be happy I have a close friend to travel with; it’s not like my best buddy’s ever going to reduce himself to a soggy notebook-sized lump of flesh and resign his life to the task of accumulating food stains on a keyboard tattooed on that flesh. And no matter how small and convenient my girlfriend is, she’s never going to suggest the perfect pornography to me and then let me watch it on her LED stomach display. This being the case, what’s wrong with having a little robot friend who understands how I think?
Maybe nothing, but I’m still unsettled, albeit more than a bit impressed. My biggest little concern about the Web’s comprehension of me invokes Plato. Simply put, if my behaviors online spell out a pattern that enables a computer to predict parts of my personality I don’t yet know about, does this not postulate an ideal Nelson that exists somewhere in the ether, a fully-realized being grasped by the information superhighway, but doomed to exist only as a few parts that trickle down to Earth?
And if the Internet really just gets the hell out of me, maybe I should start pawning off responsibilities to it? Imagine an automatic Facebook updater: “Nelson has installed Auto Facebook.” “Nelson regrets his decision to install Auto Facebook.” “Nelson is coping with his decision to install Auto Facebook with three jars of bean dip.”
Or what if I just sent 20 bucks to my Amazon account and let it gift me its “suggested gifts”? Besides having a copy of “Manos! The Hands of Fate,” I could stop worrying about finding ways to amuse myself.
But hell, why stop there? How-To-Choose-Baby-Names.com has a baby name selector tool that analyzes your life preferences and spits out a fool-proof moniker.
Dog-or-no.com searches your Facebook history and answers the question: “Dog—or no?”
Okay, that one I made up, but is it really all this easy? Can my whole identity be represented by a series of 1’s and 0’s, which is how I’m told computers work? I may be more than the sum of my preferences, but at the end of the day, I decide I am different from, let’s say, Dave Kim, based upon what Dave prefers and what I do not. I hate pickles and Dave likes pickles, therefore Dave is dumb for liking pickles.
But then again, there’s something besides the Internet I’m not considering. You know, that other thing—what’s it called? The real world? Remember? It came out just before AOL 1.0? Well, it’s still around, and no matter how many faces robot Mark Zuckerberg suggests I be friends with, my choice in who is actually my friend is one I’ll still be making and experiencing, even if some computer did predict I’d do it.
And if nothing else, I can just reinvent myself into, say, an emo guy, which is actually what Google just suggested I do.
Sections
Kirkland’s Resident Scholar, Peter V. Emerson, the mastermind behind “Conversations with Kirkland,” is perhaps the only individual on Harvard’s campus lucky enough to meet Rosanne Cash at the Albuquerque airport, bump into Lewis Black on a train to Washington, chat up Sam Waterston at an event in New York, and convince the President of Zambia to take a Boston Duck Tour. For the past seven years, Emerson has combined similarly serendipitous celebrity encounters with his natural charm and brought a wide array of interesting and diverse speakers to the Harvard community.
The intimate and informal setting that Emerson’s “Conversations with Kirkland” seeks to maintain distinguishes the events from many similar Harvard happenings. “Students get more engaged. They feel like they have some kind of impact on the event, rather than just listening to someone talking to them,” explains Loren Amor ’10, a former Crimson sports chair who became involved with the series during his sophomore year. “They are able to steer the discussion in a way that is interesting to them and the students get to hear about issues they care about.”
AN IDEA ENTREPRENEUR
Emerson, initially a college dropout, received his bachelor’s degree from New York University in 1995 after attending night classes. He came to Harvard in 1999, working as a teaching fellow for world-renowned child psychologist Robert Coles before entering the Kennedy School of Government. During his time at the Kennedy School, Emerson’s passion for developing policy ideas precipitated a realization.
“I’m not an entrepreneur of business. I’m not an entrepreneur of anything, except I think up ideas,” Emerson says. “Nine out of ten are crazy, but the one has some merit.”
One of his first projects to strike gold was the creation of a college environment in which seeking help for addiction problems was transformed into a positive and incentivized experience. Emerson took his idea to Howard J. Shaffer, the director of the Division on Addictions at the Harvard Medical School, who chose him as the division’s associate for public policy. With this new job in hand, Emerson decided to stay in Cambridge. Yet beyond Cambridge itself, Emerson had fallen in love with the Harvard atmosphere. So,instead of moving into an apartment or house off-campus, he spoke with the House Masters of Kirkland and convinced them that his connections could be useful. The House Masters, in return, appointed him to the position of Resident Scholar, giving Emerson a place to live within the Harvard niche.
At that point, Emerson recalls, he took time to reflect on how he could give back to the Harvard community.
“I was trying to think, ‘What could I do based on my experience and who I know to give to the student community?’” Emerson says. “I came up with this idea—’Conversations with Kirkland’—which would bring in distinguished and accomplished people from politics, arts, the media, and business for students to have truly an informal conversation.”
CHALLENGING THE CELEBS
More than simply draw luminaries to campus, Emerson teaches students how to engage with the guests.
“By his example, Peter showed us how to do so naturally and graciously—a lesson we carry with us for the rest of our lives,” says Bolek Z. Kabala ’03.
According to Emerson, the first speaker—former Senator Gary W. Hart—was a hit. What was most amazing, Emerson asserts, may not have been the effect that Hart had on the students, but the effect that the students had on the Senator. “In the course of his conversation, he suggested something that he had decided and a student challenged him—said, ‘Senator, I don’t think that is right.’” Emerson recalls. “He paused and said, ‘Let me think about it,’ and I rode with him over to the Kennedy Library and in the car he said, ‘You know, that student is right. I need to change my mind.’”
“I knew this was a great thing because I thought if a student here can change Senator Hart’s mind, we’ve got something.’”
Hardball’s Chris J. Matthews, a close friend of Emerson’s, agrees that the value in speaking with Harvard students is especially apparent within the context of Emerson’s “Coversations with Kirkland.”
“The great thing about talking to students is that they are still focused on the biggest possible questions and the widest perspectives because they haven’t taken themselves professionally to a niche yet,” Matthews says. “They are wide open as to what they are interested in. If you get into a business crowd, you might find yourself with business questions, but I don’t find that at Harvard.”
Before making an appearance, each speaker in the “Conversations with Kirkland” series is asked about his or her interests; Emerson arranges a meeting with a Harvard faculty member in that field as a partial compensation for the speaker’s time. Rosanne Cash, Johnny Cash’s daughter, spoke fondly of the experience of meeting her favorite all-star professor. “I had a private meeting with Dr. Lisa Randall and asked her all the questions about theoretical physics I have been storing up for years,” she says.
Which guests remain on Emerson’s wish list? Lady Gaga, Elvis Costello, Sting, and Triumph the Insult Comic Dog. Before disappointment at Gaga’s absence takes hold, however, the following are possibilities for next year’s series of discussions:  Lorne Michaels of “Saturday Night Live” and “30 Rock,” Craig Ferguson of “The Late Late Show,” and Gene Simmons of KISS have each been invited.
Reflecting on his successes as an event planner, Emerson emphasizes his theory that sending an invitation is almost always the first step. Sometimes the speaker will refuse, but Emerson explains the powerful incentives. “People have a desire to come here—partly because of the brand, partly because of the reputation, and partly because of the students.”
Sections
In the urban jungle that is Cambridge, FM goes on an annual hunt to gather the most attractive freshmen from the Common to the city. Check out these stunning members of the class of 2013 as they go downtown and up to the country. Pastels and graffiti make for a smoldering combination.
Caroline M. Cuse
Charuta P. Gavankar
Madison A. Greer
Hannah S. Habte
Allison M. Han
Zachary D. Herring
Yusef J. Jordan
Tyler E. Logigian
Benjamin K. Moss
James D.P. O'Connor
Samara R. Oster
Alexander B. Rose
Antonia N. Silver
Vinay A. Trivedi
Norman Zhu
Sections
Hey Professor Robert A. Stickgold, Associate Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center! You just completed a study that found dreaming about a task helps you perform better on it. Now that reading period is upon us, do you think dreaming about our exams helps us get better grades?
“I think it does. But I don’t think you can force it—someone asked me what I would tell students if they want to dream something about the night before the exam. The thing I told them is to be excited about the topic and think about it in a larger context. The brain takes new information it learns and tries to see how to file it away—it’s a connective thing. Hopefully your brain will pick up on it and you can dream about whatever you need to take the test on tomorrow.”
Sections
Football Players aren’t the only ones getting tackled at Harvard Stadium. A few nights ago, a racy couple was spotted hopping over the fence into the football field­—the girl wearing nothing but a yellow shirt. Hey, sunshine.
On the subject of getting frisky in public, this couple was heard rustling up the books in Widener C West, moments before running into the girls’ Portuguese professor.
Wrapping up the year, two senior fish hopped off the 1 bus, only to catch the shuttle just in time, able to bring home the two biddies they met in a Boston bar.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Husam Zomlot, a Palestinian visiting scholar at the Harvard Kennedy School, discussed the prospects for a two-state solution in the Middle East yesterday night at a Cambridge Forum at the First Parish Church.
Zomlot, who served as a Palestine Liberation Organization representative to the UK from 2003 to 2008, said he believes that there are many obstacles to overcome in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. But  Barack Obama’s presidency presents a unique opportunity to bring about peace in the region, he added.
Zomlot called the Israeli-Palestinian conflict “the last remaining unfinished business of the 19th and 20th centuries.”
“It is the divide between might and right, between people and armies,” Zomlot said. “Between hope and despair.”
Zomlot, who is also a research fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, said that there are three possible alternatives to the two-state solution. The first is a democratic, bi-national state that includes both Israelis and Palestinians.
Another alternative would be a mass expulsion of Palestinians that would ensure a Jewish majority, and a third option would be the current “de facto” situation that has begun to resemble an apartheid state, Zomlot said, drawing a comparison to the white-dominated South African government.
But Zomlot said that though he believes the two-state solution is the best option, he is not convinced that the Israelis will relinquish settlement land easily.
According to Zomlot, there is also an ideological barrier.
“There is a considerable constituency,” Zomlot said, “who believe that the land of Israel is a God-given land.”
For an American president to successfully broker a peaceful resolution, he or she would have to have a strong commitment to solving the problem and an unbiased stance in the negotiations, and will have to offer parameters and guidelines moving forward, Zomlot said.
He added that he believes that Obama has met the first two criteria and is currently working on the third.
Zomlot said he also believes the involvement of the international community is crucial in achieving a long-lasting solution.
“Left alone, the Israelis and Palestinians are incapable of solving this,” Zomlot said.
Susan E. Nye, the chairperson of the Peace and Justice in the Middle East Task Force at the First Parish Church, said that her group suggested Zomlot as a speaker for the Cambridge Forum. The Task Force, which was established over four years ago, seeks to bring speakers who are “devoted to promoting just peace in the Middle East.”
The Task Force helped to sponsor the event with the Cambridge Forum as part of an ongoing discussion on the challenges facing the Obama administration, Nye said.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Graduation is a time for most seniors to reflect on how much things have changed since their freshman year.
But the seniors on the Harvard softball team (25-20, 17-3 Ivy) are hoping that their careers in crimson will wrap up just as they began: with an Ivy League title.
“We won our freshman year,” co-captain Margaux Black said. “Ever since then, we’ve wanted to get another one.”
Harvard’s veterans will get a chance to bring things full circle this afternoon when they take on Cornell in this year’s Ivy League Championship Series.
The doubleheader will begin today at 12:30. Should the teams split, as they did the last time they faced each other, a final game will take place on Saturday, starting at the same time.
The Crimson headed to Ithaca yesterday in preparation for the big matchup. The team will face a Big Red team (35-12, 17-3) so much its equal that one tiebreaker wasn’t enough to determine hosting rights for this series.
Harvard and Cornell finished the season with identical league records and even head-to-head results, so hosting was determined based on which team had the best record against the third-place team, Penn.
Both the Crimson and the Big Red dropped only one game to the Quakers. Because Penn is in Cornell’s South Division and not Harvard’s North, the Big Red played it four times while the Crimson and the Quakers met only twice, giving Cornell the higher winning percentage and therefore the hosting rights.
“I think it’ll be a tough battle,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “It’ll be a great serie. I think both teams have strong pitching, solid defense, and good hitting. They’re very evenly matched.”
The last time the teams faced, two of the Crimson’s top pitchers, rookie Jess Ferri and sophomore Rachel Brown, struggled against a potent Cornell offense, before Black took the mound and led Harvard to a 7-6 nightcap win.
“They’re free swingers,” Black said of the Big Red’s hitters. “They come up and hack at it. It’s really fun to pitch against them because they come out swinging. It’s different from other Ivies.”
Black, Brown, Ferri, and the rest of the Crimson’s pitchers have only gained momentum since splitting against Cornell.
The team swept Columbia a day after splitting with Penn and went on to take three of four from Brown. Then Harvard swept its past two weekends, when it faced Yale and Dartmouth.
Not only have the Crimson pitchers honed their games, but the hitters have also found their swing recently. After a series of low-scoring games, the team has put up no fewer than five runs in each of its past eight league games, highlighted by a 10-3 win over Yale on April 24 and a 9-0 win over Dartmouth last Saturday.
Junior Ellen Macadam and sophomore Whitney Shaw have led the charge. Macadam has the team’s highest batting average at .365, with Shaw right behind her at .338. Shaw’s .714 slugging percentage, meanwhile, takes the cake, with Macadam’s .554 good for second on the team.
“The hitters have been doing a fantastic job,” Brown said. “It makes it a lot easier. From a pitcher’s perspective, I feel a lot more confident knowing I don’t have to be perfect.”
Not that Brown has been that far off. The sophomore has thrown 226 strikeouts and boasts a 1.25 ERA.
And she doesn’t look to be slowing down.
“We conditioned a lot in the fall,” Brown said. “We’re not tired at the end of the season. Last year, I know I got tired. We’re still going strong.”
At full strength, the sophomore could be trouble for the Big Red batters, especially given the added motivation of redeeming a rare weekend of struggles.
“She’ll definitely be able to hold the Cornell hitters,” Black said.
The Big Red will also hit Niemand-Robison field with a fair amount of momentum, though it hasn’t had the same late season dominance as Harvard.
A 4-2 loss to Princeton on Sunday ended the Crimson’s six-game conference win streak, though the team picked up plenty of steam the previous weekend with a sweep of Columbia, including a five-inning 18-5 win.
In its toughest game of the weekend, Harvard was still able to come away with a close 6-5 victory in extra innings.
“We gained a lot of confidence,” Black said. “The last game was a battle and we came out on top. It was just a really fun exciting game, a great game to end our regular season on.”
The ILCS, then, might be coming at just the right time.
“I think momentum’s on our side,” Allard said.
The boost couldn’t come at a better time for the seniors on the team: co-captain Melissa Schellberg—a Crimson sports editor—Black, Jennifer Francis, Stephanie Krysiak—a Crimson sports editor—Jessica Pledger, and Dana Roberts.
After capturing the title their freshman year, the squad fell off the mark the following season before taking the North Division last year.
Taking two games from the Big Red would complete the seniors’ climb back the top of the Ivy League, where they began their careers three years ago.
“All the underclassmen have the sense that this is our year to win it for the seniors,” Brown said.
“They’ve been a tremendous class,” Allard said.
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Ivy League season may have ended over a week ago, but the Harvard women’s lacrosse team still had business to take care of when it hosted Boston College Wednesday under the lights at Harvard Stadium.
The Crimson (8-7, 3-4 Ivy) concluded a roller coaster of a season on a high note, defeating the Eagles (12-6, 1-4 ACC) for the third straight season, 17-9, thanks to a balanced offensive attack that saw nine different players find the back of the net.
“They were a ranked opponent this year and a local opponent, so it’s always great to have a victory over them,” co-captain Sara Flood said. “We played for sixty minutes, which is a great feat for us. We’ve been trying to pull together a sixty-minute game for a while now so it was good to go out that way.”
Playing in her last game in a Crimson uniform, Flood finished her career with one of her strongest offensive outputs of the season, notching four points on two goals and two assists.
Senior goalkeeper Katherine Martino also had a memorable senior night, matching her season high of 12 saves and earning her seventh victory of the year.
“[Martino] told me ‘I am going to go out with a great game,’” Flood said. “I am so happy to see her go out that way.”
One of Martino’s biggest saves came at a crucial point for Harvard, preserving the home team’s momentum heading into halftime.
After the Crimson went on a 4-0 run with less than seven minutes remaining in the first period to take a commanding six-goal lead, Boston College went on the attack with just seconds to play and looked to be on the verge of halting Harvard’s run.
With a few ticks left on the clock, the Eagles’ Lauren Costello made her way to the Crimson goal and was tripped up with one second remaining, earning her a free position shot.
Costello fired at the bottom-left corner of the cage, but Martino got her stick in front in time, deflecting the ball away and preserving the six-goal lead heading into the break.
“[Martino] had a great game,” Harvard coach Lisa Miller said. “She was on angle; she wasn’t moving around a lot. She just tracked the ball well and made the saves. I thought she did a nice job.”
While Martino kept the Boston College offense at bay, the Crimson offense had far more success.
Despite being face-guarded and facing double-teams, Jennifer VanderMeulen­­—the Ivy League Rookie of the Year—found a way to score early and often, finishing with five scores to end the season with a total of 56 goals, making her the only freshman in the country with over 50 scores.
“Jenn came in and was ready to go and is a relentless attacker,” Miller said.
But VanderMeulen was not the only player to do damage.
Sophomore teammate Melanie Baskind matched VanderMeulen with five goals of her own, while Flood added two to go along with single scores from five other players.
“All those guys are tough to defend and in years to come you’re not going to be able to face guard or double Jenn early because the rest of them are really going to put the ball away and hurt you,” Miller said.
After Harvard fell behind early, Flood got the scoring started for the home team, cutting in front of the net and whipping a low ball past the Eagles’ goalkeeper to knot it at one.
VanderMeulen gave her team the lead less than two minutes later, receiving a pass from Baskind in front of the goal and finishing with authority.
Peyton Killeen answered for Boston College four minutes later to tie it at two, but the Crimson scored three-straight scores—two courtesy of Baskind—in just 86 seconds to take a commanding 5-2 lead.
Baskind got the run started after Martino stopped an Eagles’ shot and sent the ball the other way. Baskind finished in front of the cage for a quick coast-to-coast score.
After the home team followed with two quick scores, Boston College could not get the deficit back below three, as Harvard used a 4-0 to close out the half.
When it was all said and done, the Crimson finished with 17 scores, finishing the year with its third-highest output of the season.
“I wish I had a couple games left because I’d still like to be playing,” Miller said. “I’d grab back a few of the games earlier...But overall I am really pleased with the progress of the group.”
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a year of ups and downs, it was fitting that the Harvard baseball team’s season came to an end on a hill.
It was in Chestnut Hill, Mass., that the Crimson (17-26, 10-10 Ivy) fell Wednesday afternoon, 7-3, in an intrastate battle with Boston College (26-20) in the team’s season finale.
“It was our last game; we wanted to have fun with it,” junior catcher Tyler Albright said. “We gave them a good run.”
Trailing 3-2 in the bottom of the fifth inning, the Eagles took advantage of a two-out throwing error by Crimson sophomore shortstop Jeff Reynolds to score four unearned runs and take a lead they would never relinquish.
Harvard got the scoring going in the top of the first, when junior Dillon O’Neill singled, stole second and third base, and then scored on a two-out single to center by Albright.
“I felt pretty good at the plate,” O’Neill said. “I got some good pitches to hit, [and] I was just trying to be a good leadoff guy, get in scoring position in the first.”
Boston College responded with a run of its own in the bottom of the frame, after second baseman Matt Hamlet doubled to left off Harvard’s starter, junior Max Perlman, and then was singled in by rightfielder John Spatola.
Perlman was able to get out of the inning by getting third baseman Anthony Melchionda to ground into a 6-4-3 double-play, leaving two runners stranded and keeping the score tied at one.
Harvard was held hitless for the next two innings by Eagles starter Dane Clemons.
After a walk and hit batsman put the Crimson in business in the top of the third, BC leftfielder Mike Sudol made a great catch of a Reynolds fly ball that sent him crashing into the wall and saved two runs.
In the bottom of the inning, the Eagles took the lead when Spatola homered to right off Perlman.
The Eagles’ 2-1 advantage held until the top of the fifth, when Harvard freshman second baseman Kyle Larrow and O’Neill started things off with back-to-back singles to left, chasing Clemens.
They would both score on RBI groundouts by Reynolds and senior first baseman Chris Rouches, putting the Crimson back in front.
In the bottom of the inning, the wheels came off for Harvard. After a flyout, a walk, a Perlman balk, and a strikeout, BC first baseman Mickey Wiswall was able to reach on Reynolds’ throwing error that allowed one run to score.
“It was a bad time to make an error obviously,” Reynolds said. “If I had made the play, it would’ve ended the inning, so I guess it was pretty huge.”
Reynolds’ error was followed by a Spatola RBI single, a walk, and another RBI single by Melchionda, causing manager Joe Walsh to replace Perlman with senior Jon Strangio. Strangio gave up an RBI hit to Sudol but was able to keep the damage at four runs.
The righty, who missed his entire junior season and most of his sophomore year due to injury, went the distance for the Crimson, throwing 3.1 innings of one-run ball in his final collegiate game.
“It was good to send him out on top,” Albright said. “He threw real well for us...everyone was pretty excited for him.”
The Harvard offense was unable to muster any sort of rally against the BC bullpen over the final four innings, recording only one hit.
“We ran into some good pitching, as we have every time we face BC,” Reynolds said.
The Eagles added another run on an RBI single by Wiswall in the sixth, putting BC ahead by what would become the final score, 7-3.
Perlman took the loss for the Crimson, allowing six runs (two earned) in 4.2 innings and finishing the year with a record of 1-2. Hunter Gordon picked up the victory for the Eagles after throwing two scoreless innings in relief of Clemens.
O’Neill and Larrow each had two hits, accounting for four of the Crimson’s six hits on the afternoon. Spatola and Hamlet each had three hits for Boston College.
Despite ending the season on a sour note, the Crimson took the loss in stride.
“Baseball’s a luck game sometimes, and things just didn’t go our way,” O’Neill said.
—Staff writer Scott Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Lately competitions to show off your hidden talents have been numerous, ranging from Top Chef showdowns and Assassins shootouts, to… Scrabble tournaments?
Cabot House recently hosted its first Scrabble Tournament this semester. Beginning in April, the event ended last night and even featured some surprisingly good competitors.
John L. Ezekowitz ’13, who won the event with a score of 490 points, turns out to be the Scrabble master.  He won the first National School Scrabble Competition in 2003 and then placed #24 at the 2004 National Scrabble Championship.
“I’m very happy to have won the Cabot Scrabble tournament. I won’t be in Cabot until next year, but the tournament has introduced me to a lot of great people and I’m exited to be part of the house for the next three years. Winning was really just a bonus,” he said.
As Jia “Jennifer” Wu ’11, organizer of the Cabot House Committee sponsored event, explained, “I was surprised by how many good Scrabble players we have in the house.  And what a fun community especially! I love that a bunch of students and tutors were gathered around the table for the final tonight.  And our resident tutor, Rich Johnston, color commentated and podcasted it… We had a great time!”
Her inspiration to create such a tournament?  Apparently Pfoho has been doing this kind of event for 7 years now! And Wu said she is hoping for a “quad throw-down” one day, especially since the event turned out to be such a success in her own house.
For Wu, it’s as simple as “for the love of the game.”
“I like weird words, like words with “aa” and “oe” in them, and “V” is a terrible letter, since it’s really hard to make words from, so the game completely changes based on luck,” she said.
So whatever your passion, there are bound to be others around who are willing to test your talent. Too bad Ezekowitz claims he’s retiring from Cabot Scrabble though: “I want to go out as a champion,” he said.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
There will be extended shuttle services tomorrow, May 8, and next Saturday, May 15, from 8:10 a.m. to 2:50 p.m.  Shuttles will be running every ten minutes, and daytime van service will also start at 8 a.m.  So at least there's one thing you don't have to worry about on the day of your exam...
Sections
This week, we'll bring you dispatches from fellow students in  Lamont as they fight valiantly against looming deadlines and final  exams.
MARIT A. MEDEFIND '12
Concentration: History of Science
Time of Interview: 21:59 (a late night at Lamont for a Friday)
Location in Lamont: B Level, Collaborative Learning Space
What have you finished, what do you have left, and how much time do you have?
I have finished two, wait, yeah—two term papers and I’m almost finished with the third.
What did you eat last?
I had dinner at 5.
When did you shower last?
This morning.
How many consecutive hours have you been awake? How many  hours have you been in this spot?
That’s a good question. What time is it 10? Probably like 14.  I’ve spent three hours here?
What's keeping you going?
Um, deadlines. Deadlines and the thought of summer.
Photo by Kathryn C. Reed/The Harvard Crimson.
