News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Players, fans, and alumni of the Harvard men’s basketball program gathered at the Harvard Club of Boston Friday evening to honor the 2009-2010 team—the most successful squad in school history.
The crowd was addressed by former Celtics great Satch Sanders, who coached the Crimson from 1973-1977.
The Crimson’s four seniors—Dan McGeary, Pat Magnarelli, Doug Miller, and Jeremy Lin—were specially recognized at the event, receiving framed uniforms for their years of service.
In a not-so-surprising decision, Lin became just the third player in Harvard history—along with Donald Flemming ’82 and Matt Stehle ’06—to take home the Raymond P. Lavietes ‘36 Most Valuable Player Award for three consecutive seasons.
Harvard coach Tommy Amaker praised Lin as “the best player to ever play at Harvard.”
Miller was honored with the Floyd S. Wilson Sportmanship Award while sophomore Oliver McNally earned the John Harnice ‘84 spirit award. Three freshmen took home trophies, as Christian Webster received the Henery Zimmerman Free Throw Award while Brandyn Curry and Kyle Casey shared the Hamilton Fish ’10 Most Improved Player Award.
Curry, who moved into the starting lineup in early February, went from averaging 5.3 points and 2.7 assists per game over the first 19 games to averaging 11 points and 4.2 assists per game over the final 10 contests.
Hoping to fully honor the recently passed season, the Crimson chose to postpone announcing next season’s captain or captains until the fall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Yardfest is finally here! If you haven't already,  check out our guides to Kid  Cudi, Parick   Park, and Wale.  You can also learn about Yardfests  past, or read about other schools' spring weekend events. But now, we bring you the answer to an  all-important question.
 
Patrick Park, Wale,  and Kid Cudi are taking Harvard by storm or during a storm depending on  the weather tomorrow, but some of you might be wondering, “Why is Yardfest on a   Sunday?”
We asked Stephen G. Anastos  ’11, the vice-chair of the College Events  Board, that very question. Not surprisingly, the reason turned out to be simply artist availability.
Anastos replied in an email that “We would have loved to host  Yardfest on a Friday or Saturday, but ultimately had to choose  Sunday  because of artist availability. We were confident that our choice of  artists  would be enough of a draw to make a Sunday Yardfest a success.  Additionally, last  year's Yardfest was held on Sunday to very little  detriment, so that was  reassuring.”
Let’s hope that the Park, Wale, Cudi combo proves Anastos  right. But cross our fingers for mother nature.
Photo by David I. Fulton-Howard/The Harvard Crimson
Sections
Some people think the foam from Mather Lather may give you rashes. But here’s one thing the foam can definitely  do: set off fire alarms and briefly shut down the party.
At approximately 11:30 p.m. last night,  smoke detectors in the dining hall went off and revelers from the  sold-out  party were told to evacuate the building, according to Mather House Master Leigh G. Hafrey '73, Denis Downing of the Harvard  University  Police Department, and students on the scene.
“The beam detectors detected [the  foam] as the equivalent of smoke,” Hafrey said, citing the information  he had been provided by HUPD.
The majority of students congregated  in the courtyard as two fire trucks arrived with firefighters who  entered  and checked out the building.
“Everyone was very orderly, without  protest, quick paced,” Hafrey told us.
Many of the partiers—many wearing just wet bathing   suits—seemed to remain spirited, and most were waiting to return to the party once it reopened. While  the exact number of students at the party at the time is not available, Mather House Council had sold over 450 tickets, according to David L.  Billing  Jr. '11, a HoCo co-chair.
This is not the first time Mather  Lather  has been shut down. In  2003, Mather Lather was  shut down after crowds reached levels of over 1,000 people.
In response to the 2003 incident,  Mather  HoCo created “a two-inch thick safety manual” for the Lather, according  to Hafrey.
But the craziness in Mather yesterday night   didn’t end right there: a second fire alarm went off soon  after in Mather at 12:05 am, possibly connected to a discharged fire  extinguisher found on the third floor of the B-entryway stairwell. A  fine, white dust filled the air in the stairwell.
The alarm was quickly shut off and  no evacuations were required, according to Hafrey.
A HUPD spokesperson was not available  late last night to comment on what caused the second alarm of the  evening.
This follows a similar incident last weekend, when a fire  extinguisher  in Quincy was discharged late on a weekend night.
Photo by Punit N. Shah/The Harvard Crimson.
