Sections
Every winter, FM goes through the process of drawing 15 exceptional individuals from the senior class. We are often asked if we’re looking for anything specific in this annual tradition—if, in particular, there is a rubric for recognizing one undergraduate over another. If you really want to know, well, too bad. But we will say this: of course, we make sure to ask the entire campus for their input, and we pick every year’s seniors based on their individual accomplishments and personalities, as you’ll see from their impressive profiles. But we also keep in mind that Harvard as a whole contains multitudes, and we’ve done our best to represent the best that the Class of 2011 has to offer in many walks of life. Among this year’s group, you’ll find budding politicians and activists, artists and scientists. There are those who have pushed the limits of human knowledge in classrooms and labs, while others have already made their names in the professional world. You’ll probably recognize some of the names here from previous pages of The Crimson and publications around the world, and plenty have done great things to little fanfare so far. But all of them have made their mark somehow, and we hope they continue to do so after they leave the confines of Harvard.
Charlie Albright
Isidore M.T. Bethel
P. Kenzie Bok
Johnny F. Bowman
Marco Chan
Olivia "Liv" F. Coffey
Stephanie M. Cole
Remeike J.B. Forbes
Sherry Gong
Ricky D. Kuperman
Scott A. Levin-Gesundheit
Dmitry "Mitka" Vaintrob
Karla M. Cornejo-Villavicencio
Rachel L. Wagley
Baltazar A. Zavala
Sections
There’s that guy in section who always seems to be looking your way, but you’re not sure if it’s your imagination. There’s that girl you talked to at a party last weekend, but you can’t tell whether she’d be down to meet up again.
Two CS50 students have a solution for those tricky situations: CrimsonSpark. This website allows users to express their interest in other Harvard students by “sparking” them. Users then receive a notification if the feelings are mutual. Since its launch on Monday night, CrimsonSpark has attracted more than 800 users, 1,800 "sparks," and 300 matches between students who each sparked each other, according to the website's homepage.
Co-creators Benjamin L. Enowitz ’12 and Aaron E. Watanabe ’14 built the site as their CS50 final project. “There’s a lot of asymmetric information in the dating market,” Enowitz said. “We felt that you could preserve all the fun and the flirting and getting to know people, but have information be more transparent.”
Each user creates a profile—picture optional—and searches for people to spark based on gender, class, House, or dorm. But the idea is not to “randomly scroll through people and just spark anyone,” Enowitz said. “We see the site as a way to develop relationships that already exist, and not to form new ones.”
Curious about whether that cutie likes you back? Sign up and wait for “Harvard’s Digital Wingman,” as CrimsonSpark bills itself, to let you know.
Sections
We first wrote about a certain burrito-bearing dean around this time last year, when Dean of Harvard College Evelynn M. Hammonds surprised students studying in Lamont with free burritos. Well, Hammonds paid hardworking students a visit once again this year—with chicken, vegetable, and steak burritos from Felipe's, delivered straight to Hilles and Lamont last night. Check out the students' reactions in this video.
Video by Andrew J. Petschek and Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
It’s the holiday season, and if you’re like most Harvard students, you’ve already signed up for at least three Secret Santa gift exchanges, and you’re being pressured to participate in another two.
Finding ideas for great gifts can get difficult without a bit of inspiration. Thus, your friendly Flyby elf has compiled a list of the coolest things you can do for your lucky recipients.
Wrap a Door: Conspire with your recipient’s roommates to make sure that you have time to work uninterrupted. Bring over wrapping paper, wide ribbon, and paper for a card. Tape the wrapping paper to the door, tie a huge bow with the ribbon, and finally write a note wishing the recipient a happy holiday!
A Hollow Book: We all have things we want to hide. Be it our old Miley Cyrus concert tickets or something more illicit, having a secret place to hide these items is crucial. Make your Secret Santa a hollow book and put a fun note inside it. The one thing he won’t be hiding is his love for you!
Lamonster Surprise: Find out from the recipient’s roommates when and where she goes to study. Show up with a vase, some flowers, a tablecloth, and a plate of baked goods. Make her clear off the table she’s working at, then set the table for her nicely. After all, just because you’re in Lamont doesn’t mean you can’t be classy. Just remember to keep your voice down while you do this!
“Stat” Project: Sometimes you are assigned to someone, and you have absolutely no idea who he is. We’ve got you covered. E-mail one of those annoying Stat 101 surveys specifically to your person—and keep sending it, pleading that you need more responses, until he fills it out! Now that you have everything you could ever need to know about your person, use the information to your advantage.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
