News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Celebrated classicist  Bernard M.W. Knox once tossed his ten-year-old son a dog-eared  translation of Thucydides, urging the boy to not miss the ancient  author’s belief that his work was a “treasure for all time.”
“That phrase from  twenty-four hundred years ago summarized my father’s view of what  scholarship should be,” recalled his son, Bernard M.B. “MacGregor” Knox  ’67.
The elder Knox, a prolific  scholar acclaimed for his contributions to ancient Greek scholarship and  to the early development of Harvard’s Center for Hellenic Studies, has  left behind a valuable legacy of his own. Knox passed away on July 22 at  his home in Maryland. He was 95.
Knox, a noted Sophocles  specialist, served as the founding director of the Center for Hellenic  Studies, a research institute located in Washington, D.C. Established in  1962, the Center sought to transcend Harvard as an institution of  national, rather than local, prominence. To that end, Paul Mellon and  the other philanthropists inspired to create the Center actively  recruited the best faculty, even outside of the University.
Enter Knox, then a popular Yale professor, who  possessed a “strong vision” about the “ever present” need to communicate  the Greek civilization to the wider world, according to the Center’s  current director Gregory Nagy.
“Knox had a very strong  sense of communicating literature—a knack for making literature come  alive,” Nagy said. “If you read his articles from the mid-20th century,  he makes Greek tragedy come alive in ways that are still reverberating  today. His interpretations of Sophocles are still very much with us.”
Knox’s obituary in The New  York Times notes that his first book, “Oedipus at Thebes: Sophocles’  Tragic Hero and His Time,” although initially released in 1957, remains  in print today along with several other of his works—a rarity for  academic work.
According to Nagy, Knox is  the reason that academics now refer to Sophocles’ tragic masterpiece as  “Oedipus Tyrannus” instead of “Oedipus Rex,” a title that fails to  suggest the similarities between Oedipus and an Athenian politician from  the fifth century, when the play was written.
Nagy, a classical Greek  literature professor who had known Knox since the 1970s, said that the  former director maintained an active role in the Center’s proceedings,  even in the years following his retirement in 1985.
Despite his scholastic  accomplishments, Knox nevertheless maintained a sense of humor in the  Ivory Tower. “He found it hard to say the word ‘academic’ without an  ironic grin,” said MacGregor Knox, now a professor of  international history at the London School of Economics.
Beyond academia, the elder Knox  survived combat in the Spanish Civil War and World War II, receiving  France’s prestigious Croix de Guerre award and a decoration from the  U.S. Army. Knox brought back “by far the best war stories of anyone  I’ve ever met, either in civilian life or in the U.S. Army,” his son  said. “He told them brilliantly.”
—Staff writer James K. McAuley can be reached at mcauley@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’ve all been there.  After carrying a hamper full of clothes all the way to the laundry room,  you discover that all machines are full. What to do then? Loiter around until one of the machines finishes, or lug your clothes back at a later time—and possibly face the same situation again? Well, Quincy House administrators are in the process of implementing a system that may eliminate this dilemma forever.
 
Starting  in early September (barring unforeseen issues), Quincy residents  will be able to check the availability of laundry machines online  through a web-based system called LaundryView.  Technicians are currently installing the necessary hardware in Quincy laundry rooms, according to Quincy House Master Lee Gehrke, who has  requested a demo as soon as everything is operational.
 
Additionally, the new system will automatically notify the company that manages  Harvard’s laundry facilities when a machine breaks down, which will help ensure a speedy repair. Quincy will test the new system before it gets installed  in other Houses.
 
According to Gehrke, “We're all about max throughput in Quincy laundry rooms!”
Photo by Sara Joe Wolansky/The Harvard Crimson. 
