News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eastern Sprints.
The biggest race of the year for so many crews in the region can only mean one thing—shopping.
Because of NCAA restrictions, women’s heavyweight rowers are not allowed to “shirt race” like the men’s teams are, which means that when teams get the chance to pick up an opponent’s shirt, they make the most of it. Eastern Sprints, when everyone trades for each other’s shirts, is that rare chance. Some teams opt for the “classic” apparel, whereas others try to be more creative.
Here are some of the fashion highlights from last year:
-MIT      Lightweights: A chain necklace depicted on the shirt. What did the      necklace read? MITPAIN. I liked it. I wanted it. Unfortunately, all the      lightweights have to weigh less than 130 lbs., and I don’t. So that plan      went out the window.
-COLUMBIATCH.      Subtly squeezed in the corner with only three letters or so per line, you      had to look really closely at the shirt to see what it read. “Columbiatch”      was also fit just below a small crown. Definitely one of the popular      shirts.
-Yale:      Sultans of Swing. Hard to argue with two-time defending national      champions. The Bulldogs didn’t end up going 3-for-3, but they took the      Sprints title, barely edging out our 1V, which was named Crew of the Week      by row2k afterward.
-Quaker      Boats. The shirt I ended up getting. I was very happy with my choice. We      had just beaten Penn in the Petite Final of the first novice race, and I      was really excited.  The      shirts had the Quaker logo on the Front and Nutrition Facts on the back. Plus      oatmeal is delicious, just like…
-Clif      Bars, our shirt. The back was a huge picture of a Clif bar, with “RAD”      vertically written just before the CLIF, making it a Radcliffe bar. The      logo was a picture of Weeks Footbridge and it was Cambridge Crunch      Flavored. Yum.
What does our team have up our literal sleeves this weekend? Guess you’ll have to wait and see. See you all in Camden.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Academics aren’t the only thing drawing students to Harvard this summer. In addition to the 300 courses offered at Harvard Summer School, the University will be opening its pools, courts, gyms, and fields for a set of athletic training camps as well.
"Over 20 programs will be offered at the Crimson’s facilities for high school and younger athletes, and although there are no official ties to the university’s Department of Athletics, several of Harvard’s coaches will be involved in the camps," reports The Crimson's Back Page sports blog.
With specific sports programs as well as a strength and conditioning camp, Harvard’s campus is sure to draw in more than the typical Summer School student during the next couple of months.
For more, check out the post on The Back Page, and while you're there, take a look at the rest of the blog for game updates, analysis, and anything else you may want to know about Crimson sports.
Photo courtesy of Melvin Schlubman - CC BY 2.0
Sections
Senior roommates compete for the hand of one bachelorette in HUTV’s season finale of the Love@Harvard series in an episode that, to be honest, we don't love all that much.
The three roommates—advertised to be “2010’s So Fine” for this “Will you be mine?” installment—fought against one another for love, companionship, and/or potential hot senior sex in this “Senior Roommate Episode.”
Unfortunately, the episode, like the ones leading to this finale, fails to light up any real passion between the bachelors and the bachelorette.
The clip, hosted in the acoustically-challenged Leverett Old Library, had no flowing tears, no furtive kisses, and no red flowers. The only unlocked secret was Bachelor Number Three’s key to Decatur, Ala., capable of opening any door in the city. But will his key open up the bachelorette’s heart? (Probably not.)
Which of the roommates ultimately wins the princess’ hand? Watch the video to find out. Or just fast forward to 7:18. We know you’re trying to procrastinate while studying for the last few minutes, but just stick with On Harvard Time or The Crimson and you'll be good.
Sections
While summer is only a few days away, there’s just one more obstacle to surmount before you jet off to your wildest adventures—packing. And, as any upperclassman will tell you, getting your stuff into storage is an intricate art. Luckily, whether you’re one of those who hasn't thought about the need to pack and stow all your worldly possessions by Sunday at noon, or you’re still sitting in Lamont powerless to obey, we’ve got your back.
Check out our Dos and Don’ts for how to store your stuff. Then stop procrastinating and start packing.
1. DO live within 150 miles of Harvard. No, you don’t qualify for storage, but with any luck, your doting parents will be willing to drive up for a day, fill their car with your prized physics tomes and generically edgy throw pillows from Urban Outfitters, and drive you off into the sunset.
2. DO have local blockmates. Not lucky enough for DO #1, go for the next best thing. Have an unwieldy duffel full of ice skates, bike helmets, and humidifiers? Not quite sure how to fit Herman the Houseplant into the Leverett basement? With some negotiation you can probably get the kid who’s been bragging about being a local all semester to leave this stuff in his basement for the summer. DON’T forget to thank his mom profusely.
3. DO sell things or give them away. If you didn’t wear those pants all year, you probably won’t wear them next year either; that’s how weight gain works. The same goes for books. Stop living in a fantasy, realize that the Sparknotes version is all you’ll ever read of Anna Karenina, and move on.
4. DO use your talents to your advantage. If you’re a muscular athlete and you have some extra time, offer to move stuff for other people in your House—for a price. If you’re one of the 15 hottest freshmen, get other people to move your stuff—for free. We at FlyBy have a stunningly gorgeous blockmate who has never moved her own stuff to storage. We are deeply jealous, while she is deeply satisfied.
5. DON’T put off buying tape and boxes. Staples, CVS, and HSA only stock so much, and once they’re out you’ll be stuck using bits of newspaper and scotch tape. Pathetic.
6. DON’T confuse simplicity with efficiency. This means that it’s better to use several medium-sized boxes than a few huge ones—you have to be able to move them, after all. It also means you shouldn’t put all of your books into one refrigerator-sized box.  You will not be able to carry it. Your friends who help you lug it down the stairs will hate you. Everyone else trying to get into the storage room will plot your demise. Don’t do it.
7. DO make a plan. Now is the time for teamwork, especially if you’re moving from the Yard to the River or—gasp!—the Quad. Keep track of the storage schedule (all of the hours are during the day, so you’ll have to reform your vampiric ways). Figure out who in your rooming group is available to move things when, so no one is left with one hour and seven heavy boxes between the end of exams and flight home.
8. DO send one of your blockmates to stake out the dolly rental early, because they go fast, and once you’ve got one, guard it with your life, because people will steal them. Seriously.
9. DON’T steal a dolly. It’s just cruel.
Photo by Janie M. Tankard/The Harvard Crimson
