Sections
The Priceline.com Negotiator might not be lookin' so fresh n' fierce after this one-two punch. A website created by Robert W. Corty '10 and Zachary V. Smith '09 packs a double whammy in merging traditional means of organization with new, powerful social networking tools in an attempt to revolutionize the way we travel.
The clean, user-friendly interface of gtrot.com calls a certain phrase to mind. Does it float like a butterfly? Sure, why not. But see, after the jump, how its innovative approach to traveling "connected" promises to stings competitors like, well...a bee.
Originally called Get Out of Cambridge (like you didn't think about it during finals), gtrot.com has its humble beginnings in a final project whose success soon outgrew its name. After winning a competition for student entrepreneurs, Gtrot went live in September 2009 as a website in which users can search top travel brands for the best prices and then store their bookings on a personal profile to share and compare plans with friends.
"There are Web sites for sharing car rides, booking tickets and, of course, social networking. Gtrot, a Web site that launched today, plans to combine them all," wrote Tanya Mohn on September 11, 2009 on the New York Times In Transit Blog.
Gtrot pays homage to the former college (ahem, cheap) student ranks of its creators in a sidebar stating that it "provides revolutionary tools for sharing cabs to the airport and rides to/from campus, saving you money while helping the environment."
And that basically means that doubling up and hopping over to Logan just got easier. And cheaper. Which is what really matters to most of us at the end of the day.
The prospect of holding on to more green while being green also makes for overall $unnier dispositions. Feedback from gtrot users is overwhelmingly positive, even on independent review-based websites like rateitall.com.
"This is one of the coolest tools I've seen for booking travel and sharing trip information with friends. The site's completely integrated with Facebook, so you never have to create an account and it automatically finds your friends," wrote one account-holder.
In order words: FlyBy says watch your back, William Shatner.
Sections
This past Wednesday on Dec. 30,  2009 (whoa, that seems so last year), Harvard Alumni Association teamed up with regional Harvard Clubs and Shared Interest Groups worldwide for Global Networking Night.
Alumni and current students at Harvard  were invited to attend these schmooze sessions in locations ranging from Albuquerque to Quito, and from Boston to Munich.
Worried that you missed out on making  all the connections? Don’t fret: Flyby tagged along to bring you a  taste of some classic old-boy networking. Check it out, after the jump.
Harvard Club of New York
It's a harsh environment out there, and not just for Princeton Pussy Cats and arthritic Elis. But, Harvardians,  fear not! The Harvard Alumni Association organized a "Global Networking  Night" last Wednesday in select cities, and FlyBy popped by the Harvard  Club in New York for a closer look.
FlyBy found alumni of the college and graduate schools—sometimes  flanked by non-Harvard affiliated acquaintances—clinking wine glasses  and crunching on almonds in a high ceiling, wood-paneled room at the  back of the club.
Mehmet Z. Cangul GSAS '09, who attended the Boston networking event  last year, said the New York reception included a more diverse crowd  "in both profession and class year; the Boston event was more dominated  by the older classes."
Go New York for keeping it hip(per). But the event wasn't all not-fun  and no-games.
"I thought it was a great opportunity to connect with old friends  and expand by meeting new people," said Julie Alvarez '85, who  still did not find anyone from her class year.
The party went past its closing time of 8:00 PM, and club staff members  had to brighten the lights to encourage the networkers to leave. Looks  like you can't take the Harvard out of the Harvardian—even after graduation,  we still don't like to leave a good party.
Harvard Club of Washington D.C.
Given our love for a good schmooze  sesh, FlyBy arrived at  the DC version of HAA's Global Networking Night pretty psyched.  About 45 or so attendants ranging from  '78 to '12 (never too early to be an alumnus, eh?) packed into an awkwardly  open space that mingled with tables of regular patrons in order to make  that connection that would lead to that new, hip, and recession-proof  job we all pine for. We think. There was no open bar to help grease  the proceedings.
FlyBy was immediately labeled upon entering—yellow, for Finance—and  would pay a hefty price for it.  DC politicos, environmental engineers,  TFA groupies, and a tax lawyer wanted no part of the economic-turn-finance kid. One even tossed out the dreaded Goldman Sachs label while  they all teamed to close off the circle.
FlyBy was relegated to chatting  it up with the Club President David E. Treworgy MBA '93 and Radcliffe Affairs  VP Irene Wu '91, who giddily broke down the organizational structure  of the HAA. To be honest, it was actually pretty enjoyable.  Better than  hearing about how much better it was when the undergraduate Houses had real personalities (and when Adams had a pool).  As FlyBy told our tax lawyer,  a Matherite: They still find a way to make students love their Houses.   Somehow.
Harvard Club of Toronto
As a resident of Western New York, this correspondent has always seen  Canada as the place to drink, watch hockey, and buy fireworks. When FlyBy received an e-mail inviting us to a Global Networking Night, we were pleasantly surprised to see  that the Harvard Club of Toronto would be participating.
The Harvard Club of Toronto chose to  host the event downtown at the Jump Bar, which is a “Big  bold American-style bistro, packing plenty of bravado: sky-high glass  atrium ceilings, rich wood interiors and a killer New York style bar.”  Irony aside, it was quite a nice venue. The entire area surrounding  the bar had been reserved by the HCT, and Cindy Maxwell '92, MD '97,  President of the HCT, warmly greeted everyone personally and handed  out nametags in English and French.
In true networking fashion, people  initially stood awkwardly in little clumps by alma mater, talking about  how bad the economy was and how you, like, totally need to see Avatar. FlyBy joined the undergraduate clump and endured the regular firing round of questions  (name, House, concentration). After idle small talk and some social  lubrication, aided by the ridiculously long wine list and very reasonable  drinking age of 19, the clumps started commingling. FlyBy felt  immediately at home with the HCT because they, like this correspondent, were not that  interested in American politics. Great!
The original group of thirty-ish slowly  diffused until just a few of us remained after two hours of casual conversation.  Some remained to get dinner and talk business; FlyBy remained because we forgot how to get to the subway.
What we had anticipated to be an awkward,  find-a-job contest (in no small part implied by the event’s name)  actually turned out to be an awkward, relaxing mixer. The Harvard  Club of Toronto was very welcoming of everyone from lowly frosh to retired  alumni, and no one was ever left out of a circle, fiddling with a glass  and looking confused.  Definitely one of the better networking  events we've submitted ourselves to. Good job, Toronto, good job.
