Sections
It's almost that time of the semester when we all start hopping from class to class, room to room, Sever Hall to the Science Center. This spring, we at FlyBy decided to make ourselves useful in your shopping experience (though we can't promise anything) while having a little fun at the same time.
Each day this week, one of our correspondents will be putting together a themed list of classes that are worth your while. One day it might be courses to take if you like food—another day, it might be courses to take if you're scrambling to find an easy fourth class. In any case, it's sure to be a solid collection of courses that you may have never considered before.
We'll also be gathering gossip from far and wide—so if Bat Boy decides to strike in Ec 10 again or a final club decides to make its debut in a Lit B Core class, we'll be sure to let you know.
Tomorrow, we'll start with a list of some quirky courses we dug up in the catalog. For the rest of the week, if you want to request a theme for a list, suggest a course to spotlight, or share something cool that happened in one of the classes you shopped, e-mail us at flyby@thecrimson.com. Or give us a holler in the comments.
Hope you have a safe trip back to Cambridge, and happy shopping!
Sections
If you walked by Quincy Yard this past week, you might have noticed an arm chair, a footstool, and a television set sitting under a tree.
No, this was not another attempt by President Faust to promote community in a yard space. And no, this wasn't your standard upholstery, the kind that makes you itchy all over. These particular pieces of furniture—along with the lazy cat and the sleeping dog lying around them—were made of snow.
Inspired by the desolate silence around Quincy as seniors fervently typed away at their theses in their rooms during January term, Ann E. Kurrasch '07, a Quincy house elf, decided to "cheer the place up a little bit."
"I wanted to make the students smile," Kurrasch said, "or at least look twice."
Sure enough, Kurrasch's snow sculptures got more than just looks.
What started off as just an armchair and a footstool last Saturday (she wanted to make a couch at first, but the snow wouldn't hold), turned into a full-fledged living room by Monday, with a television, a television stand, a cat, and a dog. Kurrasch said she has even received e-mails from people who've sat in the chair and put their feet on the footstool. Many people, including the mail carrier, stopped and smiled as they walked past, and even the man who was shoveling the snow in the yard kept coming back to check on her progress, Kurrasch said.
Each sculpture was created by rolling and stacking snow balls into large piles and sculpting them into the desired shapes. The entire living room took four hours to make. Ideally, Kurrasch said, she would have used a trowel—perfect for digging up snow, packing it down, and carving out details. But she didn't have a trowel handy this time, so she used a rock instead—appropriately, it was shaped liked a trowel.
But making odd and creative things is not new to Kurrasch. Her blog—About Happiness: Collected info about things I like: bakin' stuff, makin' stuff, and doin' things—houses a collection of her various innovative and artsy projects, from growing moss in a light bulb to sculpting a penguin cake.
Speaking of penguins, Kurrasch said she has plans to add a penguin sculpture (in honor of the Quincy House mascot) and some sofas to her outdoor living room before this winter is over. She also said that she encourages others to try their hand at snow-sculpting, so we at Flyby will certainly be on the lookout for more artworks around campus.
Sections
When Sgt. James Crowley arrested Professor Henry Louis "Skip" Gates for disorderly conduct in July, it's unlikely that Crowley foresaw what was to come: a nationwide debate over race relations that made even Mr. President lose his cool, and an ensuing "beer summit" at the White House that was meant to diffuse the tension surrounding the controversial incident. Though an October night at the bar seemed to indicate that Gates and Crowley have since kissed and made up, the brouhaha evidently has yet to subside.
According to a recent Boston Globe article, the cadets at the Randolph Regional Police Training Academy had invited Crowley to speak at their upcoming graduation ceremony in April. But according to Crowley's brother Daniel, the idea was vetoed by state officials at the request of Mass. Governor Deval L. Patrick '78 because Crowley would be too controversial.
But some are contradicting Daniel Crowley's story. Juan Martinez, the governor's spokesperson, said Deval had not been involved in the decision to reject Crowley, and Daniel Zivkovich, executive director of the Municipal Police Training Committee, stated that the academy had not extended an invitation to Crowley, though he had been mentioned as a possible speaker. Crowley declined to comment on the issue.
In any case, it seems like Crowley's summer run-in with Gates may be diminishing his opportunities at refining his oratory. Perhaps Harvard should give Crowley a ring. Now that would be an interesting Commencement.
