Sections
Just say "Trick or Treat" at the register and get a free small or mini burrito, wrap, or bowl with your choice of meat at Boloco. Upgrade to a large for just a dollar. (Somewhat clandestinely advertised on their site, it's perhaps their way of saying, "Happy Halloween!")
Photo courtesy of Swift Benjamin under CC-BY-2.0.
Sections
Thomas C. Foley '75 is running for governor of Connecticut…and he’s getting a bit of campaign help from his son.
Thomas C. Foley, Jr. '13 officially endorsed his father’s candidacy in a recent commercial. The video features father and son working together to repair a car engine.
Foley, a Republican, is one of twelve Harvard alumni currently running for governor across the country. He told The Crimson that he believes his status as a graduate of the College and the Business School “leaves a positive impression” on voters. Since graduating, Foley has served as a business executive and as the U.S. Ambassador to Ireland.
But one recent poll has indicated that the Connecticut governor race is “too close to call.”
Sections
Everyone acknowledges that homemade costumes are so much cooler than store-bought ones.  But if you really want to take your do-it-yourself Halloween cred to the next level, you’ve got to forsake the store-bought sweets, too. From the book "Field Guide to Candy" by Anita Chu, here’s a recipe for making your very own candy corn—tested and annotated by us.
Ingredients: [Never double this recipe.  We did, and we assure you—just one batch makes plenty of candy corn to go around.]
2 1/2 cups confectioners’ sugar
1/4 cup dry powdered milk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar [You may be able to co-opt this one from your dining hall. We'd like to thank Pfoho for its contribution to our batch!]
2/3 cup corn syrup
1/3 cup unsalted butter [You can use salted butter, also available in your dining hall, and forgo the salt in the recipe.]
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Food coloring
Directions:
 
1. Combine confectioners’ sugar, powdered milk, and salt in a bowl and set aside.
 
2. Combine sugar, corn syrup, and butter in a saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat, stirring constantly. Reduce heat to medium and cook for another five minutes, stirring occasionally.
 
3. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla extract. [There’s a neat chemical reaction that happens here. Science concentrators out there, feel free to explain it to us!]
 
 
4. Add the dry milk mixture to the saucepan and stir to combine. Let mixture rest for a few minutes until it is cool enough to handle.
 
5. Divide dough into 3 equal parts and place each portion in a bowl.  Add coloring as desired. [This means one part yellow and one part orange!]
 
6. Knead each portion of dough until the coloring is evenly distributed and the dough is smooth and stiff.
 
7. Roll each portion into a rope about 1/2 inch thick. [We recommend much thinner than that.]
 
8. Place the three ropes of dough next to each other to form a long rectangle. Use a rolling pin to gently press them together.
 
9. Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into triangles and place on a baking sheet. Let set for about 1 hour. [Don’t forget the most important step: eat and enjoy!  Happy Halloween!]
Video by Andrew J. Petschek, Xi Yu, and Julie Zauzmer/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
When thinking about Halloween it is easy to imagine little kids gleefully knocking on doors, eagerly receiving candy while dressed as their favorite super hero or Disney princess.
 
Enter Cullen D. McAlpine ’11. He has proven that you are never too old to celebrate Halloween. He has trick-or-treated for the last three years at Harvard and continued the tradition Sunday.
 
“Halloween was always a big deal for me back in Anchorage, Alaska where I grew up. I would always go trick-or-treating,” Cullen said when asked what made the holiday special. However, after entering boarding school at a young age he stopped. Because of the missed opportunity, he decided to take up the tradition again in college.
 
Although he usually trick-or-treats on Brattle Street at the “larger houses” in residential areas, this year he decided to venture outside of Cambridge. “This year I’m going out to Beacon Hill because some of my contacts told me that there is excellent candy hoarding over there,” he said, before heading out Sunday evening.
 
His opinion of how hold is too old? Although older than the average trick-or-treater, he does not believe his age affects his ability to trick-or-treat. “I’ve found people to be really receptive if you dress up and you’re polite and you’re having fun with the whole thing,” he said. 
 
The worst thing to happen while trick-or-treating? Blank stares and having the door shut in your face, McAlpine said. The best? The quintessential big candy bar or something homemade, he said.
 
Cullen was dressed as Peter Pan, a fitting costume given his refusal to let age make him give up the tradition.
Photo by Xi Yu '13/The Harvard Crimson.
