News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In spite of his proposed three-year freeze on all domestic discretionary expenditures unrelated to defense, homeland security, or veterans’ affairs, President Obama’s $3.8 trillion budget for 2011 will actually increase spending for various education programs. We welcome the influx of money to a system in dire need of help, and take heart that Obama sees education as a priority even during trying financial times.
We also recognize, however, that more must be done should the United States truly aspire to offer all of its citizens a world-class education. Beyond simply throwing funds at a broken system, we urge the president to maintain his commitment to championing real reforms in tandem with the needed surge in spending.
The increase in question, released on Feb. 1, augments the current budget for Pell Grants by six percent, raising the minimum grant from $5,500 to $5,710. It will also allocate an additional one billion dollars to the National Institutes of Health, constituting a 3.2 percent increase, the largest such increase in eight years. The National Science Foundation, likewise, will see an eight  percent growth in the size its budget under Obama’s proposal. These changes will likely make American education available to an even wider group of students, and they therefore deserve praise.
Although the NIH and NSF could always use additional funds, and while we laud the president’s ongoing crusade to expand the availability of higher education to low-income students, we reiterate our belief that fundamental reform is needed to rectify the unforgivably inadequacies of American education. Such reforms include expanding charter schools in order to encourage innovation, instituting merit-based pay for teachers in order to incentivize excellence, and raising teacher salaries to attract the best-qualified candidates to the teaching profession. The president’s Race to the Top program, which provides monetary incentives to states that embrace charter schools and merit pay, embodies the approach that we support.
The president’s emphasis on education in the face of economic adversity is the correct approach. Strong schools are integral to a strong workforce and a strong economy, for education is a most potent mechanism for equipping American workers to compete in a global economy. We remain optimistic about actions at both the federal and state level that demonstrate our elected officials’ understanding of the primacy of education. Massachusetts, for example, recently passed a bill doubling the number of charter schools and expanding the powers of superintendents to overhaul failing schools. Even in the face of soaring deficits, it is essential for education programs to be the very last budget items to receive cuts, for education is the very foundation of any nation’s economy.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nearly three years ago, I began my career at The Crimson by announcing my steadfast opposition to the rampant proliferation of Macs of all shapes and sizes on our campus. Today, I must admit that I was totally and completely wrong. As a user of both Macs and PCs, I can honestly say that both have their place—and I am more than happy to use both.
It all began when my (admittedly well-used) Dell Inspiron laptop began to die. To make a long story short, the battery, graphics adapter, and internal wireless card all started to bug out in rapid succession.
Fast-forward two years. In the span of time it took for my old Dell laptop to go from a shiny new object of love and affection to a broken-down piece of junk, my new MacBook has gone from a reluctant addition to my life to an essential part of my day. When I walk into my first lecture of the day, it takes me only a few seconds to pull my laptop out of my bag and simply flip it open, ready to go. For me, this is absolutely critical—10:07 am means not a minute sooner.
Admittedly, my anecdotal evidence will not convince all of you that I have changed my ways. But there are some serious substantive reasons to consider an Apple when you make your next computer purchase.
First off, while Apple may produce laptops and desktops that are a bit more expensive than their PC counterparts, the Cupertino-based company does an excellent job of choosing top-notch components that last longer and provide better performance than their generic PC counterparts. To put it more simply, the hardware may cost more, but you get more out of it.
Take, for example, the graphics chipset—the part of the computer that renders the fancy windows and icons used in OS X Snow Leopard. While Apple’s entry-level machines—the white MacBook and the Mac Mini—both sport powerful versions from Nvidia, the average budget PC laptop will usually sport an anemic integrated variation from Intel Corporation, which were once so pathetic that Microsoft found itself slapped with a class action lawsuit for claiming that they could run Windows Vista with all the bells and whistles. And Apple also offers sizeable educational discounts on its hardware, often bundling iPods and printers with Macs that have already seen a major price reduction.
Similarly, Apple offers a compellingly affordable alternative operating system  with OS X Snow Leopard, its newest iteration of OS X. Priced at just $29 for the upgrade edition (or $49 for the five-license Family Pack), it is up to three times cheaper than the Microsoft’s Windows 7 Professional—and that’s not even the most expensive version of Windows available.
Additionally, anyone who has worked with Microsoft’s software activation system knows how much of a pain it can be to convince the corporate colossus in Redmond that you’re actually not trying to pirate anything—you just want to reinstall your legal copy of Windows. By contrast, when I decided to wipe my hard drive clean and just “start over” with my Mac, the computer didn’t bother me every time it started up about “checking in” with Microsoft—it just worked.
Now, these advantages do not excuse some of Apple’s more egregious technological sins. Take, for example, the lack of Flash support on the iPod touch, iPad, and iPhone. Nor do they absolve Apple of its failure to adopt industry standards for its desktop hardware—the iMac uses custom parts that make it almost impossible to upgrade anything more specialized than the memory or hard drive, and the Mac Pro’s parts are all flashed with a special BIOS that makes using non-Apple approved hardware extremely difficult.
But when one compares just how badly PC manufacturers and Microsoft have done in the past three years—for starters, bundling “crapware” with their store-bought PC’s that slowed them down to a virtual crawl, violating European antitrust regulations regarding software bundling, and prematurely cutting off support for Windows XP (the world’s most popular operating system), Apple looks pretty good in comparison. Oh, and did I mention Windows Vista?
In short, I’m happy to say that I enjoy the best of both worlds. When I’m in class and want to focus on getting the most words down on (virtual) paper as quickly as possible without worrying if my computer will even turn on, I’m a happy camper with my MacBook in hand. When I need to do something that is a little bit more technically complex and don’t mind taking the time to tweak, I’ll use my custom-built PC. And thanks to Boot Camp, I can get back to my biggest time-waster—massacring zombies in Left 4 Dead—on both.
Eugene Kim ’10-’11, a former Crimson associate editorial editor, is a history concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Tea just got a little more serious: Feb. 6 marked the first National Tea Party Convention and, with it, a degree of legitimacy for the movement. Granted, the hundreds of delegates that descended on Nashville had to shell out as much as $500 per ticket, and their conception of the purpose and message of the party is anything but unified. But in the span of less than a year, grassroots activism from across the country has united in a remarkable way.
Despite the progress the group has made, it remains mostly a punch line and the source of Rachel Maddow’s ire or Glenn Beck’s giddiness. Sure, in recent weeks, politicians have been warned by political observers to ignore the Tea Party at their own risk. But save for a handful of conservative congressmen and a certain former governor who received $100,000 to headline their convention, most still do. And even with the signs that a new political party may be brewing, too many do not understand why their condescension is unwarranted.
It is easy to dismiss the movement. The Obama-as-Hitler metaphors don’t elicit respect. Signs heralding “Beck-Palin ’12” are enough to make one forswear even drinking tea. Nevertheless, it is not just these tactics that those in the mainstream decry. It is the supposed ignorance of the Tea Partiers. They don’t understand the legislation, some say. They don’t realize what’s good for them, others argue. They are misinformed, they are the product of Fox News, they have a terrible misreading of history. President Obama even intimated as much in his State of the Union, claiming that it was not his agenda but rather his failure to explain it to a misinformed populace that caused the congressional logjam.
That’s the problem. Though many certainly did not and do not understand all the provisions of the Democrats’ healthcare prescription, it was not merely misinformation or the perceived specter of socialism-in-sheep’s-clothing that made the Tea Party boil. That’s too simple. “But what is it then?” the reformers will ask. Surely even those who did not vote for the President can appreciate the merits of the program, and surely the uninsured among Tea Partiers can see what we are doing for them. For them. There it is.
Get out of Boston. Get out of the metropolises. Look beyond the densely populated zones of our country where collectivism is expected and mostly accepted. Get out of Cambridge where 85 percent still voted for Martha Coakley. I hate to perpetuate the Massachusetts-as-foil-for-Texas stereotype, but I’ll take the risk. So drive down through the winding roads of non-urban Texas, where people of modest means have yards the size of parks, where you’ll break a sweat walking to the next door neighbor’s, and where stray cattle wander through neighborhoods.
It is there, like in the town I spent my youth, that people have, out of necessity and out of tradition, practiced a type of self-reliance that makes them bristle at the notion that they need politicians to do something “for them.” There, the rates of uninsured are among the highest in the nation, but opposition to nationalized healthcare (or anything that resembles it) is equally high, even among those who would be eligible for government assistance.
So much of this country is disconnected and quite distant—geographically and culturally—from Washington and from the bastions of liberalism. And there the let-me-make-my-choices mentality is the rule, not the exception. It does not matter what the government is trying to do. It’s that the government is trying to do more at all. Sure there are nominal benefits; fierce individualists can certainly see what’s in it for them. But for so many, it’s not worth it. They don’t truly fear descending into a Soviet America. They have a disdain for mandates, for condescension, for anything “for them.”
In such places, conservatism is as much about individualism as anything else. It’s why the right to self-defense is sacred, it’s why as a schoolchild I was required to say not only the Pledge of Allegiance but also the Texas Pledge, it’s why the word “Pelosi” is a pejorative, it’s why individuals can see beyond the promises of the most well-intentioned legislation and ask more than, “What’s in it for me?” It’s why anything that robs the individual of being, well, an individual receives a questioning look.
This is not a defense of the Tea Party or of its tactics, but it is a word of caution to those who would ignore it or judge it quickly and harshly. The selected soundbites and posters may be outrageous, but the emotion and spirit and principle behind them are not. For at its core, it’s about a streak of proud conservatism—or perhaps a certain variation of populism—that still runs deep in this country. (Don’t forget that a December Wall Street Journal/NBC poll showed that more Americans identified with the Tea Party than with either Republicans or Democrats).
Maybe this is over-romanticizing it all a bit much. But even in exaggeration one can find a nugget of truth. This movement—for better or worse—sprung up for a reason. And it carries a much deeper message than we might like to admit. Ponder that over your next cup of tea.
Mark A. Isaacson ’11 is a government concentrator in Kirkland House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
I write to respond to Sabrina Lee’s impassioned criticism of the Social Studies 10 syllabus (“The Social Studies Ideology”, Sabrina G. Lee, Feb. 10, 2010). Lee has raised important concerns, but her argument is misinformed and insufficiently argued. As I see it, she has made two criticisms. First, she claims that Social Studies 10 has rejected “including gender theory or postcolonial theory on the course syllabus.” This is factually incorrect. Her second criticism is that by including only “white, European, heterosexual male theorists,” Social Studies is perpetuating an “ideology that we—all Harvard students—should not accept.” This she never proves.
On the facts, Lee is just wrong. With regard to feminism, students read John Stuart Mill’s “Subjection of Women,” and spend a whole week on Simone de Beauvoir’s “Second Sex.” As for post-colonial and race theory, students spend a week on Frantz Fanon’s “Wretched of the Earth.” In the area of sex and gender theory, students not only read Freud, but spend two weeks on Michel Foucault, including a week on his “History of Sexuality.” Aside from their virtues as social theories, the Beauvoir, Fanon, and Foucault texts are foundational in feminism, post-colonial studies, and theories of sexuality respectively. Given the time limitations of the course and the need to choose works of the greatest substance, these texts are appropriately chosen. Moreover, discussions of other social theorists frequently include discussions of family structure, imperialism, and race. For instance, a number of students in my tutorial this year wrote papers comparing Mill’s and Tocqueville’s different views on gender and examining how these views were related to broader social theoretic positions.
Lee’s more serious criticism is that Social Studies perpetuates an ideology that implies “capitalism as an institution is worthy of criticism, but sexism [or racism, imperialism, etc…] is not.” I cannot see how Social Studies gives this impression by the sheer design of its syllabus, nor would an attentive listener to the lectures ever get this impression. For one thing, including Fanon and Beauvoir clearly demonstrates that Social Studies takes the study of gender, race, and imperialism as seriously as it takes all other important topics. More to the point, Social Studies is quite explicitly taught at a high level of abstraction because the purpose is to show how social theories are applicable to all kinds of social phenomena. The theories are not straightforwardly linked to the gender, class, or ethnicity of their creators. For example, when reading Marx, students learn about how ideologies sometimes take the form of statements that appear universal, but hide interests or points of view. Anyone can use this idea to perform an ideology critique of ideas or points of view that present themselves as universal. Isn’t Lee’s editorial an attempt at an ideology critique of the Social Studies curriculum? Is Lee, by using this technique, unwittingly reproducing the straight male perspective of Karl Marx, or is she just thinking for herself?
A further problem is that Lee seems to believe that Social Studies tells or should tell its students what to think. She does not say students ought to learn different approaches to the study of social phenomena, but rather that they ought to learn to criticize not just capitalism but sexism, racism, etc… That is dogmatism, not education or critical thinking. Social Studies exposes students to many different approaches and views –Marx and Smith, Freud and Foucault, Mill and Beauvoir. Indeed, students read not just critics of, say, imperialism and capitalism, but also its defenders (i.e., Mill and Hayek.) Social Studies presents its students with conflicting theoretical approaches amongst which they must choose. Regardless of whether they find psychoanalytic, post-structuralist, Marxist, or Weberian theory more compelling, all students are welcome in Social Studies.
It is an historical injustice that a privileged group of mostly straight, white men were granted the education and opportunity to create social theory, but this is why they dominate any survey of classic social theory. Social Studies is not responsible for that historical fact. And one would be hard pressed even to make sense of what is problematic about that history without some of the tools of social theory. The great virtue of social theory is its self-reflective character. That is one of the reasons these theories can be used to criticize positions that their originators might have held, and why the theories are not so tightly bound to the sexual orientations and class positions of their authors as Lee suggests. In fact, much post-colonial and gender theory is an application of general social theories to new or historically ignored issues. While I appreciate the spirit with which Lee’s editorial is written, I think she has picked the wrong target and used the wrong arguments. Making history is perhaps a better use of these political energies than remaking the imperfect, but unjustly maligned, Social Studies syllabus.
ALEX GOUREVITCH
Cambridge, MA
Feb. 10, 2010
Alex Gourevitch ’01 is a Social Studies graduate, and is now a tutor in Social Studies 10.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“Which one is Sabrina?” my dad asked, surveying the crowd which had gathered around the boombox. It was 11 p.m. on our first Friday in Argentina, and the night was as young as my father was befuddled.
“There is no Sabrina, dad,” I laughed. “We’re here to see his ‘sobrina­,’ Gustavo’s niece. Clearly, your high school Spanish never took you much beyond ‘madre’ or ‘padre.’”
Not that I could blame him for being so baffled. After all, one second we’re in a cab on the way back to the hotel; the next, we’re crashing a Friday night rendezvous in the middle of Mendoza’s Plaza Italia. Let’s just say it’s not exactly what Mr. Frommer had in mind when he directed us to our dinner destination that evening.
But little did we know that a stop at a red light would accelerate our entire evening into high gear, and that we’d soon be cutting a rug (or at least hoping to avoid a scraped knee) in the town’s center.
“Mira, es mi sobrina,” our cab driver Gustavo had exclaimed while we waited for the light to change. Grinning, he directed our attention toward the Plaza. Inside the square, a group of about 15 people were assembled under a string of lights. His niece was among them, enraptured in an elegant tango as if she had popped off the front of a postcard.
“Can we go watch?” I blurted out in Spanish. Through the rear-view mirror, Gustavo actually looked less shocked than I did. I could hardly believe what I had uttered. Apparently, I was spontaneous in another language!
Let me just say that I’m hardly the type to deviate from an itinerary, let alone break up a party. I am the family purveyor of passports, the one responsible for keeping track of everyone’s travel documents and annotating our guidebook. Improv has never exactly been my forte; I prefer my days—and particularly, my vacations—to be carefully choreographed. But this evening, entranced by the luminous, romantic glow outside my window, I couldn’t help but disrupt my own rhythm.
Who could blame me, though, for succumbing to the din of tango just barely detectable through the backseat of our car? I was hungry for authenticity, craving connection. Our family had been duped the previous night by the advice of a friend who had recently visited Argentina. We had ended up at a tango show reminiscent of amateur night on “Dancing with the Stars,” replete with lip-syncing, garish dresses, and food as bland as the semblance of culture the venue served.
But this evening Gustavo was more than happy to take a tango-inspired detour (though my brother was convinced I’d gone insane). Gustavo giddily pulled over to the side of the road as if he’d suggested that we stop off himself. As we emerged from the cab and approached the Plaza, a hodgepodge of teenagers and people who could easily have been that age during the turmoil of the 1970s welcomed us to their Friday night ritual. One of the older members of the group picked up the karaoke microphone. His face illuminated by dangling Christmas lights, he thanked everyone for returning that week. This, of course, is when my dad started searching for “Sabrina.”
Yet when the music started again and the crowd dissipated (by now, we’d acquainted ourselves with María, the “sobrina” in question), I felt myself taken back to the years of excruciating junior high dances—as terrified to be asked to dance as I was to end up lingering awkwardly on the fringes of the festivities. Gustavo and María coupled up, while my family and I stood by entranced, exhilarated, and slightly horrified, as if we had just jumped the fence and were now trespassing on someone else’s property. But then, a nod in my direction; I was being asked to dance. Turns out Gustavo was quite the matchmaker. The best part: my partner, a 60-something-year-old expert with enough wrinkles to map out an intricate dance routine, was a professor of tango. He was happy to teach me some steps.
“Just do what I do,” my partner directed in garbled Spanish, a cigarette dangling from his lips. He would lead and I would follow, simple as that. I could only pray that he was right—and that I would somehow manage to remain upright, however precariously, if only for the next couple of songs.
With that, I submitted to his direction (though I yearned to grab the handkerchief from his shirt-pocket to blot my clammy hands). Yet as I struggled to keep my feet planted firmly on the ground, I found myself getting swept away. For the first time on our trip, I truly felt in sync. This was not prepackaged tourist tango. It seemed simultaneously genuine and surreal—so much so that if my partner had relinquished my hands at any point, I might have been tempted to pinch myself.
Of course, it’s impossible to master the tango in one lesson, just as I know we merely experienced a couple stanzas of Mendoza’s distinct rhythm during our stay in the city. However, if you’re willing, you just might find yourself falling into the beat (though my brother didn’t quite have the same grace—as I soon learned, the tango only works when the man knows how to lead). Sometimes it’s exhilarating to simply surrender and follow along. So that’s what I did, if only for a couple of songs, before my family and I piled back into the cab to return to our hotel, punch drunk and exuberant from the evening’s excitement.
They say the tango is a dance of seduction. The magic of that moment, Gustavo’s graciousness, the staticky melodies pervading the Plaza—that’s how Argentina swept me off my two left feet.  —Linday P. Tanne ’11 is an English concentrator in Adams House. Now that she’s back in Boston, she’s seriously considering signing up for some tango lessons.
Sections
Harvard Law School conjures many images for the outsider: Obama, Elle Woods, and the cutthroat student body. But last Saturday night, the nation’s best and brightest students of the law abandoned their competitiveness for togetherness and a more “tacky” image than one would imagine.
The HLS Tacky Prom was described as “pretty objectively the best night of the year” by Jessica E. Nachman, a third-year law student and one of the event’s organizers. Aside from a conspicuous abundance of python prints and legal drinking, the HLS Tacky Prom night follows a pattern familiar to College undergrads: apparel selection, followed by pregame, party, and ending with fried food.
To begin the perfect prom experience, proper attire was key. “Bright colors are typically ideal,” said Steven J. Hurvitz, also a third-year student, who was wearing a hat made of multicolored glowsticks.
“Step two,” said Hurvitz, “is a gathering of friends before moving over to Ropes Gray. Possibly some drinks. More than likely some drinks. It’s still classy. To the extent that tacky can be classy, it’s still classy.”
Once properly liquored up, the attendees headed to prom. Ropes Gray, a large room in Pound Hall, was covered in plastic flamingos and colored streamers. “It’s a big room with a DJ and beer and people dancing,” said Hurvitz. “There isn’t a whole lot more to it.” Sounds just like a d-hall party, minus the seven-dollar entry fee.
During the dance, one couldn’t help wondering if the future president of the free world might be the guy doing the jerk in lifeguard attire, or one of the girls doing the hokey-pokey to Lady Gaga.
After 1 a.m., when prom had ended and the garish decorations had been decimated by the antics of inebriated law students, Harvard’s mecca of eternal tackiness still awaited. As first-year law student Chelsea A. Galen said, “The night is young, and the Kong is kalling—with a ‘k.’”
Sections
Twelve Olympic medals. Five Olympic Games. A laundry list of American and world records. This is the resume of elite swimmer Dara G. Torres, who at the age of 41 won three silver medals at the 2008 Beijing Olympics as the oldest member of the US Olympic swim team. During her visit last week to Harvard, Torres sat down with FM to talk about super-fast swimsuits, the trials and triumphs of her career, and Michael Phelps’ nickname for his older teammate.
1. Fifteen Minutes: How did your involvement in swimming first begin?
Dara G. Torres:  I started  swimming on a swim team when I was seven or eight years old. I had four older brothers and whatever they did I would do, so I would go to the pool with my mom and I didn’t like sitting in the bleachers and watching them swim, so I wanted to swim.
2. FM:  At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, you won silver in the 50 meter freestyle, missing out on gold by one hundredth of a second. How did you feel about losing out on the gold by such a close margin?
DGT: It’ll probably eat at me for the rest of my life. (Laughs) It was tough because I went over and over in my head what I could have done differently. There’s really nothing I would have changed, because I swam the best race of my life. But I’m very competitive and I don’t like to lose, so the fact that I lost that race will always eat at me.
3. FM: But an American record’s nothing to sneeze at, right?
DGT: No. Look, I mean I went into this race ranked fifth in the world, I’m a 41-year-old mom, not expecting to do anything, so the fact that I did get a silver is a great thing. I just like to win, so that’s why I think it’ll always eat at me that I lost by that close of a time.
4. FM: How would you say the sport has changed during your career?
DGT: The biggest thing would probably be the technology. The strokes haven’t changed that much. The bathing suit obviously was one of the biggest changes. I went to school in ’84 where the less suit the better; you would shave your body down and grease your body up and that was the fastest thing. Now the suit’s the fastest thing.
5. FM: Last year the International Swimming Federation banned the use of non-textile swimsuits that were thought to cause many new world records. Do you think these suits gave you a clear benefit?
DGT: Absolutely. I mean, you’re not going to be some person off the street, put a suit on and break a world record, but I felt a difference when I dove in the pool. I felt like I was just sort of skyrocketing through the water...like I was floating on top of the water more so than I already do. I definitely felt a difference when I was swimming and my times dropped—a big drop. I’m glad they’re going back to the old school and it’s gonna be the swimmer that’s fast, not just the suit.
6. FM: During your career you have won 12 Olympic medals and broken multiple American records. What would you consider the most memorable race of your career?
DGT: Oh, boy. Probably the first race I broke a world record in. I was 15 years old, I was over in Holland swimming in a meet. I had a crush on a swimmer named Rowdy Gaines. He came up to me, and I was on the massage table, and I was getting ready for the finals of the 50, and he threw out a time he thought I could go. And I’m like, “Yeah, whatever, that’s a world record, you know. I’m 15.” And I go and swim my race, touch the wall, and it was the exact same time he predicted. And so you kind of remember those things. It was your first world record, you had a crush on a boy then, and you’re in a foreign country. You’re still in like ninth grade or middle school or something or a freshman in high school, and you just remember.
7. FM: Had swimming not worked out for you, what career do you think you would have pursued instead?
DGT: After the ’92 Olympics I actually got into television for a while. I was doing sports commentating. I did a little bit of that for the 2000 Olympics. I like interviewing people. I know that I’ve been asked some real lame questions in the past, and I want to be able to talk to people and have them appreciate what I’m asking them.
8. FM: Has it ever been difficult balancing your time between being a mother and being a swimmer?
DGT: I’ve really looked to working parents as inspiration to figure out how to juggle being a great parent and also doing what I love to do, and it’s hard. You have to find a balance that works best for you and your child or children. I was lucky I was able to find something that worked for Tessa [Torres’ daughter] and worked for me.
9. FM: So do you intend to put her in swimming?
DGT: I’ve plopped her in the pool a few times. I really just did that for water safety, it is one of the sports she does along with some other ones, so she can choose what she does when she gets older. (Laughs) Psycho mom.
10. FM: Have you ever experienced an injury that threatened to end your career?
DGT: I actually have one right now. I just had a fix at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital here in Boston—reconstructive knee surgery and cartilage transplant. And I won’t know if I can continue swimming at the level I was swimming at for about nine months. This is definitely one. I’ve had numerous shoulder surgeries, but I ended up getting through those.
11. FM: Is it emotionally difficult to face the possibility that you might not be able to return?
DGT: It’s very difficult. I don’t want a knee injury to dictate what I want to do with my life. And so I’m hoping that it will be good enough where I can say, “Yes, I want to do this; no, I don’t want to do this.” I want the choice. So I haven’t faced that yet. We’ll see what happens.
12. FM: In 2008 you were the oldest member of the Olympic swim team. Did the other team members treat you specially at all?
DGT: Well, Michael Phelps called me “Mom.” I was trying to be more of a big sister. I found myself gravitating towards the coaches and trainers, because they’re more my age. But if they had questions, I was more than happy to help them and sort of guide them. I don’t know if it was more my age or more that I had been there so many times. But it was fun. I felt like I was useful and I was able to help.
13. FM: Did they ever come to you asking for advice on approaching races or competitive strategy?
DGT: I’ve been asked about everything from “Are there condoms in the Olympic Village?” to “How do you deal with nerves?” to having a bad race and getting ready for your next race. I’ve been asked everything.
14. FM: You’ve said previously that you consider accusations of using performance-enhancing drugs as a compliment. You’ve also willingly submitted to enhanced drug testing. Did you think it was necessary to preemptively prove that you are clean?
DGT: Because in the world of drugs, you’re basically guilty until proven innocent, so I basically had to prove myself innocent and not have everyone assume because of my age that I was cheating. And you have Nolan Ryan, the baseball pitcher, pitching a no-hitter at 44 years old, and you have Jack Nicklaus, at Masters at 61. Why can’t a 41-year-old mom compete in the Olympic Games? Unfortunately, there are other athletes that have lied about it, and when you have that stigma on you and your accomplishments, I felt like that’s what I had to do, and just prove it.
15. FM: What’s next for you?
DGT: I have a book coming out called “Gold Metal Fitness,” which is a fitness book, comes out in May—I’m doing a book tour for that. I’m doing motivational talks; I’m sort of busy with that. I’m going to wait and see in the summertime how my knee is, and I’ll make a decision whether to keep going or not.
Sections
Philosopher, novelist, and MacArthur Fellow Rebecca N. Goldstein has spent most of her life asking herself what she calls the “messier” questions of philosophy. With a new novel, “36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction,” and a book tour underway, FM caught her after a reading at the Harvard Book Store to sort through some of the mess and to ask some questions of our own.
1.
Fifteen Minutes: While earning your Ph.D. in philosophy at Princeton, did you ever think that you would become a MacArthur Fellow for writing novels and not philosophy?
Rebecca N. Goldstein: No, I mean one, I never thought I’d end up writing novels and two, I mean who ever thinks that they’re going to become a MacArthur Fellow? When I got the call I thought it was one of my students putting me on, really. It was a very surreal moment.
2.
FM: You have written two works of nonfiction, seven of fiction, and a number of short stories. What do you believe is the main purpose of your writing and what do you hope readers take away from it?
RNG: My characters, fiction and nonfiction, care passionately about deep questions. I think the dichotomy between thinking and the passions is a false one. The idea that often comes across in novels of these dry, sterile thinkers who need some little woman to come and teach them about feelings and all that—that’s bullshit. It’s just not true. Thinking is a passion itself.
3.
FM: Let’s talk about your transition to novelist. What first caused your departure from the “very formal, very precise questions” of philosophy to asking the most “unprofessional sorts of questions”?
RNG: I had this very emotional year. I lost my father and also gave birth to my first child. So it was life, birth, death—all these big questions that I had been trained not to take seriously because I did very analytical studies. I took philosophy of science and a lot of mathematical logic and if you asked in my department in those days, “What’s the meaning of it all?” or, “What are we here for?” you would have been laughed out of the lunch room.
4.
FM: And why turn to literature?
RNG: What those two events did, especially having my child, was to tie me to life in a real way that I hadn’t been before. I had just never thought about those sorts of questions and I wanted to bring them together. I couldn’t do it philosophically because the way I had been trained philosophically just wouldn’t allow it; I couldn’t make it precise enough. I love the fact that literature is not precise, that fiction is not precise. It can do justice to the messiness, the confusion, the conflicts, the ambiguity—I love that about it.
5.
FM: Cass Seltzer, the main character of your book, is seen as an “atheist with a soul.” Do you also see yourself this way?
RNG: That’s funny because I never did before, but I’ve had all these interviews and they’ll say, “So you’re the atheist.” What I mean by having a soul is having the capacity for ontological wonder—wondering at existence itself, being overwhelmed by it. I think every artist has got to have soul in this sense and not just artists either—even great scientists do, great mathematicians do. They have this kind of ability to be drawn outside of themselves by something splendid.
6.
FM: What do you believe is the most compelling argument for the existence of God?
RNG: Number 35 is the best argument but it’s for Spinoza’s God. What Spinoza means by “God” is this world that we are in [that] explains everything. So it’s not for a god that exists outside of the universe, it’s for the universe itself as a source of all of our wonder. And I kind of believe that. I don’t like any of the other ones—I think they’re kind of weak.
7.
FM: What do you believe is the most compelling argument against the existence of God?
RNG: I think for me the strongest argument is I just find it too difficult to reconcile suffering, especially suffering of children, of innocence with the notion of a transcendent God who cares about us. I just think if you look at history and look at the world, if you read today’s paper, to me it’s impossible.
8.
FM: What would you like your readers to take away from this novel in particular?
RNG: The multifaceted nature of religion, that it’s about so much more than belief in God and it’s true that it’s innate to human nature—as evolutionary biologists are demonstrating more and more. Also romantic love—the kind of deification of the love object, the sense that, “if that person doesn’t love me back, I am doomed.” It’s got a kind of religious aspect to it. That’s what I very much wanted to portray as well, and that’s a religion that nobody doubts—nobody doubts love. But I think that this sort of romantic, erotic energy also goes into religious passion as well. It’s messy, it’s all messy, we’re so much messier than philosophers would like us to think.
9.
FM: The characters in your story range from the strictly scientific to devotedly religious in their ideals. In society, do you believe that these opposing views can be reconciled?
RNG: I don’t think that science in and of itself shows that there’s no God and science can’t explain why there’s something rather than nothing, if that question makes sense. So one can hold both views and not be guilty of inconsistency I would say.
10.
FM: Should we strive towards a world where science has disproved religion?
RNG: Religion answers to many needs, so just showing that there are no good strict, logical, scientific grounds is not going to remove religion. I think that it will always be with us and, as long as it’s controlled with a little dose of skepticism, it’s good. One does hope for a little bit of doubt to be seeded into religion, that would be a hopeful thing.
11.
FM: How have your own religious and moral views changed throughout the course of your life? What has had the greatest impact on them?
RNG: Philosophy has had the greatest impact. I was brought up in a very Orthodox [Jewish] family and was sent to an even more Orthodox school because my parents thought that I needed straightening out, so they sent me to an extreme Orthodox school of all girls. It worked in the opposite direction. I discovered philosophy early on and I just loved it. It gave me this sense of wonder about what a good explanation was and it was like drinking from a well when you’ve been dying in the desert.
12.
FM: Your husband Steven Pinker has written books such as “The Stuff of Thought” and “How the Mind Works,” which deal with the intricacies of language and the psychological aspects of the brain, respectively. Is there any overlap in your work?
RNG: Well, we’ve only been married for a little over two years, so most of his work and most of my work was done before we met each other. So we were very formed and our views were very formed when we met each other but I’d say we’ve somewhat validated each other’s viewpoints. We both believe that science defines the world and that we’re not just making up stories here. We’re both very strong believers that morality has nothing to do with theology. So there’s overlap in our views more than our work.
13.
FM: Do you and your husband have any conflicting views?
RNG: We should to make us more interesting. Let me think. It’s terribly boring because we really agree very much. When we met I thought, “I wonder if we’re related...I want to know where his ancestors came from,” because we saw things so similarly.
14.
FM: A lot of your novels focus on physicists and their answers to philosophical questions. Did you ever consider going into the sciences?
RNG: Oh yes, absolutely. I got my doctorate in the philosophy of science and I did study a lot of physics and I could see myself having been a physicist but I don’t know if I would have been any good. It was also very hard for women in physics.
15.
FM: What is the most important thing, or at least one thing on your mind currently, that philosophy has changed about your day-to-day outlook on life?
RNG: What philosophy has really changed about my life is that it is always teaching me to question, to be very, very aware and to try to make questions as precise as possible. I’m very critical of my own beliefs, I’m always trying to question them to see if I have good grounds for believing them. It’s just the fabric of my life, really.
 
Sections
In every romantic comedy ever made, there is the inevitable scene where the token friend assures the hero or heroine that he or she really is a great person, they have so much going for them, etc. Wings, a new dating Web site developed by four Harvard Business School and College grads,  brings such real-life reassurances to cyberspace, at the service of hopeful singles.
A dating service that operates in conjunction with Facebook, Wings allows users to join either as singles or wingmen.  With this system, potential matches can hear not just what a potential mate says about himself, but also what his friends say.
“Your wingmen in real life can help you in the same way in the online dating world,” explained Sunil S. Nagaraj HBS ’09, C.E.O. of Triangulate Corporation, which created the application. “Wings lets you know who I am, rather than how good I am at writing profiles.”
The Web site, using a patent-pending behavioral pattern recognition engine, is also able to access users’ Facebook information to match singles whose actions—not just profiles—are compatible.
“Dating Web sites is a difficult space to penetrate because after eHarmony, there has been little innovation. This is a new wave of social innovation,” said Mikolaj Jan Piskorski, an associate professor at HBS, who had Nagaraj as a student in the early days of the project.
“Wings is more low risk. You don’t feel like you’re making a huge commitment, and it feels safer to be within your own social network,” explained Theresa L. Tribble HBS ’09 who, having met her own husband through eHarmony, is now active as a wing.
Matthew D. Weisinger ’05, who works for Triangulate, added, “Wings gives daters a richer picture of who you are.”
Hopefully, that’s a good thing.
Sections
1. Sweet and Nasty
Celebrating Halloween in all its dirty debauchery is as easy as venturing over to Adams House for the infamous Sweet and Nasty Masquerade Ball. And don’t fret, unlike during its absurdly exclusive daytime hours, Adams Dining Hall is accessible to all for this costumed dance party. Enjoy platforms, poles, cages, and prizes for the first 50 guests. Leave the sweet for the trickor-treating teens and get nasty.   10 p.m.-2 a.m., Friday, October 30, Adams Dining Hall, $5.
2. Scare in the Square
Don’t be alarmed if you blearily stumble out of your dorm Friday afternoon to find yourself face-to-face with a menacing monster or a milky-faced mime. It’s just Harvard SCARE, the Square-wide party where magicians, monsters, and mimes overtake the streets of Harvard Square in preparation for the subsequent “Monster Mash” block party, featuring games, contests, evening entertainment and maybe even some spooky surprises.Festivities start at 4 p.m., Saturday, October 31, Harvard Square, Brattle Street. No admission fee.
3. Howl-O-Ween
Be a part of a burgeoning Boston Halloween tradition and head over to Faneuil Hall to watch the “Howl-O-Ween” Pet Parade. Pets will be costumed in their very best ghoulish get-up, promising a devilish dog and fur-eaky feline festival.  10 a.m.-6 p.m, Saturday, October 31, West End between Faneuil Hall and Quincy Market Building.
4. Go Frightseeing
Despite the words of our 8th grade history books, the rich history of colonial Boston is not all tempestuous tea parties and triumphant Revere rides. Board the “Trolley of the Doomed” and be prepared to shiver and shudder as the deepest, darkest secrets of Boston’s earliest disease-ridden days are exposed. Don’t be surprised if New Haven suddenly seems a lot a less frightening...Departs every half hour from 7-9 p.m., all week long. Old Town Trolley stop #1, downtown Boston, $37.  Reservations required.
5. Must-See Macabre Movies
Cinematic classics you secretly cherish are celebrated. The Coolidge’s 9th Annual Halloween Horror Marathon features a range of films, from “The Blob” (1988) to cult classic “Night of the Creeps” (1986).Doors open at 11 p.m., Saturday, October 31.  $10 double feature, $20 marathon.
Sections
With Valentine’s Day only three days away and Christmas just two months past, most couples are probably starting to feel the gift­­‑buying pressure once again. In case you’re unsure of what to buy your boo or just want to know what your lover’s present really means after the fact, FM has gone ahead and done the decoding for you.
Here’s what to think if they get you...
Chocolates: They’re obviously not worried about your weight, but probably wouldn’t mind if you headed to the gym after polishing off the whole box. We’re just hoping they didn’t merely dodge into CVS at the last minute before heading over to your room.
Sex toys: A tad self‑centered. They definitely want you to share.
Collage of pictures of the two of you: A bit intense. Hopefully your roommates won’t mind if your boyfriend/girlfriend insists on it being prominently displayed in the common room; be especially wary if you’ve only been dating a month.
Jewelry: Easy fallback option for the more serious couples out there, but can be difficult to pick out; hopefully it’s not the same bracelet/pair of earrings they’ve bought for their past three girlfriends. Also be wary if you’ve been dating a month and they bring you back something from Tiffany’s.
Dinner: Anything beyond the d-hall shows effort and if you had to hop on the T to get there, be impressed.
Lingerie: Potentially awkward if they got the wrong size. Again, they’ve really just bought themselves a present with this one.
Roses: This could either be really sweet or might mean that they couldn’t remember your favorite kind of flowers and didn’t feel like searching through Brattle Square Florist to find the right ones.
Love poem: If they’re an OEB concentrator, they probably didn’t write it. If they’re an English concentrator, they probably wrote it last year for a class.
An e-mail: At least they remembered, but we advise you to look elsewhere for love.
Sections
For the select few who will be tuning in to the Opening Ceremonies of the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics this Friday, FM has developed some drinking games to make this year’s Ceremony even more forgettable. Follow our user-friendly guide to achieve the optimum level of drunkenness:
Just like shooting blanks
For however many athletes from Mexico, Jamaica, or any other tropical country of your liking march into the stadium, prepare a shot.
Tipsy enough to still complete a problem set
Take a shot every time the twiggy male athletes in skin-tight jumpsuits turn out to be from the women’s division, and vice versa.
How’d I turn my shirt inside out?
Raise your glass and toast Conan and his bravado every time NBC plugs in a commercial for the post-Olympics return of “The Tonight Show With Jay Leno.”
Go to lecture on Monday hungover
Take a good, hard sip whenever the announcers say the phrase “It’s truly a great day.”
The view from inside the toilet bowl
Chug a beer every time the network shows a clip of figure skating and you see or hear the term “triple salchow.” Double the drinks if you know what that term even means.
Wake up in UHS hooked up to a stomach pump
Every time someone ends a sentence with “Eh?” or pronounces “about” as “aboot,” take a shot. You’ll need about three handles of hard liquor per player if you intend on lasting through the entire broadcast.
Hope the roommate is a liver donor match
Realize that life has become so pathetic that you’re actually watching the Winter Olympics, and then commence drinking to console yourself ’till you pass out and forget your troubles. The game will end twice as fast if you’re watching the Opening Ceremonies alone.
Sections
Unless they’re planning on raging in Qdoba, Harvard Square doesn’t offer students much in terms of party spaces. Co-eds have long been looking for an ample venue that isn’t the Co-op or the Phoenix to host events; and they seem to have found one this year. Oberon, the theatrical club space of the American Repertory Theatre (A.R.T.), is slowly becoming the hot new space on campus to plan an all-night affair.
“It’s hard to find a place in the Square that’s accommodating for undergrads. Oberon isn’t just a club; it’s a theater first,” explained Talisa B. Friedman ’10, who coordinated the Hasty Pudding Man of the Year afterparty at Oberon. “It was the perfect place for the Pudding to celebrate the opening night of our show and the Man of the Year.”
More than just a space to grind with JT, Oberon is blossoming into a Harvard staple. HerCampus hosted a party there last weekend for clothing company Jack Wills that attracted a plethora of Harvard students.
“200 guests of the party received gift bags with underwear for men and stylish pink shirts for girls. The bags were distributed by the fabulous and stylish Jack Wills marketing team from London,” said attendee Nicholas J. Navarro ’10.
“The party was pretty well attended, although the only straight guys there were about 20 Owl guys present who flocked there after word spread of the open bar,” noted fellow attendee Patrick T. Brennan ’11.
In terms of renting out the space, the Pudding was able to negotiate a trade with the A.R.T.  “They have an ad on our curtain drop and a few other things, so we did that instead of just paying in cash to rent out the space,” explained Friedman.
Because many Harvard alums work there, the A.R.T. is known to be flexible in negotiating renting costs with various on-campus organizations. “It was really convenient because we were inviting people from different schools, and the space has a lot of character, so it was fun to bring everyone to a place in Cambridge” said HerCampus Publicity Associate Alexandra N. Alves ’11.
However, party planners be warned: drinks are a little pricey and security is tight. Still, guests that pregame heartily and come with passable I.D. are sure to have a good time.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: February 14, 2010
The Feb. 11 FM article "If We Spirits Have Offended..." incorrectly called Alexandra N. Alves '11 the co-president of HerCampus. In fact, she is the publicity associate at HerCampus.
Sections
Throbbing music and clouds of cigarette smoke—not a spirit of communitas—are things one would typically expect to issue from the bowels of The Harvard Advocate. This year, with a newfound focus on community service and their Cambridge connections, members of the campus literary and arts publication  are working to reconfigure that image.
A cornerstone of the Advocate’s outreach initiative is a workshop series held at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter: taking place every Friday from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m., the seminars serve as a forum for after-dinner discussion between members of the publication and the shelter’s residents.
According to Andrew N. C. Klein ’12, the Advocate’s newly-christened Community Outreach Director, the workshop program grew out of the perceived need to develop ties with people who “might not logically feel like they are members of the Advocate community.”
The publication’s president, Dana M. Kase ’11, echoed those sentiments in an e-mail to The Crimson.
“Our new Community Outreach Program is primarily a response to increased member interest in this particular strand of outreach, and is certainly a wonderful way to expand our reach to people who might not otherwise involve themselves with the organization,” Kase wrote.
Klein explained that the workshops take advantage of the decentralized nature of the shelter’s main common space, with Advocate members typically joining shelter residents at more intimate tables rather than lecturing from afar.
Although loosely organized around a consideration of literary genres, the workshops have morphed into a space for residents of the shelter to share their histories and experiences with members, according to Klein.
“The lectures are about giving a platform for people who don’t always have an opportunity to share their personal stories,” Klein explained, noting how the program has heightened the awareness of how and why we tell stories for both shelter residents and Advocate volunteers alike.
The Advocate’s workshop program, which started this past fall, is planned to continue throughout the spring semester as well.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Shengli Feng, director of Harvard’s Chinese Language Program and founder of the University’s first Mandarin summer immersion program, is leaving Harvard this fall after seven years to teach at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Feng said he chose to accept the position at CUHK—whose “cultural and academic atmosphere” jives with his teaching philosophy—after Harvard decided not to match the offer.
“I’m very happy to work here but [CUHK] offered a better situation,” said Feng, adding that Harvard has not yet found a replacement for him.
Wai-Yee Li, a professor of Chinese literature, said that “[Harvard’s] Chinese program ranks among the best in the country because of his leadership.” Lijuan Feng, a teaching assistant and drill instructor in the East Asian Languages and Civilizations department, said that “we don’t know what our department will be [like]” following Feng’s departure.
In the past year, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences has limited the number of new faculty members it hires due to financial stress.
In November, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith said that he would work to reduce the size of the faculty, whose salaries constitute a large portion of the FAS budget.
FAS spokesman Jeff A. Neal did not respond to requests for comment on Feng’s departure.
Feng said that while CUHK’s better financial offer played an important role in driving his decision, Hong Kong’s location—which serves to fuse eastern and western cultures—is also appealing, as it provides him with an ideal environment to pursue research on Chinese linguistics.
Furthermore, Feng’s wife and daughter have both already secured jobs in Hong Kong.
Feng has been central to the development of Harvard’s Chinese language program, having created the Harvard-Beijing Academy summer program, a nine week-long intensive language study program that is regarded as among the best of its kind. He also introduced a fifth-year level course to the Chinese language program at the College.
In the past decade, the number of students enrolled in Chinese courses has surpassed that for Japanese courses in a department that now has 20 language instructors—many of whom Feng drew from China through HBA.
Born in Beijing in 1955, Feng grew up during the tumult of China’s Cultural Revolution, in which Mao Zedong’s efforts to renew the nation’s spirit of revolution and purge intellectuals resulted in mass starvation and economic disaster.
“The more you had knowledge, the more you [were] counterrevolutionary,” Feng said of the mindset of the time. According to Mao, Feng added, “knowledge from books [was] bullshit. Knowledge from projects [was] real.”
After he completed middle school, Feng became a math teacher for middle school students while secretly and illicitly studying advanced Chinese with a former teacher. Feng then enrolled in college after the Cultural Revolution ended, later completing a master’s degree and traveling to the United States to complete a doctoral program in linguistics at the University of Pennsylvania.
Feng’s dynamic educational and cultural upbringing may have shaped his own pedagogical approach. He has cultivated a reputation among students for being a rigorous instructor who motivates students to master Chinese.
”His unrelenting demand of the students is in some ways pretty touching,” said Suneel K. Chakravorty ’11, a former HBA student, noting that Feng calls on students in class to repeat even slightly mispronounced words.
Through Feng’s tenure, Chakravorty added, Harvard’s Chinese program has “been established as an effective and efficient language machine.”
—Staff writer Noah S. Rayman can be reached at nrayman@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Elyssa A.L. Spitzer can be reached at spitzer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Law Review elected Zachary C. Schauf, a second-year student at the Law School, as its next president on January 30. Schauf will lead the Law Review’s 124th board.
Continuing the multimedia push of the outgoing board—which created a new technology chair position to enhance online presence and digitize the editing process—Schauf says he has planned online initiatives for the Law Review.
For one, Schauf said his class will work to increase the emphasis on online content and will seek to expand the discussion forum on its Web site.
And though the conversation is started in the print journal, Schauf added that he’d like to see dialogue continue online with responses to articles posted on the site.
Self-nominated candidates for Law Review president are selected by a vote of the entire active body of editors, which includes both second- and third-year law students. The remaining positions on the board are selected by second-year editors.
“[Schauf] will be an amazing president,” outgoing president Joanna N. Huey ’06 wrote in an e-mail message. “His work has proven him to be brilliant and diligent, and he has earned the respect of our editors.”
A 2004 graduate of Stanford University, where he majored in history and mathematics, and Oxford University, where he earned a Master of Philosophy in Modern Middle Eastern Studies, Schauf said he ran because he has enjoyed being a part of the  Law Review’s “very special community of talented people.”
“I ran because I love the organization,” Schauf added. “The Review contributes fantastic work to the legal community each year.”
And according to Schauf, that constitutes the Law Review’s perennial challenge—selecting “really high-quality articles and putting out great legal scholarship.”
Schauf said he hopes to emulate Huey’s “inclusive leadership style that made everyone feel welcome.”
“I can’t wait to see him lead the Review over the next year—it’s a tough job, but I have confidence in him and the rest of the new officers,” Huey said.
The legal profession is one of the only fields in which the major academic journals are edited by students, rather than colleagues.
The Law Review—founded in 1887 by Louis D. Brandeis, who later ascended to the Supreme Court—publishes a mix of articles from students, professors, judges, and legal practitioners.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A conglomerate of Swedish economic associations has awarded Harvard Business School professor Josh Lerner the 2010 Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research “for his pioneering research into venture capital (VC) and VC-backed entrepreneurship.”
“Twenty years ago, entrepreneurial finance was a backwater,” said Lerner, who teaches in the Business School’s Finance and Entrepreneurial Management Units and is an affiliate at the Arthur Rock Center for Entrepreneurship. “Over time it’s becoming a more legitimate field, because it’s so linked to economic growth.”
Lerner, who has taught at the Business School since 1991, is known for having pioneered a popular elective course on venture capital and private equity. His research also touches upon issues related to intellectual property.
Lerner is the first Harvard faculty member to be awarded this prize. He will receive a 100,000-euro ($137,400) prize, along with a replica of “The Hand of God,” a sculpture created by Swedish artist Carl Milles. Lerner will also be honored at an award ceremony in Sweden in May.
He said he plans to use his winnings to help pay off his mortgage.
In recent years, the Business School has pushed to promote an entrepreneurial spirit among students, faculty, and alumni.
All students are now required to take a course on entrepreneurship, and the Business School hosts several annual contests awarding prizes for the best student- or alumni-submitted plans for starting a new business.
According to Business School professor Toby E. Stuart, Lerner has played a key role in the development of the study of entrepreneurship in academia at large.
“He has pulled together and built a community of academics interested in entrepreneurship from all over the world,” Stuart said. “He’s a real dynamo ... no one works as hard or produces as much work as he does.”
For instance, Lerner headed an international team of academics to study the economic impact of private equity at the World Economic Forum at Davos, a conference attended by several top Harvard administrators and faculty last month.
Lerner said he considered the award to be “a real honor” as a recognition of his contributions to the field.
The prize, which was established in 1996, is given to individuals who have made “prize worthy contribution[s]” that are “original and influenial.”
­—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Medical School announced yesterday that William B. Chin has been appointed executive dean for research, a position responsible for managing the school’s interdisciplinary research efforts.
According to a letter sent to the school’s community by HMS Dean Jeffrey S. Flier, Chin has spent much of his career pursuing interdisciplinary and translational research, efforts that aim to apply laboratory research to medical treatments.
Chin’s appointment comes at a time when University President Drew G. Faust has said that Harvard should prioritize interdisciplinary research as a way to tackle some of the world’s most pressing problems such as climate change.
Chin, currently the senior vice president of discovery and clinical research at the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly, spent 25 years as a professor at HMS, where he published nearly 300 papers or book-chapters and was awarded numerous academic awards.
“As a pioneering molecular endocrinologist at HMS, he embraced the early use of emerging DNA technology to make important discoveries regarding the structure, function, and regulation of hormone genes,” Flier wrote in the e-mail.
In his new post, Chin will also be responsible in part for managing the school’s relationship with the medical and pharmaceutical industries.
HMS has garnered significant criticism in the past for maintaining a close relationship with the industries and for not disclosing ties to drug companies.
Partners HealthCare, the company that owns two Harvard affiliated teaching hospitals, rolled out a revised conflict of interest policy earlier this year that capped compensation levels for employees who sit on the boards of pharmaceutical companies. The policy was hailed by experts for its stringent restrictions.
HMS will announce the results of an internal review of its conflict of interest policy in coming months.
Chin will assume his new position May 1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A case of “human error” caused 2,500 gallons of diesel fuel to spill at a Massachusetts Water Resources Authority plant in Cambridge yesterday morning, with about 1,000 gallons of the fuel leaking into the Charles River.
According to Ria Convery, a spokeswoman for the MWRA, a crew discovered diesel spilling onto the plant’s parking lot around 12:15 a.m. yesterday. The site of the spill was an unmanned station on Memorial Drive near the Boston University bridge.
MWRA provides water and sewer services to the greater Boston area.
Frederick A. Laskey, MWRA executive director, said that “human error” in the configuration of the facility’s valves caused a tank to be overpressurized, resulting in fuel going through the vent of the facility. The fuel spilled first onto the roof, then onto the driveway, and eventually into the Charles.
“Our staff, immediately when they discovered it, stopped the overflow and then placed oil absorbent tubes to stop the flow,” Laskey said. “Unfortunately, some of it came down into the river.”
Clean Harbors, a hazardous waste disposal and response company, is currently cleaning the river. Laskey said he anticipates their work to take several days.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection is leading the government response to the spill, according to a press release from the Coast Guard.
Laskey said the DEP, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, Massachusetts State Police, and the Cambridge Police and Fire departments were all involved in the response, but the fire department’s Deputy Chief Gerard E. Mahoney criticized the MWRA for calling them almost three hours after the spill was discovered
“As I conveyed to the MWRA people there this morning, the delay in the notification of the fire department was unacceptable,” Mahoney said. “They assured me this morning that it wouldn’t happen again.”
Laskey said that he does not think crews at the facility initially thought to call the fire department—instead, they focused on containing the oil, he said—but Laskey acknowledged that the criticism was warranted.
“We should have called him immediately when oil was seen on the ground,” he said. “It’s a good suggestion and a lesson learned.”
Mahoney also criticized the MWRA for not having an “emergency action plan.”
“When I asked for it, they couldn’t find it,” he said.
Laskey maintains that the MWRA has strong standard operating procedures.
Contrary to forecasts of heavy snow, the weather aided in the initial response to the spill, Laskey said.
“If we had the heavy snow and high winds that we’ve predicted, it would have been really bad,” he added.
—Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Anthropology professor Richard W. Wrangham and non-profit founder Elizabeth A. Ross will effectively cede their roles as Currier House Masters during the next school year as they take a sabbatical abroad, according to an e-mail signed by the couple sent to the Currier House community last night.
Harvard Law School Professor James L. Cavallaro ’84 and Nadejda Marques, a research coordinator at the Harvard School of Public Health, will take their place while Wrangham and Ross travel through Europe, Africa, and Japan.
“We’ve spent some time with them, and we think they’re wonderful,” Wrangham said of the new House Masters.
During their year-long leave, Wrangham and Ross will spend two months in Tanzania studying the Hazda hunter-gatherer people, focusing primarily on their intense dependence on fire. The pair plans to attach themselves to a Hazda camp, where Wrangham will shadow the men and Ross will follow the women of the community.
Last May, Wrangham wrote “Catching Fire: How Cooking Made Us Human,” a book about the impact of cooking on human evolution. He said traveling to Tanzania will allow him to study the effects of fire directly.
“In terms of the House, I regret it because we love being House Masters here, but it’s a terrific opportunity for me to do various kinds of research,” Wrangham said.
In addition to living in a savanna in northern Tanzania, the two will also spend about two weeks at a conference in Japan, where Wrangham has a speaking engagement. Later, they will travel to Uganda, where Ross is the founder and executive director of the non-profit Kasiisi Project, which aids Ugandan education.
As a professor at the College, Wrangham is on an accelerated sabbatical schedule, which gives him the opportunity to travel.
“A sabbatical is a wonderful time to deepen one’s research,” Wrangham said. “I’m looking forward to doing some writing, and I’m also looking forward to developing some new courses.”
Wrangham, a biological anthropologist by training, has taught courses in human evolutionary biology and anthropology.
When the two return, Wrangham said they will “absolutely” reoccupy their positions as Currier House Masters.
“We’re not giving up on Currier at all, and we’ll be back for Commencement to see the current juniors when they are seniors,” Wrangham said.
Wrangham and Ross began their tenure as House Masters in 2008.
The House Masters of Cabot, Eliot, and Mather Houses announced their plans to step down from the position at the end of this academic year. No replacements have been announced by Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds.
—Staff writer Danielle J. Kolin can be reached at dkolin@fas.harvard.edu.          —Staff writer Naveen N. Srivatsa can be reached at srivatsa@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I hope people can understand all the spamming,” Cheng Ho laughs.
If you were like me—a recipient of the approximately 50,000 Facebook messages from the senior running back on the football team—you can probably just barely forgive him for flooding your inbox last week.
But had it not been for Ho’s persistence, I most likely would have missed the chance to register for a ticket to the men’s basketball game against Princeton last Friday night.
I’m glad I didn’t.
As a member of the Crimson Sports Board for most of my college career, I have attended my fair share of Harvard sports games. Many of those have come in Lavietes Pavilion, the diminutive (and usually half-empty) home of Harvard basketball.
However, the buzz around campus in the days leading up to Friday night’s contest led me to believe that this one might be different.
For perhaps the first time in its history, the basketball team was legitimately good—and the student body had begun to take notice. With yet another win at Boston College and a six-point loss to then-No. 13 UConn, the Crimson had turned heads both inside and outside of Cambridge. Having a pro prospect in co-captain Jeremy Lin, who has been featured in ESPN and Sports Illustrated, didn’t hurt its profile either.
I arrived at the game about 30 minutes before tip-off, and took my seat towards the back of a student section that was already mostly filled.
It was immediately obvious that the Facebook messages had succeeded not only in bringing people to the game, but also in disseminating the “white-out” theme. (My roommate—one of just a handful of students who hadn’t gotten the memo—was the target of some light-hearted jeers for wearing grey.)
Getting the crowd to dress in white was just one of many ideas brought to bear by Ho and a few of his football teammates. Equipped with a whiteboard to lead chants and enough newspaper to fill a room in Dunster for the crowd to read when the Princeton starters were being announced, Ho and company led the raucous student section from start to finish.
Facing the crowd from the front row of the bleachers, Ho’s smile was a mile wide. After all, he had been planning this day since October.
Ho is close friends with some of the players on the basketball team and had attended many games in Lavietes. Like me, he had consistently been underwhelmed by the atmosphere.
But Harvard’s unprecedented 12-3 start represented the perfect opportunity for change.
“The basketball team is having such a special season, and creating a home court advantage could have a huge influence,” Ho says. “Why not rally around the team to develop school spirit?”
So Ho returned early from winter break to meet with Crimson head coach Tommy Amaker and representatives from the Athletic Department. They discussed options for engaging the student body and created a plan to increase turnout at games.
The vision was a transformed Lavietes.
“We know we don’t have the biggest facility or biggest arena, but that’s okay—neither does Duke in Cameron Indoor Stadium,” Amaker says of his alma mater and its court. “[But Duke has] used the size—the smallness, the uniqueness or whatever you want to call it—to their advantage, and that’s what we are hoping to do as well: to make this an intimidating place for opponents to play.”
It may not have been quite like Durham, but Allston sure felt pretty electric Friday night.
The Princeton team was announced to a wall of newspapers—the “sucks” chants after each player was introduced slightly dulled the strategy—followed by the presentation of the Harvard squad, which got wild roars from everyone dressed in white.
The Crimson started the game on a 6-0 run, and the volume in the building continued to increase over the course of the first 12 minutes as Harvard built a 16-12 lead.
But from there, the action on the court took a turn for the worse. Princeton went ahead a minute later, and quickly extended the cushion to double-digits.
Despite having little to cheer about, the Crimson faithful found a way.
The crowd—both as large and loud as it’s ever been for a Harvard basketball game—seemed determined to will the team to a victory. Coming off the crushing 36-point loss at Cornell in what was the most anticipated game in Harvard history, the Crimson needed the win to stay close to the Big Red and remain in contention for the league crown. Whether or not every student knew the importance of the matchup on display, collectively, they weren’t giving up.
As Harvard failed to close the gap in the first 15 minutes of the second half, a comeback grew less and less plausible.
Still, the students chanted, “I believe that we will win, I believe that we will win!”
That’s when the momentum swung, and, for the first time all game, Harvard began to knock down some shots. A three by freshman Brandyn Curry got the team started. Then came a few steals, and some easy points on the break.
“I believe that we will win, I believe that we will win!” The crowd believed it. And now it seemed, so too did the players.
“I think it’s obvious that their impact was tremendous,” Amaker says. “There’s nothing like having the students bring that kind of spirit and energy to the building.”
When Jeremy Lin connected from behind the arc with just under a minute to play to pull the Crimson within five, the bleachers were shaking. They didn’t stop trembling until Lin’s last-second three hit the front rim and fell short.
The “I believe that we will win” chant—which Ho credits to sophomore football teammate Jonathan Mason—now has its own YouTube video with over 1,800 hits. Still, it doesn’t come close to replicating the sound of Lavietes on Friday night. The sell-out crowd was by far the loudest I have heard at any Harvard sporting event.
Ho is in the process of starting a new student group to continue the work of changing the culture of Harvard sports fans—from essentially nonexistent to lively and influential. It will be called “The People of the Crimson” and include representatives from the band and the cheerleading squad to ensure a unified assault of intimidation.
Friday’s loss to the Tigers was incredibly disappointing for the team. But when the players took the floor Saturday night against Penn, they entered another packed house offering its full support, chanting “I believe” and jumping up and down.
With the crowd’s encouragement, Harvard got off to a hot start and didn’t look back. Lin had 19 points, three others reached double-figures, and the team was back to winning ways, beating Penn by 14 points.
Following the game, Amaker led his team over to offer its thanks to the students in attendance.
“The [more] that we can do to continue to have them believe and be excited,…to be a part of it,…to feel it like we feel it,…and to continue to have that for our program will be phenomenal,” Amaker says.
If this past weekend was any indication, Amaker—with a little help from the football team—has certainly got the Crimson faithful believing.
—Staff writer Jay M. Cohen can be reached at jaycohen@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Sunday, I will be participating in one of the most absurd sporting events known to mankind.
“What?” you ask. “I thought the Hot Dog Eating Contest wasn’t until July.”
No, I am talking about CRASH-Bs, the World Indoor Rowing Championships.
CRASH-Bs, which stands for Charles River All Star Has-Beens, started off as a way for Olympic and National team caliber rowers to keep winter training interesting, adding excitement to the erg by creating a local competition. But what started off as a small-scale indoor regatta in Newell Boathouse has grown to a large-scale international competition bringing the best rowers from across the world to Boston University’s Agassiz Arena. Once there, they spend six to eight minutes in a kind of pain that could have been easily obtained for much less money. (Of course, isn’t paying for pain something Detroit Lions’ season ticket holders do anyway?)
What else is crazy about CRASH-Bs? Well, there’s the fact that the results don’t necessarily have anything to do with on-the-water performance. The winner might be too heavy to move boats or have horrible technique. But this, too, isn’t unique to CRASH-Bs. Observe the frenzy surrounding the NFL Combine. Somehow, no one figured out that JaMarcus Russell wasn’t exactly first-pick material.  At least rowing national teams don’t sign rowers immediately after they complete a 2K.
But neither of these are what make CRASH-Bs such an absolutely absurd event. What’s really unfathomable about CRASH-Bs is the low entry barrier. You don’t have to be Olympic or National team caliber. You don’t have to be a college star. In fact, you don’t have to be any kind of great athlete at all.
This, as we all know, is absurd, something you would never see in more mainstream sports.
Imagine if all elite athletes had to prove themselves against the weekend warriors and gym rats.
Then we’d see just how much better these stars are than the rest of us. We denizens of the MAC would get destroyed.
Or maybe not.
What if I told you a CEO from Chicago beat Michael Jordan in one-on-one?
It really happened. If you don’t believe me, just read the Sports Illustrated column to learn how John Rogers—CEO of Ariel Capital Management—beat his hometown’s biggest sports star. And what about the movie “Invincible”, in which Vince Papale, having played only high school football for one year, managed to make the Philadelphia Eagles? Also true.
Maybe the barrier between elite athletes and the rest of us isn’t that great. Or maybe there is just a lot of elite athletes that never get discovered.
Rowing has always been willing to open its doors, and CRASH-Bs is just one example of that. Have you ever heard of Steve Tucker? He’s one of the greatest lightweight rowers in the world. How did he get his start? At an MIT frat party. His fraternity brothers dragged out an erg, and Tucker promptly started tearing it up. The rest, as they say, is history.
This side of Cambridge has had its fair share of walk-on wonders. Michelle Guerette ’02, a former walk-on, took the silver medal in the silver scull at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. A year after she graduated, the Radcliffe Heavyweights won the NCAA Championships thanks in great part to the efforts of former walk-ons Lis Lambert ’04 and Olympic gold medalist Caryn Davies ’05.
Guerette and Lambert had never rowed before college, but both excelled in the sport when given the chance. CRASH-Bs is right to give aspiring athletes the chance to prove themselves at the world stage. But how many potentially great figure skaters, squash stars, or downhill skiers never get that chance? Perhaps one day, open events such as CRASH-Bs will be the norm, instead of the exception.
But forget about sports. Maybe there’s a way we can spread open access to other “more important” fields such as education and politics. Maybe if everyone had access to a quality education, we’d see who the real brains of the country are. Or if there were more transparency about key political issues, such as giving everyday citizens a chance to voice their opinions, then we’d find out what the best ideas really are. As rowing seems to understand, it’s only when everyone can compete that you really find out who the best is.
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you are anything like most college students, right now you're probably agonizing over what to do this summer. The due dates for those summer internship applications—the ones that sat around gathering dust while you slept and ate during J-term—have come and gone, and you still haven't submitted a single one. For those of you who aren't interested in working at your hometown's Dairy Queen for the summer, here are a few internships and jobs (with deadlines that haven't yet passed!) in which you might be interested.
Want to be the next Obama? Think the dollar bill would look better with your face on it? Work for the Institute Of Politics.
What: The IOP arranges internships every year for undergraduates interested in politics and public service. IOP interns work in all industries, ranging from Amnesty International to MTV and Google.
Who: Harvard undergraduate rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors.
Where: Everywhere, including Washington, D.C., New York City, and even some abroad.
Pay: $4000 financial stipend, but no housing.
Apply By: Feb. 19
Do you still sleep with your favorite stuffed animal? Ever get jealous of the little kids in line at Build-a-Bear?
What: The Harvard Club of St. Louis is sponsoring 10 paid internships at Build-a-Bear this summer.
Who: All undergraduates and GSAS Master's students are eligible. Preference is given to those who aren't from the St. Louis area, but St. Louis residents are encouraged to apply as well.
Where: St. Louis, MO. Interns will be housed at Washington University in St. Louis along with interns from Princeton and Yale.
Pay: TBD. Housing is provided.
Apply By: Feb. 25 (Please note that students should apply through Crimson Careers.)
Want to go into education? Work at Breakthrough.
What: Breakthrough is a national non-profit organization that targets high potential, low income middle-school students, and helps high-achieving college students experience careers in education.
Who: Undergraduates in an accredited university.
Where: Breakthrough has sites all over the country, including one in Cambridge, MA.
Pay: Stipend for the summer, and housing is usually provided for college students who need it.
Apply By: Mar. 1
Interested in the cyberspace? Work at the Berkman Center this summer.
What: Summer interns work on projects related to media and journalism, policy, identity and privacy, civic engagement, education, technology, the developing world, and law. So pretty much everything.
Who: Everyone
Where: Cambridge, MA.
Pay: $11.50 an hour for 35 hours a week. Housing and transportation are not provided, so be prepared to budget your earnings.
Apply By: Mar. 5
So even if you've procrastinated, missed all the early due dates, and have already lined up a job selling ice cream to whiny kids, there is still hope! Your Dairy Queen friends will be jealous.
Sections
Harvard is sexy. And now we have proof. Sonia Dara ’12 was recently featured in Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition 2010 against the smoldering background of Rajasthan, India. An economics concentrator who is currently taking a year off for her modeling career, Sonia says in her Sports Illustrated interview, “What I like about Sports Illustrated and the girls who grace the cover is they’ve all gone on and people recognize them, people know them and it’s allowed them to pursue what they want to do.”
For more on Dara, check out the results of IvyGate's Facebook stalking. And be sure to keep an eye out for a For the Moment feature on Dara in next Thursday's issue of FM magazine!
Sections
The world may be obsessed with our sex lives, but Yalies seem to be obsessed with their own.  Yeah, it's that time of year again, so get ready for Sex Week at Yale, the hottest event to hit New Haven since the naked party.
Intended "to pique students’ interest and spark dialogue through creative, interactive, and innovative programming," Sex Week at Yale began in 2002 as a "Kosher Sex Day" organized by Yale Hillel. The plan expanded to a "Kosher Sex Week" because, as founder Eric J. Rubenstein quickly realized, according to the Sex Week at Yale Web site, "with a topic as loaded as sex... a day just isn’t enough."
After receiving enormous interest outside of the Jewish community, Yale Hillel agreed to broaden the focus of the program. Celebrated annually the week before Valentine's Day, Sex Week at Yale has attracted sexlebrities such as Dr. Ruth K. Westheimer, Ron Jeremy, and "a bunch of academics who talk about sex but don’t actually have it," according to IvyGate.
This year's Sex Week features sexpert Susan M. Block (better known as Dr. Suzy), seven-time Woody Award winner Sasha Grey, and pioneering female to male transsexual porn star Buck Angel. With lectures such as "Babeland’s Lip Tricks: Blowjobs and Going Down," "Sexual Fantasies," and "The 'M' Word" (spoiler alert: it's masturbation), expect our frenemies in New Haven to go from sexually inept to sexually adept.
The Yale Daily News has even gotten in on the action. After conducting a poll among 1,850 Yale undergraduates, the YDN concluded that, compared to their Harvard counterparts, Yale students have double to triple the sex partners.
Events around campus have begun to get hot and heavy after the Yale Pundits interrupted a Yale Political Union Debate entitled “Resolved: Reject Hookup Culture" by hooking up...everywhere.
Talk about Bulldogs in heat.
Sections
This week, say the name "Niall Ferguson" and everyone starts talking about one thing. (And no, it's not how great he was in "History 1965: International Financial History, 1700 to the Present.")
The Daily Mail, a British newspaper, has claimed that Ferguson, 45, is leaving his wife for another woman.
The article predicts that “the divorce will be one of the most spectacular of the coming year.” Ferguson, a professor of history and of businesses administration, is allegedly leaving his wife for Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a notable feminist and intellectual who is a famous figure in her own right. She wrote the script for the Theo van Gogh film "Submission," and then when van Gogh was murdered, the killer issued her a death threat. She now lives under constant protection.
The Daily Mail piece, filled with scandal and intrigue, makes some serious accusations—including that Ferguson has cheated on his wife Sue Douglas, with whom he has two children, multiple times.
Is the Daily Mail a legitimate source? We're not sure, but The Daily Intel, New York Magazine's blog, seems to think so. Frankly, we'd recommend reading everything with a healthy dollop of skepticism and a critical eye.
Anyway, regardless of what’s true and what’s not, one thing is certain: this is probably a juicier read than what you'd be assigned if you were in Professor Ferguson's class.
