Sections
Just when you thought we couldn't get enough of Tufts, we stumbled across a new set of specimens from our neighbor in Somerville: admissions videos from high school applicants for Tufts' Class of 2014.
When Elle Woods applied to Harvard Law School, she hired a director to film her admissions video—which eventually got her accepted. It seems like Tufts is now encouraging students to do the same, save the hiring a director part, of course.
In an obvious effort to try to be quirky, optional essay number 6b on the Tufts' college admissions application asked candidates to "share a one-minute video that says something about you, upload it to YouTube or another easily accessible website, and give us the URL. What you do or say is totally up to you. (Unfortunately, we are unable to watch videos that come in any form other than a URL link.)"
Unlike the art supplement submissions that Harvard College accepts as part of its application—which might include videos in the form of DVDs for admissions officers' eyes only—these YouTube shorts are for public viewing (or humiliation, depending on how you view them).
We sifted through some of the creative, awe-inspiring, and downright geeky videos to bring your our five favorite types (and the statements they seem to be making).
1. "I am an awesome musician. Check out this song I wrote...about Tufts!" Believe it or not, a surprising amount of people decided to sing about Tufts, though some were slightly better than others.
2. "I'm going to be creative and tell a narrative about why Tufts is for me." A creative approach, yes, like this animated autobiography. But original? Maybe.
3. "I am a superstar at my sport. Watch me win." You can ice skate. She can jump rope. He can throw fire. Their video quality may be lacking, or they may have really gone over the time limit, but these applicants (especially the fire guy) think they're pretty hot stuff.
4. "I'm a huge nerd, and I'm proud of it." Too bad this Math Dance isn't a clever drinking game for p-set night...yet. At the time of this posting, it's been viewed almost 70,000 times!
5. "Make a video? Hah. I already do this for a living." These are some of the most well-done and artistic videos, including one about color (our favorite), one about knowledge, and one about, well, making videos.
Sections
If watching the Olympics has inspired you to grab your skates and strut your stuff on the ice (that triple axel doesn’t look that hard now, does it?), then have no fear! You can get all the practice you need right here at Harvard.
The Harvard Allston Skating Rink, opened in January, is a temporary addition to the Allston neighborhood that is meant to boost community ties. It is free to students and the public on Fridays from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m., Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Skaters (or aspiring skaters) can bring their own or borrow ice skates there—but the numbers are limited so be warned.
The indoor rink is located on 168 Western Ave, just behind the Business School. It’s just a super-short and easy ride on the 66 bus from Harvard Square Station. Or you can take the Quad shuttle to the stadium and finish with a short walk. If you’re feeling extra sporty, it’s a beautiful stroll along the Charles.
So, strap up those laces and channel that inner Yu-na Kim. Even if gold is a bit out of the reach, ice-skating is an excellent study break.
Sections
Last night, Pforzheimer dining hall was the site of an epic battle (the geek kind, not the Greek kind). 
 
In the first ever Quad-wide trivia challenge sponsored by the three HoCos, 60 students divided into seven teams for a chance to win a $20 gift card to BerryLine and, of course, eternal House glory.
During each round, teams had 10 minutes to answer 10 trivia questions that were displayed on the projection screen. To submit their answers, team members had to run up the stairs to the scorekeepers on the second floor of the dining hall.
After over an hour of answering questions, running up and down the stairs, and feasting on chips and ice cream sandwiches, Pfoho emerged victorious.
We asked enthusiastic competitor Chelsea S. Link '12, a member of the winning team, “Trivia Newton-John,” about the secret to their success.
"Nonstop awesome," she said. "Being on home turf, we knew how to navigate the stairs."
The questions covered everything from common knowledge to more obscure tidbits, such as the name of John Harvard's boat (Queen's Head) and the color of a polar bear's tongue (black).
Erika M. Lovin '11, a social chair on the Pfoho HoCo, was responsible for the idea of a trivia challenge as an effort to foster community in the Quad.
