News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED 1:14 a.m.
Christopher M. Gordon, chief operating officer of the Allston Development Group, will be stepping down from his position this summer due to the halt on construction of Harvard's Allston campus, the University announced today.
"The work I came here to do will be happening at a slower pace and intensity as announced by [University President Drew G.] Faust last December and that reality led to today’s announcement," Gordon wrote in an e-mailed statement.
Faust announced in December that the University would be halting construction of its $1 billion Allston Science Complex, the centerpiece of Harvard's planned 50-year expansion into Allston, due to financial troubles. Harvard's endowment shrunk by 30 percent last year amidst the recession.
While Harvard has been reconsidering the nature of Harvard's presence in Allston—including exploring the possibility of co-developing property in the neighborhood with another institution, University officials say that Gordon's departure is not part of a shift in strategy. 
 
“This is a personnel change, not a change in focus," Chief University Planner Kathy A. Spiegelman said. "Our priorities remain the same."
Yet some Allston residents said they view Gordon's departure with a sense of forboding.
"There's an uncomfortable feeling of wondering who's going to take over," said Chairman of the Allston Civic Task Force Paul Berkeley.
Gordon came to Harvard in 2005 to create and lead the Allston Development Group and "advance the planning and development of Harvard's Allston campus," according to a statement from Faust. He has since also become involved in various other University capital projects, including the renovation of the Fogg Art Museum and the renewal of the undergraduate Houses.
During his five years on the Allston Development Group, Gordon helped develop and refine the design of the Allston Science Complex as well as Harvard's broader plans for expansion in the area. He also made steps toward relocating and revitalizing the Charlesview apartment complex, and helped establish the Harvard Allston Education Portal.
 
While Gordon characterized the relationship between the University and the Allston community as "good" and "constructive," residents said that they had mixed feelings about Gordon's tenure.
"I found him throughly uncommunicative," said Allston Resident Brent Whelan '73. "I did not feel that Chris was a friend of the community or a friend of collaborative development with the community."
But other residents said that they had grown fond of Gordon over the years. Berkeley called Gordon "a good person to work with." 
"I've always had a pretty good feeling about Chris," Berkeley said, adding that he thought many of his fellow residents would miss Gordon and would be "sorry to see him go."
Gordon, who led the $4.4 billion renovation of Logan International Airport before coming to Harvard, will continue to work at Harvard Business School teaching real estate courses. 
"I look forward to remaining a part of the Harvard community by continuing to teach at Harvard Business School and being available on issues as needed," Gordon wrote.
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
