News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—For the Harvard men’s basketball team Friday night, it was a game of either feast or famine, particularly on the defensive end.
On the plus side, the Crimson showed off its ability to force turnovers at a high clip from the opening tip.
Rookie point guard Brandyn Curry brought his usual defensive energy to the starting role, forcing Quaker star Zack Rosen into a five-second violation on Penn’s first offensive possession.
Whether it was stripping him on a drive or forcing him into an ill-advised pass, Curry and co-captain Jeremy Lin combined efforts to hold the sophomore guard Rosen—who leads the Ivy League in conference scoring average—to two points and a game-high four turnovers in the first half.
“He has a good handle, shifty off the bounce,” Curry said of his Quaker counterpart. “They run a lot of picks to try to free him up, so it’s really tough to guard him.”
Rosen’s teammates were no better at taking care of the ball. Seven other Penn players had at least one turnover in the opening frame, with starting guards Dan Monckton and Rob Belcore each contributing two.
Looking to take advantage of passes on the perimeter, Lin and sophomore guard Max Kenyi both had two steals in the first half, but on occasion, Harvard didn’t even need to expend any effort to regain possession.
Penn’s Drew Godwin threw away an inbounds pass when he passed the ball to Rosen before the star sophomore was ready. Though no Harvard player was in the vicinity, the ball hit Rosen in the head and went out of bounds.
Overall, the Crimson did well to capitalize on the 21 total giveaways—13 of which came in the first half—converting them into 24 points.
And its high-intensity defensive pressure was especially crucial during the contest’s final 36 seconds, when Harvard fell behind, 66-65, and was forced to foul.
Because the Crimson had several fouls to give, Penn was forced to inbound the ball from its own end of the court four times in a row.
On the first inbounds play, good defensive pressure by Harvard forced a Quaker timeout with 33.4 seconds to go. Penn would get the ball into play on its second try, but Curry knocked it out of bounds.
Then Rosen received the ball and was fouled by Kenyi, setting up another inbounds situation.
On the next play, Mike Howlett received the pass and tried to throw it back to Rosen, but he sent the ball high. Penn’s final turnover of the night gave Harvard the ball with 25 seconds left, setting up freshman Kyle Casey’s eventual game-winning free throws.
HOT AT HOME
But when Penn was able to hold onto the ball, it was able to score nearly at will.
The Quakers shot 61 percent for the game, going 11-for-19 beyond the arc.
“They made some tough shots, and they made open shots,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “I definitely thought that we did a heck of a job of trying to get there to challenge shots. If they’re making them, they’re making them, and they certainly made them tonight.”
Despite hobbling around the court for most of the game, Belcore had a career-high 17 points—including five three-pointers. The sophomore made all three of his first-half field goal attempts, as did Monckton, helping their team remain within five at the break.
After nailing 65 percent of their shots in the first half, the Quakers came out hotter in the second’s opening minutes, hitting seven of their first nine field-goal attempts to take a three-point lead on a Monckton jumper with 12:47 left to play. Harvard was unable to respond to the barrage, starting the half with four straight misses.
Midway through the frame, another string of four missed shots, along with two turnovers, allowed the Quakers to rush ahead, as a left-wing three by Rosen gave his team a seven-point lead with 4:53 to go. All but two of Rosen’s 15 points came in the second half.
Of Harvard’s starters, Casey struggled the most, primarily in the paint. Excluding a two-handed slam—coming in response to Rosen’s trey—he missed all eight of his field goal tries in the final frame, which were mostly contested layup attempts.
“He just got into a funk there where he couldn’t get one to go,” Amaker said. “He got that dunk, and I thought that allowed him to calm down a little bit. And then we wanted to keep going to Kyle. We thought that was the matchup we wanted to go to.”
LIVING HISTORY
The victory at the historic Palestra gave Harvard its first sweep of Penn since the 1941-42 season, along with a program-record 10 road wins. Friday night also represented the Crimson’s 20th Division I win.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few days. Click here to read more about our project.
Winthrop is Harvard’s most welcoming and illustrious House with probably the best corps of alumni that Harvard can offer: Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke ’75, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein ’75, and the Kennedy brothers: naval officer Joseph P. Kennedy '38, former U.S. President John F. Kennedy ’40 and former U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56.
Dining Hall: Winthrop’s subterranean dining hall is cozy and hospitable, but it can get too close for comfort. The dining hall was originally designed to serve only the building where it is housed: Gore Hall, a former freshman dormitory. (Standish Hall, another former freshman dorm, was later joined with Gore Hall to form Winthrop House.) The dining hall got so crowded this year that it recently had to impose stricter inter-House dining restrictions, requiring all Winthrop students to secure Winthrop House stickers for their IDs. At least the dining hall is a convenient place to hang out with friends and do work late at night, boasting a lasting stock of soda, coffee, tea, and carbs. The food itself during meals is middle-of-the-road: better than Adams House and Annenberg Hall, but not as high-quality as Dunster or Currier.
Winthrop’s dining hall was flooded with bathroom water for a few hours two years ago, and so-called friends may mock you about it. More significantly, the dining hall lost its most lion-hearted member due to Harvard’s budget cuts. Winthrop’s friendly former card-swiper, Sonia, knew the names of every Winthrop student for the past decade, but she left last spring after taking Harvard’s early retirement package.
Score: +150 for coziness, +120 for supporting productive late-night work, -20 for sometimes still getting too crowded, -50 for losing Sonia
Common Spaces: As a combination of two former freshman dorms, Winthrop's common spaces amount to the dining hall, the Junior Common Room, the Tonkens Room (a smaller version of the JCR), and wonderful but dutifully quiet House library. The JCR and Tonkens Room are often used by student organizations, so most students don’t rely on them as hangout places. That said, the JCR is a beautiful throwback to old Harvard, replete with luxurious couches and chairs. It is ideal for studying, hanging out with friends, watching TV, or showing off piano skills when it is open.
Other spaces include Waka Commons (which is known mostly for having a kitchen), a couple of practice rooms, a 24/7 gym, a computer lab, two laundry rooms, and two small classrooms—in addition to a Senior Common Room, art studio, and dark room that are never open. Standish and Gore still feel separate since no student-accessible tunnels connect the two buildings. If you don’t get placed in a choice entryway, be prepared to haul your laundry outside.
Score: +250 for a great House Library, +100 for a beautiful and classy JCR, -100 for not having tunnels
Rooms: Winthrop’s housing is not luxurious, but it is usually tolerable. Thin fire doors prevail in many bedrooms—which means you can hear everything that is going on in the adjacent room, and the person in that room can hear everything you’re telling your parents on the phone. Most sophomores usually sleep in bunk beds for the full year (unless they are in DeWolfe), though juniors enjoy somewhat better housing. Seniors have no guarantee of enjoying a single at all, unlike seniors in many other Houses at Harvard.
Score: +50 for a lovely River view, +50 for a beautiful Georgian exterior and sense of history, -50 for thin walls and fire-doors, -100 for not guaranteeing singles to long-suffering seniors
House spirit: Winthrop’s House spirit is alternately unassuming and declarative. Since Winthrop has won the Straus Cup twice in a row, the word “Three-peat!” has become a common rallying cry. Apart from intramural sports, Winthrop’s House community can be found in the dining hall on any given night, where students often study and hang out.
The tutors are great to talk to at meals and give solid advice about papers, fellowships, and life in general. Winthrop’s new House Masters—Law School Professor Ronald S. Sullivan Jr. and Lecturer Stephanie Robinson—have made Winthrop feel more like a home with spirited conversation in the dining hall and at open houses and class teas. While Winthrop does not have as ostentatious a House spirit as Pforzheimer or Mather, Winthrop’s pride is reserved but true—seen in the quiet burdens that residents brush off with empathy and a smile. With a lion as Winthrop’s mascot, it would be best to consider Winthrop House as Harvard’s equivalent to Gryffindor.
Score: +100 for excelling at IM sports, -50 for not uniformly bursting with House spirit, +200 for unassuming pride
Location: On a map, it becomes clear that Winthrop is at the center of the River Houses’ orbit. It is so conveniently located that you can walk a short distance to the Yard, the Square, and your friends in other Houses. You need to plan your time efficiently if you’re walking to class though. Noch’s is three minutes away, Sever Hall is 8-10 minutes away, and the Science Center is 10-12 minutes away.
Score: +100 for being relatively close to everything, -20 for not being so close to the Yard that you can wake up at 10 for a 10 a.m. class and lumber over there, +100 for being on the Charles River
Quirks: Symbolizing the House’s grace and humility, Winthrop does not have a tower. Winthrop House Superintendent David Simms—or, as we call him, Mr. Simms—is a friendly presence in G-entryway. The House also holds yoga lessons in the JCR every Sunday afternoon.
Perhaps quirkiest of all, Winthrop lays claim to an entryway that has fallen into disrepair. Harvard allegedly does not have the money to fix the foundations of its former K entryway, a house facing Memorial Drive. A door in J-entryway awkwardly still has the words “K ENTRY” imprinted on it—leading outside to face the decaying house.
Score: +50 for not having a pompous bell-tower, +20 for yoga lessons, -50 for wasted rooming space, +200 for awesome staffers
Committee Ranking: Sorry, John Winthrop. This was a great review, but somebody has to be 12 out of 12. This year, it's you.
Photo by Kane Hsieh '12, Crimson Staff Photographer
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Oh, Yale. We love how artsy you  are—frankly, it’s downright endearing. According to The New York Times, this new program will introduce students  to “projection engineering, image-creation software and motion graphics,”  all for the sake of transforming them into “well-rounded theater professionals.”
On an unrelated note, Rumpus,  a Yale tabloid, just put out their famous annual “Yale’s 50 Most Beautiful”  list. IvyGate has all the deets for now, but don’t get  too excited: FM’s “Fifteen Hottest Freshmen” is coming  out soon enough, and you don’t have to hook up with anyone on staff  to get on the list.
Oh, and one last thing about our friends  in New Haven—who, by the way, are about to embark on a two-week spring break (!). Apparently, Bill Clinton  will be speaking at Yale’s Class Day this spring. Maybe he’ll  just use the same speech he gave on the same occasion at Harvard in 2007.
On the West coast, funny things are  happening at Stanford. The campus’s weekly humor  magazine, The  Stanford Flipside,  organized a fake activities fair this week, where interested students  could sign up to join organizations like the nascent White Male Community Center (WMCC). We sometimes wish there were  such things at Harvard, but then we remember that we already have Final  Clubs.
At Princeton, The Daily  Princetonian has done it again. Just yesterday, one columnist penned  a piece  in defense of the Bicker system,  through which students attempt to join progressive, inclusive organizations called “eating clubs.” The article, titled “I got hosed and I still like Bicker,” draws  some uncomfortable comparisons to the author’s ill-fated applications  to Harvard and Yale: “Think about Bicker this way: I was  rejected by Harvard and Yale but was accepted at Princeton,” he wrote.  “Should I be humiliated that I was deemed unworthy of the color Crimson  but was correctly identified as a true Tiger? Of course not!” Whatever you say. We’re here  for you if you ever want to talk.
Sections
More than 50 students and community members packed themselves into b.good yesterday morning to run with their favorite food-inspired superhero, "Burgerman," a.k.a. Samuel B. Novey '11. This week, they were joined by Massachusetts State Auditor candidate Mike Lake and the Harvard LowKeys, who sang a burger-fied rendition of "Alone" by Heart.
Yesterday's run seemed to focus on one important concept that has driven Novey and his challenge: passion. For running, education, and of course, burgers.
Novey started his Burgerman challenge four weeks ago, when he first invited community members to join him in training for the Boston Marathon to raise money for Citizen Schools—and eating free b.good burgers.
This past week, he received an endorsement from University President Drew G. Faust during a speech given to the visiting parents of Harvard juniors. According to Novey, Faust rallied attendees to support Burgerman and his cause.
For six more weeks, Novey will be running (in his trademark b.good burger costume) with community members every Saturday morning to raise awareness for education. (Jog along with him, and you'll get to eat free b.good burgers afterward too!) He has also just announced plans for a race against the Green Line before he finally runs in the Boston Marathon.
Photo by Xi Yu '13, Crimson Staff Writer.
Sections
Wish you could eat healthy but can’t resist the Cracklin’ Oat Bran siren call? Tired of beating yourself up after a fourth helping of fro yo? Check out these recipes from four Matherites who answered (over their House open list) a plea for creative and healthy dhall options.
Self-made Pizza
Creator: Punit N. Shah '12
Ingredients: 1 burrito-sized whole wheat tortilla (or pita bread), tomato sauce, spices (garlic powder, basil, rosemary, chili pepper), mozzarella cheese, grilled vegetables from main course line.
Directions: Take the tortilla/pita bread and smother it in sauce (basil pepper works best). Cover in spices (those recommended or whichever other ones appeal to you). Add mozzarella from the salad bar and grilled vegetables from the main course line. Put pizza onto the panini press and close the lid so it is a few milimeters away from the top of the pizza. Wait about eight minutes or until the cheese is melted and starting to brown. Gently peel off the pizza.
Review: As the blended spices mix across your tongue, you can devour this pita pizza in peace, knowing that (unlike regular dhall pizza) it is not dripping with grease.
Oranges and Fro Yo
Creator: Punit N. Shah '12
Ingredients: 1-2 oranges (preferably seedless), fro yo, chocolate syrup.
Directions: Peel the orange and place each slice on a plate so that they form a circle around the edge with a small space in the middle. Add vanilla fro yo in a nice, conular shape in the center of the plate. Using just a bit of chocolate syrup, make circles with the fro you, moving from the outside of the plate towards the center.
Review: Perhaps not the healthiest dessert there is (apples, anyone?), but the chocolate-drizzled oranges and icy sweet fro yo create a heavenly blend of deliciousness. At least you get your daily intake of vitamin C. (Just don’t go back for seconds.)
Pita Grilled Cheese/Egg Salad
Creator: Emma W. Wood '12
Ingredients: Half of a piece of whole-wheat pita, shredded cheese, mustard or salad dressing, sliced tomatos, egg or chicken salad.
Directions: Spread mustard or salad dressing on the inside of the pita bread (try a mixture of olive oil, balsamic vinegar, and mustard). Fill pita with sliced tomatoes and cheese, using egg or chicken salad as either a substitute for or complement to the cheese. Put in the panini press and allow cheese to melt.
Review: You must love cheese for this one, so be sure to have it on a day when the dhall is serving up slices you like. Definitely go for Wood’s special dressing—it takes the sandwich beyond the ordinary mix of flavors.
The “Impressive Sandwich”
Creator: Alexandra M. Rose '12
Ingredients: Two slices of bread, grilled chicken breast, lettuce, tomatoes, onions, cucumbers, crumbled blue cheese.
Directions: Toast the two slices of bread. Spread blue cheese on one piece and microwave for about 30 seconds. Add all other ingredients.
Review: Healthy yet delicious—this sandwich carries its name well.
Supped-up Soup
Creator: Megan E. McKenzie '12
Ingredients: Carrot ginger soup, garlic powder, rosemary, chili powder.
Directions: Mix and enjoy!
Review: A quick and easy way to take the normal dhall soup into something extraordinary in a short amount of time. This is one you should definitely try…as long as you like carrots.
Now you can mix up your daily rotation of golden nuggets and hamburgers with some helathier fare. Nothing you like here? Come up with your own (and share your recipes with us at flyby@thecrimson.com).
Photo by Kane Hsieh '12, Crimson Staff Photographer.
Sections
Around this time every year, a crucial question looms over campus. It descends upon uncertain freshmen, who confer and conjecture about it with their blocking groups. It provokes some upperclassmen, hearts aflame with House spirit, to bristle at the smallest slight towards their Houses. Everyone wants to know but claims to know one thing—which of Harvard’s 12 residential Houses is the best?
It's a conundrum that we've tried to tackle before, and some of you loved our conclusions—others, not so much.
But things change: House Masters come and go, House spirit grows and dies, traditions proliferate and fade. So, this year, we decided to revisit the search for the best House on campus.
To start, we invited 12 Crimson editors, one from each residential House, to write a review for their own House. They were asked to comment on the following categories: dining hall, common spaces, rooms, House spirit, and quirks. Each category was awarded a score, which in all cases was assigned pretty much nonsensically (but which you may interpret earnestly if you so desire—just don’t say we didn’t warn you).
Once all 12 pieces were completed, we redistributed them among the reviewers for careful perusal. Only then was each writer asked to submit a list of rankings for the Houses. (Yes, they were required to include their own Houses in these lists, but no, not all of them ranked their own Houses as first.)
We then added the ranking numbers for each House to determine its overall ranking. As this week progresses, we will be posting the House reviews in reverse rank order. You’ll find out which House made it to the top of our list on Thursday.
We hope you’ll agree that we’ve established a fair, if subjective, methodology for this very serious enterprise. Harvard’s House system has often been called the crown jewel of the College, and we agree. So even if we’ve given your House a low ranking this year, it’s probably still a pretty spiffy place to call home, and we're sure the staff and House Committees do a great job cultivating House spirit and making you feel comfortable and welcome.
But that doesn't mean we can't have a little fun with it anyway. So let the countdown begin!
Image courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
And the Housing Day mania continues. The popular trend of producing videos aimed at hyper-anxious freshmen has spread from the Quad to Leverett House, which debuted its creation over the weekend.
The video, entitled "Multiply," does not feature a fictional backstory a la Pfoho or special effects like those of Currier. Rather, it resembles a typical music video. "I gotta testify, Leverett House gonna stay extra fly," the song goes. "We just don't die, we multiply."
In case there is any doubt about what "multiply" is referring to, a brief interlude interrupts the song. In a classroom, a teacher attempts to mathematically explain why rabbit overpopulation has occurred.
"Whoa, can you run that by me one more time? Totes don't get it," a "Mathur" resident says. Eventually the teacher is able to come down to the level of this ignoramus, saying: "Because bunnies like to have—" Sex? Babies? Sex for babies? The scene is cut off abruptly.
The Leverett residents in the video also demonstrate their superiority by dominating—and easily intimidating—residents of "Cabutt," "Adumbs," and "LOL Low Well" during IM basketball. Also interspersed throughout the video are a party in the House library, singing and dancing on the roof, and more basketball. In the final scene, residents party in the Junior Common Room while throwing around dollar bills.
So will Leverett's efforts pay off? Will the House of bunnies receive a high ranking in our Housing Market reviews? Keep watching FlyBy to find out.
Photo courtesy of LevSPN.
Correction: Mar. 10, 2010
An earlier version of this post stated incorrectly that the final scene of the video takes place in the Leverett Dining Hall. In fact, the final scene takes place in the Junior Common Room.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few days. Click here to read more about our project.
Although if you ask River folk about Cabot House, they’ll probably say it’s in another state, it’s actually just a ten-minute walk down Garden Street. Cabot offers spacious rooms, a great community, and a location that’s generally peaceful—although with two other Quad Houses within a few feet, it’s never hard to find a party.
Dining Hall: While it looks a lot like a concrete bunker from the outside, the interior of Cabot dining hall is cozy, and there are always seats available. The big windows overlooking the Quad let a lot of light in, and in the winter, you can watch the snow fall outside while drinking hot chocolate, which you can get at basically any time between meals because the drinks, cereal, and dessert are all outside the servery. Even if you want something more substantial between meals, you can usually convince a member of the dining hall staff to let you in, since Cabot’s dining hall staff, including the much-beloved Roy and Slavy, are some of the nicest around.
Score: +200 for atmosphere, -50 for outside appearance
Common Spaces: Most people go to the dining hall to hang out, but each of Cabot’s six buildings has its own living room. The Junior Common Room, used as the performance space for the annual House musical, is huge. It has a pool table and a huge TV room next door—which is sometimes used for House events, though it's usually empty. The House library is one of the nicest spaces to study, though it is a bit small. There are several comfy chairs in addition to a big table, and although the book collection is small, it’s open all the time.
Score: +150 for available spaces, -100 for under-use
Rooms: Cabot consists of six residence halls, four of which are connected by tunnels, which makes going to breakfast—or dinner—in your pajamas very easy. Two of these are mostly made up of large singles with hallway bathrooms, and the rest of the House consists of suites ranging from senior singles to one six-person crowded suite, although most of these are four-bedroom suites. If you want to live in a suite sophomore year, you will probably be placed in n housing, but there are many uncrowded suites for juniors and seniors. Almost everyone who requests a single will get one, which comes with the perk of having hallway bathrooms cleaned every day.
Score: +300 for lots of space, -50 for thin walls
House spirit: Although some people come back to Cabot only to sleep, Cabot offers a very pleasant and intimate community for people who spend any time in the House. The House list is usually full of routine requests and announcements, but sometimes debates (most recently, one on pornography) get everyone riled up. House Committee-sponsored events usually are fairly low-key get-togethers, but there are a few big events every year, including a catered Festivus dinner and the annual Dutch Auction.
Score: +100 for nice events, -300 for low attendance and infrequency
Location: Cabot is in the Quad, which means that it’s farther than most Houses from the Yard. But as much as people complain about the distance to the Yard, it’s really only a shuttle ride away from everything. The Quad is its own tight community—Currier and Pforzheimer are both only a 10- or 20-foot dash away—and it has its own gym, the Quadrangle Recreational Athletic Center, where you can almost always find a machine when the Cabot gym cardio equipment is in use. The Quad also gives you access to a lot of cool places that most River House residents never see, including a lot of interesting restaurants on Huron Avenue and on Mass. Ave. in the direction of Porter Square.
Score: -200 for the shuttle, +150 for Quad community
Quirks: Cabot is the only Quad House that is actually on the Quad itself, so when the weather gets nice, Cabot holds frequent barbecues. The House also holds Senior Common Room dinners two or three times a semester, sometimes with musically inclined Cabot residents performing (recent performers have included cellist Bong Ihn Koh '08 and violinist Ryu Goto '11). The House also has some eccentric traditions, including the “lambing” of a House member at the annual Dutch Auction.
Score: +50 for barbecues, lambing, and all that jazz
Committee Ranking: 11 out of 12—not too great, but not as bad as you could be.
Our Rankings So Far: 
11. Cabot
12. Winthrop
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
