Sections
What does the President of the Dominican Republic think about the Harvard Book Store?
From what we gathered in a short conversation with Leonel Fernández Reyna at the store's quaint premises on Mass. Ave. last night, he thinks it's pretty swell—especially that massive, book-churning robot called the Paige M. Gutenborg Book Machine, which can print a 300-page paperback in about four minutes.
"I have seen the future," Fernández said.
So how did we snag these precious few moments with DR's most powerful man? Well, last night, we spotted a bunch of police cars and limousines outside the Harvard Book Store and people in suits dispersed throughout the store, some sitting down and looking at books, while others tapped furiously onto their smart phones. Surely there had to be someone important in town.
And there he was. Leonel Fernández Reyna himself, browsing for some books. He told us that he was in town to visit a government official who was ill, and felt compelled to stop by the bookstore before leaving.
"I think this place is unique in the sense that it brings a community of reading," said Fernández, who typically visits the bookstore when he's in town. The nonfiction collection was by far his favorite, he added.
Check out our short video interview with Fernández, during which he talks about the bookstore, his favorite books, and the "way of the future."
P.S., if you can't spot the Dominican Republic on a map, shame on you.
Sections
For those of you who couldn't get  close enough to  the film crews  shooting on Holyoke St. last year, the new full-length  trailer for The  Social Network that was released  today should provide the most thorough look yet into the highly  anticipated  film about the founding of Facebook and its Harvard roots.
From the looks of it, the movie will  likely not  only be the biggest film about Harvard to date, but also the most  accurate. A quick  glance though the script—which leaked onto the  Internet over  a year  ago—features a plethora of references to final clubs, the  undergraduate  Houses, and even student groups like The Crimson.
In the  face of heavy restrictions on on-campus filming (somehow  bypassed for  2007's The Great Debaters), the trailer makes do with fairly  respectable imitations: a fake John Harvard statue draped  in snow and a  window labeled "Maxwell Dworkin" both make appearances.   In what is probably the coolest but most unnecessary element  of the  film's faithful depiction of Harvard, a shot of Facebook  founder Mark  Zuckerberg's computer screen (at 1:04) shows what looks  like the actual  Eliot House website from 2003.
Beyond its Cambridge-related quirks, The  Social  Network seems  set to be one of the best movies of the year, something that West  Wing fans have long predicted since  Aaron  Sorkin was tapped to  write the script. But the classic  Sorkin fast-talking wit—“If you guys  were the  inventors of Facebook, you’d have invented Facebook”—isn’t all  there is to look  forward to.
Judging from the trailer, Jesse Eisenberg seems  well-equipped to  portray the famed Zuckerberg ego, the eerie  choral cover of Radiohead’s  “Creep” bodes well for the soundtrack (even if the  score is penned by  Trent Reznor), and the girl in Harvard panties suggests that this movie  will be far more exciting than your actual college life.
The  Social Network, directed by David Fincher, will be   in theaters October 1.
