News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard wraps up its non-conference schedule with the third contest against a Patriot League opponent when the squad takes on Lehigh at home. With a win, the Crimson could go undefeated in non-Ivy action. Kickoff is at noon, so check here starting at 11:45 for live action!
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Harvard has Martin H. Peretz, but Stanford, it seems, has Victor Davis Hanson, who wrote a recent piece on academia’s alleged distance from reality. And when The Stanford Daily’s editorial board subsequently used this piece to accuse Hanson—a Senior Fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution—of what it perceived to be racism, quite a kerfluffle erupted both on campus and in the blogosphere.
Hanson responded to the editorial on his blog, urging the Daily to “either apologize for the baseless slur of racism and the cheap language (e.g., ‘trash,’ ‘toxic,’ ‘despicable’), or at least show how I was in error, and that, in fact, there are logical and consistent criteria that qualify some groups for racial preference in admissions and hiring in the university and not others.” The Stanford Review provides the full story.
Administrators at the University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire have announced that they will respond to an e-mail sent by Systems Department Chair Tom Hilton, in which he encouraged a senior not to advertise the Eau Queer Film Festival. “I applaud reminders that people who identify themselves as gay or lesbian people, fellow humans who deserve affection and respect,” Hilton wrote in the e-mail, sent on Sept. 24. “However, I decry attempts to legitimize their addictions and compulsions.” In a statement, the University’s Chancellor said that the administration will address the issue, although it is yet unclear what the response will be.
At Yale, the Yale Daily News obtained a copy of the New Haven police department’s report on the raid of the Oct. 2 party at Elevate Lounge in downtown New Haven. Although the report provides a thorough account of the events that eventually led to the arrest of two Yale undergraduates (and the tasering of one), three students—all eyewitnesses—maintain the report still contains factual inaccuracies and misrepresents some of their peers as overly truculent.
Freshman and sophomore women at Princeton are rushing sororities at a 28 percent increase since last year, The Daily Princetonian reports. Even though Princeton continues to deny official recognition to Greek organizations on campus, 210 women have begun the rush process at one of three sororities.
Sections
Before Joe Kristol '09 was recently deployed to Afghanistan as a Platoon Commander in the Marine Corps, he sent an e-mail to family and friends requesting donations of items such as sunflower seeds, toothbrushes, and protein bars—all of which his Marines could use while serving in the war.
His plea has been answered in part by Alex W. Palmer '12 and Christian Yoo '13, co-founders of the group Harvard College Helping Heroes. The organization, which has orchestrated two previous projects aimed at honoring veterans, has set out to create a Harvard-wide food and supply drive for Kristol and his Marines.
Palmer reports that the drive has seen incredible support thus far. “[Kristol] is a graduate, and lot of people still know him on campus or still know his name,” Palmer said, adding that this connection between Kristol and Harvard might be spurring much of the support.
“Right now I am sitting next to six bags filled with stuff—sunflower seeds, beef jerky, magazines, granola and power bars—it’s so great,” said Palmer.
Of all the things collected so far, sunflower seeds have stolen the show in terms of quantity. Palmer, who seems to be an expert in the subject, explained why this might be.
“Sunflower seeds are popular in the military for the same reason they're popular in baseball—they give your mouth something to do while you're bored, and they're great for spitting," Palmer wrote in an e-mail. "Plus, sunflower seeds are healthy and filling, so they're also a good snack."
The drive has been taking place for a week now and will end on Wednesday, Oct. 20. Until then, items can be donated at Quincy 320. After that point, Palmer and Yoo are planning a care-package assembly event for the following Saturday where anyone interested can come, assist with the packages, and write letters to the Marines. Perhaps the hosts will even provide some sunflower seeds for the event.
Photo courtesy of Alex W. Palmer.
Sections
The Starbucks on Church Street apparently ran out of milk today. Around 6:15 p.m. we spotted signs on the door saying, "Read! We have no milk. Only coffee, folks. We apologize for the gross injustice."
Guess it'll only be tea and coffee without milk for today, if you're too lazy to trek elsewhere. A "gross injustice" indeed.
Photo by Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
