Sections
Over the last few weeks, HUPD has responded to numerous reports of “suspicious activity” and an extremely high rate of computer theft. As part of our  Securitas series, we’ve combed through HUPD log entries from the last few weeks and published some of the more colorful entries below.
BY THE NUMBERS
Reports of “suspicious activity”: 30
Reports of “unwanted guest[s]”: 10
Noise complaints: 9
Skateboard Complaints: 4
Total value of stolen computers: $9,200.00
Total value of stolen masquerade masks: $20.00Nov. 22, 2010
Suspicious Activity (1:29 p.m.)
Langdell Hall, 1545 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of suspicious activity. Upon arrival, the reporting individual informed the officer they left the computer they were working on unattended for a short period of time and upon their return an unknown individual(s) left a message on the computer for them.
Nov. 23, 2010
Annoying Calls (9:02 a.m.)  
Holyoke Center, 1350 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of individuals receiving annoying phone calls.
Nov. 24, 2010
Assault Report (8:58 a.m.)
Au Bon Pain, 1360 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of two individuals fighting. Upon arrival several individuals were restraining one individual. Officers were informed the individual threw a bag of food at another individual and attempted to grab a gun off another officer in the area. While the individual was being placed under arrest they kicked the officer.
Nov. 25, 2010
Suspicious Activity (7:56 p.m.)
Haskins Hall, 28 Irving St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of an individual walking around on the roof of the building. Officer searched the roof for any individuals with negative results.
Nov. 27, 2010
Unwanted Guest (9:08 a.m.)
Au Bon Pain, 1360 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual attempting to steal food. Officers arrived and spoke with the individuals involved who reported it was a misunderstanding and all is in order.
Nov. 28, 2010
Suspicious Activity (8:54 a.m.)
Harvard Yard, 1 Peabody St., Cambridge
Officers reports [sic] hearing a loud popping sound. Officer searched the area for anything suspicious with negative results.
Noise Complaint (1:36 p.m.)
Adams House A, 45 Bow St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of bells ringing in the towers of multiple buildings for a half hour. Officer reports there were no bells ringing in the area.
Nov. 30, 2010
Theft Report (9:34 p.m.)
LHRRB, 45 Shattuck St., Boston
Officer dispatched to a report that an individual saw another individual attempting to cut the lock off of a bicycle in the area. When the reporting individual asked the individual what they were doing, the individual stated it was their bicycle and continued to attempt to cut the lock. The reporting individual informed the individual to leave the bicycle alone and the individual left the area. Officers searched the area for the other individual with negative results and secured the bicycle with another lock.
Dec. 1, 2010
Trespass Warning (8:28 a.m.)
Holyoke Center Parking Garage, 1350 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer observed an individual urinating on the wall of the building. Officer conducted a field interview with the individual. The individual was checked for wants/warrants with negative results and sent on their way with a trespass warning for all Harvard University property.
Dec. 2, 2010
Suspicious Activity (11:48 a.m.)
Lewis International Law Center, 1557 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of a suspicious Blackberry message.
Assist other Police Department (5:31 p.m.)
1400 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officers notified of an individual harassing another individual. MBTA was notified. Officers spoke with the individual who stated another individual was harassing them and had dropped their pants revealing their buttocks to the individual. MBTA officers arrived and spoke with the individual who was belligerent while officers were conducting a field interview. The individual was placed under arrest by the MBTA officers.
Dec. 3, 2010
Suspicious Odor/Smoke (2:18 a.m.)
Wigglesworth Hall A, 6 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of the smell of marijuana. Officers arrived and report there was no smell of marijuana.
Suspicious Activity (1:03 p.m.)
Gutman Library, 6 Appian Way, Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of individuals throwing poles around the area. Officers report there were no individuals in the area upon their arrival and no poles had been thrown.
Dec. 4, 2010
Suspicious Activity (1:52 a.m.)
Mill Street Parking, 1 Mill St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of two individuals dragging a dead goose down the street. Officers searched the area for the individuals with negative results.
Theft Report (11:37 a.m.)
Widener Library, 31 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer observed an individual carrying a large load of copper flashing. Officer conducted a field interview with the individual. The individual was checked for wants/warrants with negative results. Officers contacted the individuals [sic] supervisor who informed officers the individual no longer worked for their company. The individual was placed under arrest. The valued of the copper is $1,600.00. The individual was issued a trespass warning for all Harvard university property.
Dec. 5, 2010
Suspicious Activity (8:30 p.m.)
SFP Soldiers Field Park, 111 Western Ave., Allston
Officer dispatched to take a report of suspicious activity. The reporting individual informed the officer upon their return to their residence they discovered their shower was on. Officer reports nothing was missing from the residence nor out of place.
Sections
PBS is giving students a chance to experience an important part of  the history of the American civil rights movement. The public television station is currently accepting applications through Jan. 17, 2011 to join 40 students from across the country in retracing the 1961 Freedom Rides  next May.
The PBS program, called "American Experience,"  will cover all transportation, hotel, and food expenses for the 10-day  trip from Washington, D.C. to Jackson, Miss. The trip seeks to elicit  dialogue concerning the meaning of civic engagement today. Participants  will  share their experiences through live blogging and social media sites  such as Facebook and Twitter. The 2011 Student Freedom Rides, called  "Get on the Bus," is  part of a promotional campaign for Stanley Nelson’s documentary "Freedom  Riders," premiering May 6, 2011.
The original Freedom Riders consisted of  13 individuals who intended to challenge racial equality in public  transportation by traveling by bus from Washington D.C. to New Orleans,  La. After encountering violence, this original group decided, in the  interest of safety, to end their trip in Birmingham, Ala. and travel to  New Orleans by plane. Inspired by this first attempt, students from all  over the country began challenging racial equality laws across the  South, facing not only harassment, but also imprisonment. By the last  Freedom Ride in  September 1961, over 400 people had participated.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons.
