Sections
 One Sunday this summer, a friend and I went to pick up the stuff out of Coach Hahn’s car, which had been totaled as he merged onto the highway by Coney Island. Coach Hahn was my high school baseball coach, and he uses a wheelchair. At the desk of the tow-away agency, I said I’d been authorized to pick up his stuff because he couldn’t; he was in a wheelchair. The attendant went to the back to talk to his boss. He misunderstood, thinking that Coach Hahn couldn’t come because he’d been injured too badly. Está en el hospital. But this was not the case, not this time, though it must have been different 40 years ago when he crashed his motorcycle.
 
Coach Hahn has this big ugly gray van that we called the Hahn-mobile in high school—a great clunking thing with a lifting ramp and lots of room in the back so that Coach could maneuver out of his chair into the driver’s seat. It used to take him long minutes of waiting outside to get ready to go, looking at our watches, the game starting in under an hour, us still here outside school, in lower Manhattan. We always got there on time, and we always packed in a full starting lineup. There was a PlayStation attached to a television that never worked—somehow unscathed, I would see, when I picked through the glass—and one backseat row with seatbelts that everybody used to fight for. There was a running board that was perpetually falling off that Coach urged us exhaustedly not to step on, and a radio antenna that was half bent to a 90-degree angle. The story goes that Coach’s van had been parked in the handicapped spot on Chambers Street, like it always was, at eight in the morning on 9/11, and somehow the car had come out without a scratch except for the bent antennae that Coach refused to get fixed. He called it his living monument.
The car didn’t look too good when we got to it on South Conduit Avenue in Queens. The agency was called Runway Towing because it was situated right next to JFK Airport. This far out, the cars are constantly flying on the Belt Parkway, the planes fussing overhead.
Inside the junkyard, the Hahn-mobile stood out immediately. It was about half as wide as it used to be, and the entire windshield was just gone. We found it cracked on the floor above the baseball bats. It was out of this gaping hole that the firemen had pulled Coach; someone must be looking out for him because he ended up fine. He came out of the thing with a little line on his cheek. Two days later, when I saw him, you couldn’t even see the scratch. Mind you, the van had flipped. It was completely totaled. But he was so healthy afterwards that we hadn’t even gone to see him, just came straight down here to get all of his junk:
Two extra wheels, one of them bent at the spokes; three wood bats, one broken, but not so badly you couldn’t use it; a cup full of change; three pairs of shoes; a box of uniforms. His driver’s license, school I.D., credit cards scattered on the floor. We didn’t put our knees down so as not to get the glass in our skin. Even still, I was brushing it out of my leg hair as I made trip after trip out of the windshield, carrying crap. Pens, pencils. An old banana we left where it was. One CD, cracked in half: The Beatles’ "Help!" This we found funny. Piles and piles of paper, insurance forms and team stats.
I put the important papers and the credit cards carefully in my pocket. They had the same chalky feel of the 9/11 papers that flew over the river and dropped all over the streets—the ones we’d kept on our washing machine, no one wanting to move them, until someone said they might have anthrax. We brushed aside the dust to see the names on the letterheads, the unsigned documents. The feeling of being lucky; how close, real close.
We separated his house keys from the key ring, not being able to pull the car-key out of the ignition. And we didn’t want to fire it up, blow the engine or whatever. On the outside, some of the paint was torn. I looked around sadistically for blood, like I did on the other cars in the lot, but nothing. Either they cleaned them or this was something that just didn’t happen. The antenna was still bent over in the same pose. I told Coach, when I dropped the stuff off in his one-floor flat, you’re fucking lucky. Thank God, Coach, you’re a lucky guy. When we shook hands he pulled me close, his left hand on my shoulder blades, me feeling his scalp and the thick back of his neck.
It took a while to get off of Conduit Avenue. The planes kept coming in, over our heads, lower and lower, to land. I felt that we drove the car a little jittery on the highway, as if thinking about the accident. One wrong move, the speed, the fall, the planes crashing by.
— Mark J. Chiusano ’12 is an English concentrator in Winthrop House from Brooklyn, N.Y.
Sections
A wall painted with the words, “We will make mistakes,” forewarns customers at Clover Food Lab that their menu is constantly under revision.
And while the restaurant may be new to Harvard Square it’s already got a following amongst food connoisseurs and Bostonian vegetarians. That’s because Clover, started in 2008 by Ayr Muir and Rolando Robledo as a food truck located near the Kendall/MIT T-stop, is dedicated to providing a seasonal vegetarian menu, with food that is prepped fresh for consumption and under five dollars. Clover is also committed to getting you your food within minutes of ordering.
Located on 7 Holyoke St., it has staked out the prime real estate between the River Houses and the Yard. As such, it’s nearly impossible to find a chance to talk with the staff unless one is trying to place an order. The customers, however, can usually be found gabbing amongst themselves about this peculiar restaurant that seems to have sprung up overnight.
“I like how the atmosphere reflects what the restaurant is—a vegetarian fast food place” said Sophie E. Heller ’14. “The food seems spot-on, especially for a vegetarian.” She added, “I will definitely eat here again.”
As the name suggest, the food is constantly undergoing experimentation and tweaking. “Ever since day one, we have always made mistakes,” said manager Chris Anderson. “But that’s part of Clover—our plan is to make mistakes and to learn from them.”
Customer feedback is especially essential to the process because, according to Anderson, about 60 percent to 70 percent of the customers are repeat buyers. Maybe that’s why, despite the chaotic atmosphere from a constant influx of curious customers, the restaurant feels intimate. It almost seems like a good friendship—constantly changing in its understanding of the other person.
As for the food itself—FM would personally recommend the BBQ seitan.
Sections
On Wednesday, November 3, 2010, a (Celtics fan / dance instructor / male graduate student) reported to the Cambridge Police that he was approached by an unknown male on Brattle Street near the Curious George Store and forced to (do a little dance / make a little love / get down tonight) at approximately 4:39 p.m. The aggressor demanded the victim’s (whole box of Sweet cupcakes / only the icing / just a pinkie dip). The victim complied with the demands and remained uninjured.
Because (this incident did not occur on Harvard property / HUPD was backlogged with bike thefts / Benson and Stabler are off this week) it is being investigated by the Cambridge Police Department. If anyone has any information regarding this incident, please contact Officer Jenny at the Cambridge Police Department at 867-5309.
While everyone is decidedly in eminent peril, the Cambridge Police Department warns that some members of the community are more at risk than others. If you are a (young girl / drunk undergraduate / defenseless toddler), you are essentially not at risk. If, however, you are a male graduate student, the Cambridge Police Department strongly recommends that you (hide yo’ kids / hide yo’ wife / hide yo’ cupcakes).
Additionally, the Harvard University Police Department wants to remind students, faculty, and staff that we are located in (a bubble / 1033 Massachusetts Ave., sixth floor / an urban setting) and share many of the crime and safety issues that exist in any city. Community members should be (vigilant / pretending to be unawares but actually vigilant / booty-swaying) while walking throughout campus and surrounding areas.
For questions about this advisory, please contact the Harvard University Police Department’s Public Information Officers, Charlotte H. Alter and Alexander J. Ratner.
Sections
Let’s face it: at Harvard, we like to get the maximum output for the minimal energy input. Some people might call that laziness, but I like to call it efficiency. We produce A-grade papers with four hours of work and somehow manage to churn out problem sets the night before they are due. We’re not actually lazy, of course. However, between midterms and maintaining some semblance of a social life, we are forced to become experts at time management if we want to get it all done.
So since Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg was a Harvard undergraduate himself, it only makes sense that he took this laziness one step further. Showcasing his Harvard efficiency, he managed to streamline every student’s favorite procrastination tool: Facebook stalking. Forget “Wall-to-Walls.” Reading comment threads between two of your friends is for old people. The recently introduced “View Friendship” link is the new face of Facebook stalking. Now you can see the history of two people in one place without wasting time dissecting both of their profiles. One click and bam—you can stalk your crush’s conversations with his roommate or do some casual detective work about your ex-boyfriend and that new girl he’s been seeing. Really, just imagine the time you’ll save not having to weed through photos to figure out which freshman year besties became sophomore year frenemies.
And although we know that nobody is above Facebook stalking, the “View Friendship” link has a less creepy side too: it takes you to pages made just for you and a friend. You can reminisce about your entire Facebook relationship, from the moment you first wrote on each other’s walls, to the picture you took together at that sloppy party last weekend that neither of you really remembers. How’s that for sentimental?
Sections
I have a basic set of criteria for potential Facebook friends. With few exceptions (sorry Mom, it’s just not happening), as long as we have a minimum of 10 mutual friends and your name does not contain some sort of heart or star emoticon, we’re  golden. Facebook, however, has now decided that hitting the “Accept” button means more than the basic understanding that neither one of us is a lunatic or pedophile. In fact, it has devoted an entire page to commemorating the lasting bonds of tags, wall posts, and picture tags.
While this sounds all well and good in theory, it is actually more like a report card for friendships. Only written on each other’s wall twice? Throw away those friendship bracelets. Only in 12 pictures together? Kick her out of the blocking group. But I’m guessing if we’re actually friends I don’t write on your Facebook wall all that often. I see you in person, around our suite, in the dining hall, making fun of other people’s Facebook walls.
This is college. There’s enough social anxiety to go around without a tool specifically for evaluating your friendships and, even more dangerously, those of other people. If you ask me, there’s enough “Hey stranger!”, “Where have you been?”, and “Remember me?” messages to go around, and the friendship page just gives people more excuses to feel the need to catch up. If I haven’t seen you lately, I probably don’t remember you, have been doing things other than hanging out with you, and, well, we probably are strangers.
Why don’t we use our technological prowess for better purposes, like creating a “Dislike” button? Then I could show Mark Zuckerberg how I feel about the fact that that girl I think I went with to elementary school saw our friendship page and thinks we totally need to catch up!
Sections
“You may think you like someone, but...you could be wrong.”
Last Friday night, this profound phrase (and a dozen others) graced the walls of Adams C-entry. Passersby peeked into the LCR to find the reason behind the new decor and found the Mean Girls Party, sponsored by Harvard College Queer Students and Allies and the Radcliffe Union of Students. Inside, students danced and mingled under Christmas lights and over non-alcoholic drinks—some displaying strategically located paper cutouts on their chests. QSA co-chair Marco Chan ’11 also topped off his outfit with a pair of animal ears. “I’m a moose. Duh,” he said.
QSA social co-chair Alexandru Chivescu ’13 had been planning this event since May. “‘Mean Girls’ is popular across genders, and the conclusion emphasizes striving for a more socially inclusive world,” he said. During the party, Chivescu sported a Plastic-esque Santa hat while DJing. Within individual songs, he had embedded popular quotes from the film, such as “Don’t have sex” (because you will get pregnant and die).
Shanti S. Kris ’12, RUS co-president and Women’s Outreach and Events Chair of QSA, stressed that the film has relevance beyond its cult status. “‘Mean Girls’ is one of the few teen movies that portray queer issues in a positive light,” she said. In particular, the film does not ridicule Janis but rather the Plastics for unfairly labeling her.
Yet the film’s wide appeal played a role in generating a high turnout. “This is one of the first events that we’ve consciously structured to have a broader appeal,” Chan said. Chivescu expressed some disappointment, as many of the Regina-emulators and enthusiastic dancers were from other colleges.
For many, the party lived up to its hype. “It’s fabulous. We are fabulous. We are here to stay being fabulous,” said attendee James R. Sares ’12.
Sections
Last Saturday, it was time yet again for the annual Iron Chef competition hosted by the Harvard-Radcliffe Chinese Student Association, in which three groups fought to make the tastiest and prettiest pineapple-themed dishes and bring a little tropical sweetness to an otherwise spicy cook-off.
“I’m not dissin’ with the words that I’m spittin’. Valiant efforts in the kitchen, teams completed their mission. Sweet and sour or pineapple juice I’m sippin’,” Joshua C. Zhang ’14 rapped while starting off the contest. In addition to the rhyming skills of Zhang and fellow MC Eric Lu ’14, the audience was able to enjoy free food from the Hong Kong throughout the show—letting many audience members taste Kong noodles soberly for the first time.
A variety of dishes were presented, from the pineapple skewers of General Tao’s Army to the chicken and shrimp with pineapple sauce made by the Harvard Vietnamese Association. The ladies of the Chinese Students Association board presented a chocolate-covered pineapple desert to end the night on a sweet note. “This feels legit,” said spectator Lutai Ju ’14. “People made the food look impressive, and it was good.”
Dean Sue Brown, HUPD Officer Jose Chang and Director of Freshman Programming Katherine W. Steele served as the shows judges. While Steele and Brown had their palates enchanted, Officer Chang let everyone know that Simon Cowell was in the building, interrogating contestants about their ingredients and procedure: “What type of beef is this? How did you prepare that?”
The winner of the night’s festivities and the grand prize, a $30 gift card to Finale’s, was HVA with their traditional Vietnamese dishes. “We should spend our $30 on cleaning maids to clean up the huge mess we left,” said Michael F. Trang ’14 said as he headed back to the Thayer kitchen with his teammates.
Sections
Jeremy Lin ’10 ended the month of October by playing against the Los Angeles Lakers. That’s right; Jeremy Lin faced off against Kobe Bryant and his five championship rings and came away with a very respectable stat line. He played for 16 minutes, scored two points, and had one rebound, three assists, and four steals. After the game, Lin led the NBA in steals per minutes played. Fan confidence in Lin was high as the Warriors headed to Memphis to play the Grizzlies. Unfortunately, Lin did not make it off the bench, but he performed well during warm-ups. Next, the Warriors faced off against the Utah Jazz. Lin, however, was not activated for the game. On the bright side, he looked great in business attire. For their final game of the week, Lin’s Warriors took on the Detroit Pistons. Lin again did not get a chance to play, but he did suit up for this game. He was in uniform, ready to go, just waiting for Coach Keith Smart to call his name.
Even though Lin saw as much playing time as the Warrior’s mascot in the last three games, he is still number six in the whole league in steals per game (right above Tony Parker and Chris Paul and just behind fellow rookie John Wall, while LeBron James is just sort of hanging out at number 27). In other words, Jeremy Lin, undrafted Ivy Leaguer, is making his minutes count, and he is coming after your sponsorship deals and defensive records.
Until next week,
The FM Sports Desk
Sections
Free food comes at a steep price.
A few years ago, I didn’t understand this. The mere words “free food” were enough to motivate me to scale mountains. I signed up for a two-week sleepaway chemistry camp junior year of high school purely because the itinerary advertised restaurant outings. I spent my interview rhapsodizing about Stephen Hawking and the theory of relativity, mainly because I couldn’t say much about chemistry. I figured physics would be a good stand-in.
I got in.
I hadn’t bargained for the chemistry lectures—from which I retained nothing—and thankfully, the experience was saved by a surprisingly socially adept bunch of students. I still remember poking at my pork katsu in a Japanese restaurant, stuffed with food but bored to tears by covalent bonding and chemical pigments.
I hadn’t learned my lesson by freshman year of college. The immediate sensory thrill of consuming—the sweet, fried crunch of a (free) egg roll, the fine, golden crumb of a (free) cake slice—meant that I thought with my stomach. Who cared about celebrities on campus, prime ministers speaking at the IOP, or theatrical productions when there was free bubble tea to be drunk?
I was soon to be corrected by a string of bad dates. I spent the summer between sophomore and junior year interning at a Shanghai expat magazine. I met an Australian man who took me out for teppanyaki with his friends. Over the course of one miserable evening, he told the waitress I was his wife (which I vehemently denied to her in Chinese) and mused about our three or four unborn children running on the sands of Australia’s Gold Coast. All the while, I suffered a violent, phlegmatic cough as his friends chain smoked their lungs to oblivion.
He was also uncommonly fond of his American Express black card, which he loved to wave around. “I can get in anywhere in the world,” he boasted, although the teppanyaki restaurant hardly required a membership. I attempted to soothe the pain with another round of fried rice while his friends, still chain smoking, made sexist comments about our female chef. Despite his talks of marriage, it thankfully turned out he was leaving for Australia the next morning. Afterwards, all I could think was: I missed out on a night out with my friends for this?
Two years later, in the midst of a surprising mini-career as a food writer, I’ve found that free appetizers still aren’t free. “You must get so much free food,” people often say after learning of my blog. The truth is that when restaurants sponsor blogger events, the spicy salmon maki doesn’t come without an implicit agenda. I always feel guilty eating food that I’m not planning on writing up—it’s important to remember why I get invited in the first place. The ethics of food blogging dictate that I disclose gifts, which I do, but the line between editorial and advertorial can occasionally feel tenuous. What I ended up realizing: if you’re approaching bloggers, either use a middleman (a PR agency) to plan an event, or build up a relationship first and don’t use the words “free meal.” The latter smells too much like a commercial transaction, and no one wants to feel bought.
When you’re young and poor, it’s easy to believe that free food is truly free. But as I learned in Ec 10, there is no such thing as a free lunch. Whenever you choose to do something, understand you’re giving up something infinitely more valuable: your time. While free food is still a draw, I always try to drag a good friend along to enjoy it with me. As pleasurable as food is, bad company can spoil even the finest (free) foie gras.
Sections
While they might not exactly stand out in the dining hall or common rooms, these visitors are far from your typical student. Upon closer observation, it’s possible to see an ex-CIA director or even the former Prime Minister of Haiti biting into a chickwich and enjoying a Sunday night sundae alongside students at dinner. These individuals are scholars from various fields who are participating in fellowships and research programs at the University. They live amongst the undergraduates in apartments located in the Houses.
“It actually comes out of an old tradition that used to involve a lot more faculty in the House system,” says John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67, Master of Adams House. “There were traditionally faculty who gave seminars in the Houses and were theoretically working to engage students.”
Living in the Houses is another option for visiting scholars—many of whom are foreign—looking for an apartment in Cambridge. However, due to space constraints, a large portion of the apartments that were formerly used to house professors and visiting scholars have been converted into student housing.
“Over the past two, three years, most of those spaces have disappeared, so we don’t even have rental spaces anymore, or at least not many,” says Palfrey.
Some Houses, such as Kirkland or Adams, now have one or two apartments, while others, such as Dunster or Eliot, do not have any. The way in which the few spaces that are left are used is largely at the discretion of the House masters. While some masters view the scholars living in the House as a resource for students in addition to the tutors and resident dean, others do little to integrate the apartments’ occupants into House life.
“They’re not just here to live and go do their own thing,” Palfrey emphasizes about the scholars in Adams. “They’re really here to be a part of the House.”
Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a former director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence at the U.S. Department of Energy, has been living in Adams House for the past two years. He frequents the dining hall, where he often sits down and converses with students. Mowatt-Larssen is also slated to run a seminar in the spring.
“It will be on how to be a good spy,” says Palfrey, chuckling. The topic has not been yet officially announced.
At Kirkland, the scholars are engaged in House life as well, albeit in a slightly different manner. Scholar-in-residence Peter V. Emerson came to Kirkland with the goal of bringing in notable figures from a wide range of fields to speak with students. Soon after moving in, he co-founded “Conversations with Kirkland.” Though Emerson’s interaction with students was first stimulated by this speaker series, he says that once students came to know him, they began coming to him for anything from career advice to thoughts on their theses—a fact he finds to be an extraordinary privilege.
“That I can take decades of experience in very diverse fields and share my experience with them—and in many cases help them secure a certain internship or help them get their first job—there’s nothing more rewarding than that,” says Emerson.
On the other hand, some scholars almost never communicate with their student neighbors.
“I was lucky enough that there was a fire alarm a few days after I moved in,” says Karen M. Rothmyer, a Mather House scholar-in-residence and Shorenstein fellow from Kenya. “I rushed down to the courtyard and met the masters, and they invited me to a party they were having that night for the students,  so that’s where I got to meet a bunch of the students,” she says.
“But if it hadn’t been for that, I’m not sure whether I would have made that connection,” she says.
However, this lack of interaction with students is due more to the lack of a built-in mechanism for getting scholars involved in House life than for an absence of desire to interact with undergraduates.
“I’m a little disappointed actually that I’m not involved with the students more,” Rothmyer says. In terms of creating such a means for interaction, Rothmyer suggests required activities for scholars in the House, such as leading a study group. Rothmyer adds that she would be interested in having a table set up in the dining hall where she would discuss topics of interest, such as Africa or journalism.
Yet even in Houses where scholars are actively trying to get involved with House life, many students rarely see them.
“If I hadn’t lived above him last year, I wouldn’t even know that he’d been in the House,” says Samantha R. Go ’11 on the presence of Mowatt-Larssen in Adams. “He was an ex-CIA operative, so we always joked about how sneaky and un-findable he was.”
“Students are busy. Even though we offer a variety of venues for this kind of interaction, they often don’t come,” says Palfrey of the general lack of knowledge about scholars-in-residence. “You’re not standing up and beating a gong and saying, ‘Come sit down here with a spy.’”
There is concern that the few House apartments still reserved for scholars-in-residence will too be converted into student dorms—if not immediately, then during major House renovations. However, Masters and students alike support the growth of the scholar-in-residence program.
“It has a place in House life which used to be more active and now...is one of the important elements of House life, which we fully intend to advocate for continuing,” Palfrey says. “It’s fun for us, it’s fun for the students, it’s good for the House, it’s good for the scholars.”
Sections
Tracy Kidder ’67, winner of the Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award, is known for nonfiction works such as “Mountains Beyond Mountains,” about the global health work of Professor Paul Farmer, and “Among Schoolchildren,” about a classroom in Holyoke, Mass. Kidder spoke with FM about his undergraduate years at Harvard, his creative process, and his plans for his next project.
1. Fifteen Minutes: How does Harvard compare to the way in which you remember it from your time as an undergraduate?
Tracy Kidder:  Well, that was the ’60s. I think it’s probably a more serious place now, in some ways, more serious academically. The inmates were kind of in charge of the place or were trying to grab control of the place, as I recall. It’s hard for me to know, but I am auditing one course, Stephen Greenblatt’s Shakespeare class, and I sense that the undergrads are very smart. I introduced Paul Farmer a few years ago at Sanders Theatre, and I found myself saying, though I didn’t plan on saying it, that it was really interesting to be back here, in this lovely auditorium, where I had slept through so many classes. For me, the most important thing here academically was having a close relationship with a couple of faculty members.
2. FM:  Anyone in particular?
TK: One was an extremely distinguished guy named Robert Fitzgerald, a wonderful translator and poet. I took a writing class with him. I just kept taking them for three years. There were years when I didn’t do much but write stories for him. I’d go to bed around the time that my other classes were starting.
3. FM:  Did you know when you were a student here that you wanted to become a writer?
TK: I sort of discovered this at Harvard. It sounds preposterous, but I think it’s true. I was majoring in Government. At that time writing still seemed like a romantic profession, at least for me. Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Faulkner: those were the romantic figures. So it seemed like a good opportunity to impress girls. But once I got into Fitzgerald’s class, he took us seriously and expected a lot. He was very kind, but he was very stern and elegant. He made it seem like a high calling, and I keep thinking of the forks in one’s life, that you take one and then you take another, and pretty soon you could never get back to where you were before. Then I made the stupid mistake and went to Vietnam as a solider. I don’t entirely regret it, but it was a stupid mistake in that I didn’t entirely mean to do it. I’d feel a little bit better about if I had. After that experience I came to think of myself as a writer even though I didn’t publish anything.
4. FM: Have you and Paul Farmer spent time together since you’ve been back at Harvard?
TK: Yeah, but briefly. Since the year 2000, I’d been in really close contact with him for three years, of course. But ever since my book was published, things changed. Writing a book about someone is an odd basis for friendship. It’s really hard to be scrutinized by somebody, and I don’t think I’d let anyone do it to me. My hope was when I was here we’d spend a lot of time together, but then the earthquake hit Haiti, and he’s been straight out.
5. FM: Did you ever contemplate being a novelist?
TK: That’s what I started out as. I was going to be a novelist. I wrote fiction here. And after I came back from Vietnam, I wrote a really bad novel about experiences I didn’t have in Vietnam. I ended up going to the Iowa Writer’s Workshop. I did this more in search of a refuge than anything else. It was a legitimate place, and it was also far away. I went there not knowing how bad that novel I’d written really was. I went there full of self-esteem, let’s say. At a certain point there, I don’t know exactly why—maybe because I had a rather happy childhood—I just wasn’t moved that much to write fiction.
6. FM: How was the experience of composing a memoir distinct from writing your other books?
TK: It is, for me, much harder. The truth is—at a certain point in my life, anyway—the person I was least likely to write honestly about is myself. It took me a long time, 15 years really, from the time when I started it, to solve the problem of that book, which was, broadly speaking from the drafts of it, false apologizing.
7. FM: I read in an interview from a couple of years ago that you consider “Mountains Beyond Mountains” to be your best book. Do you still feel this way today?
TK: Had I just written it?
FM: It was probably about six or seven years ago.
TK: Probably. I had just finished it.
8. FM:  Is that how you tend to feel when you finish a project?
TK: No, not always. I do think it is the most-read of anything of my books, and I do think it was extremely fortunate that I ran across such a fascinating story, and the kind of story I had been looking for a long time. It’s often said that it’s difficult, if not impossible, to write about virtue. It almost felt like something I had been waiting for. I’ve never sent to press anything I didn’t think was good, or the best that I could do. But whether I disagree or not isn’t up to me exactly.
9. FM: You said in your recent talk with Darcy Frey that you had 150 notebooks filled for “Among Schoolchildren.” Do you still take notes by hand?
TK: I didn’t for my last book. I wasn’t able to. The person I was with didn’t want me to be seen taking notes openly when we were in east central Africa. So I used a recorder, but I don’t like it. A little recording device has been extremely useful, but I’d much rather take notes. I think in a funny way they’re more accurate, handwritten notes. That sounds ridiculous, I know, but all that’s recorded by a recording device is speech and there’s a lot of other stuff if you want to record, it seems to me, if you’re taking good notes. And there’s another good thing about it—there’s no concealment there.
10. FM: What’s your editing process like?
TK: From start to finish, I work with him [editor Richard Todd]. I discuss ideas with him. His wife accuses me, in a friendly way, of using him as a kidney. Mostly I worry, aloud. And he tolerates it. I never feel that he’s not telling me what he really thinks, but it never feels destructive. He understands better than anyone I know how tender shoots are.
11. FM: Do you ever re-read your books?
TK: I look back on certain books with a fair amount of fondness, but I don’t re-read them. Because the two things that tend to happen when I do re-read them is, “How did I let that paragraph go into print?” or, “Did I used to write that well?”
12. FM: What kinds of books do you most enjoy reading?
TK: I’m really eclectic, an eclectic reader. Not so very long ago, I rediscovered Graham Greene, the great English novelist, one of the greatest novelists along with Tolstoy, who never won a Nobel Prize. In recent years, I’ve been reading a lot of poetry.
13. FM: What are you working on next?
TK: I’m working on this new book about writing, but I don’t know what I’m going to take on next. I have some ideas, but they’re not even half-baked. They’re not even dough. But I have several possibilities. I think the truth of the matter is the way I work I don’t usually pick subjects, I have to choose people that interest me.
14. FM: Do you have a process for finding these stories?
TK: I don’t, because it’s so chancy. The most extraordinary story I came across was Paul Farmer’s, and I met him completely by accident in Haiti when I was doing research for a story on American soldiers for The New Yorker. How do you pre-arrange something like that? I’ve often wasted a lot of time—I mean, spent a lot of time—deciding what to do next.
15. FM: Do you find that openness exciting?
TK: Well, you know, I don’t. My job is a wonderful job. I’ve been able to spend time with really interesting people and satisfy my idle curiosity on a whole host of subjects and get paid for it. I’ve been very fortunate to write for a living, which is very unusual. I think anyone who does manage to do that and doesn’t admit that they’re extraordinarily lucky is nuts. This is the one part of the job that I find difficult, that I don’t see there’s any way for me to master. It somewhat has to do with what Keats would call “the holiness of the heart’s affections.” I have to be interested. I don’t care if the subject is interesting to anyone else. It has to be interesting to me.
Sections
Perhaps it was Henry James who best captured the confusions of Harvard’s particular approach to commemorating its fallen graduates. In James’s novel “The Bostonians,” when Basil Ransom—Harvard alum, Civil War veteran, and classic Southern gentleman—strolls the grounds of his old alma mater with the alluring Verena Tarrant, they happen upon Memorial Hall. Opened for use in June 1874 as an architectural elegy to the recent Union victory, it makes sense—logically, at least—that Basil wouldn’t be able to find anywhere in the massive Gothic structure the names of the 71 fellow Harvard Confederates who died in Civil War combat. Verena, a young feminist from Boston, patronizingly reassures him that although his home state of Mississippi has effectively been erased from the institution’s memory, the structure nevertheless contains “great praise of our young men in the war.”
But Verena’s reliance on the idea of “our men” is more than playful indignance—essentially, it poses a question about the primary purpose of a war memorial at a place like Harvard. Indeed, should such a memorial commemorate a cause, and with it, a specific group of “our men” devoted to that cause? Or can a war memorial be about something larger than a particular ideology and commemorate the individuals who sacrificed their lives for any cause, regardless of what it might be?
At the moment, Harvard has yet to take a stand one way or the other.
Memorial Hall—as a monument to the Union—is a celebration of a particular cause and, as such, excludes the names of the Confederate soldiers Basil Ransom couldn’t find from its 28 white marble tablets. Across Cambridge Street, however, Memorial Church is essentially the opposite: “In grateful memory of the Harvard men who died in the World War we have built this Church,” reads the inscription over the south entrance of its memorial room.
In the church, at least, “the Harvard men who died in the World War”—or in any war since—does not necessarily mean those who died for the United States. Ostensibly a monument to all of Harvard’s fallen graduates, Memorial Church also honors the memory of four graduates who fought for Germany in World War I and, in quiet controversy, a Divinity School graduate who served in the German army in World War II. For many, the difference between Harvard’s two major war memorials—which, in simple terms, exclude Confederate soldiers while commemorating a Nazi one—is an inconsistency that the University would do well to address.
“The University needs to adopt a policy one way or the other,” says Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor at the Law School. “The current inconsistent standard is unacceptable, and it’s particularly unfortunate that the exception seems to be for a member of the Nazi army, one of the darkest regimes in human history, and a regime with which Harvard had too cozy a relationship.”
UNION AND RECONCILIATION
Given that Memorial Church commemorates a member of the Nazi army, many have felt over the years that the best solution to the current “inconsistent standard” is to include the names of the Confederate soldiers somewhere in Memorial Church, whose charter is not wedded to any cause other than Harvard’s fallen sons and, as of 2001, its daughters—the church also recognizes three Radcliffe women who served as nurses in World War I and died overseas.
But even before the dedication of Memorial Church in 1932, certain factions of the Harvard community voiced their sympathy for the Confederate graduates as far back as the Reconstruction period. As Helen P. Trimpi, GSAS ’66, a scholar of the period, points out in her recent book “Crimson Confederates: Harvard Men Who Fought for the South,” Memorial Hall’s first commencement dinner—held on June 24, 1874—included a speech that celebrated Confederate valor in a building dedicated to the ultimate victory of that valor’s opposition.
William F. Bartlett, Class of 1862 and Union army officer, warned against welcoming former Confederates with anything other than open arms:
“I firmly believe that when the gallant men of Lee’s army surrendered at Appomattox, touched by the delicate generosity of [Ulysses S.] Grant, who, obeying the dictates of his own honest heart, showed no less magnanimity than political sagacity, they followed the example of their heroic chief [Robert E. Lee],” he said. “Take care, then, lest you repel, by injustice, or suspicion, or even by indifference, the returning love of men who now speak with that pride as ‘our flag.’”
On Memorial Day 1884, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., Class of 1861, echoed that sentiment. “Those who stood against us held just as sacred convictions that were the opposite of ours, and we respected them as every man with a heart must respect those who give all for their belief,” he told his audience in Keene, N.H.
As Trimpi’s research makes clear, the dawn of the 20th century—and the approaching 50th anniversary of the Civil War—ignited a heated debate over the contents of war memorials from which Harvard was not exempt.
President William F. McKinley, himself a former Union soldier, along with the United Daughters of the Confederacy, had pushed for a Confederate memorial at Arlington National Cemetery. Charles F. Adams, also a Union officer and a member of the Class of 1856, referred to Lee in a 1907 West Point eulogy as “false to his flag” but ultimately loyal to “his State.”
In February 1909, the Harvard Bulletin attempted to make a complete list of the names of the University’s Confederate graduates. Even if these men weren’t honored in Memorial Hall, the Bulletin maintained, they were “none the less honored by their University as men who gave an overflowing measure of devotion and nobly did their duty as they saw it.”
Given the apparent popularity of those sentiments even in the immediate aftermath of the Civil War, the question of whether to establish a Harvard Confederate war memorial naturally arose. Trimpi’s research indicates that many, like Frederick J. Ranlett, Class of 1880, felt that a small plaque in Memorial Hall placed near a bust of Bartlett—a Union soldier with the compassion to care about his enemies—would be the most appropriate.
Others, however, vehemently disagreed. Angry letters arrived on campus in droves, and powerful, wealthy alums voiced their displeasure at the prospect of a Confederate memorial anywhere on Harvard’s campus. Ultimately, the University took no action, although peer institutions did—according to Trimpi, Yale, for instance, mixed 55 Confederate names with 113 Union ones in a 1919 memorial, and Princeton did the same.
THE NAME UPON THE WALL
Of course, one might say that the argument for commemorating Harvard’s Confederate graduates would have faded away long ago were there not another space on campus where enemy soldiers—and especially one associated with a regime that facilitated the Holocaust—were memorialized in public view.
According to the Reverend Peter J. Gomes, the architects of the church intended for it to be construed not as a monument to victory like its counterpart across Cambridge Street but to war’s human sacrifice.
“It was supposed to stand for certain ideas and ideals, and even though the German ideals were mistaken, they were the same kind of ideals,” he says. Even still, he adds, President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, Class of 1877, was not exactly in love with the idea of commemorating World War I German soldiers, no matter how open the new church’s environment was supposed to be. Although Harvard’s Board of Preachers was ultimately successful in convincing President Lowell that the new church ought to be a memorial to Harvard’s war dead in the most welcoming sense, Gomes said that the actual composition of the German World War I memorial indicates Lowell’s unease. After all, it consists of a smaller, less visible plaque written in Latin to lower its visibility.
However, the name of Adolf Sannwald, the Divinity School graduate who was drafted into the Wehrmacht in 1942, could not be more visible. Unlike the other German soldiers commemorated in the church, Sannwald’s name is mixed in with all of Harvard’s other World War II casualties. Although the phrase “enemy casualty” accompanies his name, an implicit celebration of his life and sacrifice is on full display. Unveiled on Veterans Day 1951, the Memorial Church World War II memorial was almost immediately criticized. The Crimson claimed that the inclusion of Sannwald’s name was inconsistent with the memorial’s goal, especially given that Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, a fellow Harvard graduate involved in the attack on Pearl Harbor, was not included.
When asked about this apparent omission, Gomes said that he has no idea why Yamamoto’s name would not have been included if Sannwald’s was.
“I don’t know whether there was a policy or inadvertence or discrimination,” he says. “There was a popular American conception that the Germans were a nobler adversary than the Japanese, a kind of racism, and I don’t know whether that played a part in this or not.”
As soon as 1952, the Harvard Corporation—the University’s highest governing body—issued a statement: “The inclusion of the name of an alumnus who served in the German Army was an error and will be corrected.” That “error” has yet to be addressed fifty-eight years later. Now, of course, the question is whether it still should be.
After all, little is known about the extent to which Sannwald was actually complicit with the Nazi regime and its fascist project. He left Harvard for Germany in 1925, married, fathered five children, and wrote one book on German idealism currently buried in Widener Library. For all we know, he could have remained a quiet Lutheran pastor until his conscription in 1942.
Gomes believes that he was ultimately conscripted because he spoke out against the regime, which is why he was shipped off to the Eastern front to die in the first place. Christopher R. Browning, a prominent Holocaust historian at the University of North Carolina, said that from what little evidence is available, Sannwald can’t quite be considered an enthusiastic Nazi. According to Browning, Sannwald, as a member of the Confessing Church, was clearly engaged in a theological dispute with the Protestant Church against complete Nazification. “The genocidal evidence isn’t there yet,” Browning says.
But Sannwald’s archived file raises questions about such claims to his innocence. After all, as The Crimson uncovered in 2003, Sannwald invited Divinity School Dean Willard L. Sperry to Nazi Germany to witness first-hand “the wonderful rebirth the nation was having under Hitler.”
“If the idea here is that soldiers are all comrades,” says Daniel J. Goldhagen ’81, author of “Hitler’s Willing Executioners” and former associate professor in both the social studies and government departments, “the fact is that the German army refused itself to recognize this camaraderie of soldiers. It starved and shot more than two million Russian POWs during the war, which, from this perspective, makes the honoring of this soldier the most dubious of all honorings one could imagine.”
“People knew what it meant to be a part of that army. You didn’t have to stay there,” says Stephen H. Norwood, a historian at the University of Oklahoma who has written widely on the subject of Nazi complicity on American college campuses: “How any human being could participate in the Nazi army is just beyond my understanding.” With regard to whether the name should stay, Norwood answers emphatically, “It should be removed.”
THE COUNTER-OFFENSIVE
Even though Harvard long ago decided not to commemorate its 71 Confederate casualties in any official sense, the cause has not been forgotten.
This year, the Southern Legal Resource Center, a non-profit legal organization based in South Carolina that is “waging a counter-offensive to preserve Southern heritage,” has launched “The Harvard Confederate Memorial Initiative,” a drive to inspire the University to commemorate its fallen Confederate sons. According to Executive Director Roger W. McCredie, the group learned of the situation in early March after the publication of Trimpi’s book and after having been approached by several Harvard alums.
He also said that the Center first launched a Facebook petition that now has over 100 signatures before it decided to work through certain chapters of the Harvard Alumni Association.
McCredie’s group has designed a particular logo for their new initiative—one that probably won’t win it many supporters in the Harvard community. The graphic consists of the Harvard crest, half in black and half in “Stars and Bars,” and the word “pietas” replaces the word “Veritas” divided among the three open books. But McCredie doesn’t seem too worried about the impact the Confederate imagery may have on his cause.
“If you want to talk slavery, we can talk slavery all day long and about how no one’s hands are clean from it—including the Fanueil family and the Brown family, both of whom made fortunes on the slave trade,” he says. “This extremely skewed view of history and of historical perspective has become pandemic—it does not infect merely Harvard; it infects the entire educated and cultural edifice of the United States these days.”
“South equal bad,” he adds. “North equal good.”
Historical precedent is certainly not on the side of this movement; the idea of establishing a Confederate memorial came up in 1936 during the University’s Tercentenary, in the mid-1960s during the Civil War’s centennial, again at the University’s 350th anniversary in 1986, and, most recently, in 1995, when Memorial Church underwent major renovations. None of these movements ultimately led anywhere.
“We do this Southern Heritage thing for a living, and we are enough of realists to know that we can’t presume to dictate policy to Harvard University. All we can do is in effect make suggestions,” McCredie says, like the letter McCredie sent to Gomes in April of the past year.
“Their concept of ‘Veritas’ may not have jibed with that of their Union counterparts, but they acted on it in good faith and paid a soldier’s price for doing so,” McCredie wrote of Harvard’s Confederates in the letter. Before the end, he quotes Yeats—“We know their dream enough/to know they dreamed, and are dead”—before asking Gomes to help Harvard heal some long-held bitterness by commemorating its fallen Confederates.
“They deserve no less,” he wrote. “We ask no more.”
As of now, he has yet to receive a reply.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Widely praised for his recruiting prowess, Harvard men’s basketball coach Tommy Amaker swung for the fences last fall in compiling his third recruiting class at the helm of the Crimson.
The former Seton Hall and Michigan coach largely struck out, as Amaker and his staff lost multiple top-100 prospects to high-major institutions like Stanford and Vanderbilt.
But true to his reputation, Amaker recovered in the winter and managed to bring in a haul that once again stands among the best in the Ivy League.
Composed of five recruits hailing from three different nations, Harvard’s class of 2014 appears poised to have the same sort of impact that the squad’s current sophomores made last season during their first year in Cambridge.
The most intriguing of the Crimson newcomers is seven-footer Ugo Okam, a 245-pound center who graduated from Florida’s Montverde Academy.
His presence provides Amaker with a much-needed boost in the team’s frontcourt—which will begin the season with only three healthy returnees—as well as an asset to develop over the long term.
Having played basketball only since his arrival in the United States from Nigeria about five years ago, Okam has been steadily improving in all facets of the sport—especially after joining Harvard.
“He’s made tremendous strides here, just since he’s stepped on campus until now,” junior co-captain Keith Wright says of the freshman. “It’s just amazing the progression he’s made. He’s more of a defensive monster. He blocks everything around the rim.”
Okam, who turned down offers from Vanderbilt, Penn, and Loyola Marymount in favor of Harvard, remains raw and unpolished on the offensive end but certainly has the physical tools to make an impact down low.
“Offensively, he was a little limited. But within a week and a half, he’s got a hook shot—lefty, righty—dunks, alley-oops, boxing out, learning the plays quickly,” junior Andrew Van Nest says. “We don’t really have to take him under our wing. If he messes up, we get on him, and he learns from that. We’re always honest with him, and he learns quickly.”
Okam is joined by a pair of rookie guards hailing from Northfield Mount Hermon School, a Massachusetts prep school that has consistently sent graduates all over the Ivy League.
Already garnering his fair share of praise, highly-touted wing Laurent Rivard will be sure to see playing time right away in a crowded Harvard backcourt—or perhaps even up front.
“Laurent—he’s a complete player already,” McNally says. “One thing about him that you rarely see in a freshman is that he’s like 220 pounds, 6’5”, great build; he’s a really strong guy for how young he is.”
Predicted to be the Ancient Eight’s Newcomer of the Year by Lindy’s Sports, Rivard has a versatile skill set and a high basketball IQ to go along with his impressive frame.
“He excels as a fundamentally sound wing that can really shoot it with range,” says Barry Hayes of Hoopstars Canada. “He is unselfish and has good vision with the ball—always a great combination.”
“While he doesn’t immediately look the part of a defensive stopper, he is deceptively quick, using good foot speed,” Hayes adds.
Praised as “one of the best pure shooters in the region” by the New England Recruiting Report, the guard poured in 22 points during the Crimson’s scrimmage against Northeastern last weekend.
The Canada native played with his home country’s junior national team last summer and selected Harvard over Georgia Tech and Bucknell.
Rivard is joined on the roster by quite a familiar face. Matt Brown, a fellow graduate of NMH, is a combination guard with the ability to distribute and score while making his physical presence felt on defense too.
“He’s a powerful kid in the backcourt; he can shoot the ball and get to the basket,” says Alex Schwartz of Northstar Basketball. “Matt Brown’s a kid who I think has the chance to be an All-League-type player.”
Currently Harvard’s only two-sport male athlete, Brown is also a wide receiver for the football team, which concludes its season next Saturday.
Brown has missed most of the basketball preseason and will likely miss the Crimson’s first three games.
Rounding out the current class is Ernest Rouse, a 6’2” guard out of New York City’s Archbishop Molloy High School, where he was coached by Jack Curran, the winningest coach in New York state history.
Rouse was accepted to Harvard without being recruited by the Crimson.
He then initiated contact with Amaker and his staff and joined Harvard’s roster. The shooter held offers from UMBC, NJIT, and Siena.
But Rouse is no longer flying under the radar.
“Ernest is really, really good,” sophomore guard Brandyn Curry says. “Nobody knew much about Ernest. He’s come in and really proved himself during practice.”
“Ernest—he can hit shots, and he’s done that in practice,” McNally adds. “He’s done a good job with that, and that’s his specialty.”
The final recruit of the class, Californian Jamie Moore, has decided to take a leave of absence for the semester to deal with persistent migraines. The sharpshooting forward says he hopes to return to Harvard and the basketball team in the spring.
For his classmates, the wait is finally over.
Amaker’s latest crop of rookies will now have its chance to achieve the goal made explicit by every freshman class in recent Crimson history: to bring home the squad’s first-ever conference title.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Forward is a position of contradictions. Great big men require power and finesse, brawn and brains, flair and efficiency. The post is a place for yeomen whose often-uncelebrated work—crashing the boards, defending the rim, setting picks—is the linchpin of great basketball. The role is a natural fit for junior Keith Wright.
Wright, himself, is something of a mystery. The big man started playing basketball just his sophomore year at Princess Anne High School in Virginia Beach, Va.
“I wanted to play freshman year, but I couldn’t because I got a ‘C’ on my progress report,” he explains. “My mom said, ‘No basketball for your freshman year.’”
But the game came easily to Wright, who was averaging 20.5 points and 13.0 rebounds per contest by the time he was a senior at the Norfolk Collegiate School.
Since arriving at Cambridge, Wright has shown the ability to dominate the paint—not only against Ivy opponents, but also national powers.
Against Boston College last December, Wright went 9-of-14 from the field for 21 points as Harvard defeated the Eagles, 74-67, for the second straight year.
But the junior has also faced stretches of injury and disappointment. Mononucleosis sidelined Wright for four games his freshman year. Last February, inflammation in his Achilles tendon relegated him to the bench for five games and hampered him through the end of the season.
On the year, Wright averaged 8.9 points and 4.6 rebounds in 21.4 minutes of action per game.
“I think the first step for any player to become a marquee player is consistency,” Crimson coach Tommy Amaker says. “The biggest thing is also staying healthy…If Keith can do that, he can certainly be a marquee post player for our team.”
Wright’s progression into an elite forward would be an enormous boon for a Harvard team looking to capture its first Ivy League championship. The junior stands at the center of the Crimson’s two greatest question marks: experience and frontcourt depth. Wright is the co-captain, along with junior guard Oliver McNally, of a team without any seniors.
He and sophomore Kyle Casey, who will miss the beginning of the season with a broken foot, are the only forwards with more than 15 games of experience.
“We have a little more work this year because we’re younger, and we don’t have one of the best players in the league in [Jeremy Lin ’10],” McNally says. “But we have a lot of guys that are going to step in and hopefully become some of those dominant-type players.”
Wright has been working tirelessly to this end since he arrived on campus as a 6’8”, 245-pound freshman.
“This guy on Twitter posted about how [Wright] came into the Ivy League, saying he was an overweight big man with terrible hands,” recalls junior forward Andrew Van Nest. “Now you look at him, and he’s dropped like 25, 20 pounds. He’s an animal.”
This transformation has been the focal point of Wright’s preparation for the coming year, as he strives to stay on the court for a full season.
Aside from lifting weights and running sprints, Wright has also changed his diet. He credits nutritionist Tara Mardigan—the team nutritionist for the Boston Red Sox—for improving his eating habits.
Wright’s teammates have taken notice of the big man’s evolution.
“He got very strong this summer, got in shape a lot more,” Casey says. “He’s been playing very well, pushing our young guys. He’s been great, just kind of leading them on the court, showing them what to do, setting an example for them.”
Casey’s comment highlights another transition for Wright—that of becoming a team leader. He and McNally are the first junior captains since Jason Norman ’05 during the 2003-04 season.
“It’s an honor being voted the captain. It says a lot about what my teammates think of me,” Wright says. “I’m not really the loudest guy, so I’ve really just been trying to lead by example and lead these young guys in here.”
“He brings his hard hat every day,” sophomore guard Christian Webster says. “He’s definitely a hard worker, and he’s been a great captain so far.”
While he always brings it on the court, Wright also acknowledges the importance of staying loose.
“Staying stress-free is key. I feel like your mind plays a part in [staying healthy],” the big man says. “I [like to] hang out with my teammates. Andrew Van Nest is my roommate, my best friend. We always just listen to music, play a little bit of video games.”
Aside from using “NBA 2K11” and “Halo: Reach” as outlets, Wright can also turn to his family. His mother moved to Waltham, Mass., two summers ago and is a fixture behind the Harvard bench.
“Me and my mother are very close,” he says. “It’s awesome having her around, having her close, being able to talk to her.”
If Wright can also feel at home on the basketball court, he could be poised for a breakout season. With the graduation of Cornell’s Jeff Foote and Brown’s Matt Mullery, the mantle of best big man in the Ivy League is wide open and within Wright’s grasp.
“I see myself taking that [title],” Van Nest says half-jokingly. “I’m going to be fighting him for that spot, but I would not be upset or surprised if he got there.”
“I’m just playing my game,” Wright says. “All that is really just politics and people’s opinions. I know if I’m playing hard, helping my teammates, and I’m just doing the best that I can, whatever title that comes will come, but I’m not really worried about it.”
—Staff writer Timothy J. Walsh can be reached at twalsh@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nine hundred eleven points, 348 rebounds, and 186 assists. Seven Rookie of the Week honors and one Ivy League Rookie of the Year award. The Harvard men’s basketball team’s class of 2013 accomplished quite a bit during its rookie season.
But for the five sophomores on the Crimson roster, the 2009-10 season was a disappointment in one major way.
“We didn’t win the Ivy League championship,” says reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Year Kyle Casey. “I don’t really think [last season] was that great of a success.”
If the upcoming season is to be the one in which the Crimson hangs its first championship banner, its returning sophomores will have to be the driving force.
With the graduation of Jeremy Lin ’10, Doug Miller ’10, and Pat Magnarelli ’10, Harvard will be calling on its core group of second-year players to shoulder a larger share of the load.
“This year, there’s no sitting in the back, relying on the upperclassmen,” sophomore guard Brandyn Curry says. “We are the upperclassmen. A lot of the team’s depending on us to make the plays late in the game.”
If last season was any indication, Harvard’s sophomores should be up to the task.
From the first game of the season last year, the Crimson’s class of 2013 was thrown into the fire. The group did not disappoint. By season’s end, Harvard’s freshmen—led by the trio of Casey, Curry, and guard Christian Webster—had combined for 42 percent of Harvard’s scoring and taken home seven of 17 Ivy League Rookie of the Week awards.
Casey, in particular, was a force to be reckoned with. The highly-touted recruit from the nearby Brimmer and May School finished the season ranked 14th in the conference in scoring, eighth in rebounding, and fourth in field goal percentage. The 6’7” forward with an explosive vertical leap also displayed an ability to stroke the ball from beyond the arc, shooting 11 of 28 (39.3 percent) from deep in Ivy League play.
“He became one of the toughest players to defend against in the entire league,” junior co-captain Oliver McNally observes.
With Lin gone, many onlookers expect Casey to take on the role as the team’s top offensive producer for the next three seasons.
But Harvard fans will have to wait some time before they can see Casey take the reins of the Crimson offense.
Casey—who suffered a broken foot while playing pickup basketball with his teammates in early October—is not expected to see the floor until late November or early December, and he will likely miss at least the Crimson’s first three contests.
“Right now, my main concern is getting back on both feet, getting healthy, trying to get out there with my teammates,” Casey says. “I’m going to wait until I’m 100 percent and come back strong and ready to help the team.”
Another sophomore currently recovering from an injury is Curry, a 6’1” point guard.
Curry—who played his entire freshman season with a torn patellar tendon—underwent surgery in April, forcing him to spend the summer rehabbing his knee in his hometown of Huntersville, N.C.
But after being cleared to play three weeks ago, Curry is expected to be back at full strength and in the starting lineup for tomorrow’s matchup against George Mason.
“I got off to a slow start in practice, but I’m definitely getting a lot better with it,” Curry says. “My speed’s improving. My cut time, my reaction time are all improving. I’ll be good by the time season starts.”
During the latter part of the 2009-10 season, Curry was perhaps the most impressive of the Crimson’s talented rookies. The point guard capped off his season with back-to-back Ivy League Rookie of the Week awards after averaging 14 points, five assists, and two steals over Harvard’s final four regular-season contests.
With his knee healthy, the sophomore expects to be even more dangerous. Curry, who spent the offseason working on his off-hand while rehabbing, hopes to take on the role as the team’s creator in the absence of Lin.
“Last year we relied a lot more on [Lin] creating for us,” Curry says. “We just spaced out, let him handle most of the work. So this year, for me, I’m going to have to handle the ball a lot more. I’m going to have to be the one that finds my open teammates.”
Two of those teammates Curry expects to find are his classmates—and roommates—Webster and guard Dee Giger. The backcourt duo of Webster and Giger combined for 13.3 points per game and 60 three-pointers last season. Webster, a 6’5” wing, finished second on the team in three-point percentage (38.3) and first on the team in made three-pointers (41).
But after an offseason spent working on his ability to put the ball on the floor, Webster plans to change his image as simply a spot-up shooter.
“I know Brandyn and Christian have improved their game from last year, and they’re ready to take some big steps forward,” McNally says.
One lesser-known member of the class of 2013 who will play a crucial role in determining the Crimson’s early success is 6’7” forward Jeff Georgatos.
With Miller and Magnarelli graduated and Casey out for the early part of the season, Georgatos—like his classmates—will need to take on a larger role, a challenge the five sophomores are comfortable they can handle.
“We’re just a lot more confident,” Curry says. “We’ve got a year under our belt. We’ve been through it all. We’ve played tough games. We played UConn, Georgetown, and Cornell. So we’ve been there. We’re not freshmen anymore.”
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Meet the Harvard women’s basketball’s version of the Fab Five.
With no seniors on the team last season and a flurry of injuries that took place as the year progressed, the highly-touted freshman class—comprised of forwards Victoria Lippert and Emma Golen, guards Jasmine Evans and Elle Hagedorn, and center Miriam Rutzen—found itself contributing to the team a bit earlier than it expected.
Despite their youth, the players adjusted quickly to the college game—and to Crimson coach Kathy Delaney-Smith’s high standards—to help Harvard finish second in the league behind  only Princeton.
“Last year, having five freshmen out of a total of 12 players on the team, we had to step up and take an important role on the team and its identity,” Lippert says. “Being such a significant percentage of our basketball team, we had to assume responsibility for our team.”
“There were a lot of injuries last season, which was unfortunate, but for us now, we have more experience going into our sophomore season,” Hagedorn adds.
Lippert established herself as one of the Ivy League’s top forwards last season, averaging 13.1 points per game to be the Crimson’s second-leading scorer and to earn second-team All-Ivy honors. Hagedorn also had a solid freshman campaign, averaging 14.5 minutes on the court and chipping in 3.4 points a game. Rutzen and Golen contributed off the bench as well, while Evans spent the season recovering from an injury.
Though the Harvard roster got a bit more crowded with the arrival of four freshmen this fall, the sophomores will look to contribute even more to the team’s success this season.
“We still have a lot to work on, but compared to where we were at this time last year, we’re definitely all around much better players and much more experienced,” Hagedorn says. “Now that we have a year knowing the system and knowing what [Delaney-Smith] expects of us, we’re going to be able to contribute just as much as last season, if not more.”
“Expectations are higher, and now the little mistakes aren’t going to cut it anymore,” Lippert adds. “We’re all pushing ourselves to improve on last year and get even better, individually and collectively.”
Laughing, Lippert remarks, “We don’t have the freshman newbie excuse anymore.”
Like other members on the team, the sophomores devoted most of their offseason towards improving their defense and rebounding, two areas that Delaney-Smith attributed to last season’s shortcomings.
“I tried seven different things [last] year [for rebounding and defense]...But all the talk and drills in the world just weren’t doing it,” Delaney-Smith said last spring.
“As a team, we’re putting a focus on our defensive effort and intensity,” Lippert says. “One of the big things is communication. We need to know where we are on the court, so we have to be vocal and continue to be with our teammates. That’s really important for the functioning of our team, especially defensively. Ultimately, that’s what’s going to win us an Ivy League championship.”
While the core of the basketball team returns in junior guard Brogan Berry, senior forward Emma Markley, and co-captain Christine Matera, the sophomores will look to serve as mentors to the freshmen.
“It is kind of weird [being a sophomore],” Hagedorn says. “I still think of myself as a freshman on this team. But the sophomore class, we’re trying to make that transition to help the freshmen. We’re modeling ourselves after the sophomores and juniors of last year. We want to make sure that they’re comfortable with the basketball aspect of school, and the academic aspect of school, and being able to balance the two.”
With a year of valuable playing experience under their belts, the sophomores not only refined their basketball skills, they also became close teammates and even closer friends off the court.
“Practice takes up three to four hours a day, so we’re together all the time on the court,” Hagedorn says. “But off the court, we’re also together. We eat meals together after practice; we have movie nights together.”
And although the class is comprised of players with very different personalities, the sophomores have found a way to click.
“I’m more outgoing, and if Miriam’s hanging out with me, I’ll make her more outgoing and crazy, and sometimes she’ll have the opposite effect on me,” Hagedorn laughs. “We all kind of rub off on each other.”
“I love the class of 2013,” Lippert adds. “I think we’re all very different, and we all bring some strange quirky personality to the table. It makes it very fun to be around these girls. I’m very grateful that I get to play with them for four years.”
—Staff writer Kevin T. Chen can be reached at ktchen@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s soccer team may not have ended the season with an Ivy League championship trophy, but that didn’t keep the Crimson from taking home its share of hardware.
Earlier today, the Ivy League office announced that Harvard co-captain Katherine Sheeleigh was voted the 2010 Ivy League Player of the Year, making her the first Crimson player to be selected for the honor since 1999.
“It was awesome," Sheeleigh said. "I was just really excited, really surprised when I got the call from [coach Ray Leone]. It was just a big shock."
The forward concluded her Harvard career with a stellar senior campaign, leading the Ancient Eight in both points and goals with 24 and nine, respectively. The co-captain’s nine goals this season give her 31 on her collegiate career, good for fifth in Crimson history. Sheeleigh added an assist in tonight's 3-1 win over Fairfield.
In addition to being named the Ivy League Player of the Year, Sheeleigh was selected to the All-Ivy First Team for the fourth consecutive season, making her just the second player since 2000 to accomplish such a feat.
"I think it was great; I think it was really deserving," Leone said. "She’s such a complete player. She does so much more [than scoring]—she defends the best players on corner kicks, which forwards never do. She’s a complete player."
Sheeleigh is joined on the first team by three Crimson teammates—juniors Melanie Baskind and Lindsey Kowal and sophomore Alexandra Conigliaro—which gives Harvard the most first-team selections in the conference.
Baskind finished second to Sheeleigh on the team in both goals (seven) and assists (four). Kowal anchored the Crimson defensively, starting in each of Harvard’s 16 contests, while Conigliaro chipped in with four goals, including two game-winners.
Three other Crimson players—senior Kerry Kartsonis, junior Rebecca Millock, and freshman Peyton Johnson—were awarded an All-Ivy honorable mention.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
2: The number of wins Harvard has on the road against Penn this decade. The Crimson travels to Franklin Field this Saturday to take on the league-leading Quakers.
17: Years head coach Tim Murphy has led the Crimson program. In that time, Murphy has compiled a record of 110-57.
600: The number of yards the Quaker offense tallied against Princeton last Saturday in a 52-10 drubbing of the Tigers. 396 of those yards came on the ground.
13: The number of Ivy League championships the Crimson has won. Harvard–currently in second place in the League–must win at Penn in order to contend for its 14th title this season.
NICE TO MEET YOU, GMU
 
21: Record-setting number of wins the Harvard basketball program compiled last season.
0: Times Harvard and George Mason had played a basketball contest against one another before the Crimson’s season opener this Saturday.
63: Number of season-opening wins for Harvard basketball all time, compared to just 36 losses.
WEEKLY RECAP
8.2: Number of seconds left in the game when the Harvard men’s hockey team scored the game-winning goal against RPI last Saturday. The Crimson won the game, 1-0.
.963: Save percentage for Harvard goaltender Kyle Richter. The senior currently leads the nation in that category.
12: Number of teams in the ECAC that registered at one least point in last weekend’s opening games.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Men’s basketball tips off its 2010-11 season on Saturday by traveling down to Fairfax, Va., to face George Mason. The Patriots, who are best known for their run to the Final Four in 2006, are ranked No. 16 in the preseason Collegeinsider.com Mid-Major Top 25 poll. Let’s take a quick look at the enemy.
LAST SEASON: The Patriots experienced some success a year ago when they went 17-15 (12-6 CAA). George Mason missed out on the NCAA tournament, but, like Harvard, it received a bid to the CIT, where it bowed out in the first round. The Patriots and the Crimson had three common opponents: Dartmouth, George Washington, and William & Mary. Harvard went 4-0 against the trio, while the George Mason went 1-2.
THIS SEASON: The Patriots, which return all five starters from last year’s squad, have yet to play a game this season, but they are expected to finish near the top of the Colonial Athletic Association. The coaches in the conference selected George Mason to place second in the league, behind Old Dominion.
PLAYER TO WATCH: Senior guard Cam Long was the leading scorer for the Patriots last year, averaging 12.2 points per game in addition to 3.9 rebounds and 3.1 assists. Long struggled with his shot, shooting just 38.1 percent from the field and 31.8 percent from deep, but was named to the preseason All-CAA First Team.
PREDICTION: The Crimson did not do itself any favors scheduling a potential NCAA tournament team for its first game. In its first game post-Jeremy Lin ’10, Harvard will also be without sophomore forward Kyle Casey, who is sidelined with a broken foot. Lacking the star power from last year, the Crimson is likely to drop its first contest.
George Mason 74, Harvard 64.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On Monday, Glamour magazine honored three Harvard alumnae, founders of Her Campus, an online magazine that promotes journalism for female undergraduates across the country.
The founders, who were recognized among Glamour’s “20 Amazing Young Women,” are Windsor G. Hanger '10, Stephanie M. Kaplan '10, and Annie Wang '11-'12.
Her Campus was developed when Hanger, Kaplan, and Wang—then heads of Freeze Magazine—identified an unfulfilled niche: an online hub for college women and a platform for aspiring student journalists to get published.
Her Campus has grown into an online magazine that publishes content about campuses across the country. It currently serves 73 college campuses and plans to expand to 100 in early January, Hanger said. The founders are also planning on expanding the role of Her Campus. They hope to begin organizing campus events, making collaborations with larger brands, and developing new content, they said.
All three said they were excited about the honor. “Having Glamour’s recognition adds a level of legitimacy and prestige to what we’re doing,” Kaplan said.
Her Campus has been able to offer opportunities to female undergraduates across the country, Wang said.
“Her Campus serves as a career launching point for aspiring journalists where such an opportunity wasn’t available before,” Wang said.
The magazine and its founders have placed many women in jobs and internships since 2009, according to the founders.
Photo courtesy of Her Campus.
Sections
You’ve probably seen the UC presidential hopefuls stumping for votes outside the Science Center this week, whether it’s Ebrahim-Cao and Coe-Li with their traditional campaign banners or Jones-Davis with their more adventurous pogo-sticking Tigger exhibition. With all three campaigns for UC leadership in full gear and voting set to begin this coming Monday, here is a pre-election campaign rundown.
We’ll introduce you to the candidates, their campaigns, and their stand on what’s been billed as the central issue of this year’s campaign: social life at Harvard.
MATT S. COE-ODESS ’12/TENGBO LI ’12 
Coe-Odess is a psychology major in Kirkland House with a “painfully pale, smiling face,” according to a sometimes humorous bio on his campaign website.
“You may know him as the blond kid who takes your laundry at HSA cleaners, or perhaps you recognize his name from the Freshmen IM Staff. You may have even heard his obnoxious, boisterous laugh in the yard as he gives tours to foreigners who probably can’t understand him,” his bio reads.
Running mate and Pfoho economics concentrator Li hails from Brighton, Michigan, whose town motto is “Where quality is a way of life.” Aside from the UC, Tengbo has been involved in The Harvard Undergraduate Research Journal and the IOP, according to their campaign website.
Slogan: "A UC That Sees You. Your ideas. Your Harvard."
UC Experience: Coe-Odess: Social Life Task Force Chair, Li: Education Committee Chair.
Endorsements: Veritas Financial Group
Ideas for improving campus social life/social space: Reducing rental fees for dining hall and common room events, hosting more non-alcoholic events (including through DAPA), partnering with other Boston universities for more multi-college social events, more tailgates and post-game parties at athletic events.
To see more, go to their website.
SENAN EBRAHIM '12/BONNIE CAO '12
Presidential candidate Ebrahim is a neurobiology concentrator who hails from Quincy (but San Jose, Calif., originally).
 “[Ebrahim] is contemplating an advocacy effort to relocate Harvard University to a tropical island,” according to a tongue-in-cheek part of his website. Besides being chair of the Student Life Committee, his other activities include Engineering Without Borders, Harvard Undergraduate Research Association, and the Harvard Mountaineering Club.
A government concentrator from Pfoho, Cao comes from Los Angeles and “as such will defend the Lakers to the death against drinkers of Boston haterade,” according to their campaign website. She’s also secretary of the Harvard-Radcliffe Chinese Students Association and active in the Institute of Politics.
Slogan: "Your vision. Your Voice. Your Solutions."
UC Experience: Senan: Chair of the Student Life Committee, Bonnie: Secretary of the UC.
Endorsements: Harvard College Democrats, Harvard Hong Kong Society, The Irish-American Society, The Opportunes
Ideas for improving campus social life/social space: UC rentals of large venue spaces for events, extended funding for off-campus venues, UC grants for fundraisers, an end of the year party, a free student concert (à la Yardfest).
To see more, go to their website.
COLLIN A. JONES '12/PETER D. DAVIS '12
Jones, a Quincy resident and comparative religion concentrator, competed in this year’s Chickwich Challenge, and you may recognize him as the face of Hahvahd Tours.  His vice-presidential candidate Davis, a Currier resident and government concentrator from Falls Church, Virginia, has acted for On Harvard Time. You may recognize him from his band Pete Davis and the Holy Smokes, which sometimes performs at the Queen’s Head Pub.
Slogan: "...Until we Run Out of Money, or Get Removed from Office."
UC Experience: None.
Endorsements: “I endorse Peter Davis for Vice President of the UC,” Jones said. “And I endorse Collin Jones for President of the UC,” Davis said.
Ideas for improving campus social life/social space: Jones and Davis advocate “working with what we have—Pusey Library, the foyer of Sever, Greenhouse Cafe, and Lamont Cafe before 8 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights.”
To see more, go to their website.
(For a more in-depth information on the candidates, look out for The Crimson’s feature stories on all three UC tickets, to be published next week.)
