News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was a night for the Harvard record books.
On Friday night, the men’s basketball team earned its 19th victory of the year, matching the record for most wins in a season first set in 1946.
“We’re very proud of those things,” Crimson coach Tommy Amaker said. “Sometimes you can think that if you don’t win the Ivy League, if you don’t go to the NCAA tournament, there’s nothing to play for. There are a ton of [records and opportunities] that we’ve pointed out.”
Freshman Brandyn Curry led Harvard with a career-high 21 points to help his team score a total of 91 points, its highest offensive output of the season, as the Crimson (19-6, 8-3 Ivy) cruised to a comfortable victory over Brown (10-18, 4-7), 91-71, at Lavietes Pavilion.
Harvard’s up-tempo style of play—the team finished with 17 fast-break points—and its deadly accuracy from deep—the Crimson shot 12-of-19 from three-point range—combined to produce a perfect offensive storm.
“It’s always fun to get up and down and get a lot of shots,” sophomore Oliver McNally said. “We got some long rebounds and turnovers in the first half, which really got us open and going in the open court, which got us into a rhythm.”
Curry and fellow point guard McNally flourished in the fast-paced setting, netting a combined 35 points on 8-of-11 shooting from beyond the arc.
“There’s no question that there’s a really good vibe when those two kids are out there playing,” Amaker said.
While Curry and McNally had little trouble lighting up the scoreboard themselves, the two also managed to find open looks for their teammates. Curry finished with five assists while McNally added four.
“We’re both really unselfish players,” McNally. “It’s fun to play with somebody who’s always looking to get other people shots and help make other people better. It’s been really cool playing with him the entire year.”
But the duo’s unselfishness was eclipsed by co-captain Jeremy Lin, who finished with seven assists while being held to just eight points. On the eve of Senior Night, it was the Crimson’s underclassmen that carried the load, accounting for 73 points—or 80 percent of the team’s scoring.
“I think it shows that the rest of the team is progressing,” McNally said. “Some of the younger guys are really finding their spots where they’re good at scoring and converting. And [Lin] got to sit a lot in the second half, so he’s going to be healthy and kill it tomorrow.”
The Crimson used its fast-paced style of play to its benefit on the defensive end as well, using its guards to pressure the Bears’ ball-handlers. The tactic was largely successful, as Brown coughed up 10 first-half turnovers.
Harvard’s defense played a critical role in allowing the Crimson to come back from an early 23-18 deficit.
Over the next 6:32 of play, Harvard held the Bears to just six points, as the Crimson went on a 25-6 run to give Harvard the 43-29 lead.
Fittingly, McNally ignited the run with a deep ball while Curry capped if off with a three-pointer.
McNally’s shot that got things started came with just a few ticks left on the shot clock. A loose ball found itself in the hands of sophomore Max Kenyi, who then kicked it out to McNally, spotted up a step outside the perimeter. When McNally’s shot sailed home, the Crimson’s deficit was cut to just two.
McNally tied the score on Harvard’s next possession, this time faking the deep shot and then getting to the basket, where the 6’3” guard finished with a left-handed layup.
The Bears regained the lead with two free throws from Matt Sullivan, but Curry answered for the Crimson with a deep two. Harvard took the lead for good when Curry intercepted a pass and found sophomore Keith Wright as he cut to the basket in transition for the layup.
From there, the Crimson lead would grow.
Senior Pat Magnarelli, playing in his first game since suffering an injury in late January, got open for an easy layup. Then Curry got an and-one layup and an alley-oop from Lin to fall.
The freshman ended the run off a catch-and-shoot three-pointer from classmate Christian Webster to extend Harvard’s lead to 14.
“I was just wide open, just taking my shots,” Curry said. “My teammates had a lot of great passes. I was just shooting my shots.”
By the end of the first half, the Crimson lead ballooned to 21 as Harvard finished with 54 first-half points.
“I was very pleased with our first half—I thought we played very efficiently,” Amaker said. “We really wanted to push the ball up the floor. We wanted to transition as quickly and as efficiently as possible.”
While Harvard allowed Brown to net some easy baskets early in the second half, the team settled down and cruised to the 20-point victory.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the Harvard men’s basketball team has excelled this season at reaching the free throw line and converting opportunities there—its accuracy of 77.1 percent at the charity stripe is good for third in the nation—the Crimson still has a ways to go when shooting from long range.
Harvard’s 33.6 three-point percentage places it at a middling 195th out of 347 Division I teams.
But Friday night against Brown, the statistics were inexplicably reversed.
Though Harvard only got to the line 12 times and missed five of those tries, the home squad’s marksmen found their stroke from farther out.
The Crimson went a blistering 12-for-19 from three-point range, led by freshman Brandyn Curry and sophomore Oliver McNally, who each drained four triples. The backcourt sharpshooters were joined by rookie wing Christian Webster, who added three treys of his own.
“Luckily, we made shots,” McNally said. “Just like the Columbia game, we were taking a lot of shots in rhythm, so usually those are the ones that will go in.”
Webster opened up the three-point barrage at 12:05 in the first half, spotting up on the fast break. Curry’s attempt would rim out two minutes later, but Harvard would not miss from three for the rest of the frame.
A pair of right-wing treys by McNally were critical in limiting Brown’s lead midway through the half. After a 10-2 run helped the Crimson jump out to a 35-27 lead with four minutes left, it was Curry’s time to shine.
After co-captain Jeremy Lin missed a free throw, the rebound found its way to Curry for a smooth triple. Several possessions later, Webster threw a long pass to Curry on the left wing for another three, which put the Crimson up by 14—its largest lead up to that point.
Even big man Kyle Casey got into the act. Trailing in transition, the freshman hit a straight-on triple as time expired, giving Harvard a 54-33 advantage at the break.
Overall the Crimson made 10 of its first 13 three-point attempts and five crucial treys in the second half—including a Curry three to end a 10-0 spurt by the Bears early in the frame.
BIG IMPROVEMENT
Friday night saw the return of senior forward Pat Magnarelli, who had not played since sustaining a high ankle sprain at Dartmouth in late January.
His contributions in 17 minutes off the bench—eight points, two rebounds, and two assists—drew a warm welcome from his squad, which had been sorely lacking experience in the paint since he went down.
“It drives me crazy just to see what we haven’t had,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “It doesn’t look like he’s missed a beat [or] much of anything, other than being a little winded…his feel, his savvy, and his instincts go a long way with our team.”
Magnarelli’s presence was felt immediately on both ends of the floor, but he had to shake off some remnants of rust.
Less than 15 seconds after substituting into the game, the big man grabbed an offensive rebound of a Lin miss, but the put-back bounced off the back rim.
“It’s been about five weeks,” Magnarelli said. “The game is a little faster than I remember it.”
After a fast-break layup from sophomore Keith Wright on the following possession, Magnarelli managed to get his feet set and drew a charge on Brown’s Matt Sullivan.
Though the oft-injured forward’s next two attempts from close range wouldn’t fall, he made them when it counted.
After a three by Garrett Leffelman cut Harvard’s lead to 14 with 6:32 to play in the game, it was Magnarelli who converted a layup in transition to respond. He had also slipped behind the defense for a satisfying two-handed flush earlier in the frame.
Wright, playing in only his third game since a bout with Achilles tendonitis, was also an effective reserve in similarly limited action. The front-court mainstay collected 10 points, a game-high six rebounds, and three assists in only 18 minutes.
Whether converting points in the paint or passing it out to shooters, the back-up big men compensated for starters Casey and co-captain Doug Miller, who both ran into foul trouble and combined for just eight points and two rebounds against the relentless Brown frontcourt.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the Harvard women’s hockey team, Friday night’s win was doubly important. Not only did it get the Crimson one step closer to the NCAA Tournament, but it also put Harvard coach Katey Stone one step closer to the top of her profession.
The No. 4 Crimson (20-6-5) scored four goals in the opening 15 minutes of play to cruise to a 5-1 playoff victory over Princeton (13-14-4) at Bright Hockey Center—the 338th career win for Stone, who became the all-time winningest coach in NCAA women’s hockey history.
“It’s great,” junior Kate Buesser said. “[Stone’s] probably the most competitive of anybody on our team, so it’s good to see her get in front there.”
Stone was honored by athletic director Bob Scalise in a postgame ceremony. The win pushed her one victory ahead of former Colby and Minnesota coach Laura Halldorson for the career lead.
“It means a lot to me,” Stone said. “And for our kids to play well—that was the most important thing. Our kids, they were on tonight, and that makes me very proud.”
Harvard’s quick start ensured that Stone’s big win was never in doubt.
After the Tigers were whistled for having too many players on the ice just 43 seconds into the contest, the Crimson set up on its power play.
It took nearly the entire two minutes of advantage to break through the Princeton defense, but with five seconds left on the penalty, junior Liza Ryabkina one-timed a pass from freshman Kelsey Romatoski past Tiger goaltender Rachel Weber.
Once Harvard got rolling, it couldn’t be stopped.
Five minutes later, senior Randi Griffin continued her recent offensive tear, scooping up a loose puck and putting a shot just past Weber’s extended leg for the 2-0 lead.
“It’s just a matter of, I think, working hard,” Griffin said. “I don’t know if it’s confidence or what, maybe just luck—you roll the dice enough times, they start going in.”
Ryabkina pushed the lead to 3-0 less than a minute later. Weber reached out to try to smother a shot from freshman Jillian Dempsey, but couldn’t get a glove on it. Ryabkina chipped the shot over the flattened Weber to light the lamp again.
All three goals came before Princeton got a shot on net.
“That looked like the US-Finland game earlier today,” Stone said. “That’s how you start, and that’s what you’ve got to do. You’ve got to break the opponent’s spirit in playoff hockey.”
The Crimson made it 4-0 with five minutes to play in the first period. Just after Harvard had successfully killed off a tripping penalty, Dempsey won a faceoff in the offensive zone. She passed the puck back to Buesser, whose shot from the high slot soared through traffic and into the net.
The top line of Ryabkina, Dempsey, and Buesser combined for six points, 13 shots, and a +6 rating on the night.
“Jillian’s a really feisty player and kind of gets in there and has great hands,” Buesser said. “And Liza’s just powerful, she’s got a lot of speed. So I think just the ability we have to pass, and how we see each other on the ice, is just really fun.”
Princeton got one back on a 5-on-3 power play just before the period ended. With Ryabkina already in the box, Griffin got sent off for hooking with 20.9 seconds on the clock.
Five seconds later, Tiger Laura Martindale put the puck past freshman netminder Laura Bellamy off assists from Sasha Sherry and Paula Romanchuk.
But even that blemish couldn’t take away from Harvard’s dominant first frame.
“I think that really set the tone, and really, we threw them back on their heels right away,” Buesser said. “If we play the way we did the first 15 minutes for the whole game, they don’t stand a chance tomorrow.”
Though the second period was the most balanced—each team put seven shots on net—the Crimson was the only team to capitalize.
At 15:15, freshman Margaret Chute passed the puck up to junior Leanna Coskren, who put a shot through a screen for her seventh goal of the season.
“Our focus has been to pressure them everywhere—we did a much better job of that today,” Stone said. “We changed our forecheck a little bit, and our kids are just, they’re going. There’s no hesitation. Give a team like [Princeton] some time and they’re going to hurt you...so we’re trying to take away as much as we can.”
Harvard came back to dominate the third period of play, outshooting the Tigers, 13-4, in the frame and 38-17 for the game.
“We rolled three lines and weren’t concerned about matchups, and the kids just got it done,” Stone said.
And the Crimson played with the kind of confidence it will need to carry throughout the postseason if it hopes to make noise on the national stage.
“That’s the thing—this team focuses on us,” Buesser said. “We play all these different teams, but it’s just another kid in another jersey. We’re here to see if they can keep up with us, not the other way around.”
—Staff writer Kate Leist can be reached at kleist@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Facebook is a voyeur’s dream. Every picture and post on a “friend’s” wall is there for the looking. But one part of Facebook is sacred in its privacy—messages. If you want to keep something secret, you can always count on sending a private message that will be seen only by the intended reader (that is, of course, unless he or she shares what you write).
But a glitch on Wednesday—first publicized by former Crimson editor Zachary M. Seward ’07—revealed what should not have been seen by outside eyes.
A botch on Facebook’s part sent e-mails to some users with the content of messages intended for other users. Apparently, this particular glitch seems to be “affecting mostly (and possibly only) early Facebook users who attended Harvard,” Business Insider tells us. While that’s good news for us Facebook newbies, it’s still pretty frightening.
Facebook dealt with the problem by cutting some users’ access to the site so that the computer-wizards could assess the damage and see what went wrong.
Though the glitch has supposedly been fixed, you may want to think twice before sending that secret message—you never know when Facebook might be revealing more than you want it to.
Sections
Tuesday night may have been Ladies’ Night at the Hasty Pudding Theatrical’s presentation of “Commie Dearest”, but those sitting in the audience got a glimpse of a whole lot of man.
Alma H. Lafler ’13, who was attending the show with the girls of the Harvard sailing team, told us that during halftime, the announcer said that the men of the tech team had prepared a special dance for the ladies. As the crew filed out onto the stage in doctor’s scrubs, Lafler said there was a general feeling that the men's clothes wouldn’t stay on for long. “During the performance, I was like, ‘Hey, I know one of those guys—that’s my math TF,’ and then they lifted him up and another guy ripped off his boxers. The lights went out a second after that."
Joseph J. Vitti ‘10, who has let it all hang out for the show’s intermission show for three years now, said that Tuesday’s performance left him a bit more exposed than those in the past. Although the lights were supposed to shut off a second after his boxers were torn off, they stayed on a couple seconds too long, enough time for the audience to take everything in.
“This year, I think that people were too intimidated to approach me after the show because they got to see the whole enchilada. In past years they would come up and be like, ‘Oh, you’re that dude,’” said Vitti.
As if it weren’t hard enough to focus during Math 1b already, those ladies lucky(?) enough to see a side of Vitti not usually aired in the classroom now have something else to distract them. Concentration during office hours with this TF will probably be even more difficult for any girl who has seen his well-defined function.
Sections
The following post is the first in a series about our favorite time of the year, that delightful, drama-filled, defining morning called Housing Day. Follow us as we introduce you to House life, review various aspects of the twelve Houses, and dispense tips on everything from blocking to boat making. We'll be keeping you company as you await your Housing destiny.
Your best friend is crying. Your roommates are either screaming at each other or giving you passive-aggressive stares. Meanwhile, you're still pondering whether you'd rather just give up and float or gouge your eyes out with a rusty spoon so you don't have to look at your painfully empty blocking form ever again. Sound familiar? Well, we’re here to give you a crash course in avoiding tearful/obnoxious/existentially-disconcerting blocking day drama.
Tip 1: Stop doing that awkward avoid-the-elephant-in-the-room mumble whenever someone tries to bring up blocking.
The sooner you start talking about blocking, the sooner you can start discussing how and when you're going to break the news to “that kid that no one likes.” Also, the sooner you bring up blocking, the sooner you can figure out who can fake claustrophobia so you don't get put in a room the size of a shoebox in Winthrop.
Tip 2: Don't think too much about whom you link with.
Hell, link with the people you like the least to ensure that you absolutely can't be in the same House as them. It seriously does not matter whom you link with at all. You will never see them and most likely won't even be able to name them. The only time you'll interact with your linkmates is when you awkwardly hook up with one of them post-River Run and wake up to an enthusiastic group of also half-naked Currierites the next morning.
Tip 3: Don't stress if you need emergency blockmates.
The group you thought you were going to block with ditched you, and all of a sudden you find yourself alone! Do not panic, but definitely do not send a desperate 3 a.m. e-mail over your dorm list enumerating why “those bitches can die” or anything foolish like that. Try to figure out if anyone you know from extracurricular activities has space for another person in their blocking group, and if desperate times call for desperate measures, be sure to mention the 50-inch plasma TV that you just happened to bring to school.
Tip 4: Don't block with your current love interest.
If you're into living in a comfortable, safe, homey environment, then please don't block with your current romantic interest. If you're into awkward post-breakup dhall run-ins and hearing alleged ex-romantic interest consummate his love with alleged new-romantic interest through traumatically thin walls, then by all means go ahead.
Tip 5: Don't worry about who you want to room with.
Blocking means that you're just going to be in the same House, not that you have to live in the same room. The time to awkwardly tell your friends that the floor is not a rotten food storage receptacle or that 5 a.m. is not an acceptable wake-up time comes later, during the “who is going to room with who” conversation. But you don't have to deal with that yet. Procrastinate accordingly.
Tip 6: Keep gender in mind.
Make sure that there are other people of your gender in your blocking group. As much as being the only girl in a seven-guy blocking group makes you “one of those girls that can hang with the guys”, it also makes you “one of those girls who is going to float into a tiny triple in Kirkland with complete weirdo strangers.”
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Just when you thought Yale had mastered the art of the creepy-but-loveable promotional video, Middlebury comes in with one of its own that may just take the cake. Meet “MiddKidd,” a parody of our favorite masterpiece, “That’s Why I Chose Yale.”
With a catchy beat, a refrain about rolled-up jeans and Nalgene bottles, and a transition into a “Lax Bro” routine at the end that is just, well, classic, “MiddKidd” is that rare work of art—satirical but substantive, primitive but profound, base but beautiful. Check out the lyrics to see what we mean.
While we’re on the subject of the “Lax Bro,” an anonymous group has attacked fraternities at Dartmouth with accusatory signs and women’s underwear. The Psi Upsilon house lawn was adorned with an orange poster that accused the club of being racist and sexist. “You have been charged with representing your brotherhood to Dartmouth as racist and insensitive,” the sign read.  Pieces of lingerie were also strewn all over the house’s porch. While Psi Upsilon is a fraternity, we wonder who’s being more absurd: the fraternity brothers or the anonymous campus activists who think they can solve major social issues with pieces of poster board and lingerie.
In other news, Haiti’s ambassador to the United States, Raymond Alcide Joseph, came to Yale on Thursday to discuss how that “university” could help with the reconstruction of his country. And while we are puzzled that his first instinct wouldn’t be to come to Harvard (where all important questions are asked and answered), we’re curious why he’d ask Yale. Seriously, Raymond, what’s the deal?
