News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Commencement keynote speaker David H. Souter '61 was one of ten recipients of honorary degrees from the University during the morning exercises on Thursday.
Souter, who is a 1966 graduate of Harvard Law School and served as an associate U.S. Supreme Court Justice for 19 years, received an honorary doctor of law degree.
Academy Award-winning actress Meryl Streep was presented with an honorary doctor of arts. Known for her versatility in front of the camera—playing both dramatic and comedic roles—Streep has garnered 16 Academy Award nominations and won two. She received her M.F.A. from the Yale School of Drama in 1975. 
Minimalist sculptor and experimental video artist Richard Serra received a doctor of arts. Serra, who was hailed as “a titan of sculpture, one of the last great modernists" by The New York Times, has worked with splash pieces, prop pieces, and steel works. He studied painting at Yale.  
Chemist Thomas R. Cech received an honorary doctor of science degree. A 1989 Nobel laureate in chemistry, Cech is currently the director of the Colorado Institute for Molecular Biotechnology at the University of Colorado. Cech's research served a pivotal role in the discovery that RNA can act as an enzyme—a function that had previously been viewed as exclusive to proteins. In 1987, Cech was elected to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and was awarded a lifetime professorship by the American Cancer Society.
Biology professor Susan L. Lindquist was honored with a doctor of science. Lindquist, who received her Ph.D. in biology from Harvard in 1977 , teaches at MIT and focuses her research on complex molecular protein folding and the phenomenon's role in cancer, cystic fibrosis, and other diseases.
Harvard Medical School Pediatrics Professor David G. Nathan '51 received an honorary doctor of science. Nathan served as a physician-in-chief at the Children's Hospital and president of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. He is a 1955 graduate of the Medical School.
Philosopher Thomas Nagel was awarded an honorary doctor of laws. Nagel, who received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1963 and studied under philosopher John Rawls, is currently a professor of philosophy and law at New York University. 
Onora O'Neill, who was awarded a doctor of laws, was also a student of Rawls. The Northern Ireland native received her doctorate in philosophy at Harvard in 1969, and her philosophical work covers issues of trust, consent, and respect for autonomy in medical decision-making.
 
Educator Freeman A. Hrabowski III received an honorary doctor of law. He is the president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, where he co-founded the Meyerhoff Scholarship Program to increase the diversity of future leaders in science, technology, engineering, and related fields in 1988. In 2009, Time magazine named Hrabowski one of America’s 10 best college presidents.
Renée C. Fox, who received her doctorate in sociology from Harvard in 1954, received an honorary doctor of law. Fox was a visiting lecturer at Harvard's social relations department before joining the University of Pennsylvania's sociology department.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
 


This post is the second of a short series on the students sticking around in Cambridge to help out with class reunions.
They're hard to catch. Show up 15 minutes late, and they've moved on to the next House. They're fast. They're efficient.
These nimble members of Dorm Crew are in charge of stripping the linens from beds after the alumni vacate the rooms.
On this sunny Friday afternoon in Leverett House, Rumbidzai C. Mushavi '12 commanded a team of three—a bit short-handed from the usual eight.
They stormed the room by force, dispersing themselves amongst the bedrooms and reappearing with stripped linens and pillows in hand. The pillows were placed in a plastic bag to be cleaned, and the linens were tied into bundles.
"No linens left behind," one of them joked.
There was no particular quota to meet within a certain time, but they just had to move as quickly as they could.
Every now and then, they found a treasure that the previous occupant left behind. On this day, it was a gray phone charger in Leverett. They tagged it with a Post-it note, wrote down the room number, and took it with them.
Each suite took about four minutes, and once one was done, they raced to the next.
This work, though demanding, was nothing in comparison to Dorm Crew's work the week before Commencement.
In preparation for the reunions, Hui Li "Sharon" Teng '13 was part of a team of 36 students who made 2,800 beds in four days. She said that though each team of two could make a bed in under three minutes, it was running around to all the Houses that limited their average to about six beds an hour.
"The first few days, you're not used to all that manual labor," said Sue L. Dong '13, who was on the cleaning crew for Apley Court and Mass. Hall last week. But the work, she said, quickly became routine.
"I guess what's interesting about the experience was I got learn the importance of work," said Teng. "The captains were pressing us very hard to get everything done very fast."
Photo by Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Don't fear. The smoke is actually from Quebec.
More than 50 forest fires are still burning in northern and central Quebec. Just in this past week, firefighters have responded to 118 fires in the Canadian province, putting out 66 of them.
Winds have carried that smoke down to New England, prompting a deluge of emergency calls to local fire departments.
The National Weather Service issued a special weather statement this morning, warning against heavy smoke in parts of Massachusetts and New Hampshire. The Mass. Department of Environmental Protection also issued an air quality alert until 8 p.m. tonight.
Photo courtesy of Gattou/Lucie, CC-BY-SA 2.0
