News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Cambridge man was arrested early Saturday morning after shooting a gun at a Cambridge Police Officer and attempting to rob three Harvard freshmen at gunpoint on Brattle Street, according to reports from the Cambridge Police Department and Harvard University Department.
Kai Robert Kruger, a 21 year-old Cambridge resident, was arrested at approximately 2:05 a.m. for armed robbery and assault with attempt to murder after holding the students up, fleeing the scene, and firing a gun at the CPD officer who pursued him on foot, the CPD reported. The three students and the officer were unharmed.
One of the victims, who asked to remain anonymous, said that he and his friends were on their way to purchase food when the suspect approached them and held them at gunpoint.
While on a routine patrol in the area, a CPD officer observed the three students and the suspect, who was "acting suspiciously," according to a CPD press release. When the officer stopped to investigate, the suspect fled across Brattle Street towards a construction site, near Crema Café.
The officer immediately chased after the suspect, and as he came around the fencing at the construction site, the suspect stopped at the top of a set of stairs, turned around, and fired a shot, which missed the officer, according to the CPD release.
The suspect turned to flee, then but fell down the stairs and the officer was able to disarm him and take him into custody without incident, according to CPD, which then cordoned off the area.
This incident was the sixth armed robbery on or close to the Harvard campus in two weeks and the third that involved Harvard affiliates. Following the armed robbery of a non-Harvard affiliate on Thursday morning at 2:45 a.m., HUPD added additional officers on patrol and "increased visibility" in and around the Yard, according to a community advisory that HUPD sent to Harvard affiliates yesterday afternoon.
In light of the recent upswing of robberies, a group of students started an online petition entitled "It's Time for More Than Just Another Community Advisory" Friday.
"We know that Harvard is in an urban area, so it's natural [for robberies] to occur outside the campus, but when it occurred inside the Yard, it is a problem," said one petition signer, Atul Bhattarai '14.
Bhattarai said that although he thought Harvard Yard should still remain open during the day, "there is no reason to have an open campus at night."
As of midnight on Saturday, the petition had collected 23 signatures.
—Staff writer Sirui Li can be reached at sli@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: November 14, 2010
An earlier version of the Nov. 13 news article "Cambridge  Man Arrested after Attempting to Rob Students, Shooting at Officer"  incorrectly stated that the man arrested by the Cambridge Police  Department was Kai Robert  Grozier. In fact, his name is Kai Robert Kruger.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Life in the post-Jeremy Lin ’10 era of Harvard men’s basketball got off to a rocky start this afternoon, as the Crimson (0-1) fell to George Mason (1-0) in its season opener, 66-53.
Playing without sophomore Kyle Casey, who suffered a broken foot in early October, Harvard struggled offensively, shooting 32.7 percent from the field and turning the ball over 24 times.
But despite the lackluster offensive performance, the Crimson managed to stay in the contest until midway through the second period. With 16:13 left in the second half, the Patriots used 14-0 run over the next 6:39 of play to grab a 20-point lead, sealing the victory for George Mason in front of 6,536 fans at the Patriot Center.
Junior co-captain Keith Wright’s 15 first-half points kept Harvard in the contest early on, as the Crimson trailed by just four points at halftime, 32-28.
While Wright finished with a game-high 22 points and a career-high 16 rebounds, it was not enough to keep Harvard from suffering a disappointing defeat.
Luke Hancock and Ryan Pearson led the way for George Mason, finishing with 14 and 13 points, respectively.
Besides the production from Wright, the Crimson was unable to get much going offensively, with all others players shooting a combined 9 of 43 (20.9 percent) from the field. Sophomore Christian Webster was the only other Harvard player to reach double figures (11 points).
Harvard will look to get back on track this Wednesday when the team hosts Holy Cross at Lavietes Pavilion.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Halloween has barely just ended, but the holiday season is fast approaching—just look at the Christmas decorations in windows and Thanksgiving turkeys in the grocery stores as evidence.
Although the holidays may bring us final exams, there are still plenty of opportunities for students to embrace the spirit of the season. We've compiled a list of some holiday events that will occur in Cambridge over the next month, just in case you need an escape from the drudgery of the semester's end.
Sparklefest Kick-off and Tree Lighting
When: Saturday, Nov. 27, 5-6:30 p.m.
Where: Charles Hotel
Cambridge’ s annual Sparklefest will officially welcome the season of joy with the Harvard Square Tree-Lighting Ceremony. The Charles Hotel will have free munchies (courtesy of Henrietta’ s Table), a Santa Claus Jazz Band, and the lighting of Harvard Square Holiday Trees. The lighting itself will occur at 5:30 p.m., but the extended festivities means plenty of time to visit Santa.
You can also bring an unwrapped toy or gift card (after all, 'tis the season of giving) to be donated to the Home for the Little Wanderers.
Crimson Shops Harvard Square
When: Thursday, Dec. 2
Where: In front of the Holyoke Center
Stop by for free hot chocolate, music, and special shopping offers.
Harvard Square Holiday Craft Fair
When: December 4-5, 10-12, 17-23. Within those dates, times are weekdays 11:30 a.m.-7 p.m., Saturdays 10 a.m.-7 p.m., Sundays 12-6 p.m.
Where: First Parish Church on Church St. and Mass Ave.
Come prepared to buy original gifts and decorations at this "high energy marketplace with a great soundtrack."
Sparklefest Welcome Kiosk in Harvard Square and Charles Hotel Skating Rink Opening
When: Sunday, Dec. 12, 12-8 p.m.
Where: Charles Hotel and Brattle Square
Skate, visit Santa, and grab holiday treats.
The 101st Annual Christmas Carol Services
When: Sunday, Dec. 12, 5 p.m. and Monday, Dec. 13, 8 p.m.
Where: Memorial Church
Seasonal music performed by Harvard University Choir.
ShopOver Weekend in the Square
When: Friday, Dec. 17 and Saturday, Dec. 18
Where: Harvard Square and surrounding areas
Sleep over in Harvard Square’ s luxury hotels Friday and Saturday night for late night shopping—or come out to the Inn at Harvard in the morning for breakfast with Santa!
Photo by Meng X. He/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Alas, the days of “buy-one-get-one-free” Qdoba are gone. The coupon, which used to be printed on the back of all Harvard Box Office tickets, is there no longer.
Apparently, “Qdoba did not renew their agreement with Harvard’s Box Office, a contract they have annually renewed for the past three years,” said Jason Govostes, associate box office manager. “No reason was given.”
According to Qdoba’s regional marketing specialist, Toni Tiernan, Qdoba “decided to explore different opportunities for discounts and is reallocating resources to do so.”
We are sad about this. Not only are we losing valuable incentive to buy fast, highly-caloric Mexican food, but we are also confused by why Qdoba would pass up this opportunity to share more love with the students that keep it in business. Guess we’ll just have to settle for dice days and Rice and Bean Pot burrito eating contests.
For those of you who still can’t stand the idea of losing this deal, you can subscribe to Qdoba’s Burrito Enthusiasts e-Club to score some more discounts. Hopefully, you’ll be able to get more than just chips and salsa.
Photo by Bradley D. Attaway/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
A few weeks ago, we highlighted each of the campus grilles across campus.  At the time, not every grille was open.  Lucky for the night owls among us, they’re all up and running now.
Dunster Grille, which reopened in late October, and is open Sunday through Thursday from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m., and Friday and Saturday from 11 pm. to 2 a.m. The menu, which appears to be largely similar to that of previous years, includes burgers, fries, shakes and cookies. According to an announcement sent over the Dunster list, “Midnight Breakfast” will also be available. Bonus: board plus is accepted.
Eliot Grille, sometimes called “The Inferno,” also reopened in late October,and will be operating Thursdays from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m., and on Fridays and Saturdays from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The grille has been running out of food early on weekends, so go in early if you want to enjoy a snack. Board plus is also accepted.
