News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Click here for The Crimson's live blog coverage of tonight's highly anticipated Harvard-Cornell basketball matchup from Ithaca, NY.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
So we've wrapped up our little shopping week shindig. We had some quality posts, from unique classes to easy classes, classes for TV fans to classes on video. In case we didn't give you anything to chew on, we hope that you at least got a laugh or learned something about a class you happened not to attend. Hope you enjoy whatever you ended up putting on the piece of paper that you had to submit to the Registrar's Office (which apparently hasn't heard of the Internet). Just make sure you check your student record to make sure they got it all right.
Sections
Grade deflation that stays true to its word, the return of the Westboro Baptists, and a few more scintillating tidbits from around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Ever get annoyed when your  friends at Princeton try to convince you that they work twice  as hard for half the grade? Well, apparently, the school’s grade deflation  policy—which has long served as a mark of unique  academic intensity among Princetonians, not to mention a chief source of that smugness  we all know and love—isn’t working quite as well as everyone had hoped.  In fact, it seems like it’s taken Princeton students six years to  realize that their special grading policy translates into lower GPAs.  Who would have thought?
Just yesterday, The New York Times released an article detailing such growing discontent  as the debate rages on campus. Recently, The  Daily Princetonian editorialized against the deflation policy, while Nancy Weiss  Malkiel, Dean of  the College, wrote back in its defense. This is serious stuff, you guys.  If Princeton students continue to be graded harshly, they might not  be hired at Goldman Sachs. Quelle  horreur!
Remember when the Westboro Baptists paid Cambridge a visit last  spring? Well, they're  back in action—only this time on the West Coast. Just as  at Harvard, students at Stanford banded together yesterday to  drown out the cries of the Westboro protestors denouncing gays, Jews,  and just about everything else under the sun. Here are some choice photos  from The  Stanford Review of the event, which looked as though it succeded in uniting the Stanford  community more than anything else.
Yale Law School’s Daniel J. Freed, author of the 1964 hit Bail in  the United States and a highly influential figure in the field of  sentencing, died Sunday in New York.
Also, Yale has just made a Web site that gives viewers information about  the federal grants that Yale faculty have received through the American  Recovery and Reinvestment Act. According to an article on  Yale’s main Web site, those grants amount to approximately $121 million  since last February.
Sections
Colleen M. Berryessa '11 wants to start a crime club. The name probably sounded odd when you first saw her e-mail this week. A club...for crime? But it seemed perfectly logical to Berryessa, a government concentrator. She is really interested in crime (studying it, not committing it!), and she thought maybe others would be too.
Berryessa grew up reading "Nancy Drew" and "You Be the Jury" books, but she says she isn't sure where exactly her fascination with crime (especially serial murders) came from. She watches crime shows on television and has even done research with a criminology professor at Northeastern. But when Berryessa recently decided to turn her interest in criminology into a tangible career path, she was quickly disappointed to realize the limited academic options Harvard had to offer.
So, with help from some of her friends, Berryessa sent e-mails to House lists earlier this week to probe interest in crime. "Are you interested in Crime, Criminal Justice or Law Enforcement?" she wrote. Apparently, at least 20 people were. They responded to Berryessa's call and will be meeting next week to decide what kind of organization to form.
Looking to MIT's Crime Club as an example, Berryessa wants to organize a criminology interest club at Harvard, perhaps one that screens episodes of crime television shows and invites local investigative personnel to come debrief on the realistic (or unrealistic) portrayal of crime in each show.
She hopes the club will expand to meet whatever the needs of its members may be, incorporating the fields of criminology and law.
In the meantime, Berryessa will be interning at the Family and Sexual Violence branch of the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (the real NCIS, not the TV show) in Washington, D.C., this summer. She calls it the "FBI for the military," and she says she will actually get to go to crime scenes and collect evidence. (How cool!)
Berryessa, who is working on a secondary concentration in Mind/Brain/Behavior, hopes to work for the behavioral analysis unit of the real FBI one day. Unfortunately, the FBI wasn't hiring interns this summer due to budget cuts.
For more information about the crime club, feel free to contact Berryessa yourself. Failure to do so would be a crime.
