News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Even with planning that began a decade ago, the XXI Olympic Winter Games in Vancouver, Canada have already had their fair share of mishaps before competition even began.
The first came early Friday, when Georgian luger Nodar Kumaritashvili suffered a horrific crash during a training run at the Whistler Sliding Center. Kumaritashvili lost control of his sled and flew over the outer barrier, slamming into an unpadded metal pole. Attempts to revive the unconscious 21-year-old failed, and he was pronounced dead after being airlifted to a local hospital.
Kumaritashvili’s crash was one of the most horrible accidents in recent Olympic history, but it was not entirely unforeseen. Not only was a luger killed in the sport’s first introduction to the Olympic games in 1964, but concerns were also raised about the Whistler track in particular. In just two days, there were three separate crashes, including another where the athlete was airlifted from the track that many are calling too fast and too dangerous for competition.
Worries of another kind have arisen at more of Vancouver’s Olympic venues as well, especially the ski hills. Last week’s rain and relatively warm temperatures turned the Whistler runs into a collection of soggy slopes and have delayed women and men’s downhill races until no earlier than Monday.
Olympic officials have been working frantically to improve conditions to racing standards, even carting in snow to the site for freestyle skiing and snowboarding at Cypress Mountain.
Finally, as if Kumaritashvili’s tragedy and the dismal weather weren’t enough, the week was capped off by a noticeable blunder in Friday’s elaborate opening ceremony. Due to a mechanical failure, one of the four colossal architectural pillars failed to rise during the climactic lighting of the Olympic cauldron.
All that the Olympians and officials can hope for now is that the opening ceremony marked the closing of Vancouver’s streak of misfortune.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Spent all of your cash buying that perfect gift you couldn't afford for your Valentine? Still in debt after purchasing textbooks at the Coop? Missed lunch to finish a problem set you should have done this weekend? Don't worry—we're only a few weeks into the term, and that means you should still have some Board Plus left.
Surprisingly, Board Plus can be used in a variety of locations outside of Lamont and the Science Center. With locations close to the Northwest Labs, the Graduate School of Design, Harvard Medical School, and Harvard Divinity School, HUDS has got you covered when you're short on cash.
Here is a map of locations that accept Board Plus. And if you didn't spend all of your Crimson Cash on overpriced textbooks, here is a map (previously posted on Flyby) of locations that accept Crimson Cash.
Sections
After ten episodes of fist-pumping, hot-tubbing debauchery, we here at Flyby knew that Mike aka “The Situation” of Jersey Shore fame was a meathead. But now, thanks to the fine people at Bartley’s, “The Situation” is literally ground sirloin.
That’s right, the famed burger joint is serving up a piece of meat called “The Situation” (gender reversal much?). The burger, an instant crowd-pleaser, according to general manager Billy Bartley, is sandwiched between red hot chili peppers and veggie chili and served with a side of friends.
“It’s a good burger, whether you liked Jersey Shore or not,” said Theodore A. Wilson ’11.
Bartley says that he cooked up this idea after being inspired by The Situation’s idiocy.
“I said, ‘I’ve got to put a burger on this idiot,’” said Bartley. “He must have set America back a dozen years.”
Bartley said he also had a load of red hot chili peppers he had to move. But after two weeks of catering to a crowd of Situation fans, Bartley said peppers are now on short supply. So if you're a Jersey Shore fan, get over to Bartley's to grab a Situation burger before they’re all gone.
Sections
Speed eating burritos is a highly skilled art that takes dedication, ambition and precision. On Feb. 11, in the final round of Qdoba's Rice and Beat Pot Burrito Eating Contest, the four members of Harvard's "Team Owl," Ryan K. Burke '10, Tyler D. Sipprelle ’10, Christian D. Wood ’11 and Daniele M. Pellegrini ’11, showed off their extraordinary abilities once again.
After winning the Harvard round of the competition earlier in the week, the fierce foursome beat out teams from Boston University, Boston College and Northeastern University with a winning time of 3 minutes and 15 seconds. Their prize? A trip to any place of their choice in the Caribbean or Mexico.
 To add insult to injury, Burke's brother Kevin F. Burke '10 referred to the defeated Northeastern team members as "the biggest dweebs I've met in my entire life."
For more about the contest and the team that dominated it, look out for a For the Moment feature in this Thursday's issue of FM.
Sections
With the Gothic eaves of Annenberg  and the presence of a real-life Quidditch team, people are always saying  that Harvard is a little bit like Hogwarts—which would be true save for  the fact that students here don't wear robes. Or so we thought.  Now, with the “Currier Bathrobe Projekt,” it seems that robes (well,  bathrobes to be specific) will have a much more visible presence on campus, especially  up in the Quad.
Any outsider eating breakfast in Currier might soon be struck by something else besides the green "pistachio" muffins—namely, a group of intrepid Quadlings  wearing bathrobes down to the dining hall in the a.m. We hear that this  same group of Currierites is currently in the process of having special  Currier bathrobes made: here’s  a promotional video from the organizers with singing,  dancing, and a PBS-like series of commentaries on the import and meaning  of the “bathrobe.”
As of now, these robes are  slated to cost $35 or less, and they’ll probably feature some sort  of Currier insignia—perhaps even “the tree.” We imagine that, come Housing Day, these fluffy garments will help a few initially distraught freshman come to feel warm and fuzzy about their new House community.
