Sections
If you haven't had a chance to watch Johnny Bowman's Presidential Address, here's a transcribed copy [with some brief thoughts]. If you thought campus events were the focus of Bowman's address, confirm your suspicions with a word cloud of the UC president's speech.
"Hi, my name is Johnny Bowman—I'm the president of the Undergraduate Council [But you probably already know this.]—and we've been up to a ton of things this semester [Good to know.], but I'd like to focus on three things that I think will really help out students' lives for the rest of the semester and the next year. The first thing is the online events calendar that we're improving right now [Good work on the events calendar - if only more people knew about it!]. It's going to organize all the student group events, all the departmental events, all the administrative events so that there's one online website where you go, you find out where the parties are that student groups are throwing, you find out the departmental info sessions that are happening, etc. so that instead of going to 5,000 different places, it's all in one centralized location.
Second is parties that the UC is throwing for Harvard students. We give up to $900 for a student to throw a party in his or her common room in his or her house [$900? That could be some super classy booze...], and right now we have a pilot program to test this out - it's happened in Quincy and Pfoho - and they've been successes so far, and we're hoping to make it a lot bigger and more accessible to other houses for the coming year [Hooray!].
The third thing is to expand tailgates. We had a tailgate for the lacrosse game versus Duke just this past month. It was a huge success: we had 1,200 students show up, giant party outside of the stadium, and we're hoping to expand that to all sports—and even cultural events [Pre-Ghungroo inflatable jousting, anyone?] - for the coming year. That's it—thanks!"
Image by The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Over the next few days, we'll be pulling snippets from The Crimson archives to commemorate the coming class reunions. You'll see selections from the graduation year of each class celebrating a reunion next week.
Their representation might  be weak next weekend, but the class of 1945 is still celebrating its  65th reunion this year.
This particular class, of course, had an unusual college experience in many ways. Enrollment decreased, the schedule changed, and life was generally focused on the war effort.  The Crimson ceased its publication and ran twice a week under the banner Harvard Service News. Ads for bonds and navy uniforms (click on the image) frequently appeared on the pages of the Service News.
But campus life didn’t come  to a halt altogether—there was just a shift in focus.
Intramurals, for one, stayed active. But on top of IM baseball, the Houses took part in competitive fundraisers and blood drives as part of the war effort. On June 21, 1945, Phillips Brooks War Service Committee announced the results of both, with bond purchases passing $32,000. Adams, according to the article, bested “its closest rival, Lowell,” by $1000. It also donated the most blood, giving 61 of the 200 total pints.
Other social events include  a Feb. 1 smoker hosted by the class of 1948 in Lowell dining hall. (It’s unclear whether they had to use trash bags to cover the fire alarms back then too.)
Another author offered his (hopefully facetious) input to another element of 1945 Harvard-Radcliffe life—dating—in his article, “You Can’t Get a Woman? Why, Get a Radcliffe Girl” (which is unfortunately not available online).
“Nearest at hand is Radcliffe, famous for producing ‘encyclopedias with hair attached,’” the Dear Abby-esque column reads. “’Cliffe dwellers were variously criticized as too smart, too dumb, too forward, too shy, too sophisticated, and too simple.”
After wrapping up his Radcliffe recap in the far-from-politically-correct article, he says that Harvard undergrads can try their luck at other local schools, including Wellesley, Smith, and Holyoke.
But L. Esprit Gaulois—the story’s fictional author—said that having friends in the Quad had its merits.
“Radcliffe friendships are valuable if for no other reason than the femmes often takes legible notes on the lectures you’ve cut.”
READ MORE OLDIES:
1940
Sections
This week, we asked graduating seniors to answer four different questions about their Harvard experiences: we've asked about their regrets, memories, and most scandalous moments. Here's our fourth and final installment of their reflections.
 
What have you learned at Harvard, or what about Harvard has taught you the most?
I've learned how to ask for extensions. 
Franklin E. Cohen '10
I've learned that you can get an A in a class without doing a single reading the whole semester. 
Anonymous
Student organizations. Also classes, obviously. But I feel like I've gained longstanding life skills in clubs and organizations.
Megan M. Roberts '10
Dealing with socially awkward people. 
Anonymous
I learned the most from writing my thesis. 
Yakov Berenshteyn '10
 
What taught me the most was the finals clubs—specifically the Delphic. And Helen Mirra. 
Artemisha S. Goldfeder '10
 
The classes. The TFs are the best.
Toomas Laarits '10
I learned the most from my extracurriculars.
Elizabeth G. Shields '10
 
Hmm...I've learned the history of 18th-century French interiors...
Elyssa Jakim '10
 
Photo by Keren E. Rohe/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Still not up to walking all the way to Mather or the Quad, even in the nice weather?  Never fear, the shuttle is still operating!  We learned from a flyer on the shuttle and from a conversation with our friend at Passenger Transportation Services that the beloved crimson-and-white buses will be operating on the following modified schedule through Sunday, May 23:
Quad and Mather: Daytime shuttles will leave both locations every 20 minutes, starting at 8 a.m. and ending at 4 p.m.  After that, travelers can catch the 1636'er—which normally runs only on weekends—every night. This lovely shuttle route hits the Quad on the :10, :30, and :50, and Mather on the :15, :35, and :55 every hour, starting at 4:30 p.m. and running until 8:30 p.m. After that, the schedule becomes more erratic, but it makes a stop at each location (and those in between—Memorial Hall, Lamont, Mass Ave/Garden Street, and others) every 10 to 25 minutes.
Soldiers Field: On weekday afternoons, shuttles will leave 4:15, 4:45, and every 15 minutes thereafter until 6:30, after which there will be shuttles at 6:55, 7:30, and 7:35.  These shuttles offer riders a quick 7-15 minute trip to Harvard Square, with stops along the way at the stadium and the Kennedy School, among other locations.
After Sunday, we've been told, this schedule changes, though we don't know yet what the timetable will look like.  On Class Day and Commencement Day, we do know, the shuttles to accommodate all those anxious (ahem, proud) parents run as follows:
Class Day: Three shuttles will run from the Quad to the Square via Garden Street every five minutes from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Additionally, three shuttles will run from Soldiers Field to the Square and Lamont Library every 15 minutes between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
Commencement Day: Three shuttles will run from the Quad to the Square via Garden Street every five minutes from 6:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Additionally, three shuttles will run from Soldiers Field to the Square and Lamont Library every 15 minutes between 6:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
Check out ShuttleTracker on Commencement/Class Day for precise shuttle location information.
Photo by Alan C. Chiu/The Harvard Crimson
