News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Updated: 10/11/10 10:57 p.m.
Last week, New York Jets linebacker Bart Scott was asked if he’d hesitate to put a big hit on the Buffalo Bills’ starting quarterback during the teams’ game the following Sunday.
“No not at all,” the loquacious Scott said. “I don’t know, he’s a pretty smart guy. I don’t want him to hit me with a book.”
It’s a perception Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05 gets a lot these days. And unsurprisingly so. Harvard graduates go on to become a lot of things–Nobel Prize winners, investment bankers, actors, journalists, even US Presidents–but NFL quarterback is not usually one of them.
Fitzpatrick, for his part, is well aware of this fact. For even he admits that he never expected to make it this far. But all of a sudden, here he is–five years after graduation, the starting quarterback for the Buffalo Bills.
“I never imagined even playing in the NFL,” Fitzpatrick wrote in an e-mail. “It seemed like a pipe dream.”
After receiving no Division-IA scholarship offers coming out of high school, Fitzpatrick’s skepticism was understandable. That didn’t change much after his first two collegiate seasons, in which Fitzpatrick earned only five total starts. But after a sophomore campaign in which Fitzpatrick threw eight touchdowns with no interceptions and rushed for 523 yards, things began to change.
The junior earned the starting job at quarterback in the 2003 season and finished with 16 touchdowns and eight interceptions in just seven games. He completed over 60 percent of his passes and rushed for over 400 yards and five touchdowns. That was when his coach saw something in him that Fitzpatrick hadn’t yet seen in himself.
“I took him after his junior year, [and] I said, ‘Fitzy, I think you can play in the NFL,’” Tim Murphy said. “And he was like, ‘really?’”
Murphy told his quarterback to go work at the Peyton Manning Passing Academy, a football offensive skills camp for high school students. Fitzpatrick–who already had a finance internship lined up–was initially hesitant, but Murphy convinced him by explaining that all the elite major college quarterbacks in the country would be there.
“I want you to go down there, because I want you to be around them for three days, and when you are, you’re going to realize you’re as good as any one of them,” Murphy told Fitzpatrick.
Fitzpatrick obliged and found out his coach was right.
“He came back, and I said, ‘How’d it go?’” Murphy remembered. “And he goes, ‘Good.’ He’s very understated, which I love. I said, ‘Well, was it what I said it would be?’ And he says, ‘Yup.’ And it finally dawned on him that yeah, he could do this. And I think that motivated him, showed him that the ceiling was different than he maybe thought it was.”
Fitzpatrick put the skills he learned at the Manning camp to good use his senior season at Harvard, winning Ivy League Player of the Year. He threw for nearly 1,200 yards, 13 touchdowns with just six interceptions, and he ranked second on the team with 448 rushing yards. The quarterback also finished his career as Harvard’s all-time leader with 6,271 total yards while leading the Crimson to an undefeated 10-0 season and an Ivy League title.
After those successes, it was no longer just Murphy who believed in Fitzpatrick; NFL scouts were starting to take notice too. The Arizona native earned invites to two senior bowls (the East-West Shrine Bowl and the Hula Bowl), as well as the NFL Combine.
It was at the combine in Indianapolis where Fitzpatrick became the talk of the NFL world after a report surfaced on NFL.com that he had scored a perfect score on the Wonderlic test–a 12-minute, 50-question exam given to NFL prospects to test their learning aptitude. Fitzpatrick later admitted that he had left a question blank, meaning he could not have scored a perfect 50 and leaving former Harvard punter Pat McInally ’75 as the only player to ever ace the test. But The Wall Street Journal later reported that Fitzpatrick had scored a still-exceptional 48 while completing the test in a record nine minutes.
On draft day, Fitzpatrick hoped the intelligence and talent he displayed at the combine would lead to a team taking a chance on him. After waiting, and waiting, and waiting, with six picks remaining in the draft, the St. Louis Rams finally called his name in the 7th round, the 250th selection overall. Thanks to his coach’s motivation, Fitzpatrick had become the first Harvard player since Isaiah Kacyvenski ’00 to be drafted and the only one since.
“Coach Murphy has always been my biggest believer,” Fitzpatrick wrote. “Long before I thought I had a chance to play at the next level, he would tell me that I was going to. He gave me the confidence to know that I could do it.”
Upon arriving in the NFL, Fitzpatrick continued to surprise people. After making the Rams as a third string quarterback, Fitzpatrick was called upon to replace injured starter Jamie Martin in the second quarter of a November game against the Houston Texans. Fitzpatrick led the Rams back from a 24-3 halftime deficit to a 33-27 overtime win, throwing for 310 yards and three touchdowns. That made him one of only five players to throw for 300 yards in his NFL debut, one of them being the Manning whose skills camp he had attended two years earlier.
Fitzpatrick played in three more games that year before being traded to the Cincinnati Bengals. After starting quarterback Carson Palmer went down with a knee injury in 2008, Fitzpatrick was called upon again and had another impressive debut, leading the Bengals in passing and rushing in a loss to the Cleveland Browns. He ended up starting 12 more games that season, throwing for 1,905 yards with eight touchdowns and rushing for 304.
That performance earned Fitzpatrick a three-year deal with the Bills–signed in February 2009–that pays him over $2 million per season. He was expected to be a backup once again, but an injury to incumbent quarterback Trent Edwards gave Fitzpatrick another opportunity to play. After rallying the Bills to an October victory over the Jets, Fitzpatrick appeared in nine more games, finishing with nine touchdowns and a 5-5 record for a team that started 1-4.
Throughout his journey, Murphy was there, watching and rooting for him.
“You follow it with a source of pride, because he’s a guy not much was expected out of in the NFL,” Murphy said. “When they draft[ed] [him], he was just about the last pick in the draft. And everywhere he’s gone, he’s improved his position, and he’s given his team a chance to win. So he’s clearly a guy that is making his way in the NFL.”
As Fitzpatrick makes his way, he says he still hears friendly banter about his education from teammates and opponents.
“Whenever I go to a new team the jabs about being a Harvard guy are always more prevalent,” Fitzpatrick wrote. “This is mainly because people don’t know much about me other than being the Harvard guy that did well on his Wonderlic test. The more time I spend with people, the less the Harvard stuff comes up.”
Not that Fitzpatrick is embarrassed about his brain. Intelligence, he readily admits, is a big part of his game.
“I find the game mentally challenging and really enjoy the chess match that occurs every week between the offense and the opposing defense,” he wrote. “I feel like I have been a quick study in terms of picking up the different offensive schemes I have been exposed to. I think I offer a dependability and dedication that is very important to being successful.”
“Take the top 100 quarterbacks in the world, which would be the guys who play in that league,” Murphy added. “They all, without exception, can throw the football. Really have great arms and great this and that. And he has all those things, but his intangibles [were] off the charts from the first day he arrived here. It’s something we can take no credit for. His level of composure and poise is amazing...That’s what makes him special.”
Though Fitzpatrick’s smarts have always been recognized, his talent is finally turning some heads as well. This season, after two games of ineffectiveness, the Bills cut Edwards and handed the team over to Fitzpatrick. No longer was he just an injury-replacement backup; Fitzpatrick was now somebody’s full-time starter.
Early on, that decision has paid off for Buffalo. In his first game, Fitzpatrick provided a spark, throwing for two touchdowns in nearly helping the Bills upset the New England Patriots. In that contest, Fitzpatrick got to play in Foxboro, returning to the Boston area which had been his home for four years and to the city where his football journey truly began.
“Getting a chance to start at Foxboro was an awesome experience for me,” Fitzpatrick wrote. “I remember watching a practice in the stadium when Jamil Soriano [’03] was on the team and thinking how cool it was just to be there.”
In his second game, Fitzpatrick was even better, throwing for two touchdowns and rushing for 74 yards against the Jets. And on Sunday, Fitzpatrick threw for three more touchdowns with no interceptions against the Jacksonville Jaguars, giving him a very good 7:3 touchdown: interception ratio on the season.
“This is an important year for me to continue to grow as a player and provide that I can consistently perform at a high level,” he added.
Through it all, Fitzpatrick’s wife, former Crimson soccer captain Liza Barber ’05, has been there by his side.
“I have to admit, the girl I left Harvard with was better than the degree,” Fitzpatrick wrote. “Liza has been an amazing wife and someone I have been able to share this whole experience with from the very beginning. It is easy for me to stay grounded, because I have a wife that reminds me daily that she is the only college All-American in the household.”
Together, the couple has two sons, with another child coming in March.
“It’s great,” Murphy said. “Team Harvard.”
Team Harvard. Sounds more like something you’d hear at a math fair or a chess tournament than in a description of a pair of athletic stars. But of course, that shouldn’t surprise anyone. After all, Ryan Fitzpatrick has never been one to fit the Harvard stereotype.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nowadays, senior Sam Houston is best known for being the face of Adams House and a leader in Harvard's sustainability efforts. But back in high school, Houston was better known for her prowess on the water. In two weeks the HoCo co-chair will take up her old trade once more when she races in the club single event in the 46th Head of the Charles.
A native of the Lone Star State, Houston made her presence known across the continent starting in 2006 when her quad took second at the USRowing Youth Invite and at USRowing Club Nationals. Her quad didn't stay the second fastest in the nation for long; the following year, Houston and her teammates won the Youth Invite. The win qualified the rowers to represent the United States in the Annual CanAmMex Regatta in the three sculling events: the single, the double, and the quad. Representing the U.S. in the single and the quad, Houston placed second in both events; the host Canadians swept the sculling events.
In her final year at Harvard, Houston spends most of her time organizing Adams House events, addressing house concerns, and promoting sustainability in the Harvard community. But the sculler still finds time to train both on the erg, a machine many renounce when their team rowing days end, and in the single, through the use of the Recreational Sculling program in Weld Boathouse.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Saturday Night Live had quite the Facebook frenzy this weekend. Along with a skit entitled “Mom’s on Facebook," this Saturday’s edition of “Weekend Update” featured a guest appearance from Mark E. Zuckerberg—or rather his SNL portrayer, Andy Samberg.
Sporting his habitually callous pout, angled eyebrows, and signature drawstring sweatshirt, Zuckerberg (henceforth referring to the faux SNL counterpart) was grilled by co-anchor Seth Meyer on a wide array of predictable topics surrounding “The Social Network.” Zuckerberg rolls off the various blows delivered by Meyer, but with a little less ingenuity than we might have imagined.
For example, when Meyer inquires in the skit as to whether Zuckerberg had seen the film, the latter’s response is: “What? Don’t be ridiculous, I’m 26, I stole it online.” Like we couldn’t have guessed that.
As the parody continues, Meyer presses Zuckerberg to recognize the “inaccuracies” of the film.
Seth: “Is it true you invented Facebook just to meet girls?”
Zuckerberg: “Gee, let me think...of course I did! Why does anyone do anything? I invented Facebook, Seth. I didn’t invent ‘getting successful to meet girls’...Please, you don’t think that Aaron Sorkin doesn’t mention ‘The West Wing’ on dates?”
Seth: “Now the movie claims you had only one friend in college.”
Zuckerberg: “That’s totally, totally inaccurate Seth. I had three friends in college. Because parents count.”
Artfully dodging his Oprah appearance and sly donation of $100 million to Newark public schools, Zuckerberg admits to a little post-movie image boosting. But we can’t argue with his rationale: “Why does it matter? It was 100 million dollars, that’s Hoverboard money!”
Taking the end of the skit to reveal his only regret about Facebook (Poking) and that he was unfairly cast (“I mean Sean Parker gets Justin frickin’ Timberlake and I get Jessie Eisenberg?”), Zuckerberg manages to leave the interview on his own terms.
Real life Zuckerberg responded to "Weekend Update" by sharing the video on his Facebook page (how cliché). Looks like he’s taking “bad publicity is better than no publicity” to heart. Lets hope this is one of the last installments of the public’s obsession with "The Social Network."
Photo courtesy of NBC.
Sections
UPDATED: Oct. 12, 2010. According to a new sign in the Quincy dhall, the freshmen ban is now effective only Monday through Friday.
Starting today, freshmen are no longer allowed to dine in Quincy for lunch and dinner on any weekday, even as guests of upperclassmen or House residents.
A sign post in the stairway to the Quincy dining hall reads "Quincy Dining Restrictions as of Monday, October 11, 2010 No Freshman [sic] Lunch and Dinner."
The new restrictions were put in place at the request of the Quincy House Masters due to overcrowding during meals in the past weeks.
With the exception of Quincy-only community dinner on Thursday evenings, Quincy has no restrictions for upperclassmen.
Photo by Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Looming in the shadows of multivariable calculus and linear algebra proofs, a new breed of brain has infiltrated the Math 23a class.  It could be any Harvard student’s nightmare. And he’s only 10 years old.
But to his fellow classmates, this math prodigy is just another student. Most students said they didn’t care about his presence (although we suspect that if the class was curved it might be a different story).
“I don’t have a problem with it,” said Laszlo R. Seress ’14. “I think it’s good that other kids are taking advantage of what Harvard has to offer.” Jonathan K. Stevens ’14 expressed a similar sentiment. “It keeps you humble,” he said.
But for less mathematically inclined students, this numerical wonder-boy seems anything but ordinary. We’d love to ask him all sorts of questions, like “How do you schedule this around recess and naptime?” But Mama Bear is always close and wants to keep his fame under wraps for the time being. We’ll respect his privacy and keep his identity hidden, but here’s a hint: the last whereabouts of this rare species was identified near Science Center A on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Keep an eye out, because this little whiz is too cute to miss a glimpse of.
Photo courtesy of Creative Commons.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 12, 2013
An earlier version of this post misspelled the first name of Laszlo R. Seress ’14.
Sections
On the off chance that you've ever tried to log in to two different FAS windows or tabs at the same time, you might have noticed a rather odd error message.
The error page that appears displays a picture of a horse and a message:
"Woah there. The PIN system sent us a message that we couldn't understand. This can happen if you try to log in using your PIN in two different tabs or windows at the same time. Try giving it a shot with just one window or tab open."
Though we're not quite sure why the error message looks the way it does, here are instructions on how to get to the page so you can mull it over yourself.
1. Open two new tabs in your browser to my.harvard.edu without logging in. Both tabs should display the login screen.
2. In one tab, log in as you would normally by entering your login ID and your PIN or password.
3. In the second tab, log in as well. You will be prompted to log in again in this tab due to a refreshing error.
4. Proceed to log in a second time in this tab.
5. After you get the "Your login was successful" page, wait for it to redirect and you should see the "Woah there" error page.
There. We've now effectively distracted you from that paper for a good 10 minutes. Now go to the page that did log in, and get back to work.
Photo by Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Though Harvard has been relatively tame over the last few weeks, several incidents have proven that Cantabrigians are an eternally interesting sort. Below are some of the more amusing HUPD entries from the recent past. Enjoy!
BY THE NUMBERS
 
Reports of “suspicious activity”: 7 
 
Reports of “unwanted guests”: 3 
 
Reports of loud parties: 3 
 
Noise complaints: 6 
 
Total value of stolen bikes: $2040.00 
 
Total value of stolen glasses: $783.16 
 
Total value of stolen underwear: $186.00

 
Sept. 27, 2010
 
Suspicious Activity (9:37 a.m.)
 
Bingham Hall A, 64 Linnaean Street, Cambridge
 
Officers dispatched to a report of the smell of marijuana. Officers searched the area for the smell with negative results.
 
Sept. 29, 2010
 
Open & Gross (11:08 a.m.)
 
JFK Park, 968 Memorial Drive, Cambridge
 
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual exposing themselves. Officers arrived, located the individual and conducted a field interview. The individual was placed under arrest. The individual was issued a trespass warning for all Harvard University Property.
 
Theft Report (4:17 p.m.)
 
Peabody Terrace 11, 900 Memorial Drive, Cambridge
 
Officer dispatched to take a report of a stolen package. The package contained one package of underwear valued at $186.00.
 
Suspicious Activity (6:25 p.m.)
 
Cabot House A, 62 Linnaean Street, Cambridge
 
Officers dispatched to a report of a loud bang heard in the area. Officers report finding no individuals in the area. Officers did find a broken bottle and it appeared that unknown individual(s) were blowing up the bottles with fireworks.
 
Oct. 1, 2010
 
Suspicious Activity (11:24 a.m.)
 
Credit Union, 104 Mt. Auburn Street, Cambridge
 
Officer dispatched to take a report of an individual receiving a suspicious e-mail. Officer reports the e-mail was a known scam.
 
Oct. 2, 2010
 
Vandalism (12:50 a.m.)
 
Mather House B, 93 Banks Street, Cambridge
 
Officer dispatched to a report of smoke in the building. Upon arrival the officer observed that the fire extinguisher had been discharged and it was the powder from the extinguisher not smoke in the building. CFD determined the building safe for re-entry and FMO was notified to clean the area.
 
Trespass Warning (5:37 p.m.)
 
Vanderbilt Hall, 107 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston
 
Officers dispatched to a report of two individuals vandalizing the area. Officers arrived and located the two individuals. The individuals stated they were putting colored hair spray on their hair. Officers observed the pink and purple hair spray on the walls, benches and emergency call box in the area. The individuals explained that the spray would come out with soap and water. The individuals cleaned the area and were both issued a trespass warning for all Harvard University property and sent on their way.
 
Oct. 3, 2010
 
Remove Group (12:47 p.m.)
 
17 Quincy Street, Cambridge
 
Officers dispatched to a report of a group of individuals climbing on the railings behind the building. Officers arrived and reports the group was practicing martial arts and were sent on their way.
 
 
 
 
