News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It's a beautiful spring Saturday, and that means it's time for football. Fans of Harvard football will get their first peek at the 2010 edition of the Crimson tonight at 7 pm at Harvard Stadium in the annual intrasquad spring game.
If you can't make it down across the river, don't worry—The Back Page has got you covered with our live blog. Check back after 6:30 for up-to-the-minute updates, and we'll have more coverage throughout the weekend and in Monday's paper!
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In this series, we probe the minds of people around campus by asking them the same set of questions about Harvard and Cambridge life. Want to suggest an interviewee? Leave a comment or e-mail us at flyby@thecrimson.com.
JOHNNY BOWMAN, UC President
What time do you wake up in the morning?
Depends. Once or twice a week I’ll have an 8 or 9 o’clock meeting, but usually I wake up at…maybe 9 o’clock’s the average.
Who is your favorite Harvard alum, real or fictional?
Maybe Tom Morello…he’s the guitarist for Rage Against the Machine. He dropped out of Harvard to be a rockstar, and I respect that. [FlyBy: Morello actually graduated from Harvard in 1986, Johnny, but he's still cool.] 
Was Larry Summers sexist?
Yeah. Hell yeah.
Who is the smartest person you know?
Eric Hysen. He’s my VP.
What have you always wanted to tell tourists in the yard?
I give tours of Harvard, and if they understand English I always tell them that John Harvard’s covered in pee. If they don’t speak English, I tell them that it brings them great fortune, just because there’s really nothing else that I can communicate. Urination’s very hard to communicate across language barriers in a civilized manner.
What was your most recent CVS purchase?
It was bronzer. For my yearbook photo last week, I covered myself in bronzer. My roommates did the same. The yearbook is a complete waste of time.
Harvard Bookstore or COOP?
I definitely buy more books from the COOP. That being said, I’m sure Harvard Bookstore is a lovely place to buy books. I have nothing else to add.
Where do you get your burritos?
I get them from Felipe’s. For the group trip, me and my blockmates treat ourselves to Qdoba. Felipe’s if it’s a solo trip. I’m a big fan of horchata. [What’s that?] It’s like a liquid Mexican heart attack.
Who is the most interesting person you’ve passed on the streets of Cambridge?
I’m wavering between Incubus Dude and my roommates, who are very interesting people, and Professor Gomes, who always has something hilarious to say.
What’s your neurosis?
For a long time, my only real neurosis was dropping my wallet in the toilet—until about three weeks ago, when I actually did drop my wallet in the toilet. So now I’ve overcome that fear. [That’s it? No more neuroses?] No neuroses, no.
When’s the last time you took the T? 
It was a couple of weeks ago, just to grab dinner with my parents. Not terribly interesting.
Describe Harvard students in one word.
Ambitious.
Photo courtesy of Johnny Bowman '11.
Sections
Visitas is the new, soon-to-be-official name for Harvard's "April Visiting Program," which has essentially started. Over the next few days, we'll bring you everything you wanted to know (and maybe what you didn't) about this storied weekend.
Approximately 1,000 high school seniors will descend upon Cambridge this weekend for April Visiting Program—Harvard's last chance to convince prospective students to attend the College. While we here at FlyBy realize that most students need very little convincing, it won't hurt to show indecisive prefrosh a good time. Here are some tips for ensuring that you and your prefrosh end up on the same side of the stadium at The Game next year.
For Hosts:
1. Do show your prefrosh a good time.
 While the Office of Admissions does a great job of educating prospective students about Harvard's stellar academic life, they rarely mention our A+ nightlife. Pick up where the Office of Admissions left off, and bring your prefrosh to one of this weekend's parties. After you and your prefrosh work up appetites partying, bring them to one of Cambridge's established late night restaurants such as Pinocchio's or Felipe's.
 
2. Don't scare your prefrosh.
While you should expose your prefrosh to an accurate picture of life at Harvard, don't make them uncomfortable. As you may very well be providing your prefrosh's only glimpse into Harvard life, abide by the adage "everything in moderation."
"I met my host and we went to his room to drop off my bags," Scott J. Yim '13 recalls. "When I walked in, the first thing I noticed was a beer pong table. The room was so littered with empty bottles and crushed cans that you had to play hopscotch to get around. My host turned to me and said, 'put your stuff down—we're going to get you wasted.'"
Yim didn't like the environment his host provided for him, so he called a friend and asked if he could stay with the friend's host. Yim grabbed his bags out of his original host's room and moved in with his friend's host. He eventually had a great time at prefrosh weekend and chose to enroll at Harvard.
The moral of the story? Make sure your prefrosh are comfortable with whatever you have in store for them over the weekend.
 
3. Do pick up your prefrosh at Agassiz House.
 Though it's easy to forget that not everyone knows their way around Cambridge, don't expect that your prefrosh will be able to find their way to your dorm.
"My host last year lived in Dunster and told me that he was unable to pick me up from Agassiz," Jesse J. Kaplan '13 recounts. "So I had to find my way from Agassiz to Dunster in the stifling hot weather without any sense of where I was. After about an hour of wandering around aimlessly and asking way too many people for directions, I stumbled upon Dunster House."
It's very easy to get lost around an unfamiliar campus. Pick your prefosh up at Agassiz House and walk them to your dorm. On the way, point out major landmarks—these may prove useful if your prefrosh decides to navigate solo for a bit later in the weekend.
For Prefrosh:
1. Don't expect your host to hold your hand.
While your host is more than likely excited to have you (after all, he or she volunteered!), remember that he or she may have other stuff going on this weekend. As the end of the term is quickly approaching, your host will probably have more on his or her plate this weekend than showing you around.
Attend advising events, meet other prefrosh, and talk to current students. Don't be afraid to introduce yourself to random students around campus—everyone loves to talk to prefrosh! The best way to get a feel for campus is to explore it—don't think that if your host is busy, you have to sit around in his or her room reading College Confidential.
2. Do participate in a range of the weekend's activities.
With the number of activities planned for this weekend, it's easy to feel overwhelmed. Make a point of attending one of every "type" of event. In other words, instead of just attending lectures or social events, attend both. Ultimately, your decision to attend Harvard needs to be based on a holistic picture, not just your impression of a small segment of the Harvard community.
You should also set some time aside for exploring campus on your own or with friends. You can learn an incredible amount about the College just by sitting around dining halls, common rooms, and the Yard. Instead of limiting yourself to just the activities on the official schedule or just those off of it, try everything at least once.
3. Do go to Harvard.
You won't regret it.
