News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With debate over the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act roaring, Harvard University President Drew G. Faust reaffirmed her position in support of the act on Monday by co-signing, with seven fellow Massachusetts university presidents, a letter to Senators Kerry and Brown that strongly supported the act. Although the DREAM Act is an important stepping-stone toward a solution to America’s illegal immigration crisis, the act alone is not enough to rectify the current problems with immigration in the United States.
The DREAM Act allows undocumented youths who qualify to enter a six-year path to citizenship, provided they serve two years in the military or complete two years of higher education. We understand the reasoning behind such a program, as it will help non-citizens who will contribute positively to society become citizens. Yet such conditions of service should not be made permanent in the future for all youths vying for citizenship. Paying one’s taxes and playing a responsible role in American society should be enough for all citizens, and we cannot have a system by which certain Americans’ patriotism or loyalty can be officially doubted and only confirmed through extra measures such as military service or higher education.
The problem of immigration in the United States is a great one that has defied both decades and administrations. As such, the DREAM Act cannot represent the end game in this process, or we will have only taken a small measure to stopgap a much greater problem: Amnesty must be granted to everyone currently in the United States. Entering everyone into the citizenship process would not entail the chaos or drastic change that opponents might expect. If anything, amnesty’s greatest impact will be the resolution of a situation with no better alternative.
We recognize that such a move will potentially put more pressure on our borders, and a major concern would be that more people might pursue illegal entrance into our nation. To address that concern, systematic and dedicated investment will be necessary to bolster our border control and its supervision. Improvements will have to be made at all levels of our border protection.
Still, given the current political climate, the DREAM Act remains the best we can do to move toward a solution right away. We call for its prompt passing so we can immediately protect and work to include those who will benefit from the Act. Another measure that we can see for quick implementation, however, would be to lower the cost of taking the exam for U.S. citizenship. Many would-be citizens study and prepare themselves for the major step of passing the naturalization test, only to be stymied by the different fees involved in the process, which run into several hundred dollars. The cost of testing one’s readiness for naturalization should not be a problem of its own, and must be lowered.
The passage of the DREAM Act will be an important day for America, but it should not be left to stand alone. Only eventual amnesty will bring an end to our immigration crisis.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At this point in the school year, let’s hope you have had a chance to visit the laundry room. Notice anything different? No, the dryers were terrible last year too, and there still isn’t a change machine. It still smells funny, and it’s probably far away from where you live. If there weren’t enough reasons to not do laundry, there is now a hefty 25 percent increase in the price of each load of laundry, both washing and drying. Not to be confused with an unfair tax of some kind, the extra money is going to pay for this new feature, called LaundryView, where students will be able to see whether or not certain machines in the laundry room are being used or not. While a quarter might not seem a lot to some, this move is an example of an overly technologically progressive school not considering the best interests of their students.
Harvard is a very progressive school, especially with regard to technology. Harvard professors, and even Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services communicate with students via Twitter. Students are expected to download lecture notes, problem sets, and extra reading from course websites. Every student group has an email list; bag lunches can be ordered online. It’s a bit overwhelming, but a student with a computer has the whole campus at their fingertips.
But there is a point at which these upgrades go too far. Was waiting for the laundry really an issue? Where is the survey data that suggests this? They certainly didn’t ask me. It’s possible that LaundryView actively hurts students, as waiting and negotiating for laundry machines with housemates builds community. Additionally, the price increase, while it might seem trite, is a pain for those who pay for laundry in quarters, which means more trips to the bank or store for change. The money adds up, and means students are spending their extra money on laundry, and not on what they really want to buy. As student Esther S. Wu ’13 reported to Flyby blog, “I’d rather spend that on BerryLine.”
There have been many technological applications that have made student’s lives easier. Shuttleboy, for example, is a way for students to get shuttle times and destinations almost instantly via text message. A recent application, the CS50 shopping tool, was a unique application that allowed students to easily navigate through thousands of courses that would normally big a huge hassle. However, this new move is an example of technology being implemented for its own sake. Just because it is possible to let students monitor laundry machines remotely doesn’t mean that they should be able to. Technology should not be considered as the default solution for a logistical problem. It should be put into place only after considering its effect on the community as a whole, its price, and whether the people who will use it actually want it.
While LaundryView will certainly be “helpful” in the sense that it is better having it than not, it certainly isn’t worth the $0.25 per load, especially for students whose budgets are tight as it is. It’s great that Harvard administrators want to make keeping your clothes clean and easier process, but when the students are fronting the bill for Harvard’s need for technological process, the least they can do is ask the students if this is something they need.
Peter L. Knudson ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the late evening and early morning here in Allon Shevut, an Israeli West Bank settlement located just beyond the 1949 Armistice Line, a thick cloudy haze descends upon its buildings. When I studied at the Yeshiva in this village the year before college, the dense mist that enveloped it symbolized for me a temporary covering under which I could cultivate my spiritual growth while isolated from the diversions of modern society. After leaving this protective sphere to attend university for two years, however, I realized that the fog also represents the confusion that outsiders have regarding the community that dwells inside it.
“The religious settler movement is not just secular Zionism’s ideological adversary,” chides Professor Gadi Taub in a recent New York Times op-ed, but “a danger to its very existence.” Rather than aiming to create a Jewish democratic state, argues Taub, religious Zionist settlers aspire to “settle all the land promised to the ancient Hebrews in the Bible.” This ideology—which would necessarily involve Israeli annexation of the West Bank and its millions of Arabs—would lead to the creation of either an apartheid Jewish state with an Arab majority, or a democratic Arab state, neither of which would be truly Zionist. However, by assigning an identical ideology to all religious settlers, Taub neglects a nuance that even a cursory examination of the religious culture here would uncover. Simply put, there are two different kinds of religious Israeli settlers currently inhabiting the West Bank, and there will be no viable two-state solution until the outside world understands this.
To be sure, neither the United Nations nor the United States recognizes the legitimacy of most Israeli settlements. In 2004, the International Court of Justice, citing the U.N. Security Council, declared that all West Bank settlements violate the Fourth Geneva Convention and have thus been “established in breach of international law.”
But differentiating between settlers is crucial from a strategic standpoint, not a legal one. The 10-month freeze on settlement building initiated by Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu to coax Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas into negotiations ends on Sunday. Obama has been pressuring Netanyahu to extend this freeze. If he does, the religious head of a prominent settler group has threatened to lead a Parliamentary charge to oust his government. If the United States wants the settlement freeze extended, therefore, it must first understand why many settlers don’t. And the reasons are far from obvious.
There exist, of course, religious Zionist settlers who believe that Jewish law forbids ceding parts of Israel to non-Jews, and who proclaim that Netanyahu declared a “war” against God by advocating a Palestinian state in the West Bank. Within this group lie the subgroup of settlers that appear so often on the news—militants who set fire to Palestinian olive trees, vandalize mosques, and issue legal decisions that permit murdering innocent Palestinians. These settlers see the settlements as non-negotiable prerequisites for hastening the coming of the Messiah, and they therefore build to deliberately prevent the creation of a Palestinian state.
But there exists another kind of religious Zionist settler, a breed that is largely ignored even though their ideology may actually be much more prevalent than that of the extremists. These religious leaders publicly decry the violent interpretations of Jewish law espoused by the extremist settlers, and vocally declare that ceding land to Arabs does not, in it of itself, violate Jewish law. These settlers do not oppose the settlement freeze for religious reasons, but for political ones. In their eyes, West Bank settlements are bargaining chips that should only be given up when it is a certainty that the Palestinian state created in the West Bank will be a stable and nonviolent one.  Abbas’s party, Fatah, was seen as weak and corrupt and consequently suffered an electoral loss in Gaza a few years ago to Hamas, an Islamist terrorist organization. For that reason, many settlers believe that it is best to hold onto those chips for a while.
Whether the best way to isolate extremism among Palestinians is to build on the land that they desire for a state is obviously debatable, but the point is that, unlike the ideology of the first kind of settler, the philosophy of the second kind of settler is one that can be reasoned with. Many of the same settlers that Taub believes are slowly crushing the Zionist dream could get probably get on board with a two-state solution if a number of confidence-inspiring techniques were implemented first. Perhaps, for example, a two-state solution could be more palatable if it were presented as a plan implemented over decades in which more and more settlements were ceded contingent on the Palestinian Authority’s ability to reign in terrorist factions and to govern effectively.
Unfortunately, instead, the State Department has launched an ad campaign in Israel to publicize the notion that there exists a Palestinian “peace partner,” that is, a leader who is willing a sign a piece of paper declaring a formal end to the conflict. But that’s not what the second kind of settler—the kind that would eventually facilitate a two-state solution in Parliament—wants to hear. In order to truly achieve a two-state solution, therefore, the Obama Administration needs to implement and present a peace plan that will speak to the fears of both Palestinians and Israelis, settlers included. Indeed, regional stability will only come when the major players see past the fog that has clouded the settlement debate.
Avishai D. Don ’12 is a social studies concentrator in Adams House studying abroad at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They call us wacky. They call us wingnuts. We call us we the people,” crooned the bewitching Delaware Republican senatorial candidate Christine O’Donnell at the 2010 Values Voters Summit days after her upset victory in the GOP Delaware Senate primary. I give “they” some credit: O’Donnell is indeed a wacky wingnut. But that doesn’t mean those that voted for her are.
In the national haste to make some sort of sense of the Tea Party movement, the greatest mistake is to paint all those affiliated with it as identical. The candidates certainly are not and the voters even less so.
The first faulty premise is that those voting for Tea Party candidates do so because of the views that their candidates espouse. The further to the right the candidate, the more passionate the voters become, we’re told. The chattering class rushes to warn the GOP: Watch out, the crazies are taking over.
Matthew Dowd, President Bush’s political guru, in a recent article for National Journal attempted to debunk a few “myths” of politics. One myth, he says, is that voters vote for policy. Instead, he explains, voters look for qualities like “compassion, strength, empathy, and authenticity.” Want proof? The president was elected because he talked of “hope” and “change.” The last president was elected because voters wanted “to have a beer with” him. No, policy views are not the primary reason we elect our national officials.
Although the movement is ostensibly all about taxes—“Tea” being short for “Taxed Enough Already”—its supporters are not promoting a policy manifesto. They’re looking for some security, sense, and direction. They’re looking for some stability in an unstable time; the fact that they’ve turned to some potentially mentally unstable candidates for stability just makes for nice irony.
New York Times columnist Paul Krugman, the liberal stalwart, sharply criticized the president early this month for having “no vision.” His fellow left-leaning New York Times columnist Tom Friedman says that this is “the worst communicating White House” that he has ever seen. Even if the administration had a coherent economic agenda, the American public would never know it. And so it feels increasingly adrift in a sea of uncertainty.
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin and the candidates that she has coronated rally their troops with calls for “commonsense constitutional conservatives.” There is little hint of policy views in that phrase. But it has stuck. It means something to the voter. It symbolizes the type of certainty and stability that the administration and those in Congress—Democrats and Republicans—have failed to project.
Recent polling by the Associated Press says the vast majority of Americans are “somewhat confident” at best in Congress, the government, and the media. American institutions are growing increasing unreliable in the eyes of the public. And so many are seeking a new source of reliability. The Constitution represents that sort of reliability. Voters trust it not because they find the governing philosophy so moving; they trust it because it is authentic and unchanging.
Likewise, in a time of economic uncertainty made exceptionally more uncertain for consumers and for businesses by the White House’s missteps, voters have sought to find certainty where they have not before. They have sought to find candidates that are principled to replace those now seen as unprincipled. It matters not so much what they believe but rather that they can be believed.
And to the degree that voters do seek starkly right-of-center views, it is to counterbalance the leftward drift of the country. At its core, America is right-of-center. Gallup polling the last two decades shows conservatives outnumbering liberals by almost two-to-one. So to move it back to that fulcrum, the electorate must overcompensate to strike a balance.
The second incorrect premise is that the Tea Party is monolithically crazy. And indeed, some of the Tea Party identified candidates are out of the political mainstream. Nevada Republican Senate candidate Sharron Angle’s “second amendment solutions” to government excess took the prize in political absurdity until O’Donnell’s bizarre statements on years old “Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher” episodes surfaced.
Odd they may be, but among the Tea Party Senate candidates—O’Donnell, Angle, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Joe Miller of Alaska, Ken Buck of Colorado, and so on—there is a surprising diversity. O’Donnell’s support for morality codes contrasts starkly with Rand Paul’s staunch civil libertarianism. While Angle is neither erudite nor exceptionally academic, Alaska’s Joe Miller is a Yale Law School graduate.
And among the Tea Party faithful—at least those in my small hometown—the only commonality of those self-proclaimed patriots is that they are concerned and, well, quite normal. They are the small-business owners around the town square. They are doctors and lawyers, upper-class and lower-class. They are engaged in local politics and choosing for the first time to be politically active. They are not the crazies on the fringe.
The GOP’s problem for the next election cycle is not that fringe voters are voting for the first time. Nor is it that voters demand candidates on the fringe. The problem for the party is that the type of candidates voters demand—authentic, empathetic, and offering certainty—happens only to be on the fringe. The wild “wacky wingnut” voter takeover will happen if and only if that does not change.
Mark A. Isaacson ’11 is a government concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Science Center 110, Sunday afternoon: while most students were still digesting their Veritaffles, a few sat at rapt attention in this classroom to learn a new language— with no intention of fulfilling an academic requirement.
This semester-long class, offered by the Harvard College Committee on Deaf Awareness, teaches American Sign Language to members of the community with a discount for Harvard students. Instructor Manuel D. Martin, who has been an ASL teacher since 1994, stood at the front of the room and signed out the alphabet as his students dutifully copied his hand formations.
“You can see those fingernails on the letter A,” said Martin as he signed the letter to the class. “If they’re not clean, we send you out.”
Each person then signed their name to the class, some furrowing their brows as they tried to remember the letters. Martin watched closely, making corrections where necessary, and then translated each name into English on the blackboard. His dynamic personality kept the class moving, eliciting the occasional outburst of laughter even as he taught the number system and explained the etymology of various signs.
An uncommon skill, ASL is useful in many contexts. “I actually had a deaf client in an employment civil rights clinic, and communication was challenging,” said Stacey E. Kennard, a 3L at Harvard Law School, when asked why she attended the class. She explained that she also hoped to gain another skill that she could use to communicate with a wider group of clients. Siena R. Leslie ’12, who coordinates the class, decided to learn ASL for its linguistic value.
At one point, Martin outlined a sash across his chest, his hand forming the letter “Y”—a sign for “Yale.” Martin said, “Here’s a sign you shouldn’t know.” He knew his audience.
Sections
Libra Sept. 23—Oct. 22
This is your month. It’s time to take risks and experiment. Things might not always go your way, but this month you’ll feel indestructible. Happy birthday, Libra!
Tip: Don’t count on a surprise party.
Scorpio Oct. 23—Nov. 21
It’s time to get off your high horse and apologize to someone whom you have wronged. They’ll forgive you instantly—who can resist a Scorpio’s charms?—but you have to make the effort.
Tip: Batting your eyelashes will help, especially you boys.
Sagittarius Nov. 22—Dec. 21
You’re feeling very world-wise. You start offering friends advice. But don’t get too used to this state; an unexpected announcement in early October will have you back to your immature self.
Tip: Keep your eyes out for a sexy Aries.
Capricorn Dec. 22—Jan. 19
He/she likes you. They might be having trouble expressing it right now, but thanks to the first day of fall, they will let you know. Just be patient. Remember, the leaves don’t turn orange overnight.
Tip: Don’t let fear of rejection make you question your values.
Aquarius Jan. 20—Feb. 18
What is it about Aquarius this month? Everyone is laughing at your jokes, and more people have been hitting on you. Soak it up—next month will be more of a dry spell for you.
Tip: Wait until November before getting an extreme haircut.
Pisces Feb. 19—Mar. 20
You may have been flying under the radar, but soon you’ll be getting quite a bit of praise for your accomplishments. Steer clear of Aquarius though, or the two of you will be fighting each other for attention.
Tip: Avoid very hairy guys.
Aries Mar. 21—Apr. 19
You’ve been running into a lot of dead ends lately, but exciting news is on the horizon. An job opportunity, new romance, or award are all strong possibilities. Make sure not to brag—no one wants to hear it.
Tip: This is not a good time to be a brown-noser.
Taurus Apr. 20—May 20
Your stubborn nature will be to your advantage this month. You may have taken a lot on your shoulders, but you will bulldoze your way through. Just don’t forget to mix business with pleasure.
Tip: Four Loko will not help matters.
Gemini May 21—June 20
Anticipate a big déjà-vu moment in the upcoming weeks. Someone from your past will re-enter your life­—whether the results are positive or negative is in your hands.
Tip: Avoid the Delphic basement.
Cancer June 21—July 22
The cold weather will not make this a happy month for you. But things will begin looking up by mid-October, and you will soon be back in the groove.
Tip: Plan your costume well in advance of Halloween.
Leo July 23—Aug. 22
Take care not to become overconfident. As long as you don’t let your current good fortune make you complacent, you should do fine. But it might be time to start coming up with some contingency plans.
Tip: Steer clear of anyone who acts fake.
Virgo Aug. 23—Sept. 22
It’s time to Vir-go on a vacation. Getting out of Cambridge will re-align you mentally and physically, and you’ll be prepared to face the rest of the fall with gusto—and a heightened sexual appetite to boot.
Tip: Pack sunscreen. And condoms.
Sections
Gary Shteyngart, one of The New Yorker’s 2010 “Top 20 Writers Under 40” last week and the mind behind the acclaimed novels “Absurdistan,” “The Russian Debutante’s Handbook,” and “Super Sad True Love Story,” visited Currier House to discuss his third and latest work. FM caught up with the author to talk about his Russian heritage, adjustment to life in America, and, of course, his new book. Be warned—some of his answers are just as sarcastic as his writing.
1. Fifteen Minutes: In your latest book “Super Sad True Love Story,” the main character Lenny is one of the last remaining people to take pleasure in books, objects the novel’s society has deemed remnants of the past. Do you think we’re actually headed in this direction?
Gary Shteyngart: I mean, we never know what’s going to happen, but it’s interesting to note that the collapse of the Roman Empire led to a huge decline in reading and more towards a visual kind of art. So who knows, maybe the collapse of the American empire and the decline of the American empire will cause some kind of shift away from the literary as well. When you write speculative fiction, you aren’t writing about the future; you’re writing about today, and that’s what’s always interested me. I think that the most frightening parallel is not just reading but America’s declining education. This country can’t compete very well with other countries, not just in reading but in math and science as well. It’s just not up to snuff, and that’s something that’s going to continue.
2. FM: Are these American flaws or universal ones?
GS: People are, I think, reading less and less around the world, but it’s much more pronounced in America. On the other hand, people seem to follow us around, so I wouldn’t be surprised if it was declining elsewhere too.
3. FM:  The New York Times has said that your writing has a “darkly satiric edge.” Do you think that satire is the most accessible way of opening people’s eyes to the problems of society?
GS: I’m not sure. I think that satire is very much a part of the world we live in, the age we live in. People turn to John Stewart’s “Daily Show” for the news—for many people it’s their primary source of the news. So I think it reflects the fact that we don’t really believe anyone or anything unless it’s told in a joke.
4. FM: Have you ever met someone who didn’t understand the satirical nature of your writing?
GS: Yes, I’ve had a lot of people like that. Some people complain that I don’t have any attractive Jewish characters, and if you look at my work, there aren’t any attractive characters from any race, creed, or ethnicity. For me, it’s an equal opportunity kind of thing.
5. FM: Having grown up in the Soviet Union before emigrating at the age of 6, what was the biggest adjustment to the American lifestyle?
GS: I think pizza. I almost choked on a slice—I didn’t realize the cheese was so gooey. I kept trying to eat it and just kept choking. I almost died. And capitalism is tough; always having to work for a living is very annoying.
6. FM: Is there anything you miss?
GS:  I go to Russia quite a bit, but I guess I just miss how the people are warm and friendly and drunk all the time.
FM: So would you describe Americans as cold and surly and sober all of the time?
GS:  I think these internets (sic) make us very isolated. So much stuff now, so much social networking is handled online, and that’s what makes me sad. I miss the daily contact with human beings. I mean, look at us—we’re doing this interview by phone, and I do a lot of interviews by e-mail. I never see anyone anymore.
7. FM: What aspects of both Russian and American literature would you say make their way into your writing?
GS: The satirical Russian stuff definitely influences it, the sense of humor and the sense of sort of always being unhappy with society and making a lot of fun of it. In terms of American, I don’t know. I think I have the American work ethic, maybe because I have such a big mortgage and I have to work all the time.
8. FM: Is there a difference between Russian and American humor?
GS: The Russian humor I know is kind of Russian Jewish humor. It’s very much humor from the edge of the grave, very dark. whereas American humor is more optimistic. This is the society that came up with the slogan, “If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.” I wish I were more optimistic. It’d seem happier. But then again, religious people are happier than those who aren’t, but that’s still not enough to make me believe in God. So I’m taking the realist approach.
9. FM: Do you have anything to say to engineering majors who worry that they should have done Visual and Environmental Studies instead?
GS: My advice is just to get out of dodge as much as possible. Don’t spend all of your time in the same place. You know if you’re living in Brooklyn, leave Brooklyn or wherever you are. It’s a really fascinating world, so before you decide what you want to do with your life, make sure that you’ve seen the world.
FM: And what has seeing the world done for you?
GS:  It’s given me the material for three books.
10. FM: What led to your current teaching position at Columbia University?
GS: Teaching is fun, and I’m pretty good at it. It helps me to pass the time.
FM: Pass the time between what and what?
GS:  Between writing and getting trashed.
11. FM: What is the greatest lesson that you try to impart on your students?
GS:  Find a good voice, and be honest and not pretentious.
FM: And do you think that you’ve accomplished those three things?
GS:  Everything except the last thing.
12. FM: What was your reaction when you found out that you would be James Franco’s teacher?
GS: I fell on my fainting couch and I just started crying into a napkin, I couldn’t believe my good fortune.
FM: I think all of us would.
GS: Yeah, I mean the crush we have on him is collective and beautiful.
FM: It’s a very large part of my life.
GS: Me too.
13. FM: Describe Columbia in 15 words or fewer.
GS: It’s a college in the Upper West Side of New York City.
14. FM: Describe Harvard in 15 words or fewer.
GS: It’s a place that they would never let me near.
15. FM: Now that you’ve visited and spoken to students here, would you consider making the move from Morningside Heights to Cambridge?
GS: You need better sashimi restaurants before that move can be accomplished.
Sections
Last fall, the editors of FM assembled in the alleyway behind Herrell’s for a photo shoot with the campus’s most stylish students. I hung towards the back of the group, amused by the apparent difficulties of getting people in nice clothes to stand next to dumpsters. Suddenly a man holding a laptop appeared from thin air at the closed end of the alley and approached me.
“Hey man!”
“...Hi?”
“You wanna talk to my friend?”
“Ummm...”
“Yeah, he’s right here.”
The man thrust his laptop into my face, revealing a video chat in progress. Another man in a bright red sweatshirt greeted me from cyberspace.
“Wave to my friend!”
I waved, and the man holding the laptop walked out of the alley looking fairly satisfied.
“Who the [redacted] was that???” asked one of the few people paying attention. “And why aren’t you freaking out??”
I had no clue who he was, but I can’t say I was surprised that he came up to me. I don’t know how to explain it, but for as long as I can remember, complete strangers have been treating me like an old friend. Maybe it’s something about the way I smell, or maybe I hold eye contact for just a second too long, but I seem to have the words “Tell me anything!” tattooed on my forehead.
According to my mother, I’ve been prone to these odd interactions with strangers ever since I was little. There was one particularly alarming incident at the airport when a strange man got a little too interested in my 5-year-old self’s stylish shoelaces (in his defense, they were woven like a checkerboard). Somehow our conversation drifted two gates away before mom and dad saved me. After that I watched a PBS special on “stranger danger” at least five times, and my parents bought one of those embarrassing child leashes. I maintain that I never wore it in public, and luckily there are no pictures to suggest otherwise.
But even recently, strangers still can’t help but to strike up conversation with me. I’m not talking about the standard stuff—I know we all have to walk through Harvard Square daily. I’m talking about much weirder stuff like women who tell me how much I look like their grandson and randos that will sit down next to me at Pamplona. I’m talking about that one time that a group of homeless people brought me in on a 45-minute discussion of the shelter’s staff members.
It’s like I’m a communal Twitter account for the masses: just waiting to be filled up with inane thoughts about personal crap. Once I asked a building’s security officer which elevator to take. By the time I found out where to go, I knew the name of her daughter’s daycare facility, what color weave she was putting in that weekend, and exactly how many men and women she was going to let grind up on her.
I’ve experienced all of this unwanted friendliness in some of the least friendly places in America: New Jersey, New York, and Boston. So I was a little terrified to spend this past summer in San Francisco, on that other coast where people supposedly have fewer boundaries about almost everything. I knew I was in over my head as soon as I stepped off of the plane. The flight attendant offered to personally escort me to the baggage claim, which I thought was really kind. About halfway there she asked me to help her make a video to help her win custody of her estranged sister’s son, which I thought was really bizarre.
Ten minutes later, my first cab driver in the city was explaining how O.J. Simpson had broken his arm as a child (“I’ve always known he was trouble!”). Later cab drivers would spontaneously confess to regularly stealing from handicapped passengers and refusing to pay hospital bills. But there was something different in San Francisco abut my magnetism to weirdos and it wasn’t just the frequency.
Almost every time my summer roommates and I went out, we met someone no more than one degree of separation from us. The girl chatting us up at a bar turned out to be a fellow Harvard student’s sister. The twins we met the next night went to high school with a friend of ours. The random bro who we iced at a house party was best friends with my high school dormmates. And the cool girl on my floor at work showed up at that same house party. And she graduated from Harvard in ’08.
Being in San Francisco felt like being in a dark room with a large machine. The more the flashlight revealed random individual parts, the more we could see the connections tying everything together. The whole thing became like a game; it was suddenly fun to be approached by people on the street because we just knew they had some secret connection to us already. Maybe that’s why people say it’s nicer on the West Coast; everyone over there has already figured out that being cold or rude to strangers just prevents you from making new friends, or recognizing that in a way, you might already be friends with someone you’ve never met.
Already, my new approach to strangers has started to pay off. I was invited to a Fourth of July roof party because my roommate happened to run into someone in a bathroom at the beach. We actually got kicked out of that party because one of our friends caused a minor scene—she threw a bag of limes at a beer pong table—after a bro muttered something about Harvard kids under his breath. As we hurried down the stairs to leave the party with whatever dignity we had left, the host came out to publicly shame us.
“You! What is your problem?!?” she screamed at the lime-thrower. “You can never come back here! You are not welcome!”
Then she looked at me. “You’re fine, I guess. You can come back or whatever.”
Charleton A. Lamb ’11 is a Literature concentrator in Kirkland House.  Whenever Charleton says that he is “going to a friend’s place” he means that he is going to pace around the Pit in Harvard Square.
Sections
I hate pretentious douche bags that like to talk about how “exciting” the Core is. You’ve probably been subjected to the sight or sound of these repulsive elitists. You’ve probably heard them say something like, “I really want to expand my horizons. Why would I only want to take classes in one concentration? I’m not just into biology—I’m so much more than that. Why would I want my classes to be limited when my self isn’t?”
Oh, I don’t know. Maybe because you are going to college to get a degree in something. Maybe because you are paying tuition for an education, not an escapade into fanciful self-discovery. Maybe because sheer douchebaggery is already limiting, so that last question isn’t really relevant in your case.
And they don’t just spout this when you ask about their feelings; they also think it’s acceptable to hate on your life choices, even though you’ve never made a single comment about their membership in both Quiz Bowl and the Geological Society. For example, when I announce that I will be taking Science of the Physical Universe 134: “From Dinosaurs to Dining Out: A Pseudo-Scientific Survey Of Our Pretty Planet With No Science But Lots Of Physical Universe,” they give me this response:
“But why? You’re being presented with a real academic opportunity here. Myself? I’m taking three departmental classes for my Core requirements. That way I’ll learn the most.”
I smile and say, “That’s great. Have fun doing homework Friday through Sunday while barely pulling a B; I’m sure I’ll see you when we both go to Tommy’s at 2 a.m., but you’ll be the one sober enough to remember it.” But in my head I think just one thing: the Core is not an academic opportunity. You know why? Opportunities aren’t mandatory.
Gulags are.
That’s right—the Core is a gulag, operating under the cover of pretty Georgian architecture and exclusive admissions. You are being forced to take these classes, in areas not of your choosing. And you may not be well-equipped for the labor, but they put you to work at it anyway. Why do your very best and learn your very most? That’s not academic rigor. That’s Stockholm syndrome. It doesn’t take any great amount of cleverness to take a super-hard class that won’t do you any good in your real life. Three quarters of the freshman class do that every fall in Life Sci 1a.
You know what does take cleverness? You know what’s actually a stimulating intellectual enterprise? Finding an easy (yet interesting) Core class. I have never been more challenged in my life. You have to hunt through that course catalogue—which, by the way, is thicker and more difficult to interpret than your precious copy of “The Brothers Karamazov.” You close read it, looking for something with key words like “overview” and “introduction,” and avoid any with words like “three-hour lab” or “departmental seminar.” After that very first lecture, you have to analyze the data on class composition by comparing ratios of jocks to chemistry concentrators, of students taking it for “elective” to those taking it for “Core.” You need to maximize the utility derived from your classmates: how can I assemble a study group that will help me with my work, but not upset the curve by doing too much better than myself? You have to use original historical source documents from the Cue Guides of yore and apply them to today’s questions—i.e., which class should I take? You must master comparative literature, contrasting the length and complexity of the available Sparknotes with the size of the novel itself to figure out just how difficult this Anna Karenina chick is gonna be.
In short, this is the most interdisciplinary activity out there. It involves every skill set from every concentration, and if you screw it up, it’ll definitely show on your transcript. So thanks, General Education. I guess you’ve achieved your goal after all.
Sections
While some Harvard students spend more of shopping week searching for a futon than a Gen Ed, for others the thought of interior design is less appealing than a Math 55 problem set.  Those overwhelmed by the task of covering all those cream-colored walls had an unexpected resource, a study break last Monday at the Harvard College Women’s Center.
“Dorm Made Simple” was the first of the HCWC’s series of healthy living study breaks. Tucked away in the basement of Canaday, the Women’s Center lounge was covered with posters featuring eco-friendly housing tips, and filled with tables strewn with the contents of an entire Michaels Craft store: stations were set up with customized supplies for tissue paper flowers, door hangers, and frame painting.
Rachel Gholston ’11, an HCWC intern and coordinator of the event, explained the need for this decorating extravaganza, “For freshmen, this is their first opportunity to create their own space, and upperclassmen have the opportunity to reinvent.”
Providing another perspective, John H. Lyon ’12 was the star of the “Cleanliness Corner,” a presentation that enumerated the ideal seven-step program to successful sanitation. While Lyon is actually a defensive end for the Harvard football team, the program advertised him as a quarterback, but a poll of the audience revealed that few members of the overwhelmingly female audience actually knew the distinction.
Lyon briefed the attendees on Lysol, his miracle cleanliness cure, chore charts, sweeping, and the lesser known benefits of lavender air freshener. One particular gem he provided, too often forgotten: “If Dorm Crew hasn’t come yet, and your bathroom is getting junky, it is okay to clean it.”
Guests had their own tips for crafting an attractive habitat to come home to. Laura E. D’Asaro ’13, an expert on tissue paper flowers, advised using wrapping paper as wallpaper, in keeping with affordable chic.
Participants left the event ready to conquer blank walls and dirty bathrooms, or, if not, at least walked away with a new appreciation for the timelessness of arts and crafts.
Sections
Getting to really know someone is an ongoing process, and what Gallimard finds out about his lover after two decades is the subject of the Asian American Association Players’ new production, “M. Butterfly,” opening in November. The script by playwright David Henry Hwang won a Tony Award for its dramatization of the true story of the love affair between a male French diplomat and a Chinese man masquerading as a woman.
Alexander M. Willis ’14, who is a guy, revealed with a grin that he would be playing Song, the Peking-opera-star-turned-spy who seduces the French diplomat. “Gender definition isn’t necessarily important, especially when it comes to love,” he said. But this fluidity is not limited to the characters—the challenge of designing the set was to shift seamlessly between France and China during the mass upheaval of the Cultural Revolution. “One of the messages is metamorphosis and transformation,” said set director Rekha Auguste-Nelson ’13.
Director Ja-Yoon Choe ’12 sees the play as an opportunity to feature a group of students not often seen in major acting roles. “I saw a lack of diversity in theater,” Choe said. “I wanted Asian voices to be more represented.” With “M. Butterfly,” Choe will be resurrecting the AAA Players. According to Athena Louise M. Lao ’12, co-president of the Asian American Association, the theater troupe has been dormant since its most active members graduated several years ago.
But Choe also wants to spark discussion about sexuality and gender roles. “‘Only a man can play a perfect woman because only a man knows what a perfect woman is,’” Choe said, reciting the famous line from the play. “I want people to be challenged. I want people to ask themselves, ‘How am I prevented from seeing the people around me as they are?’”
Sections
Last Friday evening, 20 young parkour and free running artists hailing from South Africa to Indiana scaled walls, jumped over trucks, and soared to the ground from atop a forklift in Boston’s Government Center. The event, titled “Art of Motion,” was sponsored by Red Bull, and was only the second if its kind in the United States.
Parkour, largely popularized on YouTube, features individuals attempting to get from point A to point B quickly while overcoming various obstacles. Free running is a similar discipline, although there is an added focus on creativity and style. In this particular competition, each of the 20 artists was given 90 seconds to perform on the given apparatuses and was judged based on four criteria: creativity, fluidity, technical difficulty, and execution.
As each of the artists flipped from atop a pickup truck or did a back handspring through a flower bed, the audience screamed words of encouragement and astonishment. All seemed to have some connection to parkour and the athletes. “I did gymnastics for 15 years and along the way met some free running and parkour friends,” said attendee Lindsay Tom, a graduate student at Boston University.
According to Benjamin B. Massenburg ’11, another attendee, parkour began in France as a way to escape during a pursuit on foot. Since then, it has evolved into a form of expression.
“You just express yourself through movement,” said Chris Rowan, a 17-year-old competitor from the Boston area.
Particpants and viewers alike insisted that parkour was an art form rather than a sport. “The way you move is personal to you, and you can’t really say the way this guy moves is right, the way this guy moves is wrong,” said Ryan Doyle, a muscular 26-year-old Englishman from Liverpool who competed in the first “Art of Motion” back in 2007 and served as a judge at Friday’s competition. “In a sport, there’s a right way and a wrong way to do it.”
Later this year, Doyle will be travelling around the world performing and giving talks on parkour and free running. “I’ve got to go to Mexico,” he said. “Jump off the Aztec pyramids.”
Sections
Give a girl some glitter, a disco stick, and a pair of stilettos and she becomes Lady Gaga. Give those same props to a few theater kids, and they create a Gaga-inspired production of the ever-famous musical “Chicago.”
“Everything in Gaga’s music videos is kind of similar to the idea of female fame in the 1920s and how murder is kind of a show,” said Ryan P. Halprin ’12, the head choreographer for the production. Apparently there are plenty of comparisons to be drawn between the Gaga and “Chicago” narratives—for example, the epic “Telephone” video and most of “Chicago” both take place in a prison.
Parallels aside, putting an original spin on a classic is still bold, which is fitting considering the woman whose creative energy the production team is channeling. Halprin assured FM, “We’re not changing the text [of the play], so the Gaga angle is really going to come out through the aesthetic aspects—the lighting, the dancing.”
Club Oberon will provide the venue, which should sound familiar to undergrads who watched last year’s “The Donkey Show,” featuring scantily-clad male dancers interacting with the audience. To be sure, students are already buzzing about this show as well.
“We’ve already had a great deal of positive response from the students, and also from the Boston theater-going community at large,” said show director Brandon J. Ortiz ’12.
“We’re adding a runway, so it’ll be kind of like a fashion show that comes out of the stage,” Halprin said. “We might have blood and streamers and glitter and stuff.”
If the Gaga theme is any indication, the show, premiering on December 6, promises to be eccentric. “It’s a musical, but it’s also kind of like a dance concert,” explained a member of the creative team. “We’re seeing it as a very modern pop-art kind of production.”
Sections
Let me begin by saying that I drank a Four Loko last weekend. A whole one. If you are learning this for the first time, then the purpose of this article is accomplished, and you can stop reading here. Swoon appropriately over how cool I am, stalk my Facebook for a bit, and then begin planning how you are going to “accidentally” run into me in the dining hall tomorrow night.
For those of you that I did tell on Saturday night, we probably hooked up, right? Nice. And for those of you that are wondering what drink would make me this astoundingly cool, let me try to explain.
Drinking Four Loko is like having ten spandex-clad, 80s-era backup dancers all hyped-up on cocaine and chasing you around the whole night, whispering mean things at you if you try to stay physically still for more than three seconds, and also crazy-humping you most of the time. Drinking Four Loko is like having a constant raging party in your mouth. Also in your bed, if you try to go to bed, because Four Loko will not let you go to bed. It will keep you going four times longer than everyone else, so you will essentially get four whole Saturday nights out of one. Three of those will be spent mostly alone and mostly staring at the ceiling above your bed.
Four Loko is just straight awesome. Here are some other reasons. First of all, it tastes like fruit punch Gatorade. Prefer lemonade? Guess what—LEMONS HAVE GONE LOKO!!! So have grapes, peaches, raspberries, oranges, watermelons, and pretty much anything else you could want to shove alcohol, caffeine, taurine, and guarana into.
Also, Four Loko is a social beverage. If you try to drink Four Loko alone, within 20 seconds it is statistically inevitable that you will have sprinted head first into another person (and annoyed the shit out of five others, who are no longer your friends).
As the Gwop Gang says in their hit single “Four Loko”: “I’m calling on my main biddy/hit me up my FOUR LOKO/I want cranberry lemon!”
Sections
On a recent Sunday morning, I awoke from a brief sleep on the dank carpet of Quincy and stumbled into the bathroom. After clumsily splashing some water on my face, I cupped my hands under the shaving-cream-stained faucet, ready for a cold drink. Hazily looking up into the mirror, I was surprised to find my entire mouth had turned a bluish-green. Momentarily concerned I had become Na’vi overnight, I reached for my toothbrush but didn’t recognize any in the medicine cabinet. Nor did I recognize the two brutes now staring back at me in the mirror.
Aha, I thought. I don’t have carpet floors. I don’t live in Quincy. I don’t shave yet. This is not my suite and I don’t live with two bearded football players. A few painfully colorful cans that bore a frightful resemblance to Ed Hardy t-shirts were scattered on these randos’ common-room floor. My displacement and melanoma-like symptoms suddenly made sense: Four Loko had struck again.
Like flip flops, Nalgenes, dreadlocks and other college trends, I simply do not understand our campus’s current obsession with this vile liquid. Where are you possibly going tonight that your chances of obtaining more alcohol are so slim that you MUST consume the equivalent of four beers and an energy drink all at once? The only destination that currently comes to mind is church, and countless denominations serve there.
Rushing to Quatro Crazy’s defense, some students attest it is “hard core” to drink Four Loko. At parties this semester, I’ve heard many a bro attempt to impress a lady-friend by divulging, “I tried Four Loko last weekend. It. Was. Insane.”
Really? How wild was it? Did you have Cranberry Lemonade or Blue Raspberry? Four beers is not insane, it’s a nightcap. Shooting up heroin is insane. I don’t see any needles. Where are the needles? Show me the needles!
Sections
Harvard prides itself on being at the forefront of change, of research and experimentation, of innovation. The current cover story of the Harvard University Gazette boasts of Harvard scientists investigating the existence of life beyond Earth. A recent story from Harvard Magazine describes Francis Cabot Lowell, class of 1793, as an “American entrepreneur.”
But while these celebrated Harvard affiliates may endure well into history, the publications that recognize them—at least in the forms we know them—may not.
Like many newspapers that are trying to adapt to the shifting technological climate, The New York Times has announced its intent to make some significant changes. It will charge for online content beginning in 2011, and at a recent conference, its publisher and chairman announced, “We will stop printing The New York Times sometime in the future, date TBD.”
When the economic crisis and digital innovations press against Harvard’s gates, publications under the Harvard crown must adapt just as quickly as publications outside of it.
NEW FRONTIERS
John S. Rosenberg is an editor and media and communications specialist at Harvard Magazine, a separately incorporated magazine founded by alumni in 1898 that distributes 245,000 copies every other month to all alumni, faculty, and staff within the country.
“It’s an enormous strain. It’s not just the workload. It’s a totally different kind of deadline—the nature of the assignments, the amount of interruption, and the 24/7 nature of it. There are different rhythms, different demands...conflicts with pace from before,” says Rosenberg, of the industry’s newfound emphasis on going digital.
Consumers have had access to all of Harvard Magazine’s content online since 1996, 98 years after it published its first issue and two years before the incorporation of Google. Now, the magazine’s website receives about 100,000 visitors per month.
With this change in platform preference, so too has come a change in reporting.
“We weren’t a breaking news organization when we were publishing bi-monthly,” explains Rosenberg.
For the Harvard Gazette, breaking news is becoming standard. Once a longer, weekly magazine, in the past year it has scaled down in both size and frequency of publication.
According to Christine M. Heenan, Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications at Harvard Public Affairs and Communications, The Gazette has shifted from a print-first to a digital-first and mobile-first vehicle.
Since September 1, a new issue of the Gazette has found its way to dining halls only twice a month, reflecting a shift in the way its content is being consumed. While 24,000 issues are printed every two weeks, there are 8,000 to 20,000 page views on the Gazette’s website each day.
By those numbers, digital advance certainly seems to be the new frontier, and Harvard media outlets, packing their bags with eager innovation and financial support from the University, are heading west.
EXTRA! EXTRA!
As an alumna reads Harvard Magazine’s latest feature on HIV in sub-Saharan Africa, she is reminded by a sidebar to visit the Magazine’s website for related articles, slideshows and maps.
Similarly, nearly every page of the Gazette encourages readers to go online to find “More Student Columnists,” “More National & World Affairs,” and “More Science & Health,” among other features.
But this begs the question: do these extra features serve as supplements for the curious, or, without the optional online follow-up, is the magazine—and the reader’s comprehension of a topic—simply incomplete?
Student publications, including The Harvard Advocate, The Harvard Lampoon, and The Crimson, have begun to feature videos online as both independent features and as complements to written work.
And as video increasingly engages reader—or viewer—interest, publications are reaping the benefits.
“We joke that we wish that all of our stories had J.K. Rowling in the title,” says Rosenberg, referring to the number of page views resulting from J.K. Rowling’s 2008 Commencement Address, of which Harvard Magazine has the only full recording.
For one publication featuring content online, physical format simply became extraneous.
A bi-annual newsletter, The Yard, originated in 2005 as a publication by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences for alumni of Harvard College and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Four years later, it went completely online in order “to generate costs savings” and “to meet the communications needs of an increasingly digital audience,” writes Ed Sevilla, Executive Director of Strategic Communications at Alumni Affairs and Development, in an e-mail to The Crimson.
“The trends in Harvard media towards digital dissemination and 24/7 information access tie directly to trends in consumer behavior and technology adoption,” writes Sevilla. “These trends
have a ripple effect upon journalism, inside and outside of Harvard.”
QUANTITY MEETS QUALITY
But even with all the extra multimedia available online, written content remains key.
“The deluge of electronic stuff, especially for us, makes the selecting, and editing and vetting even more important for people,” says Rosenberg of Harvard Magazine’s content. “If we’re coming to you in ink, it means we think it’s really important.”
However, the Gazette, for which the Internet is the primary medium of communication, sees opportunity from the decline of ink.
“In some ways the crisis in mainstream media has presented as much opportunity as it has challenge,” says Heenan, noting that the Gazette added people who formerly wrote at the Boston Globe, The Miami Herald, and The Associated Press to its team over the past year.
Yet as journalists migrate to Cambridge from prominent newspapers, news bureaus are flagging. The Wall Street Journal has closed the regional bureau that contained Cambridge, and The New York Times has cut down its Higher Education staff.
Nonetheless, the Gazette has found opportunities to become its own content channel, and to develop creative partnerships with hurting media outlets.
When President Faust met with Senator Richard J. Durbin and undocumented Harvard student Eric Balderas ’13 in Washington D.C. last week, the Gazette sent both a reporter and a photographer.
“We supplied a photograph to the Boston Globe and to The Crimson because we had the resources to do that,” says Heenan.
Editors of student magazines also serve as arbiters of worthwhile content.
“The main talent at The Advocate is not so much printing a magazine and making a good website, it’s recognizing good poetry from bad poetry,” says Benjamin S. Berman ’11, The Advocate’s Business Manager. “The content-driven imperative means the T.S. Eliots and John Ashberys won’t be writing poetry anymore. They’ll be creating interactive media only able to be published on the Internet. Our prerogative to be producing a web portal is not just how people consume web content. But the best web content will be web-based.”
CHOOSING THE RIGHT VEHICLE
As Harvard media strive to meet their consumers in the digital frontier, they must first choose and then adjust their publications to the appropriate vehicle.
“We’re interested in meeting the Harvard audience at the location where they’re increasingly gravitating to, [which is] away from the printed page,” says Heenan. “All the signs point to more and more people experiencing news and information not only digitally, but on mobile devices.”
In a five-month period beginning in November of last year, The Harvard Gazette for mobile devices received 10,000 visits. In the following five-month period, the number increased by almost 150 percent to 27,000 visits.
And next came Harvard Mobile, an application which makes information about Harvard maps, dining, directory, and news available to owners of any smartphone or feature phone device. Since its launch on September 1, Harvard Mobile has had about 3,500 downloads.
The phone features an automatic feed from stories in main categories from The Harvard Gazette.
“We draw news from the Gazette. We could see in the future drawing from other parts of Harvard,” says John Longbrake, Assistant Vice President of Communications at Harvard Public Affairs and Communications. “We’ll continue to evaluate what’s out there, what will be valuable to our audiences. You launch something, you learn from it, you refine, and you relaunch.”
Whereas the digital vehicle is essential to The Gazette, Rosenberg—of Harvard Magazine—is wary of assigning the vehicle itself too much importance.
“The actual platform is not fundamental. You have been able to get our magazine in PDF form for 10 years,” says Rosenberg, “At that time, we have had one request to not get the magazine in print.”
The Advo
cate’s Berman shares this belief in the irrelevance of the vehicle, though his critique is directed at print, not the internet. “There’s nothing special about something printed; everything is about content.”
THE HAMSTER WHEEL
Though print may or may not be special in its delivery of content, it is unique in its budgetary demands.
Most media budgets are declining in the face of the economic crisis. Indeed, the majority of those at Harvard aren’t growing either—but unlike those outside the Ivory Tower, most Harvard publications count on the University for support.
Roughly 40 percent of Harvard Magazine’s budget comes from the University; the rest is derived from alumni support and advertising sales.
The Magazine’s budget has been roughly the same for the past 15 years, says Rosenberg—in exact dollars, not adjusted for inflation.
“The reason is we’ve used technology incredibly aggressively to reduce our production costs, get better mailing costs, and to simplify our work,” explains Rosenberg.
So, the amount of work necessary to support the Magazine has grown exponentially, while the dollars and number of people involved in executing it has remained constant.
When the conversation comes to the work-staff dynamic, Elizabeth A. Gudrais ’01, a staff writer and editor at Harvard Magazine interjects.
“A magazine has a set number of pages, a set day for publication. With the Internet, you can post as often as you want. It’s infinite,” she says.
Four very industrious people produce most of the feature and breaking-news content for the bimonthly alumni magazine. Formerly, a fair amount of freelance pieces supplemented staff writers’ stories, but that has recently declined due to economic restraints.
But the staples still need to be covered, despite waiting consumers and the demand of a 24/7 news cycle.
“We’re still writing multi-thousand word features in an organized way while interrupting ourselves to write breaking news at the same time,” says Rosenberg. “We’re definitely stretching. No question. This has not been a relaxed and easy exercise. It’s a lot of work.”
The Gazette also employs the same number of reporters as it did prior to its digital shift.
So does Nieman Reports, the quarterly journal of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard.
“We work on two different platforms,” says Melissa Ludtke, Editor of Nieman Reports. “It’s putting a bit of a strain on a small staff, and we have the same staff arrangement as 12 years ago. We work harder. Sometimes I feel like we’re on the hamster wheel. You can never stay on top of everything.”
Dean Starkman, a writer for the Columbia Journalism Review describes “the hamster wheel” in a September article as “volume without thought. It is news panic, a lack of discipline, an inability to say no. It is copy produced to meet arbitrary productivity metrics.”
The “infinity” of the Internet that Gudrais mentions, in addition to competitive pressure, can make the transition from dedicated writing to endless circling on the “Hamster Wheel” difficult to discern. Motivations and incentives can morph and weave together—the pace of print is incentivized by both the good and bad.
“We’re ambitious to serve people to do as much as we can,” says Rosenberg. “A bad reason [to keep the pace] is to be competitive. A good reason is to be ambitious. To do more and do better.”
REACHING OUT, KEEPING UP
Success at Harvard mirrors success outside of it, in that it involves learning how to sell. Sell your argument, sell your product, sell your pitch. Do everything you can, but land gracefully and deliberately short of selling your soul. Journalism is no different.
“Journalists are no longer just writing and producing their content—they’re becoming the marketers of their content,” says Ludtke. “When we finish an issue we have to do the outreach.”
The Gazette takes this to the extreme, sending out daily e-mails (opt-out for faculty and staff, opt-in for students) containing three of the top daily stories and featured events.
Forty-thousand people receive the daily Gazette. Fifteen hundred have unsubscribed. Heenan says that she targets to keep the proportion of unsubscribers at less than 10 percent.
But online interaction only begins with e-mail.
“Through development of the online Gazette, we have created a lot of the tools critical for broadening our audience—to send through Facebook, Digg, Delicious, e-mail. The ability to forward, share stories,” says Heenan. “That’s all developed in the past year and a half.”
And that’s not to mention iTunesU, Harvard Mobile, and YouTube—three other carriers of the Gazette’s content.
Harvard Magazine is equally diverse, with its mobile apps, and Facebook and Twitter pages accessible from its website.
And book-length publications, which have too been affected by technology, have also witnessed—and participated in—a dramatic shift.
According to William P. Sisler, Director and Chairman of the Board of Syndics at Harvard University Press (HUP), sales of e-books published by HUP grew from $2,000 one year ago to almost $150,000 in the fiscal year that ended June 30.
HUP maintains a Twitter and Face
book account, in addition to a new website.
“We are moving, like many other publishers, to more of a ‘pull’ kind of marketing, to engage readers in conversation with our books and authors, rather than trying to ‘push’ books out to customers,” Sisler writes in an e-mail to The Crimson.
UNIQUELY HARVARD
But as much as the round-the-clock efforts of Harvard-affiliated reporters mirror those of journalists around the globe, there’s a distinct difference between them. After all, Harvard-affiliated reporters have a built-in population of consumers that share one tangible thing in common: a Harvard degree.
“It’s one of the best audiences in the world—educated, absolutely dedicated to learning,” says Rosenberg. “Having a readership that reads and that cares and that has different opinions on things and that catches and calls you out on any mistake is wonderful. You can’t make it up.”
Meanwhile, articles at Harvard Magazine are deliberately becoming more search-friendly, that is, easier to find online.
“Years ago we did a story on how pyramids are built,” says Rosenberg, “As it turns out, every sixth grader has to do an article on pyramids. A large part of the constituency of sixth graders that have to write reports on Egypt visited our article. It comes up high on Google. We’re not writing for them, but it’s a good service.”
Harvard media—especially those targeted to alumni—are unique. For even as their general audience (including sixth graders researching early Egyptian construction methods) grows, so too does their guaranteed target audience, swelling by several thousand each spring.
Rosenberg cites University research as showing that alumni rank Harvard Magazine as their most important source of information about the University.
“It’s demonstrable that the alumni value the thing; it’s also demonstrable that although they get it free, they give us a million dollars a year. But the fact is it’s a very devoted readership,” says Rosenberg.
But not all alumni audiences have been so devoted.
In 2006, two class of 2000 College alumni created the magazine 02138.
In press releases to journalists in the weeks leading up to publication of its first issue, 02138 was described as “a new lifestyle magazine for a unique community of educated, affluent and influential readers: Harvard alumni...02138 will deliver the world to our readers from the perspective they care about most—their own.”
Not free like University-issued publications for alumni, 02138 was available through subscriptions purchased online. The magazine went quickly from “will deliver” to “did deliver,” and folded in 2008. A change in ownership and redesign prior to the collapse did little to revive the magazine. Manhattan Media, the then-owner, credited the magazine’s downfall to the “current economic environment” in a press release announcing the publication’s demise.
It wasn’t free. It wasn’t financially supported by Harvard. Its content—with features on the 100 most influential Harvard alumni and a cover featuring Rashida L. Jones ’97 wearing little but a smirk, a low-cut blazer, and a tie—differed greatly from other alumni publications. Whatever the reason, 02138 came and went in quick succession.
CHASING THE FUTURE
But it seems that most established Harvard publications, including the increasingly mobile-focused Gazette, are here to stay.
“We’ve found that in the Harvard community, particularly among faculty, there is a strong interest in print presence—people like picking up a newspaper and getting ink on their hands,” says Heenan.
Consumers change the way they consume. Digital applications change in number, scale, and popularity. Publications change in size, frequency, and scope. And indeed, no one expects the climate of contemporary change to stop changing either.
Says the Nieman Reports’ Ludtke, “I just think it through issue-to-issue and try to think innovatively and creatively.
CORRECTION: October 3, 2010
An earlier version of the Sept. 23 magazine article "The Media (R)evolution" incorrectly stated that Harvard Magazine is printed twice a month. The magazine is actually printed every other month.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Certain postures—like putting your hands behind your head and your feet up on a desk—could make you feel more powerful by affecting your hormones levels, according to a study by Harvard Business School Professor Amy J.C. Cuddy and her two research partners at Columbia Business School.
Through high-power poses—ones that take up a lot of space—people who feel chronically powerless might become more confident, which in turn could lead to improvement of general health and well-being, according to the research published Tuesday.
The research suggested that “in some situations requiring power, people have the ability to ‘fake it ’til they make it.’”
“It’s a feedback loop. It’s recursive,” Cuddy explained. “Those tiny things have the potential to have huge influence on people’s lives.”
In contrast, low-power posers—people who hold contractive postures such as folding arms—are more likely to feel powerless.
“This is the first demonstration, I think, to show that postures can affect your physiology,” Cuddy said.
In the study, Cuddy and her partners randomly assigned 42 participants to hold either high-power poses or low-power poses for two minutes.
The researchers then collected saliva samples for hormone tests and asked the participants to take a gambling test.
According to the study, people who held high-power poses saw a rise in the “dominance hormone” testosterone and a decrease of the “stress hormone” cortisol, whereas those who held low-power poses experienced the exact opposite.
Consistent with the hormone levels, the gambling test found test found high-power posers were more likely to take risks and focus on rewards.
Since people only need to hold such postures for a very short period of time to observe a hormone change, the findings may have a “huge effect” on how people control what they feel, Cuddy said.
“I like the idea that it can change the lives of people who feel powerless so quickly,” Cuddy added.
Further studies may focus on the mechanism of how postures lead to hormone level changes, according to Cuddy.
—Staff writer Sirui Li can be reached at sli@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Countries with a higher private school enrollment rate perform better on math, science, and reading exams, but also have lower overall education expenditures, according to a study published in August by Harvard Graduate School of Education professor Martin R. West and University of Munich economics professor Ludger Woessmann.
A survey across 29 nations suggests that competition to the public school system provided by private schools enhances productivity in K-12 education, West said—in contrast to an alternative argument that the existence of private schools increases inequality in education.
Analyzing test data of 220,000 students from the Programme for International Student Assessment, West and Woessmann showed that a 10 percent increase in enrollment in private schools results in an improvement in math test scores equivalent to almost a half year’s worth of learning and a reduction in per-student education spending by over 5 percent of the average for Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development countries.
The presence of a strong private sector also improved the achievement of students who attended public schools, even though high-ability students may tend to self-select into private schools, the study found.
According to West and Woessmann, theirs was the first study to attempt to measure the causal impact of competition by looking at variation in competition among different countries.
The study established a causal relationship between private school enrollment and performance of the education system by examining the Catholic church’s efforts in the 19th century to establish Catholic schools in various non-Catholic countries.
This allowed West and Woessmann to isolate the effect of education system competition from private schools on students’ performance today.
“The amount of competition in education today varies from one country to another for reasons that have little to do with contemporary school quality, or national income, or commitments to education,” the researchers wrote in the study, instead pointing to the role of the Catholic church.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Boston Redevelopment Authority voted unanimously to approve a plan to relocate Western Ave.’s McDonald’s 75 feet from its current Harvard-owned location in the Brighton Mills shopping center in a board meeting on Tuesday night.
The restaurant at 360 Western Avenue will move east to accommodate the extension of Telford St. The expanded street will provide an efficient drive-through lane for McDonald’s customers.
BRA spokesperson Susan Elsbree said that the plan for the new McDonald’s involves “a beautiful outdoor setting, green space, and bike racks.”
She added that the new McDonald’s will “compliment the green space across the street.”
The McDonald’s now stands near the site where there are plans to move the Charlesview—a residential complex of low-income housing units currently located across from the University’s Science Complex construction site in Allston.
The relocation of the McDonald’s will provide better access to the Charlesview, once the residential complex moves.
The Charlesview will relocate as part of a 2007 land-swap agreement between the complex’s board and the University, an agreement intended to allow the University to consolidate its Allston land holdings while providing residents with much-desired new housing and amenities.
“The [McDonald’s] move allows for the Charlesview project to go forward,” said Elsbree. “It’s important to provide adequate new housing to the Charlesview residents.”
While Elsbree said that the majority of Allston residents supported the plan to move the McDonald’s, some voiced concerns about the building’s design at a community meeting earlier this month.
“The redevelopment of McDonald’s has not considered the six years of urban design and community planning for all of Western Ave.,” said Jane McHale, an Allston resident. “This single-story, stand-alone building will [affect] the design aspects of everything around it, and that is a travesty to the community and to the BRA.”
—Staff writer Sofia E. Groopman can be reached at segroopm@fas.harvard.edu.
—Xi Yu contributed to the reporting of this story.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The function of cells that prevent the immune system from attacking the body’s own tissues—the cause of autoimmune disorders—has been discovered in a recent study by Researchers at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and the Harvard Medical School Department of Pathology.
The findings, which appear in the current issue of the journal Nature, may help scientists develop new approaches to treat autoimmune diseases, such as Type 1 diabetes and lupus, as well as cancer.
The study’s findings reveal that a subset of naturally-produced white blood cells known as CD8+ Treg cells can counteract the autoimmune attacks on the body, and that these cells can be increased through chemical processes.
“Something very special about CD8+ Treg cells is that they inhibit [these] antibodies [that] attack our own tissue,” said lead author Hye-Jung Kim, a research fellow at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. “Our findings highlight a network by which these cells control autoantibody formation.”
Autoantibody formation—the creation of antibodies that attack the body’s own tissues—occurs when B cells, a subpopulation of white blood cells, are activated in response to interaction with follicular T helper cells. When follicular T helper cells bind with B cells, autoantibody formation occurs, resulting in the launch of an unwanted autoimmune attack.
Scientists have previously focused on targeting B cells in order to stop antibodies attacking the body’s cells. Kim and the team of researchers have discovered an alternate approach to combatting autoimmune disorders.
“CD8+ Treg cells, instead of controlling B cells directly, control follicular helper cells and are a lot more efficient,” Kim explains. Because one follicular T helper cell can activate many B cells, Kim adds, “If you can control one follicular helper cell, you can control many B cells in the end.”
This research may open new avenues for treating autoimmune disorders, a category of diseases that has affected more than 50 million Americans, according to the American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association. The team is currently undertaking plans to study how these cells can be used in efforts to deploy the immune system in the treatment of cancer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Minority students take into consideration different factors compared to their white counterparts when deciding whether to study abroad, according to a recent study by professors from the Augustana College and the University of Iowa.
These findings suggest that colleges that hope to boost minority enrollment in study abroad programs should consider these unique cultural influences when recruiting underrepresented students.
Data collected by the Office of International Programs shows that student participation in Harvard’s semester, full-year, and summer study abroad programs increased by 284 percent over the past eight years. Although a racial breakdown is not available for Harvard’s study abroad program, national data shows that minority students participate at significantly lower rates than white students.
Although this inequity may pose a dilemma for other colleges, Robin Mount, the director of Career, Research, and International Opportunities at the Office of Career Services, said she believes that this not a problem at Harvard.
“I actually don’t think it’s an issue on our campus,” she said. “I think we have to be very careful not to stereotype students of color the same way.”
Although Mount has never encountered a student who has declined to study abroad in a specific country due to fears of racism, she said she has dealt with students whose religious beliefs influence their decision of where to study, although parents raise these considerations more often than their children.
Most of the time, however, the decision of where to study abroad is based on academic and career interests.
“Our program here is super customized,” said Mount. “We don’t have a ‘one size fits all’ program. We piece together programs depending on a student’s concentration and interests.”
Ge “Gracie” Jin ’11, who is Chinese, chose her study abroad destination to experience a culture she had never encountered before. She said she did not want to study abroad in China because she had already been there, and so spent a semester in Cuba and a summer in Peru to improve her Spanish proficiency.
Jin said that the local Cubans called her “Chinita” which means “little Chinese girl,” but according to Jin, “it wasn’t racism; it was a term of endearment.”
Mount said that cultural, linguistic, and academic interests are the determining factors for Harvard students.
“For our students, it’s really about what they’re studying and wanting to go deeper into their area of study,” said Mount.
One example is that of Chika A. Okoro ’11, who is African American, and based her study abroad destination on her academic interests. She spent a semester studying at the University of Havana in Cuba in order to be around students “who could readily quote [Karl] Marx,” whom she had studied extensively as a Social Studies concentrator.
She was also “very interested” in racial relations in Cuba.
Although Okoro said that racism was definitely present in Cuba, she “never saw that as a deterrent” to studying in the country.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students from across Harvard’s schools gathered Monday morning at the School of Public Health to attend a live videocast  of the UN’s Millennium Development Goals—which was taking place in New York City—followed by a discussion between faculty and students.
The talk was officially part of the TEDx program, a localized version of the Technology Entertainment Design nonprofit conference series dedicated to spreading influential ideas.
The event was intended to spark debate about some of the most complicated and consequential real world issues, according to HSPH Coordinator of Strategic Partnerships and Global Health Practice Cecil Haverkamp.
“The combination of TED and Harvard has a lot of traction.  TED is known for its innovative research—there are some really interesting things to come out, especially regarding global health,” said Juveeza Chadha, an HSPH student who helped organize the event.
“And at Harvard you have students who are really interested in pursuing such things.”
HSPH is working towards a more integrated, interdisciplinary approach to global health and this event was intended to further this initiative, according to Haverkamp.
“The key is for people in technical areas to interact more with people on the political and social side of things,” Haverkamp said.
“We need faculty, researchers, and students from different disciplines to meet,” he added.
“We need to be better at interdisciplinary collaboration.”
More than 30 students and faculty from HSPH, the Harvard Kennedy School, the Harvard Business School, and the College gathered to listen to issues pertaining to achieving the Millenium Development Goals set by the UN in 2000.
Each of the eight goals is concrete, with several measureable indicators for each target.
The goals include eradicating extreme poverty and hunger (halving the number of people living on less than $1 a day, increasing employment, and halving the number of malnourished people), achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality, reducing child mortality, and ensuring environmental stability.
During the event Melinda F. Gates, co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation which hosted the conference, spoke on distribution methods, analyzing Coca-Cola’s strategies and how health experts could learn from such a system.
Another speaker, Hans Rosling, professor of international health at the Swedish Karolinska Institute  used statistics to quantify the rate of global progress towards achieving the goals.
Elaborating on the importance of bringing events like the TED talk to HSPH, Chadha said, “global health is economics, it is medicine, it is policy, ethics—everything is combined in global health.”
Both Haverkamp and Chadha hope that Monday’s event will be the first of many interdisciplinary discussions to come.
Already, Haverkamp is planning on regularly streaming TEDx events at the HSPH and a group at HKS will be doing the same.
“It was clearly just a starting point for future discussions, and hopefully one that will lead to similar events at HSPH where such topics can be expanded upon more fully,” said Chadha.
—Staff writer Nitish Lakhanpal can be reached at nitishlakhanpal@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In line with a new Harvard partnership with Boston and Cambridge, University President Drew G. Faust visited a Boston public school today to launch a new high-speed network connection.
Harvard will host an network connection to all 148 public schools in Cambridge and Boston at no cost to either city. The connection will be provided through Internet2, a not-for-profit advanced networking consortium that is used by more than 200 universities and 45 government agencies across the nation.
Faust, with City of Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino, and Boston Public Schools Superintendent Carol R. Johnson, attended a ceremony at the John D. O’Bryant School of Math and Science in celebration of the school’s new connection to Internet2 and new interactive technology.
“Putting cutting edge technology in the hands of Boston teachers and students is an exciting new chapter in Harvard’s long and fruitful partnership with Boston schools,” Faust said in the press release.
The O’Bryant School in Boston and the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School also received Cisco TelePresence equipment that will “enable the students and teachers to connect with people around the globe and put them at the forefront of teaching and learning,” according to a University press release.
The attendees of the ceremony received a live demonstration of the TelePresence technology that combines live video, audio, and interaction to allow real-time face-to-face collaboration experiences.
The O’Bryant School’s headmaster, Steven C. Sullivan, held live virtual conversations with students and teachers in and outside of Boston.
“We see this as moving into the future with a new  kind of partnership with technologies that those folks 375 years ago could  never have imagined,” Faust told the students, according to University spokesperson Lauren Marshall.
“We now, together, will have  new ways of imagining what this technology can mean,” she said.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
High and outside—that is where University President Drew G. Faust put the ball when she threw out the opening pitch at Fenway Park last night.
Dressed in a Red Sox jersey with the number 28—in reference to her being the twenty-eighth University president—Faust threw an arching pitch that crossed the plate in admirable fashion.
So how did it feel to throw out the first pitch?
“Exciting,” Faust said. “Terrifying,” she quickly added with more emphasis, still shaking a bit from the experience.
On a balmy night at Fenway, Harvard dominated the pre-game ceremonies. The national champion women’s squash team took the field to be honored along with three individual champions: wrestler J.P. O’Connor ’10, squash player Colin R. West ’10, and fencer Caroline N. Vloka ’12, as well as recently crowned Miss Massachusetts Loren Galler Rabinowitz ’10.
The Kuumba Singers of Harvard College delivered a stirring rendition of the national anthem that drew a round of enthusiastic applause.
“It’s not every day you sing at Fenway,” Lawrence N. P. Benjamin ’11 said. “When you walk out you’re just trying to remember your first note, so you don’t sing a bum note from the start, but once you start it’s all downhill from there.”
Harvard students filled the upper sections of Fenway’s first base grandstand, sitting in seats donated by an alumnus.
More than 800 students entered the Harvard Alumni Association’s lottery for tickets, with about 200 students winning two tickets each.
For Jessica N. Buck ’12, who spent several years living in Indonesia, yesterday’s outing to Fenway was her first time to a baseball game. While she said Fenway lived up to its mythic reputation, the game experience was not quite what she had expected.
“It’s kind of slow,” Buck said. “I think I need a little more entertainment than this.”
But just as she said this, Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz smacked a three-run home run to right field, which at least temporarily upped the excitement level.
Regardless of the game’s pace, last night brought Harvard students to one of Boston’s most iconic and historic landmarks—a point Boston residents never cease to emphasize to baseball fans with other loyalties. Kristen E. Simmons ’14, an Astros fan from Houston who used to watch her team play at Minute Maid Park, could only agree.
“It’s got a lot more history,” she said. “Minute Maid used to be called Enron Field, and, well, then that had to change.”
But history is not always a good thing. Anne Carroll Ingersoll ’12, a six-foot-two volleyball player, said she felt a little cramped in the peeling wooden seats.
“It’s definitely a different feel,” said Ingersoll, a San Diego native and Padres fan. “The seats are a little smaller to say the least.” The Padres’ Petco Park counts itself among Major League Baseball’s more modern stadiums.
For Faust, last night’s pitch had been long in the making—she began practicing last spring.
Harvard’s general counsel Robert W. Iuliano ’83 lent Faust a glove to use for the occasion.
Faust said that she would return the glove to Iuliano but with a bit of history imbued. Not only would the glove have been used by a University president to throw out the first pitch at Fenway, Faust also rubbed the glove in its dark, red ocher dirt.
—Staff writer Elias J. Groll can be reached at egroll@fas.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer William N. White can be reached at wwhite@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“The Social Network’s” thorough, if dramatized, depiction of life at Harvard evoked gleeful laughter from undergraduate audience members during yesterday’s advanced screening of the film, which hits theaters nationwide Oct. 1.
Two days before its premiere in New York City, “The Social Network” was shown at the Harvard Film Archive last night to Harvard affiliates and members of the Film Archive.
The showing was attended by Aaron Sorkin, the movie’s illustrious screenwriter, Jesse Eisenberg, who plays former Harvard undergraduate and Facebook creator Mark E. Zuckerberg,  a former member of the class of 2006, and Armie Hammer, who plays twins Cameron S. and Tyler O.H. Winklevoss ’04.
In a question-and-answer session that took place after the credits rolled, Sorkin repeatedly affirmed the accuracy of the film.
“I wouldn’t do anything that messes with a real person’s life,” he said.
“I understand that this is an unusual movie, but it’s a non-fiction movie,” Sorkin later added.
While researching the film, Sorkin said he visited the Phoenix S.K. Club and also received an offer to visit The Fly Club—which he declined because of what Sorkin called a burdensome and costly offer, referring to possible contracts involved.
“I got into the Phoenix for free,” he said.
Sorkin also sat down with Natalie Portman ’03, while he was doing research for the film. When Portman was a freshman she dated the former President of the Porcellian Club, according to Sorkin.
Sorkin also briefly criticized Harvard’s final clubs during the talk.
“I get how cool exclusivity is, but that’s frankly all it is,” he said.
In the film, getting into final clubs is portrayed as the object of Zuckerberg’s undergraduate desire.
Ultimately, he ended up in the fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi instead, which is featured unflatteringly in the film.
“It was kind of a harsh portrayal,” said Colin H. Santangelo ’11, a member of the fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Santangelo called the film’s depiction of final clubs “a stereotype that exists, but I don’t think it’s representative of what exists.”
In the film, a bus-load of well-dressed women arrive at the movie’s version of the Phoenix, where two women proceed to make out, while others wear only lingerie.
In the same sequence, the movie cuts to an intoxicated Zuckerberg, in his Kirkland dorm room, programming frantically.
Adrian A. Diamond ’11, a member of a final club, said the movie was “definitely dramatized.”
Both Eisenberg and Hammer told the audience that they worked to portray their characters accurately.
“We uncovered that when you walk on this campus you carry a lot of pride,” Hammer said, who played the two twins who sued Zuckerberg.
“[The Winklevoss twins] were human guys who felt like they were wronged,” he added.
Eisenberg said he watched “every video and read every interview and looked at every picture” of Zuckerberg, before filming began.
“I had to figure out why he inverts and why he detaches,” he said. “There’s always a reason even if it may appear there’s an emptiness.”
—Staff writer Eric Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Austrian President Heinz Fischer analyzed his country’s role in Europe from the postwar period to the present in a public address to a full John F. Kennedy, Jr. Forum at the Institute of Politics last night.
“Austria was the border where the Western world ended and the Eastern world started” Fischer said, stressing the part Austria had played in “sheltering refugees, democratizing former communist countries, and introducing market-based systems” during and following the Cold War.
Fischer, the first Austrian president to be invited to speak at Harvard, emphasized that Austria has always been a center of international affairs, especially aiding Eastern European countries.
Austria’s decision to enter the European Union in 1995, following a referendum, significantly influenced economic recovery in Eastern Europe and ultimately the EU accession of eight post-communist countries in 2004.
“I believe the European Union is an instrument of peace,” said Fischer, who returned to Harvard after having taken a post graduate seminar taught by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger ’50 43 years ago.
“Never in history has such a creation, unification been a peaceful development,” he said.
But Fischer also warned of nationalist antagonism, skepticism toward the EU, and domestic political parties railing against immigrants to rally their constituencies. In this context, Fischer explained that on a daily basis the role of an Austrian president requires objectivity and non-intervention, yet demands that he defend key issues like human rights.
“[European unification] is naturally complicated and full of criticism,” he said.Fischer enjoys high popularity in Austria, as evidenced by his re-election this April to a second six-year term with almost 80 percent of the votes. Consequently, there was high demand from Austrians living in the Boston area to secure a seat in the private meeting with the president prior to the public address, said Gloria Benedikt, Vice President of the Harvard Club of Austria Student Chapter.
“To raise awareness of the declining quality of university education in Austria, I questioned Fischer about his reform plans for the Austrian education system,” she said. Education, especially international exchange programs and financial aid initiatives, dominated the informal discussion held in German between Fischer and 30 Austrian students and faculty, she added.
Fischer departed only three hours after his arrival in Cambridge to represent Austria at the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
Audience member Taras B. Dreszer ’14 said he was impressed by Austria’s rapid recovery following regime changes in the first half of the 20th century that even enabled Austria to aid its neighboring countries after World War II. “Austria clearly learned from its history. Now the United States should take the opportunity to learn from Austria,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Football season has begun in the Ivy League, but don’t worry—some things never change. Harvard and Penn are still looking like the top dogs and Cornell is still atrocious. Meanwhile, Princeton’s season took a turn for the worse before the first game was even finished. But for those of you who could care less about men hitting each other on a field, never fear. Hockey season’s just around the corner, so you can look forward to some more hard-hitting action—just this time, on the ice.
Penn opened its football season with a spot on College Gameday and a live broadcast on ESPN3.com. But the attention wasn’t necessarily the kind the Quakers might have hoped for. Instead, all eyes were on the squad as it took the field for the first time after Penn co-captain Owen Thomas took his own life in April. The Quakers opened the game with a 40-second moment of silence for Thomas, who wore #40 for Penn, and then proceeded to beat Lafayette, 19-14. And that vaunted defense that graduated six starters? Didn’t give up a single touchdown, as the Leopards scored off a blocked punt and an interception.
Elsewhere in Pennsylvania, Princeton once again found Lehigh’s Goodman Stadium a hostile environment. After losing co-captain Jordan Culbreath for the season there last year—Culbreath’s ankle injury led to a diagnosis of aplastic anemia—co-captain Steven Cody, an All-American linebacker, broke his leg defending a pass in the fourth quarter. Cody had surgery on the leg on Sunday and is out for the season.
But enough about football. The ECAC—the conference in which all six Ivy League hockey teams play—released its coaches’ polls last Thursday, and Ivy teams are picked to finish atop both leagues. The Yale men and Cornell women, each of whom won the ECAC regular season title last year, are the predicted conference winners. The Ancient Eight is well-represented both near the top—the Big Red men were picked second, and the Harvard women tabbed third—and the bottom—Princeton and Brown are picked 10th and 11th for the gentlemen, with the Bulldogs and Bears in the same positions for the ladies.
Crimson coach Katey Stone is again auditioning for the biggest job in women’s hockey: coaching the national team. After being passed over for the Olympic gig last year, Stone has already helmed the national squad at an August national festival, and she’ll be behind the bench for the Four Nations Cup in November. A pair of Ivy faces will join her on the coaching staff—Dartmouth coach Mark Hudak and former Yale coach Hilary Witt are her assistants—while three Harvard players will once again be skating for her. Olympic veterans Julie Chu ’06-’07 and Caitlin Cahow ’07-’08, along with current sophomore defenseman Josephine Pucci, made the roster.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard sailing team sent a young squad to represent the Crimson in Tuesday’s Midweek Tech Invitational held on the Charles River and hosted by MIT.  But age proved not to be a factor, as rookie skipper Ames Lyman and fellow freshman crew Alice Kenney took fourth place in the field of 14 boats.
Five out of Harvard’s eight sailors in the first of three Midweek Tech Invites scheduled for the fall season were freshmen, including skippers Ben Lamont and Lyman and crewmembers Sarah Pierson, Diana Powell, and Kenney.  Junior Grant Wonders and sophomores Lauren Tiedemann and Chris Lee rounded out the group.
Wonders provided the skippering duties for one of the Crimson’s four boats in the regatta, as Tiedemann served as crew in helping the duo to a seventh-place finish overall.
“We did okay,” freshman skipper Ben Lamont said, “but for us today was more about gaining experience and improving so that we can help contribute to the team in the future.”
The skipper-crew duo of Lyman and Kenney posted the Crimson’s best result of the day, finishing third in one of the six races at the local regatta, as all of the boats competing in the event hailed from Boston-area schools, including MIT, Northeastern, Wellesley, and Tufts.
MIT fulfilled its duty of defending its own home course, as freshman skipper Hanna Vincent and junior crew Hannah Spark brought home first place, and junior skipper Neil Forrester and freshman crew Leo Zhon took third for the Engineers.
MIT’s series of Tech Invitationals are unique events in Harvard’s season because all of the teams competing are coed and the races are contested in MIT’s custom-made “Tech” fleet, which consists of dinghies that were originally designed by MIT Professor George Owen in 1935 and have since been remodeled over the years.
“The Techs sport a main sail but no jib, which is unique,” Lamont said.
As exciting as the action was on the water, the gorgeous afternoon conditions almost stole the show.
“It was a beautiful day overall,” Lamont said.  “There were great wind conditions.”
Nonetheless, the wind gradually picked up throughout the September afternoon.
“It got pretty gusty out there,” Lyman admitted.  “Wind speeds reached 14 knots, oscillating between southwest and west-by-southwest.”
In one race, the Lamont and Pierson team capsized due to the increased winds.
“We were going downwind, and our boat started to rock side-to-side, which often happens in such conditions,” Lamont said.  “We tried to jibe around the leeward gate, and then we just flipped.  When we turned the boat back over, it was totally swamped.”
After spending the next five minutes bailing out the boat, Lamont and Pierson were forced to miss the next race.
“It probably hurt our ranking a fair amount,” Lamont conceded, “but we learned a lot and improved throughout the day.”
The Lamont-Pierson duo finished the last few races near the front of the pack, ending up in eighth place out of the 14 boats competing.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last night in the 36th playing of the crosstown rivalry, the Harvard field hockey team (2-5) faced Northeastern (4-4) under the lights at Jordan Field. In a seemingly one-sided affair, the Crimson was shutout by the Huskies, 4-0. This marks a five-game skid following Harvard’s 2-0 start to the season.
Throughout the majority of the game, the Crimson seemed to lack communication between players, which manifested itself in the lack of fluidity in passing of the Harvard offense. Sophomore goalie Cynthia Tassopoulos matched her season-high with 11 saves for the Crimson; however, she proved unable to hold back the Huskie offense led by Carolyn Malloy, Kaela Barker and Crystal Poland.
In the first ten minutes of play, both Harvard and Northeastern seemed evenly matched with each team showcasing its stifling defense. However, in the 12th minute of play, an untimely foul gave the Huskies a penalty corner and their first opportunity on goal.
“I think for the first 15 minutes or so, it was a really competitive game,” said Harvard field hockey coach Sue Caples. “But you know, after they went up 2-0, we kind of got into a little bit of a funk, and we got a little bit unraveled.”
Northeastern’s Barker took advantage of the penalty corner and quickly scored to put the Huskies up 1-0, with Anne-Rieke Stuhlmann and Carolyn Malloy assisting in a well-coordinated display of quick passing.
Late in the first half, Northeastern forward Malloy added two more goals to the Huskie total in a three-minute succession. The first goal was off a two-on-one break in the 22nd minute of play and the second was off a diving redirection of a pass that found the bottom right-hand corner of the net. By the half, Northeastern led by a comfortable margin of 3-0, and had only conceded one shot on goal to the Crimson.
However, coming off the break, Harvard fought back against the Huskie defense, forcing three scoring opportunities off penalty corners but proving unable to convert on these opportunities. Despite the surging Crimson offense, Northeastern’s backline ws too difficult to crack even in the second half, as it allowed only four Harvard shots in the period and tilted the final shot total in favor of the Huskies, 19-5.
“In the second half we had some good opportunities,” Caples said. “We were brilliant at times, but it was like one and done. We didn’t sustain it, and we need to find some consistency in our play. This is a sport where you sometimes don’t get a lot of opportunities, so we need to be able to cash in when we get them.”
Northeastern closed out the game in the 52nd minute of play with a one-timer goal by Poland assisted by Lindsay Bennet, to bring the final tally to 4-0.
In the course of the game, Harvard’s leading scorer, senior Chloe Keating, had to leave the field due to injury.
After 17 minutes of play, Keating was substituted out for sophomore Nina Kucharczyk, and did not return in the second half.
“Not having some key players out there on the field today…not having Chloe [Keating] made a big difference for us,” Caples said, “especially when we did not have her presence and leadership out there on the field.”
Despite the Crimson’s disappointing outing against Northeastern, the team as a whole remains optimistic about its prospects in Ivy League play.
“We have been playing strong teams in the northeast, like Maine, Vermont, and UNH,” Tassopoulos said, “and all of this has been very good competition for us to prepare for the Ivy Leagues, because they are stronger or evenly matched against the Ivy teams.  But what happened on the field tonight is also going prepare us for the next game as well.”
Harvard will spend the remainder of the week regrouping in time for its second Ivy League matchup against Penn this weekend, and Tassopoulos has no doubt the Crimson will come out to battle.
“I think we are ready [for Penn]. We had a close one against Yale, and we need an Ivy win under our belt. We are going to go out on the field turf, get some touches, get a feel for the different surface, and also get our mentality a little stronger so we can take it to Penn.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the score is tied with time running out on the clock and pressure mounting, the one man you want in the goal for your team is junior Alex Popp.
After the Harvard men’s water polo team graduated former goalkeepers Jay Connolly ’09 and Nikhil Balaraman ’10, the squad turned its eyes to Popp to step up to the plate. And he has fully lived up to those expectations this season.
Popp has made 71 saves in nine games, with a season-high of 14 saves against Princeton, Santa Clara, and Cal Baptist…and the season isn’t even halfway over.
At this rate, Popp will follow in the Crimson’s tradition of great goalies.
But success did not come easily for Popp. Starting in seventh grade, he showed up for the first day of water polo practice with little knowledge of the game.
“I showed up in gym shorts and scuba goggles,” Popp laughed while reminiscing. “I didn’t even know how to throw the ball, so it was a pretty tough experience. But the coach asked if I was going to come back tomorrow and I said, ‘Absolutely’.”
And that was just the start of his journey. After converting to the position of goalie in eighth grade, he continued on that path throughout high school. His team made the semifinals of the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) Division I his sophomore year, the finals his junior year, and took home the prize his senior year.
Yet this nice progression to the championship almost didn’t happen. His outstanding moment as a goalie in high school proved why Popp should be the man in the goal when the game is on the line.
“In the semifinals [my senior year], we played the number one seed,” Popp remembered. “The game went to five overtime periods. In the fourth overtime, there was a penalty shot called on us, which is basically a point-blank shot. The guy comes up and takes the shot and I block it. In the fifth overtime period, I decided to rip the full-court shot, so I rip the ball and the ball went in.”
With his high school career coming to an end, Popp had to decide to which college he would provide his talents. For the Palo Alto, Calif. native, flying out to the east coast was not an automatic decision. In fact, he almost did not make it onto the Crimson.
“I came on a recruiting trip, but there were a couple of other goalies ahead of me that year,” Popp explained. “I was also talking to coaches at Stanford, Cal, and Pomona. And then [former Harvard head coach Erik] Ferrar called and said his other two goalies dropped out and asked if I wanted to come and I said, ‘Definitely’. So I got in and decided to come.”
Even with all the success in high school, the transition to college water polo was still a challenge.
“In Division I water polo, the shots are faster and the guys are a lot stronger,” Popp said. “I was pretty scrawny my freshman year, so it was a struggle and took a while to adapt.”
Luckily for him, he had two successful Crimson goalkeepers to look up to and learn from: Connolly and Balaraman.
“Connolly was probably the hardest working goalie I’ve ever met,” Popp said. “That intensity is something I’ve picked up. From Nikhil, who’s also a hard worker, I learned you have to have fun. You have to remember why you play the sport. You play the sport because you love it.”
“I think as a freshman and as a sophomore he was looking up to the older goalies on the team,” co-captain Bret Voith remarked. “He’s been able to realize his potential and how much he can causally affect the team. He’s been a real game-changer for us.”
But the crucial aspect that has proven to be the real game-changer for Popp is his mentality.
“Alex has grown in the mental aspects of game,” Harvard coach Ted Minnis observed. “In the last game, he was really focused and intense, but having fun doing it. He realizes now [the other team is] going to score sometimes, but there’s nothing you can do about it. You just have to keep going. I think that has turned him into the goalie he is today.”
“I’ve come into place with my mental game a lot more this season,” Popp said. “I have one huge responsibility and it is something I cherish. You can change the momentum of the game. When you make a crucial block, that’s a huge pump-up for the team.”
He may prove to be just the pump-up the team needs. The Crimson is currently 3-6, but as Popp has proven throughout his career, the unthinkable is possible.
“I’ve always known we had the talent,” Popp said. “The fact we can play with these ranked teams, it means we can be a contender. I think the season’s going to end on an excellent note.”
And that mentality, which has proven to be so successful for Popp, just might be able to turn the season around.
—Staff writer Steven T.A. Roach can be reached at sroach@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like the fall foliage that helps define first semester here in Cambridge, in a matter of days, the entire makeup of a team can change.
This time last year, the Harvard men’s tennis team readied for a series of fall tournaments similar to this year’s schedule that starts this Friday at the Northeast Invitational in Providence, RI.
But contrary to last year, Harvard must take on the added challenge of playing without former co-captain and No.1 Alexei Chijoff-Evans, who left the team about two weeks ago, shifting the Crimson lineup substantially.
“We just have to be ready for anything that happens,” captain Aba Omodele-Lucien said. “We have to focus and try to give it our all and not really worry about [other factors].”
Coming off of a season in which Harvard finished second in the Ivy League with a total record of 12-10 in dual matches, the Crimson remains optimistic.
“We’ve got wonderful depth this year,” Harvard coach Dave Fish said. “And I think the challenge will be to see who’s capable of playing at the top end of the lineup. We have a number of guys who are capable of growing into that role.”
The youthful Crimson team, on which eight of 13 players have fewer than two years of experience at the college level, must look to younger players and a key core of veterans to win big matches if it wants to compete with the other Ivy League teams.
“Youth is wonderful because it brings great enthusiasm to the team,” said Fish. “As coaches we simply try to help [young players] understand that they’re going to stumble along the way and, if they’re enthusiastic and committed, they’re going to pick themselves up and they’re going to learn from each outing.”
In the wake of a solid spring, the squad has set big goals for its performance in the 2010-11 campaign.
“In the fall, we just want every guy to give 100% in practice and the individual tournaments so that they develop every day,” Omodele-Lucien said. “[Our goal is] to be prepared for the spring season…. I’m very confident that if we do that we’ll fulfill our spring goal of winning the Ivy League.”
Last year, Harvard was part of a three-way tie with Cornell and Yale for second place in the league, so those teams are clear targets this year. But the rivalry between the Crimson and three-time defending Ivy League champion Columbia has always had a little extra flavor.
“The last three years we’ve come second place to Columbia,” Omodele-Lucien  said. “So I’d say they’re our biggest rivals.”
“We beat Columbia early in the season each of the last two years and they took us a little bit later,” Fish said. “They buckled down to work after they lost to us and came to play. It’s one of those really good rivalries where neither of us like to lose, we both want to kick ourselves when we do, but that’s what makes college tennis great.”
The tandem of Omodele-Lucien and sophomore Christo Schultz is ranked 36th nationally in doubles to start the year and is coming off of a spring season in which the pair was named to the All-Ivy League first team.
The duo of then-sophomore Alistair Felton and then-freshman Andy Nguyen earned All-Ivy League second team honors last season.
The team also boasts the addition of three rookies and a strong core of nine returners.
Harvard looks to use the fall season of six tournaments for individual development and preparation, as dual matches don’t start until the spring.
“Tournament play has been one of those ways that people whose games are maturing find out that they’re ready for another level up,” Fish said. “It’s harder to find a dual competition, so the fall is really designed to get everybody enough matches at different levels that, as coaches, at the end of that day we have a better idea of what our lineup would look like in the spring.”
“We also get to experiment with doubles,” Fish continued. “See who fits well with each other, see what kind of chemistry works out, see who’s putting in the extra work during the less active period where we can’t run a team practice. It gives us a really good skeleton of where our team should be.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Yesterday night, Jesse Eisenberg (who stars as  Mark Zuckerberg in "The Social Network") paid a visit to The Thirsty  Scholar, a Somerville pub that is featured prominently in the movie. When  we got the chance to sit down with him, we asked how he thought Harvard  might have affected Zuckerberg. Here's what he said:
“The environment of Harvard is important to the character of Zuckerberg. As someone who got a 1600 on his SATs, he came to Harvard and was placed in a situation where everyone got a 1600 on his or her SATs. It is part of an environment where everyone is really impressive, and this helped motivate his drive to create something spectacular.”
Then, before he could say another word, he was whisked away by his publicists, who told us that Eisenberg had other press engagements for the the  day and would be at the screening at the Harvard Film Archive  before catching a flight to New York in preparation for the movie's  official premiere at the New York Film Festival.
Photo by Matthew E. Warshauer/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
In the days building up to the premiere of "The Social Network" next Friday, all news related to Facebook founder Mark E. Zuckerberg has become as interest-piquing and potentially scandalous as your friend's latest Facebook photo album. Here, you can avoid those incriminating pictures for a few more minutes and engage in some Zuckerberg gossip instead.
Zuckerberg’s recently released texts and e-mails—which were printed on Monday on techcrunch.com—concern one of his co-founders, Eduardo L. Saverin '05, who later left the business.
In 2004, one of Zuck’s friends called Saverin a “sucker” for paying for the servers.
Zuckerberg: Eduardo is paying for my servers.
Friend: A sucker born every day.
Zuckerberg: Nah, he thinks it will make money.
Friend: What do you think?
Zuckerberg: Well I don’t know business stuff
Zuckerberg: I’m content to make something cool.
We think your creation is cool, Zucks.
Zuckerberg was a little more surly in an e-mail to Saverin in a project the latter had started on the side.
You developed Joboozle knowing that at some point Facebook would probably want to do something with jobs. This was pretty surprising to us, because you basically made something on the side that will end up competingwith Facebook and that’s pretty bad by itself. But putting ads up on Facebook to advertise it, especially for free, is just mean.
Okay, man. We get it. You’re getting a little angry—Saverin was “bad” and “mean.” And the vocabulary only gets more sophisticated.
I maintain that he fucked himself...He was supposed to set up the company, get funding, and make a business model. He failed at all three...Now that I’m not going back to Harvard I don’t need to worry about getting beaten by Brazilian thugs.
Feisty. But don't worry, Zuckerberg—we dig your generosity, and we’ll be catching your spot on Oprah this Friday. And you went to Harvard.
Photo by The Harvard Crimson
