News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATE Dec. 13, 2010: Damaged LGBT Books in Lamont Not Result of Hate Crime, Dean Says 
Approximately  40 books dealing with LGBT issues were vandalized with what appeared to  be urine in Lamont Library on November 24, according to a report filed  Friday by the library security staff to the Harvard University Police  Department.
HUPD  spokesman Steven G. Catalano wrote in an e-mail that the vandalized  books' subject matters included lesbian and gay issues and same-sex  marriage. Due to the nature of books, HUPD is currently investigating  the incident as a bias crime.
"The HUPD has zero tolerance for any bias-related incidents or crimes," Catalano said.
"Harvard  College will not tolerate acts of vandalism, especially those that  appear to be motivated by hate or bias," Harvard College Dean Evelynn M.  Hammonds wrote in an e-mail to The Crimson. "[As] a  community, we will continue to affirm our shared values of dignity and  respect for everyone in our community."
The library staff members found an empty bottle next to the  vandalized books that may have contained the urine, according to Harvard  College Library spokeswoman Beth S. Brainard. The staff initially  responded to the incident as a health hazard, quickly removing the  bottle and relocating the damaged books to the Collections Conservation  Lab on Level D of Widener Library.
Brainard said that the library staff assessed the value of the  vandalized books before reporting the incident, accounting for the  space of two weeks between the incident and the  report to HUPD. The  books—which Brainard estimated to be worth a few thousand dollars—will  be discarded due to the severity of the damage.
"Once the urine is poured, they can’t really fix [the books]," she said.
It remains unclear whether Lamont will replace the books, since Widener usually has copies of the books in Lamont, according to Brainard.
Marco Chan '11, co-chair of the Harvard College Queer Students and Allies,  called the incident "extremely frustrating" and "disconcerting," and  said that it represents a concern not only for the LGBT community, but  for the Harvard community at large.
"I am very outraged. It is hard to conceive this as a coincidence  when there are 40 books on the same subject," Chan said. "The message  that this incident sent to me is that we need more resources not only  for the LGBT community but also targeted towards other people."
Chan suggested workshops on homosexual, bisexual, and  transsexual issues—similar to the mandatory freshman orientation event  Sex Signals—as one possible way to respond to the bias evidenced by the incident.
"Everyone in our community should know that they play an important role in adjusting homophobia," Chan said.
Books about LGBT issues are located on Level B of Lamont Library.
—Staff Writer Sirui Li can be reached at sli@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's that time again—the night before the start of exams. If you're still determining the opportunity cost of taking part in Primal Scream tonight, stop—Ec10 has already taken up too much of your mental capacity. For everyone else, here are eight reasons why prancing through the Yard in the nude is far better than your lonely carriage in Lamont.
1. It only takes 10 minutes. 
Let's be real. You'll easily spend 10 minutes on Facebook stalking your ex. Why not spend it in the company of others instead?
2. It's not that cold.
Today's mean temperature is 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Last December, it was 36 degrees Fahrenheit. They did it. So can you.
3. It'll be like taking a shower.
You'll be naked, and the soft rain will be like taking a cold shower. The perfect rejuvenation if you've been nodding off while studying. What better way to kickoff an all-nighter?
4. It's good exercise.
Take a break from studying and move around a bit. If you never go to the gym, here's a chance to burn off those Christmas cookies before matters get out of hand.
5. No one will see you anyway.
There are too many people running at fast speeds for anyone to notice one particular person. Also, the Harvard University Band will be playing—which is plenty of distraction. Just don't be rounding the last bend while others are securing themselves in blankets.
6. It's sentimental.
Sure it may be a little cold, but that'll only last a few seconds until your body adjusts. The thrill, the glory, and the stories of primal awkwardness, however, will last you a lifetime.
7. You might get to be in tomorrow's paper.
Who wouldn't want to have their backside pictured in The Crimson?
8. You can't just go and watch.
Let's not kid ourselves. Unless you're holding someone's clothes, you're just being creepy.
Photo by Carlos A. J. Rodriguez-Russo/The Harvard Crimson.
