Sections
Thwarted romance, dramatic twists, and a how-to lesson in toolishness characterize the newest episode of the Ivory Tower.  Forgotten what’s come to pass this year among the Kenya-visiting, insect-swapping, star-crossed lovers of the HUTV soap opera? Get caught up and get the low down on Episode 3 right here.
Previously, Rob (Philip M. Gillen II ’13) returned from Kenya to find that his ex-girlfriend Nikki (Rebecca E. Feinberg ’13) had moved on and started dating a dude by the name of Wes Dooley (Cameron M. Johnstone ’12), who happened to be the star of the popular movie  “Dartek” (directed by "Transformers" director Michael Bay, of course).  The only people in the world of the Ivory Tower who don’t seem entirely captivated by Dooley’s charm are Rob, his friend Mel (Caroline R. Giuliani ’11), and Nikki. Nikki? That’s right, Gillen says Nikki is “not entirely sure what she wants.”
The same cannot be said for Gillen’s character.
“At this point my character is desperate to get Nikki back,” said Gillen. “He adopts all the mannerisms and everything he sees about Wes that he thinks Nikki likes.”
Cue the makeover montage in which Rob’s friends transform him into Rob “Tool Point 0,” putting him through a regimen of weight training, whiskey chugging, croquet playing, and preppy-clothes shopping—all to get the girl.
While Mel serves as his taskmaster, she also claims she sees the whole ordeal as an “I-told-you-so” waiting to happen, which might be why she flips him off of a couch in one scene.
“The consistent theme of the episode is abusing my body in every way possible,” said Gillen.
In the Dartek premiere scene, for instance, Gillen said he had to trip down the stairs of the theatre repeatedly for at least seven takes.
Before Dartek begins, Michael Bay (played by an actor in the Math Department, Robert C. Rogers) gives a profound speech involving life, art, and outer space—and you’ll have to check out the episode to find out what Bay does when his perfect movie screening goes haywire due to some film-swapping chaos. We can tell you one thing though: there are a whole lot of expletives involved.
Besides tour groups and Cambridge street performers seeking 15 minutes of fame and interfering with filming on a fairly regular basis, the student-written and directed soap opera is “always a big gigglefest,” Gillen added.
Will Nikki and Wes stay together? Is Nikki really over Rob? What physical abuse will befall Rob next? Only time will tell on the Ivory Tower.
Sections
We’ve all seen the ominous headlines: “record-breaking” number of applications and “new low” acceptance rates. For applicants, it’s as if every year the ceiling keeps inching higher and higher out of reach. With over 30,000 students applying to Harvard, college admissions can feel more like a labyrinth than a marathon—one in which the odds are overwhelmingly against your finding the egress. This year, out of every 14 students who applied to Harvard, just 1 was admitted. An article in The Washington Post recently asked if this meant that 1 in every 50 seniors in the country applied to Harvard.
So did 1 in 50 seniors actually apply to Harvard? According to the admissions office, the 30,000-strong applicant pool for Harvard’s Class of 2014—give or take a few hundred—does not include transfer applicants. Repeated (second or multiple-time applicants) can be ignored because they are nearly negligible in number. From this pool, around 5,000 are international citizens. Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said these 5,000 students were “foreign by citizenship but any number may have applied from the United States.”
Using ballpark figures from the 2009 State of College Admissions report by the National Association for College Admission Counseling, we can estimate that there were 1.5 million applicants to four-year colleges and universities this year.
So, we can say with reasonable certainty—and this back-of-the-envelope calculation is certainly not meant to be definitive—that with 25,000 domestic applicants to Harvard, out of 1.5 million applicants in the country, approximately one in 60 of these individuals applied to Harvard this year. For us, these odds are a strong case for humility.
 
This post has been revised to reflect the following clarification and correction:
CLARIFICATION: April 12, 2010
An earlier version of the April 10 post "Admissions: One in Sixty" stated that one in 60 of "high school seniors" applied to Harvard this year. To clarify, these "high school seniors" were part of the pool of 1.5 million applicants in the country and not representative of the entire population of high school seniors in the nation.
CORRECTION: April 12, 2010
The post also incorrectly attributed information about the applicant pool to Byerly Hall. In fact, the admissions office is no longer located in Byerly Hall, but in the Cronkhite Center.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Valentine’s Day blues, anyone?  Dating scene got you down? If so, consider taking the commuter down  to Providence, where two guys at Brown may have the answer. With  their Web site Prospect  and Meeting, Kai  Huang ’11 and Arune Gulati ’11 have created a site where student  users can list five people they have crushes on, and then receive an  e-mail if any of those five crushes in turn have crushes on them.
The  site launched Saturday, and, according to The Brown Daily  Herald, it  already has over 900 registered users. According to the article, the  two juniors and newfound czars of campus love hope that each student  on campus will one day receive an e-mail from their site that alerts  them of the romantic possibilities lurking in cyberspace. Wishful thinking? Well, if the dating scene  at Brown is anything like Harvard’s, we can only encourage  these innovative ventures, although we’re skeptical about how effective  they’ll be.
While much has been written  about Yale’s “Sex Week” and the polls conducted by the  Yale Daily News, we were wondering if you’d heard about this, the invasion of the Yale Pundits, a humor society,  into an official campus debate entitled “Resolved: Reject Hookup Culture.”  Apparently, about 30 minutes into the debate, a bunch of horny Pundits  and make-out partners got noticeably physical.
Also at Yale, it’s recently  been announced that Google will custom design an interface for campus e-mail, which makes us wonder  how much longer our own crappy one will continue to exist.
Oh, and one more thing about Yale: remember  that crazy admissions  video of Yale’s  we wrote about a couple weeks back? The one  where the admissions guide randomly bursts into a rendition of “That’s Why  I Chose Yale” in the middle of the info session? Of course you do.  Well, Ben McGrath has written a piece in the “Talk of the Town” section  of this week’s New Yorker  gauging the reaction from some of Yale’s more conservative, old guard  alumni. Let’s just say that the reviews aren’t glowing.
At Princeton, it snowed. Really hard. Like, you don’t know  how hard. So hard some classes had to be cancelled and some buildings  had to be locked.
And while we’re on the subject  of snow, some people at Penn  decided to make a giant  snowball to block  a door, although it’s unclear if the motive was to do something fun  on a really snowy day or to create a legitimate barricade from the dangers  that lurk outside on that campus. Who knows? Maybe it was both.
