News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What is the cost of winning? Every now and then there are a few sports teams that put this question to the test. The Yankees do this annually when they spend lavishly on new players in the off season, despite the fact that the return on this investment has been only two World Series championships in the last decade. Two weekends ago, a soccer game of the highest caliber tested the spend-happy habits of another blockbuster team, and the results were, unsurprisingly, the same.
It was Real Madrid’s turn to host FC Barcelona for their second meeting of the season. The rivalry between the two teams is one of the oldest in the world, only a year younger than the rivalry between the Yankees and the Red Sox but just as fierce, if not more.
Barcelona came into the season with largely the same lineup that won it every accolade it vied for in the previous one, including the prestigious European Champions League trophy and the Spanish league title. On the other hand, during the off-season, Real, furious with its failure to compete with its archrival, spent an unheard of $345 million on six players—one of whom was Cristiano Ronaldo, the 2008 Fédération Internationale de Football Association World Player of the Year.  With such talent bought at such an exorbitant price, Real expected good results right away.
Many things were at stake in this game, apart from the usual pride that comes from winning “El Clásico,” as the match is called. Whoever won would jump ahead in the Spanish league title hunt, as the teams were tied in the league standings going into the game. The game would also pit an in-form Ronaldo—a player that cost Real a $130 million transfer fee alone—against Barcelona’s current golden boy, Lionel Messi, who was just coming off a four-goal performance against English powerhouse Arsenal Football Club.
Most importantly, the game would allow Real to see what progress their lucrative investment in Ronaldo had yielded.
Unsurprisingly, it was Messi, who struck first against Real, carefully chesting down a lob pass before tucking it away past the goalie in front of a suddenly quiet Real crowd.  Then it was forward Pedro Rodriguez who sealed the deal for the visitors, taking the Real defense by surprise and slamming the ball home. As Barcelona celebrated its victory it became apparent that the match had proved, once again, that money can’t buy wins.
On the one hand, this seems intuitive. A solid team dynamic, superior coaching, a raucous home crowd, or a host of other auxiliary factors on one side can overcome an immense collection of pure talent on the other. Nevertheless, this doesn’t stop monied teams in professional sports leagues around the world, from Real Madrid to the Yankees, from making more of an effort to recruit and satisfy expensive star athletes instead of focusing on more foundational efforts. The failures of these efforts are often blamed on the once-touted athletes themselves, but instead, the overall strategy should be questioned. The “cost of winning” is a facetious phrase; seeing the success of a sports team in terms of money, whether dollars or euros, is simplistic.
At the very least, if a team spends its efforts wooing big-name players, it must do so with cautious, long-term expectations. The New York Knicks, my dearly beloved hometown team, is ready to splash money around in this summer’s upcoming free-agent market. But perhaps a marquee player like LeBron James is not the sole answer to their problems, just as Cristiano Ronaldo is not a panacea for Real Madrid’s issues. A sports team is, after all, a team, and to pin championship hopes on the individual efforts of star players is a characteristic, easy, and frustrating mistake.
Brian A. Campos ’12, a Crimson associate sports editor, is a neurobiology concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Think about the perfectly-timed choreography: the battle over the emergency exit row seat, the subprime dining selection (assuming there is still choice by the time they get to you), the Twitter flight status updates, the arrival dinner, the planned drinks date, and the conference or company or checking account that is paying for the jet-setting. Now insert a volcanic eruption somewhere—say, Iceland—and rethink all of the above.
Suddenly the choreography turns into sauve qui peut: Airlines are in absolute disarray, expense accounts bill thousand-euro Eurostar tickets, the German chancellor buses from Rome back home, and, at the ever-so-fancy Dorchester Hotel tea promenade in London, one can be offered a private jet seat back to New York for only 10 thousand euros.
The paradox is clear enough: Even though skies were clear over London and almost all civilian test flights seemed to have gone swimmingly, European skies remained closed for days on end, stranding thousands and disrupting all plans. Why? Because the models run by European regulators said it wasn’t safe.
Economists would tell you that everything happening is perfectly rational: The efficient market hypothesis of ash cloud flying calls for airline financial ruin, outrageous train prices, and a market for jets at the Dorchester. The market would have predicted it all, if only our models had incorporated Eyjafjallajökull data. As if.
But people’s behavior, clearly enough, is neither rational nor remotely predictable. Neither was the volcanic eruption. Having just attended the inaugural conference of George Soros’s Institute for New Economic Thinking, one thing is clear: The ash cloud over the continent is the perfect metaphor for the state of economics as a field. Both in economics amidst the global financial crisis as well as, it turns out, in volcano ash predictions, we are relying too much on models that have proven fallible.
There are those who still insist on rational expectations theories and EMH as the best predictors of human and market behavior. Put simply, their point is that mistakes may be made, but economics as a field can only be useful with mathematical modeling as the central pillar of analysis. Based on growing amounts of data, models may be incomplete, yet they are also perfectible. Such trust is essential, since it assumes that fully determined outcomes are possible and that more data can overcome any shortcoming.
Admittedly, it is hard to argue with such a positivist position, particularly when financiers and policymakers are willing and eager to rely on the appearance of mathematical certainty they provide. Certainty is attractive: Investors like companies with steady returns, just like individuals purchase insurance to hedge against the unknown; even marriage, if you will, is a quest for certainty.
Ironically, the challenge to this position is anything but new. It goes back to the German historical school of famed authors like Arnold Toynbee and Joseph A. Schumpeter. As John Maynard Keynes himself wrote in the preface to his masterpiece, “The difficulty lies, not in new ideas, but in escaping from the old ones, which ramify, for those brought up as most of us have been, into every corner of our minds.” Fully determined models, for ash clouds or financial markets, may be resilient, but they are intrinsically incomplete, for they account for neither the inherent unpredictability of human action nor the intractability of certain data.
The first is closely related to a philosophical idea popularized by Soros himself: reflexivity. Originally developed as a sociological concept, reflexivity incorporates the essential feedback loop between cause and effect into analysis. This is best illustrated through self-fulfilling prophecies; think about a bank run à la Northern Rock: If rumors abound about a bank being illiquid, depositors will self-fulfill the prophecy by queuing to clear their accounts. There is a ‘tipping point’ for bubbles or bursts alike, which explains where market performance is anything but normally distributed. As Nassim Taleb made a career out of showing, we end up having “once in a century” events far more often than that. What economists call “fundamentals” are little more than a mirage, subject to constant positive (bubbles) or negative (bursts) feedback loops. Make no mistake: This is a world where animal spirits rule supreme.
The second idea further complicates the ideological position of traditional econometricians by borrowing heavily from physicist Werner Heisenberg’s principle of uncertainty. If the observer adds an element of uncertainty by the mere fact of observing, then fully determined prediction is not a matter of how much data one can gather. Rather, it is “computationally intractable,” meaning that if there were an answer, the amount of data required to compute it is beyond not only our current methods, but anything we could ever achieve—we just cannot expect computers to model the very effect of their modeling.
Considering these essential shortcomings, what is most surprising is that we still trust our models so much. The fact that the mirage of certainty has crept from economics into other disciplines is obvious enough: A famous Harvard government professor often complains that no data-heavy, model-driven graduate student gets a good job in political science these days. Perhaps more importantly, such flawed assumptions have grounded endless flights this week. Just yesterday, EU regulators acknowledged they should have conducted more actual tests rather than outright banning European flights for five days. The EU director general for transport, Matthias Ruete, admitted as much when referring to the models that had led to the ban: “[They are] a black box in certain areas.”
In some Latin-derived languages such as Spanish the term for “principle” is the same as that  for “beginning.” Hence “principio” can convey either idea, which suggests that perhaps the conceptual gulf in languages like English should not be quite so steep. The abandonment of fully-determined mathematical models that cannot deliver the certainty they promise and the consequent embrace of uncertainty may thus be, for economics as well as volcanic ash predictions, a good new principle, but perhaps an even better new beginning.
Pierpaolo Barbieri ’09, a former Crimson associate editorial chair, is now Lt. Charles Henry Fiske III Harvard-Cambridge scholar at Trinity College, Cambridge.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a school full of accomplishments diminished by their exceptional context, finishing Computer Science 50 is a rare, acknowledged standard of excellence. We witness our peers slaving for days over problem sets in the dining hall, and marvel at their commitment to one introductory class. However, in coming semesters, finishing CS 50 may become slightly less of an achievement. Lecturer David J. Malan ’99 recently proposed grading the course on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis as a default for non-concentrators and students not receiving General Education credit. We view this as a marketing strategy and believe that it will have negative repercussions on those who enroll.
In general, CS 50 students already express enthusiasm about the material. However, this grading policy change could discourage individuals from devoting energy to it—to their detriment. No matter how good their intentions, students pressed for time unavoidably prioritize work for classes in which they will be receiving a grade. Although we have no doubt that many of the students Malan hopes to attract with the policy would be intellectually motivated to learn the material, we question whether they would do so at the cost of success in their other classes. Those enrolled would undoubtedly conduct such an analysis as the term went on. CS 50’s value comes from the sheer number of hours one invests in learning the material. Thus, allowing most students to receive a satisfactory/unsatisfactory grade—thereby incentivizing them to complete less work or produce assignments at a comparatively lower standard—would irrevocably harm their class experience.
This holds true particularly in CS 50, because students spend so many weeks working on a big final project. If those taking the course switch their mentality, aiming to achieve just a satisfactory result, they will lose out on the opportunity to complete a worthwhile project of which they feel proud. We can fairly assume that a student working on two graded papers and studying for two graded midterms, while also programming her CS 50 final project, may not put in the thought and effort necessary to create a Shuttleboy.com or an Isawyouharvard.com.
That being said, we understand the sentiment behind this move. Computer programming is becoming an increasingly valuable life skill, and making CS 50 accessible to students with all levels of prior experience should be a priority. Nevertheless, the course is clearly accessible already; 72 percent of last term’s class had no previous programming background. This is largely a testament to Malan’s approach: His lecture style is engaging, and he draws teaching fellows from the pool of undergraduates who have already taken the class. Instructors offer a tremendous number of office hours, the sections are tracked, and Malan himself continually emphasizes that students of all levels can succeed in this environment.
Because the course currently seems eminently comfortable for students, it is unclear what fear or uncertainty Malan seeks to address through this change. A course’s policies alone can never assuage all students' fears—for instance, some refuse to take big lecture classes—but presumably Malan does not plan to cap the size or split CS 50 up in order to accommodate them.
We appreciate Malan's continual desire to improve his course. He is a receptive and well-respected lecturer who is known for going above and beyond the normal teaching requirements. However, we do not think that this particular policy change accomplishes the intended goal. We like CS 50 just as it is.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rarely do you find someone who excels both in policy and in politics. The policy wonk can manufacture ideas, but he cannot sell them. The political hack, on the other hand, can sell anything, but he needs products.
Harvardians dread this dilemma. To avoid it, they try to learn practical skills. At the Institute of Politics, for instance, they attend study groups like “From College to Congress: Preparing as a Student to Run for Public Office” or “Staffing Up: How to Hire (and Fire) Campaign Staff and Consultants.”
I’m skeptical of this approach. The only way to gain practical knowledge is to practice it. Study groups merely fool you into thinking you’re experienced. Rather, you should spend your years in college grappling with your beliefs—not with imaginary pollsters.
Unconvinced? Let’s take an example—a model, if you will: Congressman Paul D. Ryan, a Republican from Wisconsin. I consider Mr. Ryan a model because he is serious. He does not simply oppose President Barack Obama’s agenda; he offers a better one in its place. To solve our fiscal crisis, for example, Mr. Ryan has proposed a “Roadmap for America’s Future,” which even the president considers “a serious proposal.”
Mr. Ryan is wonkish yet savvy. He represents a congressional district that favored President Obama in the last election. So how did he spend his time in college? Was he constantly knocking on doors?
“I did very little door-knocking,” Mr. Ryan told me. “I did some for John Boehner; but at the time, I didn’t know how to pronounce the guy’s name. I spent my formative years reading. I had a great economics professor, Richard Hart. He was conservative, and he put me onto this stuff. I was reading the supply-siders like [Robert] Mundell and [Robert L.] Bartley on the Wall Street Journal’s editorial page…Political philosophy, that’s where I spent more of my time.”
In particular, he spent more of his time with the Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek. “I grew up learning about all these other ideas—the progressive model and such—and that had never set right with me. One of the first things I read in college was Hayek’s ‘The Road to Serfdom.’ It just made so much sense to me. It was about reaching human potential. Individualism is far more pro-human than collectivism; I think Hayek did a great job of showing that,” Mr. Ryan said.
Still, students—especially conservatives—fear that intellectuals make poor politicians because they eventually become snobs. Yet Mr. Ryan, admittedly bookish, defends average Americans, particularly Tea Partiers. “You shouldn’t be embarrassed by the tea parties. They are people fed up with big government. That is something that every conservative should be comfortable with…It’s more of a snobbish thing. If you’re trying not to be associated with tea parties, you’re not prepared to intellectually defend your ideas.”
But surely, I said, there is a tension between intellect and politics. In a university, you can admit the weaknesses in your argument without fear. In a campaign, however, honesty can be fatal.
“I think the opposite,” Mr. Ryan replied. “If you have a weak argument, don’t make it. A lot of these issues involve tradeoffs; you should be explicit in the upside and the downside. If there is downside to a particular policy, you should be the one to discuss it rather than let your opponent discuss it.”
There you have it: an intellectual politician. And, encouragingly, he’s not a wimp. When I asked whether he should accept the fact that Democrats won the last election and stop writing bills that die in committee, he objected: “So we should surrender our principles? I think we owe it to people to give them an alternative. The reason my plan is not going anywhere is because Democrats control Washington. I’m not prepared to accept that as a permanent condition. You don’t get the climate of change without giving a principled detailed alternative.”
“Fine,” you ask ever so pragmatically, “What is the takeaway?” It is that a bookworm can get elected. True, Mr. Ryan had experience before running for office—he was Senator Sam Brownback’s legislative director. But he gained that experience after college. During college, he was reading, listening, thinking.
Harvardians say they wished politicians did more of that. My response to their complaint is, “Well, now’s the time to do it.”
Brian J. Bolduc ’10, an editorial writer, is an economics concentrator in Winthrop House. His column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I remember my first time. There it sat, centered on a long wooden table, glistening in the low light of The Crimson’s Sanctum. I approached. The senior manning the operation asked me if I would like to try it out. I smiled demurely. “I’ve never done this before.” He smiled back. “Don’t worry, I’ll be gentle.”
Placing my mouth at the bottom of the cold block, I watched as he poured vodka onto the top of the track carved in the ice. A grimace already starting to grip my face, I awaited the bitter taste of Rubinoff to hit my tongue.
But I was in for a treat. The alcohol, chilled and diluted by its journey down the ice, was a burst of delight in my mouth. “This is what rappers must drink,” I thought as I lapped at the ice. “I could drink this forever.”
The next morning I awoke mostly naked, still a little drunk, and inexplicably covered in strawberry jelly. Though I remembered little from the night before, I did remember the ice luge.
Since that first fateful encounter, ice luges have remained a central feature of my life. When my roommates and I threw a surprise party freshman year, the pièce de résistance was an ice luge. When I threw my birthday party junior year, an ice luge was there. And you can bet your skinny jeans that at my wedding, 30th birthday party, and the baptism of my first child, an ice luge will be there.
But it’s more than just a gimmick, a draw for people to come to a party. It’s an exercise in trust and friendship between giver and receiver. It’s a show of strength, endurance, and blatant disregard for one’s health and liver. It’s a mark of true character—there is nothing like the respect earned by going down on an ice luge. But most importantly, it’s a great way to get absolutely obliterated on plastic-bottle booze without actually tasting a thing.
Sections
First of all, let’s just get one thing straight: the “sport” of luge is not really a sport. Lying on top of someone else and letting gravity do its work doesn’t constitute a sport.
Moving on from athletics, the word “luge” is far too close to the word “loogie,” which is just gross, but also mostly accurate. An ice luge at a party results in a number of negative effects. Inevitably, a large amount of alcohol that missed its target mouths ends up spread across the floor, resulting in the typical sketchy, sticky floor. A large portion of the remaining alcohol ends up on the faces and shirts/dresses of those who try to use the ice luge, and nothing is more embarrassing than becoming the “awkward stain guy.” Is it sweat? Booze? Something worse? Nobody knows.
Also, in order to use the ice luge, you have to crouch down in an awkward squat just to take a shot. Apparently nobody has come up with the idea to prop an ice luge up to allow for standing luge runs. And inevitably, the drunkest, heaviest person in the room will saunter on over for a go. And inevitably, that person will subject themselves and everyone around to a good old bend-over. Nobody wins when that happens.
Did I mention that it’s just plain unnecessary? Yes, the alcohol is cold when it gets to your mouth off an ice luge. Awesome. Ever hear of an ice cube? This triumph of modern science allows you to enjoy a cold beverage of whatever alcohol content you desire while still keeping it classy and clean.
Essentially, nothing to do with a luge has ever resulted in something cool happening, ice luges included. Numbing your mouth on the frozen slobber of others just isn’t terribly exciting.
Sections
Outside of her tour bus, Yi Yin, a junior at Brown, faced the wrath of a North Korean soldier as he examined every single one of the photos she had taken during her few days in the country.
“He got very angry, and I was very upset. He made one of our tour guides cry,” she said, recounting this particularly memorable experience from her 10-day trip with the P’yongyang Project, an organization that leads trips to North Korea for students and anyone else interested in the region.
In this particular case, the group had been taking a day trip to the Demilitarized Zone when the soldier spotted Yin taking a photograph, something forbidden to do from the bus lest the tourists document undesirable aspects of the countryside. It was an apt reminder of the darker side of life in North Korea. Jieun Baek ’10, who as founder of the Harvard organization Human Rights in North Korea, has spoken to many North Koreans who managed to leave the country, explained the grim threat that lurks under everyday life. “Whatever you do can be labeled as treasonous,” she said. “You are never guaranteed security as an individual or a family.”
Nonetheless, the trip had its positives. Yin’s experience was rattling, but even with other soldiers it was different: “There was a very nice and generous, even open-minded soldier who talked a lot with us and asked very interesting questions,” said Yin. “It was a very engaging experience, very interactive.”  And in the end, Yin gushed about how much she loved the experience of visiting North Korea.
What is the powerful draw to a program like this? “A lot of people come with a lot of preconceptions,” said P’yongyang Project co-founder Matthew C. Reichel. “The one thing we like to tell people is to be inquisitive observers, feel free to ask questions, but be respectful. And understand that North Korea is a very unique place, and they have a very unique culture and a very unique political system.”
Sections
This past Sunday morning in the woods of rural Massachusetts, a battle of the ages took place. Five courageous Harvard students faced off against six of their elder Law School counterparts in the rain. Pink paintball pellets pummeled through the air, with more hitting the surroundings than their intended targets.
The Harvard Shooting Club (HSC) in collaboration with the Harvard Law School Target Shooting Club sponsored the paintball tournament as a friendly competition between the two schools. Only re-established this past year, HSC was the unanimous underdog, despite advertising their HLS opponents via e-mail as “senile decrepits.”
However, the day’s activities were quick to draw new participants to the sports of shooting and paintball. Eric S. Dong ’11, who played for HSC, was recently introduced to shooting through one of HSC’s earlier handgun courses. “Until then, I had never seen a gun up close before,” said Dong.
HSC member Tian Wang ’12, pointed out that paintballing differed from their usual shooting practices. “We are much more mobile,” Wang said, “You have to strategize, you have to flank people.”
HLS was quick to establish their dominance, leading the game 2-0 at the very beginning. Within four rounds and with the aid of several recruited pre-teen paintball enthusiasts, HSC managed to tie the game. Playing a total of eight rounds while rotating between three terrains—attacking and defending a fort, a village shootout, and an extreme field filled with large blown-up geometric barriers—the game ended at a score of 5-3 in favor of HLS, who put the young’uns in their place.
Before leaving, both clubs teamed up for one final round against a rag-tag team of children and adults, putting aside their (age) differences and proving the power of collaboration by victoriously taking siege of a fort.
Once taken out, Law School representative Michelle C. Yang ’07 safely removed her mask and wiped paint off her mouth that had breached an opening.
“Ah, the bitter taste of defeat,” Yang said.
Sections
It seems obvious that while Harvard students love their fancy footwear, your average ancestral hunter-gatherer would not be sporting a pair of Adidas on his morning hunt. In fact, despite our contemporary obsession with shoes, Daniel E. Lieberman, Department Chair of Human and Evolutionary Biology, recently discovered that humans have actually evolved to run long distances barefoot.
“Running shoes are a fairly recent invention,” said Lieberman, who traveled across the world to study the differences between shod runners and barefoot runners and has published his work in Nature magazine.
In fact, he also found that shoes change the way we run—most barefoot runners have a mid-foot to forefoot strike, whereas most shod runners have a heel strike that creates a larger collision. “There’s this big thump, a force that’s about one to three times your body weight,” said Lieberman.
Yet, it is unknown whether athletic shoes may be actually causing the injuries they claim to prevent. “The fact of the matter is that we’re not telling anyone what to do,” he said. “Runners just have more options than they’ve been told.”
“[Lieberman] is trying to bring it out of the limelight of being some weird pastime that strange people do to a normal activity that a lot of people do,” said Justin K. Banerdt ’13, one of the directors of the Harvard Foundation’s recent Indigenous Running seminar.
Christopher McDougall, author of the book “Born to Run,” was a bit more vocal about shoe companies while speaking at the seminar. “If you want to sell people shit, make them afraid,” he said, sporting his own “five finger” minimal shoes as an alternative.
So whether you’re running marathons or just trying to get brownie points in SLS 16, Lieberman said he is “delighted” to see students strolling into Science Center E barefoot.
Sections
On a dark, rainy Saturday evening, thunder came from Lowell Lecture Hall, where TAPS, Harvard’s undergraduate tap dance company, performed original pieces to music such as “We’re in the Money” from “42nd Street” and Janis Joplin’s “Mercedes Benz.” Although a relatively small group of eight members, their dancing filled the room in “Tapped Out,” their money-themed spring show. The performers were percussionists as well as dancers—with the strike of a tap-shoe against the pale wood floor, they could conjure a light drizzle or a hailstorm. Some seats remained empty, but the audience was boisterous, shouting, “I see you, TAPS!” and, “You go!” During the intermission, two toddlers in the front row were so inspired that they got up and attempted to imitate the TAPS dancers, stomping their feet and swaying their hips from side to side.
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT
At 9:50 a.m. that Saturday, Lowell Lecture Hall was silent and dark. But when Kathleen E. Golden ’10 entered, followed one by one by the other dancers, the space was filled with activity and chatter—about quick-changes between pieces and which lipstick and eyeliner they would use.
On the day of the performance, TAPS is here to run through every number in the program for six hours, beginning at 10 a.m. According to Golden, an officer of the group, they schedule extra rehearsal time to polish their dances as the performance approaches.
The TAPS pride was palpable as soon as the company stepped—or rather, tapped—onto the stage to rehearse. Jennifer N. Kurdyla ’11, another officer who has danced with TAPS for three years, entered the room wearing a black sweatshirt with “TAPS” on the back in large white letters. But by the end of the first strenuous run-through, her sweatshirt lay strewn on the edge of the stage. At a quarter past 10, the room was already crackling with energy. Lowell Lecture Hall was finally awake.
As she watched “Just Got Paid,” the opening number, Caitlin D. Driscoll ’11 scribbled on a notepad. Driscoll, the director of TAPS, has been a competitive Irish step dancer since the age of four. Her involvement hasn’t dwindled since coming to Harvard. In addition to working with TAPS, she is on the executive board of Corcairdhearg, the Harvard College Irish dancers. After the dancers finished, she said, “You have to rock it out. This is a rock-out piece.” And when a troupe member asked how to exit the stage, she said, “Yeah, walk like you’re cool, like you’re fly.”
“All right, all right,” the dancers responded, laughing as they returned to their positions to start again.
Throughout the rehearsal, it was clear that every group member was invested in TAPS. Each dancer, not only Driscoll, contributed their thoughts as to how they should arrange themselves, and the dancers were eager to help each other master complicated steps. At one point, M.G. Prezioso ’13 was worried. “I keep ending a beat early,” she said. Her peers were quick to help her. Kurdyla explained to her, rapidly tapping her feet and finishing with her right foot behind her left, “It’s ya-da-da-da-da-da-da-da.” With that, the problem was fixed. “Every time I watch a piece, I find something. Don’t be discouraged,” Driscoll told the company before a water break.
THE STAGE IS SET
The energy lasted throughout the day. At 6 p.m., the downstairs area of Lowell Lecture Hall was throbbing. The soft patter of tap shoes as dancers scurried back and forth between the bathroom and the “green room,” and talk of house elves and Ellen DeGeneres was unremitting. Two girls hummed “Diamonds are a Girl’s Best Friend” while going over the sequence for the last time. After the exhilarating scramble to finish applying blush, pin costumes, and straighten hair, TAPS came together in a circle and had their usual pre-performance pow-wow. “Thank you all for your hard work. You guys made being your director so easy. It’s going to be an awesome show. Everyone looked so good today,” Driscoll said, proceeding to give a card to each TAPS member to express her appreciation.
Though the group remains tight knit, TAPS is struggling to keep tapping. As Kurdyla explained before Saturday’s rehearsal, the group only has eight members this year; during her freshman year, there were 15.
“It’s really nice to have a big tap group. The sound and the energy are just better. I feel like a lot of girls start off with tap when they’re little and then move on to modern or ballet. I hope we can get more people to realize that tap isn’t just frilly, girly, and Broadway-style,” she said. “There are so many different kinds of tap—hip-hop, a cappella. It’s a very diverse mix and you can really find your niche anywhere.”
At the end of the year, TAPS will lose two graduating seniors and one third-year law student, reducing the group to five. At Harvard, it is especially difficult for small performing groups to become visible amidst larger, better-publicized productions. “I definitely felt the pressure this year, and we lost a portion of our usual audience because of these other shows. In the future I think we have to work on our PR campaign,” Driscoll said. “This is something I plan to discuss with the officers in the coming weeks, so we can make some important changes before next year.”
But “Tapped Out” made it evident that the challenges they face are not based on skill or the quality of their performance—as audience member Henry H. Hammond ’58 said, “The show went very well. Did you notice that they couldn’t stop smiling? They’re clearly having a good time.”
Sections
Bridget P. Haile ’11 hurries toward the dressing room downstairs, her curled hair bobbing and her long white maiden’s dress bustling underneath her. As she walks, she looks like the perfect anachronism, a remnant of another era—she’s completely unconnected to the old Agassiz Theater around her, existing somewhere in between the character she plays and her role in the real world. That is, until she almost bumps into an admissions employee in the hallway. “That’s the problem with sharing a theater with the admissions office,” she says.
In her real life she’s the president of the Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert and Sullivan Players (referred to as simply G&S by members and fans), a staple group in the theater scene here at Harvard. Although the Hasty Pudding tends to steal the spotlight in the spring, the Gilbert and Sullivan Players are one of the foremost G&S troupes in New England, dedicating themselves to cycling through the comic-operas in the Gilbert and Sullivan canon. This spring, the Players are putting on a production of “The Pirates of Penzance,” a wild show of love and swashbucklery first performed in 1879.
IN THE DRESSING ROOM
It’s the day before opening night, and as Haile drifts into the dressing room, she is greeted by a motley crowd of actors. The dressing rooms are inconspicuously hidden on the bottom floor of the Agassiz House, featuring countless mirrors all bordered by large white bulbs. Some cast members are busily changing into pirate-themed clothing while others dab make-up on their faces. All take turns spontaneously singing.
Haile looks to her left and sees temporary pirate tattoos being applied to cast-members’ arms: “Oh my God, that looks so good!” An actor in the background wonders aloud, “Is someone gonna get a penis tattoo?” Another person shouts, “I volunteer!” Haile in her white maiden’s dress asks, “Can I get a penis tattoo too?”
Benjamin J. Nelson ’11, another cast member and a member of the G&S Board of Directors, walks into the room in a bright yellow overcoat. Even in a room full of pirates, he fits right in. He and Haile hug. “We’re practically married,” he admits. That they’ve been working together for nearly two years is evident; their interactions are as effortless as they are entertaining.
Haile wastes no time dabbing Nelson’s face with make-up, looking efficient but leisurely. As the women change indiscreetly in front of the men, a cast member on the other side of the room jokes, “No one gets naked until the second scene.”
The cast continues rushing around, trying to get everyone into costume, and yet no one seems anxious. Thomas C. Wilhoit ’13 asks, “What do you guys think of my eyeliner?” “You look like Adam Lambert,” says Nelson to cries of approval from the rest of the dressing room.
BACKSTAGE
Nelson and Haile make their way backstage to do one final rehearsal. The room is a mess. The smell of fresh paint envelops the entire space, and the cluttered banging of stage producers stands in stark contrast to the warm-up trills produced by the cast. After some time, Haile and Nelson begin singing in perfect unison, eventually falling back into individual parts. As their voices begin to encompass the room, producer Megan M. Savage ’10 says, “The show is doing great. These are a hectic few days, but everything is coming together so well.”
“I produced for the first time last semester and I found that, as someone who has always been a cast member, the most surprising thing when you’re producing is how little the cast has to do with it,” says Haile after the warm-up.
“You’re just thinking, ‘Yeah, I’m sure the cast will go out there and do something or other,’” says Sarah J. Libenson ’10, the stage director. “But your concerns are more along the lines of: will the set get built, will it get painted, will the tickets get sold, where will we get the costumes, will the videographer come on time. All sorts of ridiculous little things.”
Nobody seems too nervous. “We’ve been rehearsing since about February,” says Nelson. “I feel really good about how things are coming together; this is my sixth consecutive show and this one definitely has come together. We did runs last week that were pretty good.”
But not everything always goes according to plan. Haile points at the corner of the dressing room ceiling, which began peeling off during a performance last year. “I started freaking out, yelling at anyone who was around, ‘Help! The ceiling! It fell down!’ I ran down to the house manager and was like, ‘The house needs managing!’” she remembers. “This was also the same day the admissions office decided to host a 1:30 p.m. info session in the theater before our 2 p.m. show.” Luckily the ceiling crisis was contained to the dressing room.
Another snafu last year wasn’t so easy to cover up. During a scene of Haile’s character’s execution, the mood-setting fog machine set off a fire alarm. “Suddenly all of the lights go on, and we all just froze,” she says in a fit of laughter.
Nelson isn’t so worried about any mishaps that might happen during the show. “The most stressful part is learning my lines,” he says. ”I’m atrocious at learning lines. The music is fine—that just happens—but Gilbert and Sullivan lines are all from the 1870s, so they’re a little bit convoluted.” But this is just Nelson being modest; by opening night, the lines are already learned, the ceiling is in place, and everyone’s in costume, waiting for an audience.
On the night of the show, the clutter backstage has disappeared, the scent of paint faded away. If there had been any chaos the day before, it’s all out of sight and out of mind tonight. As the lights dim and the show begins, Haile takes her place in a black dress for the first act. On the other side of the curtain, the audience waits to see the end product, indifferent to rehearsals and warm-ups: Haile and her cohorts singing in the old Agassiz Theater.
Sections
Like any good Harvard students, we had a dream—to be on reality television. And so last Saturday we headed to Allston for a meeting with destiny, or the MTV casting departments. It was time to stop being polite and start getting real.
12:45 p.m.—Stop at Doma. Gonna be a long day.
1:03—Get to Sunset Grill and Tap. Where is everyone?
1:03:30—Everyone is upstairs. They are tan.
1:20—Fill out questionnaire. Attempt to define relationships with parents in two lines. Regret the fact that we were never raised in abusive households. We are very boring.
1:40—Show our VIP passes to anybody passing by who looks important. All are unimpressed.
2:30—Still waiting. Is this a “Jersey Shore” casting? We add “judgmental” to the list of negative qualities on our questionnaires.
2:57—Ten minutes after receiving word that the line is short, two friends show up. They say they are not really into this, but are dressed very, very well. We feel self-conscious.
3:04—We strike up conversation with the future star of “Jersey Shore—Masshole Edition” (he has already filmed his audition tape)!  He tells us about his business plans, and we are 97 percent sure we are talking to the next Situation. When asked if he is gay, he responds, “I am with Jesus.” He lets us feel his muscles.
3:11—Standing in line talking to a guy who has auditioned seven times. He lives with his parents.
3:15—These are some strong drinks!! Chat with Australian girl at bar.
3:27—We get involved in what seems like a normal game of “Never Have I Ever.”
3:28—We are apparently in the big leagues now. The first question is, “Have you ever licked an asshole?” Everybody but us has done this. There is NO WAY we are getting cast on this show.
3:36—Australian girl has mysteriously lost her accent. Also, she is orange.
3:45—Success! Finally called in! We sit down with Emilee from “Real World Cancún.” Hey girl hey!
3:48—Introductions: “Say a common misconception about you.”
3:49—“People think I’m really stuck up because of the way I look and dress.” This girl is not dressed well.
3:50—“People think I’m really dumb, but I’m wicked into education.” She is a friend of that other girl.  No comment.
3:52—First question: “So, what do you think about cheating?”
3:53—One of our friends says she found out that her ex-boyfriend was cheating when she caught chlamydia from him. Nobody raises an eyebrow because these people have some crazy-ass stories. Neither of us knows what to say. One of us makes a Gossip Girl reference.
3:55—One girl in our audition says that relationships should end immediately once a person cheats. She then goes on to talk about her extensive cheating experience. She also has a professional headshot. This girl is ready for the house.
3:57—“My fiancée cheated on me last week with a club bouncer who later tried to choke me. We are still engaged.” We do not condone this.
3:58—One of these girls has broken up a marriage!
4:00—Next question: Sandra Bullock v. Jesse James. This is right up our alley. We go nuts.
4:02—Concluding remarks: “Say something interesting about yourself.”
4:03—“Fuck the police!” That one is SO getting cast.
4:04—The dumb girls only date international men. ¿¿En serio??
4:05—The girl who broke up a marriage is still a virgin?! We do not understand this.
4:07—We leave, fairly confident we will not get cast, but feeling pretty good about our lives.
Sections
The president of the new Harvard Cube Club, or C-cubed, said one of the goals of the club was to lend out Rubik’s Cubes to students because they’re hard to come by.
“What do you think we are? The Outing Club?” was the response she got from Vice President Diana Cai ’13.
The members present at Saturday afternoon’s meeting of the club discussed strategies while casually solving the Rubik’s Cubes in front of them. One student joked about peeling off the stickers and switching them around on the cube. But he was admonished by a fellow cuber, who said, “That’s one of the most noob things you could say— everyone knows you can do that.”
Though there is already a cube club at MIT, Cai said she wants the World Cube Association to recognize a club at Harvard. Ideally, the club would host one or two competitions per year.
President Amy Y. Tai ’13 and Cai met and also learned how to cube at the Research Science Institute at MIT the summer before their senior year of high school. Cai pointed out that a lot of people practice cubing at summer camp and in high school, but that stops when they get to college.
Christian C. Anderson ’13 has never cubed before, and said there is no way he’d be good enough to compete, but he’d like to learn. “Maybe this summer,” the person next to him suggested.
Tai and Cai have never attended a competition, but Tony C. Xing ’11 went to one at MIT a few weeks ago. His fastest solve time was 20 seconds.
But other members wouldn’t admit their fastest solving times. “I don’t do speed cubing,” one said. And as the person next to him pointed out, “He’s busy doing Orgo.”
Sections
How are a shipwreck, a tiger, and God connected? All play a major part in Yann Martel’s Booker Prize winning novel, “Life of Pi.” Nearly nine years after the publication of his runaway success, Martel sits down with FM on a sunny afternoon at the First Unitarian Church in Harvard Square to discuss his new book, his résumé, President Obama, and religion.
1. Fifteen Minutes: Are you tired of people asking you shipwreck-related questions yet?
Yann Martel: I toured for “Life of Pi” for two years, so I did end up talking a lot about animals and shipwrecks and religion and multiple faiths. After two years I had enough, but it was still interesting talking to readers.
2. FM: Many of your works have parts set in Canada. Is this a promotional attempt to get us all to move up north?
YM: No, I’m just Canadian. Usually American novelists set their stories where they live, so I’m Canadian. I’ve lived abroad a lot, I’ve traveled a lot, but I’ve only ever had a Canadian passport.
3. FM: In a recent project, you attempt to send Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper one book every two weeks as bedside reading. What prompted you to do this?
YM: I sensed this great disconnect between the political class and the artistic class, a lack of interest, a lack of involvement, which struck me as tragic because we’re not economic animals—we’re ultimately cultural animals. We are who we are, the language we speak, the notions we entertain, all of these are cultural, the things we do artistically, the things we take in. So to have a class that was so disconnected culturally struck me as very dangerous. I thought: what can I do as a citizen, a citizen of the arts? I decided, well, I’d send him a book every two weeks.
4. FM: And how long do you intend on doing this for?
YM: As long as he’s in power. You know, we can’t be ruled entirely by middle-aged white men who haven’t read a book since they’ve left high school. Art is not just entertainment—it’s also the best tool to understand life. And so if someone who has never read a book since they’ve left high school, or a poem or a play, I wonder, where do they get their vision? Where do they get their understanding of the other? Where do they get their sense of empathy for the other? Where do they get their dreams? So it scares me.
Also, it’s funny. I’ve written to Harper for three years now, not a single reply from him, whereas I’ve got a hand-written note from Barack Obama about a month and a half ago because he read “Life of Pi” with his daughter and he liked it.
5. FM: Do you intend on starting this project with President Obama?
YM: No, because he reads. In fact, it’s stark, it’s amazing, the difference between him and Stephen Harper. He’s listed books that he’s loved, and you can tell this man is a dreamer, he has vision. So not only does he deliver wonderful speeches, he has a sense of oratory, which is important. You have to inspire people as a leader.
But I think he also has empathy, I think that’s probably in part, obviously nourished by his own personal experience, but also I think it’s been nourished by the books he’s read.
6. FM: Is there a particular book you wish people would send to you?
YM: Well, my next book features chimpanzees, so I need books on chimpanzees.
7. FM: “Life of Pi” featured a tiger, an orangutan, a hyena, and a zebra. Your upcoming book “Beatrice & Virgil” features a monkey and a donkey. Let’s get real here—do you really want to write or do you just want to open up your own menagerie?
YM: I like using animals because I find that they help me tell my stories. We’re very cynical about our own species, we’re less cynical about wild animals. I noticed that with “Life of Pi” that people were taken in by the animals. It’s strange, I don’t know why, but in adult fiction, there aren’t very many animals. We seem to confine animals to the world of children’s literature. Their symbolic potential to me is infinite. An animal can be exactly what it is, so in “Life of Pi,” it could just be a tiger in a lifeboat, nothing else, but it can also be many, many other things. There’s a symbolic wealth to animals that sometimes in some ways is lacking in human beings.
8. FM: Do you have any pets?
YM: As a child, one of the countries I lived in was Costa Rica and we had this little enclosed garden and there we had lots of pets. We had rabbits, we had a tortoise, and we had a monkey.
9. FM: The title [“Beatrice & Virgil”] is an obvious reference to Dante’s “Divine Comedy.” What aspects of the poem inspired your new novel?
YM: In the “Divine Comedy,” they are the ones who guide Dante through the whole journey. In other words, through Inferno, Purgatory, and Paradiso. In this novel, Beatrice and Virgil are the reader’s guides through hell. When dealing with things as momentous as the Holocaust, or any other historical event, you need a guide.
10. FM: Can you summarize your purpose for writing “Beatrice & Virgil” in 15 words or less for us?
YM: I wanted to represent the Holocaust differently.
11. FM: The narrator of the book, Henry L’Hôte, gives up writing after a successful first novel. Is Henry’s story a roman à clef for your own experiences?
YM: Henry L’Hôte is a writer, I’m a writer. He wrote a book on animals, I wrote a book on animals. That was all because it served my fictional purpose. I wasn’t trying to be autobiographical. I happen to use a writer who is stalled because it suited my fictional purpose. I haven’t been stalled.
12. FM: Are you ever scared that you will only ever be remembered as the author of “Life of Pi”?
YM: Well, even if I am, that’s fine. Better to be a one hit wonder than have no hit at all. And the success of “Life of Pi” is a freak success in the sense that it’s a literary novel; it’s not a thriller, it’s not a genre novel, it’s a literary novel. And to have done that well, it can’t be reproduced.
13. FM: Henry attempts to take on a serious topic in his next work—the Holocaust. Like Henry, you are not Jewish, so what compelled you to write about the topic?
YM: Because beyond being a Jewish drama to me, it’s a human drama, and its import goes beyond that of just Jewish history. The Nazis’ view that Jews anywhere in the world were a disease, that was unique, but what led to it wasn’t. Acts of hate, thoughts of hate, racism, intolerance, bigotry, those are still very much universal. So I wanted to tackle the subject because I think it is still universal, it is not just this lofty historical tragedy that just sits up there in some pantheon of great tragedies. There are things holocaustal that happen everyday.
14. FM: Do you consider yourself religious?
YM: I would say yes, in the broadest sense of the term, in the sense that I choose to believe that all this isn’t just the result of happenstance and chemistry. I find faith is a wonderful respite from being reasonable. We’re so trained in the West to be reasonable. It’s yielded great things—it’s resulted in these great technical prolepses that are very impressive, but they in and of themselves don’t give us a reason to live. In the modern Western technological society, it’s very hard to have any kind of faith. And so I took on religious faith and I finally came to agree with what I was discussing in the book. Religious faith makes life interesting.
15. FM: Your résumé covers an impressive array of fields, from being a tree planter to being a security guard. Besides writing, which one of your other careers could you imagine yourself doing for the rest of your life?
YM: [laughs] God, it’s very generous saying it was impressive. I thought at one point I wanted to go into politics, but I don’t have any art for that. I might have been a teacher. I had good teachers when I was a kid...in a sense, a great teacher does what a great novel does. It gives you a sense of wonder, and you come out of it both entertained—a great teacher makes learning fun—but you also come better because you know more. Hopefully not just in terms of facts, but also in terms of wisdom.
Sections
Friday morning, 9:15. A hazy quiet fills the streets: most of the college is either sound asleep in bed or half asleep in class. For the cast of Eleganza, though, there is no such respite—not now, not with one week to spare before one of Harvard’s biggest fashion events of the year. The last 16 years of creativity and commitment have made the show into a campus institution to be reckoned with.
This morning, the Leverett Old Library is host to an emergency run-through of one scene: models shimmy and gyrate in their sweats up and down an imaginary runway.
In the corner sit two of the executive producers, Angela Su ’12 and Beatrice H. El-Hage ’11, tag-teaming between computer screens, cell phones and errands. Su is every bit the urban beauty queen: meticulously dressed in a checkered jacket and a light blue skirt, face frozen in a neutral, pensive gaze that doesn’t break even while talking. El-Hage appears restless, by contrast, as she pecks at her keyboard with a forceful energy. A few minutes later, the triumvirate is completed by the arrival of Carmen V. Feliz-Taveras ’11, who smiles warmly as she kneels in front of them and gives them the latest updates.
These three girls are responsible for making sure everything is in place on the big day. This is no easy task for an entirely student-run production that combines fashion, dance and music, drawing around 2,000 students. While it is the models who are the visual stars of the show, the heart of Eleganza is the executive production team. They are the ones who have to pull everything together. Yet somehow they seem to be managing; somehow they seem to be completely on top of things.
The team is arranged around a box of Dunkin’ Donuts, talking logistics and gossip. Feliz-Taveras is getting excited at the prospect of publicizing to prefrosh: “We want to show people that Harvard is fun,” she exclaims.
Meanwhile, the models are losing focus, struggling through moves they clearly haven’t learned yet. El-Hage is not impressed. “The show’s one week away,” she scolds. “You should be able to do it on your own now; you’re freaking me out!” A moment of silence, then the other two execs diffuse the tension with a laugh: they know when to play good cop. Rehearsals resume, a bit more in earnest, and soon enough the kinks are ironed out. Later, when asked if she’s ever really laid into someone, El-Hage says: “No. Well, I didn’t mean to. I just have a very rigid personality when it comes to getting things straight.” It seems to pay.
The rest of the day is hectic for the executive producers. Su finalizes the program while the other two split up to run errands. Feliz-Taveras returns later than expected: she and associate producer Wintha F. Kelati ’11, a Crimson business editor, made a quick stop after discovering they shared a love for McFlurries and fries. Bags are packed, permits are collected and fashion company insurance is solicited. The girls are used to this, explains Feliz-Taveras: “It’s, like, all day, every day.”
THE COMMAND CENTER
Friday, 4:00 p.m. The producers reconvene for a meeting in El-Hage’s room, a homely Claverly abode with Japanese prints and an impressionist landscape on the walls. On the floral rug there are boxes full of fashion donations for the post-show auction; beside them, from piles of posters, the sexy and austere Eleganza models stare angstfully across the room at a vintage map of Harvard.
The execs talk over their laptops with a wit and a pace that would leave even the Gilmore girls lagging behind. It’s hard to tell whether chit-chat is interspersed with business or vice versa. They discuss meetings with the Dean and have a clash over publicity that is quickly resolved. They share their love for the models and accuse each other of flirting with middle-aged men.
Not at all apologetically, the girls explain that their meetings last so long because they get along so well. “How awkward would it be if we hated each other?” asks Su. “Or if we hated one of us,” she adds. Some things would get done faster, perhaps. But Eleganza would not be the same for it.
The conversation finished with a discussion of poster duties. Doing it alone is a chore, it is decided, but with other people it’s much more fun and much more reliably finished. Predictable.
PRODUCERS AT WORK
Saturday afternoon, 2:00. Eleganza is having a full run-through. The SOCH, usually a symbol of architectural and institutional awkwardness, is pounding with huge beats and bold moves. The clothes haven’t arrived yet, so the models follow their natural style: a hodgepodge mix ranging from designer skirts and cutaway tops to DHAs and slogan T-shirts.
No longer a single unit, the executive producers are spread out across the room, supervising and talking with the rest of the cast. For all their relaxed demeanor before, today is serious business. Su calls everybody in, and explains that they must run through it again but this time paying attention to the small things. “We’ll be shouting at you,” warns Feliz-Taveras, wearing her sweet grin that suggests anything but.
The complementary styles of the executives begin to take hold. Feliz-Taveras walks alongside the models, venturing suggestions and compliments. Su leads by example, using the respect she clearly commands. And El-Hage? On one of the trickier scenes, she goes to work. “Face! Walk together!”
Their mixture of seriousness and good humor seems to be contagious, as does their affection. Feliz-Taveras proudly beams, “The one thing we stress is having the Eleganza family.” Around the room, the models sit and talk and smile. As the rehearsal winds down the three execs stand together deep in serious conversation. Suddenly, they’re interrupted by Lil Wayne’s “I Get Crazy.” They break concentration and nod in time with the music, as if in enthusiastic agreement. It might be surprising that they’re so relaxed with only a week left. But, then again, a week is plenty of time for these girls.
Sections
Running just one marathon may seem intense to most, but one Harvard overachiever quadrupled the challenge. On Marathon Monday, Scott C. Smider ’01 made four runs of the Boston course for a total of 104.8 miles in 27 hours.
Smider is not your average marathoner. A lifetime recreational runner, he trained for this ultramarathon for three months, whereas most marathoners train for almost six months. Smider began his run Sunday afternoon at the marathon’s finish line, repeating the course four times. During the race he consumed several gallons of fluids and wore through three pairs of shoes and 10 pairs of socks.
Smider insists he has a method to his madness. He ran as part of the Dana-Farber Marathon Challenge, which raises money for breast cancer research. But Smider also had personal reasons for his endeavor, getting involved to honor his sister-in-law, Elizabeth G. Smider, who died of breast cancer.
“With the failing economy, researchers are seeing their funding go stagnant,” he said. “This is one small way I can help and remember my sister-in-law.”
Vaughn V. Smider said of his brother, “He’s a little crazy, but I’m so impressed by his motivation and willingness to take on this challenge.”
When he isn’t running, Smider is an involved member of the Harvard community as a freshman proctor in Wigglesworth and manager of the Queen’s Head Pub.  “I’m not surprised he’s doing this for his family,” said proctee Michael R. Caldwell ’13. “He’s a pretty hardcore guy, yet very compassionate.”
After he finished his race, Smider appeared exhausted, but proud. “I’m stiff and sore,” he said. “But I know it’s nothing compared to what someone with cancer goes through.” Despite his aching body, Smider refuses to slow down. “I’m going back to work tomorrow,” he said.
How does Smider do it all? “Less sleep,” he explained. “I was a Harvard student, after all.”
Sections
As you’re stressing out over your outfit for the next ’80s-themed party this weekend, someone somewhere in the nation is throwing out a box full of fabulously-sequined shirts. Wouldn’t it be great if the world had a solution to this problem?
A new company called ThredUP thinks it has the answer. Inspired by the idea that one person’s trash is another person’s treasure, ThredUP has set up an online clothing exchange system that it hopes will soon gain a large following. Part of the appeal might be the site’s simplicity: sign up online, choose a box that looks interesting, and then post a description of your own box of old clothes—you only pay the $13 shipping fee, and then you get the new box even if yours hasn’t been claimed yet.
James G. Reinhart, one of the founders and a recent graduate of the Harvard Business School, explains that despite the simplicity of the concept, his time at HBS has given him crucial experience for building ThredUP. “I think being in business school for a couple of years, being surrounded by great classmates, was really helpful in thinking through the bigger issues of the company,” he said.
However, for now it’s all about the basics. Oliver H. Lubin, another co-founder, thinks the core strength is that people will be excited with what they find in their new box. “Chances are, if you throw everything in the middle and reshuffle it, people are going to end up with stuff that they really like simply because it is new to them,” he said. In addition to adult clothing, ThredUP also has a kid’s section, and Carly N. Fauth, the official “Chief Mom” at ThredUP, emphasizes how this might soon become one of the strongest elements of ThredUP. “It is a great idea because kids outgrow their clothes so fast and it can get really expensive,” she said. “I think this will be a great resource for moms—and myself, as well.”
Currently, the brains at ThredUP are working on extending the services to military personnel. Who knows? Your sequins might just end up in Afghanistan sometime soon.
Sections
Fifteen Minutes: What was it like finding out you’d won the Pulitzer Prize for your novel “Tinkers”?
Paul Harding: No one called me. I found out on the website and within 30 seconds of finding out the Associated Press was on the phone. It was astonishing. It’s strange—I have not yet experienced my own reaction to this.
FM: What did you do to get the book out there?
PH: I spent the year flat broke going from reading to reading. Whenever anyone would come up to me after a reading and say, “I’m going to have my book club read the book,” I’d say, “I’ll come.” It was very grassroots, and it was a lovely way to spend a year, talking to nice people who like your book.
FM: Where did the idea for the novel come from?
PH: The story germinated out of old, semi-legendary family stories told me by my maternal grandfather about his childhood in northern Maine, which was impoverished. His father abandoned his family when my grandfather was 12 because he had epilepsy and his wife was going to have him admitted to an asylum. That was a formative family legend, but I could never get my grandfather to elaborate on it—I don’t know if it was painful or just generational to only talk about. Just being interested in my family made [these legends] irresistible to me. Just describing the facts as I knew them took up about half a page, so I had to fill in and imagine. It just unfolded from there. But I had no interest whatsoever in writing an autobiographical novel. I’m not that interested in myself.
FM: How did teaching “The Art of Short Fiction” help your own writing?
PH: When I came to teach Expos and the Extension School, I worked on finishing the book in between teaching and raising a couple of sons. In order to teach Expos, I had to think about the architecture of argument. I thought about the technical aspects of making arguments in order to do creative writing. I had thought these two things were exclusive realms, but it turns out they’re not. I was constantly teaching published stories to the students and having conversations not only with them, but also with myself about writing. I really really really learned a lot about writing.
Sections
Several months ago, when I returned home for Christmas break, my dad gave me a very important assignment. Calling from the operating room, he asked me the usual questions of what my plans were for the night. “Good, Marco,” he said in his thick, Polish accent when I told him I was free. “Go and rent two movies, one action and one stupid comedy.” Before hanging up, he added one more detail: “Marco,” he said, “the stupider the better.”
The stupid comedy is a curious sub-genre. Most often, movies of this type involve a character who undergoes a great deal of absurd physical tribulations as a result of his or her own stupidity. The character is usually completely unaware of how stupid they are. Example: Lloyd Christmas telling the jetway attendant “It’s okay—I’m a limo driver” when told he can’t run down the jetway because the plane’s gone. He does, and falls onto the asphalt. I don’t think I’ve ever seen my dad laugh as hard.
Here’s the problem: for every brilliant stupid comedy, there are five really, really stupid ones. These are the kinds of movies I watched during weekly screenings at summer camp—the ones I remember playing in the background on the main cabin screen of a Delta flight as I adjusted my plastic stethoscope earphones and spread Ken’s dressing on a few dry leaves of salad and think “Oh, oh no...”
Left to his own devices, these are the movies my dad usually picks. Several years ago, he returned home with “Wild Hogs,” apparently sold by the storyline pitch of “let’s throw together some crazy guys who go on a crazy adventure and have crazy times!”  Sirs, you are not crazy, nor are you going on a crazy adventure. Please do not ever refer to yourself again as “wild hogs.”  After this incident, my sister was commissioned to accompany my dad on all future rental trips to provide guidance and screen his selections.
Things went fine until another traumatic rental changed everything. In one instant, my whole family’s approach to movie rentals was turned upside down, and my dad lost any remaining credibility. That moment was “Daddy Day Care.”
The sight of my father—a serious neurosurgeon who sometimes used the word “mofo” before I told him what it meant—going to the checkout counter at Blockbuster with a movie entitled “Daddy Day Care” is beyond description. I’ve watched this happen before, and the nonchalance with which both my dad and the checkout person complete the transaction amazes me. And every time I rent a movie, I’m reminded that I qualify for two free rentals just because my dad was probably one of only 10 people who rented “I’m Gonna Get You Sucka” (no joke) and “Land of the Lost.”
I once spent three whole minutes watching him flip through the channels and stop on Country Music Television and watch an entire Brad Paisley music video in which a girl was crying about how either her boyfriend, truck, tractor, father, or American flag (I can’t remember which) left her at prom. It took my dad three minutes to decipher what was going on before he moved to MTV, completely oblivious as to what “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” and “Run’s House” are about.
At a certain point, I thought to myself: seriously, what the hell am I doing? I’m watching a TV show with my dad called “Rob and Big” in which two men fly a private jet to buy a baby bulldog that they outfit with bejewelled sweaters. This is ludicrous. I literally cannot believe this.
Last summer, I sat with my grandmother in Poland one afternoon as she watched episode number 3,944 of her favorite show, “The Bold and the Beautiful.” After the episode, she made several phone calls to her friends in which they discussed the philosophical, ontological, sociological, neurobiological, and probably even dermatological implications of who said what during the episode. This is a major part of my grandmother’s life, and when I’m with her, I too need to establish a baseline knowledge of the show’s dynamics just to talk with her and keep her going. And so, while she cooks, I read the tabloids she’s assembled so we can discuss who got eliminated from “Dancing with the Stars” or why she thinks that Beth, and not Stephanie, was Eric’s first love.
These are completely absurd realities. And so are the ones in which we find ourselves at Harvard. I’ve spent the past year writing a hundred-page thesis on Heidegger and architectural theory which is, in reality, nothing greater than my grandmother’s own diversions.
If you take a look around this place you begin to realize how absurd many things are. Sir, you aren’t old enough to buy a drink; why are you starting a hedge fund? I receive e-mails over lists all the time in which the authors have signatures that are more than five lines long, listing a cell phone number in Barcelona, Shanghai, and Cambridge and, as if anyone else cares, the fact that they are an “A.B. Degree Candidate in History and Literature.”
What I’ve realized, though, is that thinking about how absurd these realities might sound shouldn’t spoil them for you, and shouldn’t spoil them for anyone else. For some reason, my dad picks out stupid comedies, my grandmother still watches “The Bold and the Beautiful,” and Harvard is full of a bunch of delusional wannabe 30-year-olds. A lot of the things we do are actually pretty stupid and pretty comedic, but only if we think about them.
Trust me, thinking is not how I got through both “Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolos,” or all of the “Police Academy” films. Yes, all seven of them.
Mark A. Pacult ’10 is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House. He can tell you all about Swarovski-encrusted canines.
Sections
Organisms arrayed in all their evolutionary glory transform the house of Andrew Berry—lecturer in Organismic and Evolutionary Biology—into a veritable museum of the Darwinian process.  FM recently visited the home that Berry shares with his wife and fellow curator, Professor of Biology Naomi E. Pierce, to get a glimpse of both the décor and the man behind it.
As Andrew Berry peruses the eclectic collection of artifacts that ornament his home, his eyes come to rest on a display of ceramic vegetation hanging on his kitchen wall. “Now this is bizarre,” he says. The observation can be applied to any number of the rare finds found throughout his home, a collection animated by an exotic, if unusual, aesthetic that uniquely reflects Berry and his family’s passions.
A specialist in evolutionary biology, Berry currently serves as the undergraduate concentration advisor for the Organismic and Evolutionary Biology department. When the popular lecturer and noted scientist agreed to give FM a brief tour of the home he shares with his wife Naomi E. Pierce, a professor of biology in OEB, and their two daughters, he greeted FM first in his office at the Biological Labs, and after fetching his bike, led the five-minute walk to his house on Sacramento Street through the damp Cambridge afternoon that he affectionately calls the “English summer.”
A small mounting of butterflies—along with an accompanying collection of several larger mountings found throughout the house—provides an appropriate welcome to Berry and Pierce’s home; as the Curator of Lepidoptera in Harvard’s Museum of Comparative Zoology, Pierce’s job is to know moths and butterflies. Across the hall hangs an eBay triumph of which Berry is particularly proud: a framed letter written by British evolutionary theorist Alfred Russel Wallace, whose work preceded Darwin’s but has largely gone unnoticed.
A venture into the living room produces a similar mixture of the ordinary and the extraordinary, with a depiction of what appears to be a large, awkward penguin standing opposite the TV; the bird in question is in fact a Great Auk, a majestic animal whose significance is grossly underrated by any confusion with a penguin. Its remarkably well-documented path to extinction is a point of great interest for Berry; history reveals that fishermen killed the last pair of Great Auk in 1844 on the island of Eldey off of Iceland. “It really is an icon of extinction, this beautiful, beautiful bird,” Berry says. “You know those bumper stickers ‘Extinction is Forever’? For me you only need a picture of the Great Auk.”
On a shelf-lined wall near the kitchen hang numerous plant-like ceramic pieces, along with a similar collection of fantastic ceramic intestinal worms. Though they could easily pass for just another set of artsy decorations, Berry explains that the pieces represent the evolutionary phenomenon of adaptive radiation. “Think of the Galápagos finches, where you have one ancestor arriving on an empty island and then you have multiple different species spawned off from the ancestor,” Berry explains. “You take one original thing, and then you have variations of it.”
The concept of using adaptive radiation as a decorative motif is interesting to be sure, but Berry acknowledges that it makes for a less than appetizing atmosphere. “I am not responsible for any of the beautification of this house,” he claims, insisting that it is only because of his wife’s influence that several vases of flowers grace their kitchen and dining room tables.
He does not object, however, to being held accountable for what he calls the “greatest illustration ever made”—the framed copy of James Gillray’s political cartoon “New Morality” from 1786, which provides a caricature of British intellectuals of the period. Continuing to proudly display his treasures, Berry also gestures toward two large maps of India from 1794 by James Rennell and a bowl filled with eggs—from ostrich to double-yoke swan eggs—inscribed delicately with letters. The latter display was created by Christopher W. Adams ’94, a former student of Pierce’s, who also produced the adaptive radiation displays of the plants and intestinal parasites.
On the refrigerator, a photograph of Mount Harvard hangs amongst a crowd of magnets and a package of dried cuttlefish sent from a friend in Singapore; Berry explains that the peak is located in the Collegiate Range in Colorado in the company of other similarly named summits. “I am happy to say that Harvard is the highest,” he says.
Berry is an avid mountain climber whose most recent ascent was to the peak of Mount Darwin in the Evolution Range in the High Sierra of Central California. “The trouble with Mount Darwin is that it’s a technical climb,” he says. “I mean, there are parts where if you fall off, you die.”
With the help of a former student, however, he reached the top for the bicentennial of Darwin’s birth. In fact, he left a copy of “The Origin of Species” there.
Berry is also a fan of music: “It really is one of the most important things in the world,” he says. “I go to punk rock shows, I go to classical, to opera. This past week I went to the Harvard Mariachi Veritas show, and I went to see my favorite British post-punk band called the Wedding Present in the Middle East.”  He’s a fan of Harvard-based music as well.  “I’m a big Ghungroo groupie,” he adds, recounting how a one-time invitation from a former student to attend the annual event has morphed into a family tradition.
Berry’s house also is special in that it provides an unofficial community for his students. “It does mean that our house is a sort of home away from home for a lot of science grad students, bio grad students, in particular postdocs,” Berry explains. “Most evenings we will have people to dinner, people who were working late in the lab and so will swing by here.”
His home is open to undergraduates as well, and Berry is known to host his freshman advisees annually. “I get fed up hearing the complaints about Annenberg, so at least once everyone comes down here, which is nice,” he says.
In their hospitality, Berry and Pierce even offer a guest room open for visitors, and keep a cab company number memorized for them. The result?
“There was a time about six months ago when somebody was picked up by that cab company out here at six o’clock in the morning off to get an early flight,” he remembers. “The cab driver apparently asked this person, ‘Is this a hotel or a private residence or what?’ because he was so accustomed to picking up different people each time.”
Sections
FM follows three student performing groups as they prepare for their spring shows.
Eleganza
Gilbert & Sullivan
TAPS
Sections
Friends describe Janie as an incredibly focused individual, an academic powerhouse, and a “beast” in the athletic arena. In high school, she was a star student-athlete and a nationally ranked swimmer. In college, she has continued to swim for Harvard while rowing for the Radcliffe lightweight crew team.
“I went to a really competitive high school, so I always expected myself to do well,” she said on the phone from her home in New York. This extraordinary drive shaped Janie’s approach to college, and to life. On Monday, she had just returned home from running the Boston Marathon. It was her first time near campus since February.
Janie’s trouble began during Reading Period last fall. The stress of an overwhelming workload—four final papers and three final exams—began to mount; Janie suddenly felt herself losing control over functions that were once habitual.
“Everything just started to slow down, and that just got me even more frustrated,” she recalled.
She described the end of last semester as a downward spiral. Reading became a challenge; articulating thoughts and communicating with friends followed suit. Meanwhile, she withdrew from loved ones. She had been previously diagnosed with clinical depression, but this was a new and frightening experience.
It felt as if her brain were shutting down. “I couldn’t speak anymore,” she said. “I was writing papers and I had nothing to say...I was getting into this really vicious cycle.”
Reflecting on this period, Janie said her emotions peaked at what amounted to an “existential crisis.”
“[I thought,] ‘I can’t write because I can’t think and if I can’t think, why am I alive?’” she said. “It was a huge spiral; it was the biggest kind of slippery slope you could imagine.”
Janie said that while part of her knew she was being irrational, she clung to this reasoning in an attempt to make sense of things. She tried to rationalize her emotions, and became overcome by negativity and self-doubt. During this depressive episode, her supportive family was a lifeline. At the time, Janie felt wracked by guilt.
“I thought, ‘What am I doing here?’” she said. “‘I’m just such a burden to everyone,’—I became extremely suicidal.” Janie returned home after final exams profoundly exhausted. “I was hanging by a thread, and that thread just broke when I got home,” she recalled.  She was constantly thinking of death and dying.
At home, Janie sought counseling from a psychiatrist who advised her to take a break from Harvard. She disagreed. She had performed exceptionally well the previous term despite her ordeal. In addition, winter crew training was approaching. She thought the structure and social nature of crew would only help her readjust.
When she returned to campus, however, Janie again felt disconnected from her peers.
In February, she decided to visit Mental Health Services at UHS for an intake session. In the preliminary assessment, Janie relayed her whole story—including her thoughts of suicide. The therapist was concerned. She asked Janie to schedule a follow-up appointment.
But even with her suicidal thoughts and the concerns of those around her, Janie was reluctant to suspend her life at Harvard. She had excelled here and wanted things to work out at school—especially after already having taken a leave for health reasons the previous spring.
A COMMON CRISIS
Despite her sense of isolation and  her qualms about a second leave, Janie’s missing semester wasn’t very exceptional among Harvard students. According to the five-year statistics released by the Administrative Board, between the 2004-2005 and 2008-2009 academic years, the board granted 1,229 leaves of absence.
According to UHS Chief of Mental Health Dr. Richard D. Kadison and Director of Behavioral Health and Academic Counseling Dr. Paul Barreira, the numbers of students who are hospitalized for psychiatric reasons, return from hospitalization, or take medical leaves have remained relatively consistent over this period.
Numbers aside, Janie didn’t want to lose another semester of crew, academics, and time with her friends.
Yet on that day in the campus health center, Janie’s options significantly narrowed. The UHS intake session had taken a greater toll than she anticipated.
“I think I had been starting to feel better after crew and after meeting my friends,” Janie said. “This intake session dredged up everything I’d been feeling in finals period.”
So she reverted to a habit she had developed over winter break: she went down to the first floor of UHS and locked herself in a bathroom, away from everyone and alone with her thoughts. By the time her cell phone rang, it had been five hours, yet she had no idea so much time had passed. Her parents were on the other line. They threatened to call the police if she wouldn’t tell them her location.
Even Janie’s thoughts of ending her life reflected a somewhat common experience among college students in her position. In a study of 28,000 students on 66 campuses released one year ago by The Center for the Study of Collegiate Mental Health at Penn State University, one in four respondents who sought on-campus mental health assistance reported seriously considering suicide.
In the Harvard context, however, Janie’s case raised a more distinct alarm.
In a 2009 interview with The Crimson, Barreira said that because the proportion of Harvard students who receive mental health services is higher than the national average, the percentage that report seriously considering suicide is much lower than the national statistic. Janie’s openness about her suicidal thoughts, then, was relatively rare among UHS patients.
Furthermore, in recent years the College has had reason to focus on students expressing thoughts of self-harm or suicide. In 1998, the family of an undergraduate sued the University three years after their daughter had been stabbed to death by her Dunster House roommate, who committed suicide after the attack.
The student’s family claimed that the College should have recognized the roommate’s instability when she missed three exams and exhibited erratic behavior. The murder-suicide gained national attention and is often cited as a turning point for mental health services at Harvard. In the past two decades, there have been nearly 20 alleged suicides on Harvard’s campus.
In December 2009, the family of John B. Edwards III ’10 filed a lawsuit that implicated UHS in their son’s apparent suicide, citing misconduct on the part of UHS prescribers.
According to the complaint, a nurse practitioner prescribed Adderall to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. He was also prescribed two antidepressants: Prozac and Wellbutrin. In addition, Edwards was taking Accutane, a powerful anti-acne drug. Three of these drugs have been linked with heightened suicide risk. In Edwards’ case, that the suicide happened on campus led to its direct association with Harvard.
Both Edwards and Janie’s cases indicate conflicts between availability, responsibility, and expectations of Harvard’s resources with respect to its students. Decisions regarding students’ well-being on campus are rarely black and white, and can involve a tempest of competing narratives and interests.
Similarly, the factors behind a Harvard student’s leave of absence highlight opposing priorities of the multiple parties involved.
On a primarily residential campus where most students live far away from their family and doctors at home, it falls to the College to both assess and address mental health concerns. But  Harvard is first and foremost an academic institution, and while the administration’s goal of protecting students is clear, the Ad Board’s limited scope and the lack of clear communication with students often transforms concern into discipline.
CLOSING THE GATE
When Janie finally revealed her location, friends ushered her back to urgent care. The therapist on call was the same woman she had seen for her intake hours before. She and a psychiatrist on duty told Janie that she wasn’t safe on campus.
Janie was admitted to a Boston hospital for four days, during which she discussed options with her Resident Dean. After her stay, Janie temporarily returned to campus for Shopping Period, but selecting courses just didn't work out.
So Janie relented to the leave. Her previous departure had been for both mononucleosis and depression, but was treated as more of a physical recovery. This second leave was clearly a mental health case, but since it was also classified as voluntary, Janie expected to have a similar experience with the College this time around.
When she returned home, however, Janie was served what she calls “the coldest, most robotic letter [she’d] ever received” from her Resident Dean. The letter outlined the terms of her leave, including regular therapy for six months, 40 hours a week of consistent work, and interviews with both the Ad Board and with MHS. This time would be different.
Janie is still on leave, at least through summer. The Ad Board will eventually decide whether or not she can return.
Although Janie’s choice to go on leave was officially voluntary—she signed forms and made the decision herself—her return is another matter. Whether the absence is a voluntary or involuntary one, the student’s return to school must be approved by the Ad Board. Students like Janie might be granted leaves of absence, but that doesn’t mean they are necessarily guaranteed a pass to return.
Janie’s case, though unique, is just one of many in a broad array of experiences among students subject to leaves of absence. According to the 2009 Student Handbook, students may be asked to consider a leave of absence for a host of reasons, including medical health, criminal behavior, outstanding debt to the College, risk to the community, incomplete courses or unfulfilled requirements, failure to submit proof of immunization records, or failure to register for a term.
By removing a student, a leave of absence limits the College’s liability. At best, a leave can allow a student time to reflect and recover outside of the pace of College life, and, if the student has the resources, to access long-term care at home.
When a student requests to return after a mental health-related leave, as in Janie’s case, the Ad Board seeks an assessment from UHS of whether or not the student followed expectations and demonstrates readiness to return.
According to John D. “Jay” Ellison, secretary of the Ad Board, the Board’s consideration regarding a particular student does not take into account the details of their case or care— in an effort to preserve a student’s confidentiality —but rather a more concise assessment from UHS of whether or not the student followed expectations and demonstrates readiness to return to the community. While the Ad Board generally votes in accordance with UHS recommendations, Ellison says they have disagreed in the past only when a student does not seem entirely fit to return to a full load of courses or the various stressors of residential life.
In Janie’s case, this means the Ad Board’s verdict will likely focus on her compliance rather than just the assessment of her therapist at home or her own sense of readiness. And even then, she might not be allowed to return.
“After dealing with [my Resident Dean] and the Ad Board and the [clinician] at MHS for the last couple of months, I realized I wasn’t an individual in Harvard’s eyes, but rather a liability,” she said.
In a sense, the process of taking a leave is intentionally generalized. While the event is specific to the terms of a student’s leave, the process is relatively anonymous. Students do not appear before the Ad Board because Board meetings do not allow for dialogue or questioning.
Although UHS is often flexible on terms if they feel the student demonstrates stability in concrete ways, the expectations—six months of consistent work and a period of care—are standardized along the lines of what is considered helpful for the average student. Furthermore, UHS consults the Ad Board, which makes the final decision on matters.
In the general context of mental health concerns at Harvard, history has only encouraged administrators to err on the side of caution. Because resources are seriously limited at Harvard, this often translates to suggesting a leave.
“If we have a case where a student is considered capable of coming back, but can’t resume full studies, we hesitate.” said Ellison. “Harvard is an academic institution, not a mental institution or a halfway house.”
ADMINISTRATING ABSENCE
But while Harvard is first and foremost an academic institution, in practice it takes on other roles and considerations involving a student’s life and well-being.
As members of the Ad Board and advocates for students, Resident Deans are liaisons between the College and the students in their care. “We serve as experts on both sides,” said Sharon L. Howell, who is the Resident Dean of Adams House.
Howell’s office in Adams seems almost designed for meditation; there is  plenty of open space, a high ceiling, and large windows. It is decorated in pale earth tones and furnished with comfortable couches. She has a warm, open demeanor and speaks with the comforting cadence of a therapist.
This quality is an asset in her role; as Resident Dean, she is often called upon to engage with and represent students struggling with mental health concerns.
Because of the dual nature of their role, in cases of leaves of absence, Resident Deans can end up navigating a complicated set of priorities, attempting to balance sensitivity to the individual student, concern for the student’s effect on his or her environment, and respect for official policies of the College.
“We want students to understand that the position we’re in is not adversarial—it’s an educational board,” said Howell. We’re not writing them off and saying ‘Go away.’ We’re saying, ‘Here’s what we think makes sense for you to do, and we expect you to come back; we expect you to learn from it.’ ”
In 1890, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences established the Administrative Board. To this day, the Ad Board is responsible for the application and enforcement of undergraduate academic regulations and standards of social conduct. The Board includes the Allston Burr Resident Deans of each House, the Freshman Resident Deans, and the Dean of the College, as well as other officials whose roles involve student life and undergraduate education. All meetings and discussions of the Ad Board are confidential.
The Ad Board acts on different types of petitions and cases, categorized as routine and special petitions, disciplinary cases, and academic reviews.
In the fall of 2005, the College obtained the right to force medical leaves of absence for students if the care they required seemed to exceed the reach of campus resources. But while many students interviewed for this piece described their leaves as involuntary, all leaves of absence decided by the Ad Board are officially recorded as voluntary in the records. This includes Janie’s.
Only the Dean of the College can place a student on an involuntary leave. According to Ellison, this is extremely rare. In statistics released by the Ad Board, this scenario has only occurred twice in the past five years.
LIFE IN LIMBO
Now, after three months of rest and therapy, Janie said that her psychiatrist at home supports her case and feels confident she is stable enough to return in the fall.
Furthermore, Janie recently received her dream summer opportunity—a grant to perform botany research abroad.
But the opportunity is through Harvard, and she must clear her participation through the Ad Board. When Janie told her clinician at MHS about the grant, the response was discouraging.
“She was like, ‘We gave you a list of things to do, and if you don’t comply, you’re going to have a tough time coming back,’” Janie recalled.
In truth, Janie hadn’t fulfilled her side of the contract—that is, to prove six months of work and stability before returning to school.
However, when she returned home to New York, she spent a couple of weeks focused on recovery. After that, it took months to find employment. Both work and volunteer opportunities were incredibly scarce. “The economic climate is horrendous,” she said. “I [was] looking for four weeks, and could not even find a part-time job.”
Janie said she understood the purpose of the work requirement—to prove sustained stability—but in practice her options were limited. In the meantime, she has structured and planned her daily activities. She trains for three hours each morning, reads, journals, and collects data for the Botanical Garden nearby.  She is an Organismic and Evolutionary Biology concentrator, and volunteering at the Garden substitutes for an educational experience. She is also currently enrolled in a creative writing class.
But many of Janie’s engagements are useless for proving stability; she said they can’t be documented in a manner acceptable for consideration by the Board.
WHEN A LEAVE IS FOR GOOD
“This may sound cold, but my job is not to care about the specific circumstances of a student’s case,” Ellison said. “I need to know what their requirements were, and if they complied.”
For John, compliance has been a recurring issue.
“I’m not sure how much help I’m going to be to you. My case is a little unusual, in part because I don’t plan on coming back,” said John, glancing out of the window at 1369 Coffee House in Inman Square as he picked at a cranberry scone.
Although John is an American citizen, he grew up in England. He speaks slowly, with a resonant, Mid-Atlantic gravity that settles somewhere in the American South.
After graduating from secondary school, John was admitted to Harvard’s class of 2008. As is common in the British school system, he deferred for a year. During his gap year, John worked for IBM and traveled throughout Southeast Asia.
“In hindsight, the fact that I went to a school where I was treated like an adult at 16, worked for a year, and traveled the world before I came to Harvard was terrible preparation,” he said.“I got a little too addicted to being grown up.”
For John, freshman fall at Harvard was a culture shock. Writing had been his strength; he recalled once winning £600 for an essay. At Harvard, he found himself failing all of his courses—including Expository Writing.
As the semester drew on, John found himself facing academic probation. His grades weren’t getting better and his options were limited. “There’s a rip cord you can pull, jump before anything happens,” he said. “If you left before exam period, you could erase your past, academically.” So he pulled the cord. “What I didn’t know was that absolutely everything counts toward your final record.”
John has taken two leaves of absence due to academic reasons, but he’s never strayed very far from campus. On both leaves, he has remained in Massachusetts.
“I think technically I am still on [a leave],” he said, though he concedes that he isn’t sure. “Then I’d be in the class of...2013? I don’t even know.”
John still lives in Cambridge. He now resides near Inman Square and works at a brokerage firm. He has only one Harvard semester on record, although he has technically been on campus for three. He characterizes his first leave as voluntary, the second, involuntary. Prior to his second leave, he had spent the year resisting suggestions from deans to visit the Bureau of Study Counsel and seek mental health services.
While he acknowledges that pride played a role in his response to administrative intervention, John resented that the administration was trying to apply a standardized process to his unique case.
“First it’s a disciplinary problem, as if you’re not trying enough,” he said. “Then it’s a mental health issue. No one could tell me why [I was struggling] though.”
Reflecting on his experience, John perceives his leaves of absence as disciplinary measures rather than solutions to a problem.
“It’s kind of a one-size-fits-all system,” he said, “It wasn’t very productive for me.” On his leaves, John met the standard requirement to demonstrate stability by holding a paying job. In fact, he took on several jobs in succession; he spent nine months working in a sheet metal factory, bartended, and taking on other temporary employment in Massachusetts. But while he was meeting the College’s expectations, he wasn’t addressing its academic concerns.
“When you take a leave and return, it raises the stress level; it raises the stakes,” he said, explaining that he doesn’t see how he could return to Harvard and not fall into the same pattern again.
John describes his decision to leave Harvard for good as a “narrative issue.”
“Do I want to be the guy who stuck around for three years and they let him back or the guy who left on his own?” he said.
THE COMPLICATIONS OF SEEKING CARE
Lisa, who requested her real name not be used for this article, took a semester leave after a two-week admission to McLean Hospital in the spring of her sophomore year. Like Janie, Lisa was asked to consider a leave after telling her therapist about thoughts of hurting herself.
“I was kind of under the weather,” she said. “I think it was a liability issue…I understand that the University is not a hospital or a mental institution.”
Over the summer following her leave, she returned home. There, she took a physics class while receiving regular care.
“I had the whole summer in a low-stress environment...I was sort of anxious to return to Harvard,” she explained. “I think for a lot of students [who go on leave] you feel like you’re behind.”
Both time and money are shared concerns for students who take mental health leaves and hope to return to campus. Historically, this has been a problem specifically for students who were required to withdraw for a period, and were therefore no longer enrolled in the College. These students would lose access to insurance and resources on campus, meaning that they were on their own for care once they left Harvard.
In the case of a mental health scenario, this poses a paradox.
“It has been such a difficult conversation to have with students, to tell them [they] need to go away, and have therapy, but [they] don’t have any insurance.’” said Howell. “It’s a little surreal to ask students to go home to Kansas and away from the ready-at-hand resources and require them to get regular help that isn’t available.”
Howell, like all Resident Deans, must maintain a delicate balance between advocating for her students and representing the body that decides their cases.
According to Kadison and Barreira, students on medical leave have the option to continue supplemental insurance coverage for two consecutive semesters while away, including medication benefits. While this policy is limited to the services offered by Harvard’s partial Blue Cross Blue Shield coverage, it allows Harvard officials to help students negotiate resources outside the campus.
Ellison said that in cases of students on leave who have alternative insurance, Harvard attempts to find appropriate care. But the process cannot always fully address  cases in which a student’s access to resources and finances outside of Harvard are limited.
In Lisa’s case, this policy would not have made a difference. Her doctor back at home did not accept insurance. “I was lucky to be able to afford that,” she said.
To students, leaves seem to focus on the imperative to remove an individual from Harvard rather than the qualities of their destinations.  The College cannot guarantee that a student’s alternative environment will be more beneficial to them than campus. While students are not required to return home on their leave, going elsewhere might involve other stressors. Janie is in a stable environment at home, but she sees her leave as the source of lost opportunities; John spent most of his time off living alone in Cambridge and far from his family, and finances were a recurring issue.
RETURNING TO CAMPUS
Sometimes, the return to Harvard can be the most challenging part of the process. When she was gearing up to come back to campus, Lisa felt refreshed, but the return to an environment that had proceeded in her absence wasn’t quite what she expected.
When Lisa returned to Harvard, she sought care outside of UHS, citing mixed and, at times, negative experiences with the strained system. But after the 12 visits allowed under Harvard insurance, she had to pay her new therapist out of her own pocket. “It was expensive. Eventually I couldn’t pay for it anymore,” she said.
“It was sort of weird because some people didn’t know I took time off; sometimes I would make something up or not tell them the whole story,” she said, speaking at a fast, energetic clip. “I once told someone that all my grandparents died.”
Lisa’s return also involved academic adjustment. As a Biochemistry concentrator, she found herself “bumped off” from her course schedule. She joined the student-run Mental Health Awareness and Advocacy Group, which she eventually co-chaired, and sought regular care on campus.
Her affiliation with MHAAG gave her insight into mental health resources at Harvard and a greater appreciation for how common leaves and mental health concerns were among students.
But Lisa is aware that her openness about the nature of her leave is relatively rare in the Harvard community. In a clinical setting, and at home, she could be more open. “I wasn’t the only Harvard kid [at McLean], for sure,” she said. On campus, however, “I [felt] like some people want to hide.”
Now Janie eagerly awaits her chance to readjust to campus. She recently found a part-time job at a restaurant, working the night shift. But given the time frame, she won’t be able to accept the Harvard grant, and she will have to continue working through the summer. Her new goal is to return in the fall, in time for swim season. After she realized her chances of accepting the grant were low, Janie called her Resident Dean. He told her to be patient—many of the members of the Ad Board are older, he said, and to them six months is not a very long time.
“That just [made] me so angry,” said Janie. “To a 20-year-old who is eager to channel energy, who is eager to move on with an academic career, six months is a long time.”
Janie said she’s ready to come back to school, but that isn’t her decision to make.
She feels that the Ad Board’s decision to delay her enrollment conflicts with its mission to enrich her education. “As an institution, they’re the ones who are supposed to offer limitless opportunities,” she said, “but now they’re  the only thing that’s limiting me.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 23, 2010
An earlier version of the Apr. 23 FM article "Brain Break" incorrectly stated that the President of the University is a member of the Administrative Board, the College's primary disciplinary body. In fact, the President is not a member of the Board.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Seventeen percent of Harvard’s Class of 2010 applied to Teach for America.
With 293 total applicants, Harvard saw the largest share of its senior class apply in TFA’s 19 year history, according to Anasstassia Baichorova, a TFA recruiter for Harvard and Brown.
Last year 14 percent of the senior class applied, and 55 members of the class of 2009 are currently working for TFA, according to Baichorova. Harvard graduates comprised the largest percentage of last year’s TFA hires, Baichorova said.
Baichorova said she could not say how many Harvard undergraduates had been accepted this year or how many would eventually join the corps because students still have two weeks to commit to offers.
TFA saw an increase in the number of applicants nationwide. The program received 46,359 applications for the 2010 corps, marking the third consecutive year of over 30 percent growth, according to Baichorova.
Accepted undergraduates suggested a variety of reasons for the three percent increase in applications. Some cited TFA’s aggressive recruiting effort on campus, while others pointed to the current state of the job market.
Allison J. La Fave ’10 said she had no intention of applying early this fall, but by the time October rolled around, TFA’s recruiting efforts had persuaded her to apply.
“Word of mouth has been very valuable,” she said. “I think the numbers will continue to increase.”
Like last year, Harvard had the highest percentage of students apply of any school in the nation, according to Baichorova.
This year Yale had 218 students apply—or 16 percent—and Brown had 13 percent apply, according to Baichorova.
On Wednesday, the Graduate School of Education hosted a reception for future participants and TFA alumni. University President Drew G. Faust and Bill Gates, who was visiting Harvard, spoke at the event.
Several students accepted into the program said they applied to TFA because they want to make a meaningful contribution to society.
After receiving financial aid from the College, La Fave said she wanted an opportunity to “pay it forward.”
“Somebody gave me an education at Harvard that I’d never expected,” she said.
Samir J. Paul ’10 said he was excited to see more students applying to TFA and saw it as an indication of this generation’s desire to volunteer.
“I take it as a great sign of optimism and a shift in direction towards an orientation of public service,” he said. “It wasn’t long ago that President Obama was talking about a poverty of ambition.”
Paul said teaching mathematics through TFA would give him a chance to help improve the American education system from within.
“I’m looking forward to being one cog in the overall movement,” he said.
—Eric P. Newcomer can be reached at newcomer@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A senior thesis film directed by Andrew N. Wesman ’10 has been chosen as an official selection by the Festival de Cannes, one of the oldest and most prestigious film festivals in the world.
Wesman’s film “Shelley” is one of thirteen films picked from a total of 1600 entries from film school students all over the world. “Shelley” is also only one of two films to represent the United States in the student short films category.
Wesman, who is the first Harvard student to have his film accepted to the Cannes Festival, said he began writing the script for “Shelley” last spring. Shooting for the film began in early June of last year at a house in Cape Cod with eight crew members—including seniors Alexander J. Berman ’10 and Samuel H. Lemberg ’10.
Wesman said that he found out about his selection for Cannes over spring break while on a road trip with his friend and the film’s producer, Pomona senior Ian T. Carr.
“[We were] overlooking this beautiful vista in Utah at Zion National Park,” he said. “It just popped up on my iPhone.”
Wesman added that he felt “honored” and “ecstatic,” and that the whole crew was “really, really happy.”
The 21-minute long “Shelley” concerns a controversial subject—a girl who kills her parents—but is not a gory film.
Wesman’s senior thesis adviser, Assistant Professor of Visual and Environmental Studies Amie Siegel, praised his cinematographic choices.
“[The film is] a sometimes poetic, at other times chilling rendering of the teen psyche—a risky and admirable decision,” she said. “[Wesman] reaches beyond normal or habitual story-telling.”
Submitting the “Shelley” film to Cannes was not in Wesman’s original plans.
“I was making ‘Shelley’ just to do the best possible job on my thesis,” he said. “I had a pretty finished version of the film by February, and I decided on the last possible day, ‘Hey, why not try and apply to Cannes?’
Wesman nearly decided against sending his film in because the post office was closed for a holiday.
“I had to pay an exorbitant amount to send it,” he added. “I was just going to say ‘nah it’s not worth it,’ but then my girlfriend said ‘oh, just send it in’ and I did.”
Wesman will leave for France to attend the Cannes Festival on May 17. His film will be screened at Harvard on April 30, May 1, and May 6.
When describing his experiences in the past few months, Wesman said, “It’s been pretty overwhelming, but I feel confident going to the festival.”
When asked about his future plans in the film industry, Wesman, who will be attending film school in Los Angeles next year, said he wants to keep directing narrative films.
“It’s been a passion since I was nine years old,” Wesman said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
History Professor Mary D. Lewis, who has taught at Harvard for eight years, was granted tenure early last week.
Lewis—a specialist in modern French social, political, and legal history—has served as the John L. Loeb Associate Professor of the Social Sciences since July 2006. She has taught at Harvard as a tenure-track professor since 2002.
History Department Chair Lizabeth Cohen wrote in an e-mailed statement that the department was confident in Lewis’ case for tenure.
“But you never know, there was a giant sigh of relief in Robinson Hall when we got the word that her tenure went through,” she said.
Lewis has received a number of academic honors, including the James Willard Hurst Prize for the best work in sociolegal history published in 2007. She also graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of California at Davis in 1991 and received distinction for her dissertation at New York University, where she received a Ph.D. in History and French Studies 2000. Her dissertation explored the rights of immigrants in Marseille and Lyon.
She is now writing a book about the relationship between everyday legal battles in French North Africa and international power politics.
Lewis’ current book bears her academic trademark of immense archival work, according to History Professor David Blackbourn, who co-chaired the committee that first hired her.
“It’s been very gratifying for me to see her first book come out during her time here and to see her coming along well with her second project,” said Blackbourn, who also serves as director of the Center for European Studies.
“All of these accomplishments indicated to us that Mary Lewis was already—and would only become more so—a major historian in the field of modern French History,” Cohen wrote. “She has also been an extremely successful undergraduate and graduate teacher.”
Lewis said that she is glad to be able to continue to teach at Harvard.
“I have to admit that when I was in college, [becoming a professor] was on my mind,” Lewis said. “And I’m so glad to be where I am: it’s been so rewarding to teach the students at Harvard.”
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Next spring, James G. Anderson will embark on a “hunting expedition” to study greenhouse gas emissions in the Arctic, using instruments developed in his lab to measure methane and carbon dioxide emissions of the melting ice cap.
Unlike past research aimed at discovering the effects of climate change on the Arctic ice cap, this project will turn the tables and study the effects the Arctic has on climate change.
Anderson, a professor of atmospheric chemistry, said his project will focus primarily on the amount of carbon that is emitted, the “hotspots” of emission, and the sources of this carbon.
He added that he will examine permafrost—permanently frozen ground—which has large amounts of greenhouse gases trapped inside. These gases, Anderson explained, have been frozen for millions of years within the ice cap, but are starting to escape due to climate change.
“If even a small fraction is released each year, it would surpass the amount of carbon released by humans,” wrote David S. Sayres, a research associate involved with the project, in an emailed statement.
This release could then affect the ability to reduce carbon emissions and climate change, according to Sayres.
“So knowing how much and how fast the Arctic carbon is being released is crucial for making sound policy decisions about climate change and fossil fuel usage,” Sayres wrote.
The instruments developed for studying Arctic greenhouse gas emissions are the most recent projects in Anderson’s lab, which focuses primarily on “feedback” from nature—physical effects that amplify changes in our environment. The lab develops methods to understand these feedback systems and then tries to prevent or lessen their effects.
“[T]he biggest issue regarding climate change is the fact that it doesn’t look like we are going to do anything about it,” wrote Dr. Sayres. “If we are going to mitigate climate change and possibly stop it we, meaning humans, are going to have to make some drastic changes in the way we live and the way we get our energy; and we need to do it quickly.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the first year of the English department’s new curriculum, students and administrators are still reflecting on the revamped program.
The new curriculum—which removed most requirements, including English 10a and 10b: “Major British Writers,” in favor of more elective courses—is rooted in four required “common-ground” areas called “Diffusions,” “Arrivals,” “Poets,” and “Shakespeares.”
Student reaction in particular has been mixed.
English concentrator Justin B. Wymer ’12 said that he enjoyed W. James Simpson’s “Arrivals” course, English 41: “Culture Wars 700-1700,” last fall more than he thought he would. He explained that the class resembled a seminar rather than a lecture and allowed for closer interactions between him and Simpson, the English department’s director of graduate studies.
“I don’t feel like I’m losing structure,” Wymer said of the new curriculum. “There’s definitely an ability for you to structure your own curriculum.”
But English concentrator Alexander “Zander” C. Auerbach ’11 expressed concern about the specificity of some common-ground areas. He explained that although it makes sense to define certain areas in which all concentrators should be knowledgeable, the course selections in “Arrivals” and “Diffusions” were too specific.
“Given that the ‘Arrivals’ and ‘Diffusions’ courses represent narrower literary interests than ‘Shakespeares’ or ‘Poets’ courses, it seems odd to me that those requirements hold equal weight,” he said.
“I’ve been frustrated in my attempt to find ‘Arrivals’ or ‘Diffusions’ courses that engage my range of interests,” he added.
Two professors who played a major role forming the new curriculum said that the new curriculum has received positive feedback from students.
Simpson said that he found teaching English 41, an “Arrivals” course, to be much more satisfying than teaching English 10a because it was substantially smaller.
“Getting to know students was a really signal improvement for what you might call the pedagogical way of life,” he said.
He added that the Q rating for English 41 was 4.5, as opposed to the stubbornly mediocre Q ratings he received while teaching English 10a through the years.
English Professor Elisa New, who was also on the reform committee, said that the more intimate environment of the common-ground courses has helped cultivate a better understanding of the literature among students.
She added that teaching “materials that really do help us understand who we are and what it is to be human” in a “dehumanized way” like a lecture can often empty out much of what humanistic study can offer.
“We want a deep understanding ideally,” she said. “That’s why we do this.”
—Staff writer James K. McAuley can be reached at mcauley@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard School of Public Health has teamed up with the Culinary Institute of America to combat the excess of sodium consumption in the American diet.
The new sodium initiative is a result of discussions at the two groups’ annual convention, “World of Healthy Flavors,” which brings together high volume food producers, chefs, top nutritionists, and culinary experts.
The most recent convention focused on high sodium intake among the American population.
Walter C. Willett, chair of the department of nutrition at HSPH, said that reduction of sodium is a critical public health priority.
Lowering sodium intake decreases the risk of health problems such as high blood pressure, stroke, and heart attack, Willett said, and trimming down the amount of sodium Americans consume could prevent 90,000 to 100,000 early deaths per year.
Scientists from the Department of Nutrition at HSPH and culinary experts from the Culinary Institute of America have devised a list of 25 strategies for reducing sodium levels in food without compromising taste, Willett said.
But many of the strategies suggested in the list revolve around cooking meals at home, whereas 75 percent of sodium is consumed in pre-prepared products or restaurants, he added.
Another difficulty is that people cannot cut sodium entirely out of their diets, since sodium is an essential nutrient.
“People are hard wired to seek out some sodium, but it is too easy to overconsume it,” he said.
The permanent approach to lowering sodium consumption is by altering the way manufacturers produce their food, Willett said, adding that regulations are needed to help combat the overconsumption of sodium because food companies that voluntarily choose to reduce the levels of sodium in their food can be put at a competitive disadvantage.
He said that this process has already begun, particularly in New York City, where the city has set up nutritional guidelines and requires that foods that they purchase meet those guidelines.
As the city is such a large purchaser of foodstuffs, their nutritional requirements hold sway over companies’ food production.
Until changes are made to the way food is produced, Willett said that providing the public with accurate information about how to eat healthily and reduce sodium intake—such as through easily interpreted labels—will help set Americans on a path toward healthier eating habits.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent study conducted in part by researchers at Harvard Medical School suggests that developing countries may not be receiving the full benefit of intended international health aid.
The governments of many sub-Saharan African countries receive aid from other countries and international organizations to supplement their domestic health spending. But according to the study, published in The Lancet earlier this month, the addition of these funds often leads governments to divert the money they planned to dedicate to health to other areas.
The researchers found that for every dollar governments are given, they divert between $0.43 and $1.14 away from their original domestic health budgets.
In contrast, the study also discovered that when funding is sent to non-governmental organizations instead of to the government directly, government health spending tends to increase.
Although the findings raise serious concerns about whether or not health aid may be a zero sum game, Claude Bruderlein, a lecturer on international health at the Harvard School for Public Health, said that the mere dollar amounts do not show the full extent of the benefits of international aid.
Bruderlein explained that, along with accounting statistics, international health funding carries with it necessary standards of accountability and productivity that may not be coming from the local populations, especially in non-democratic countries.
The researchers said they noticed a gap in data on how governments were spending money that they had received from external sources to go toward health care priorities, which motivated them to conduct the study.
“We found that a lot of money has been sent to developing countries in the health sector and that there was no evidence regarding the effectiveness,” said Chunling Lu, an instructor in social medicine at the Medical School and the paper’s lead author. “We wanted to know how this investment worked.”
The team urged caution when looking at their findings, however, noting that important data about health care spending was often entirely missing from government records, and thus not accounted for in their results.
Going forward, the researchers suggested that countries should establish clear ways of reporting government health spending and keeping track of all domestic spending on health issues. In addition, each government should establish a target for a minimum amount of health spending, which should either remain constant or increase annually.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In July 2008, University President Drew G. Faust challenged Harvard to reduce all greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent from the 2006 baseline level within the next decade.
Since then, Harvard’s individual schools are making uneven progress towards the University’s target, with reductions ranging from a high of 27 percent at Harvard Business School to a low of 4.6 percent at the Graduate School of Design for fiscal years 2006 to 2009.
And as of July 2009, the University had reduced its emissions by 7 percent, including campus renovations and expansions.
At the center of a sprawling, decentralized University, the Office for Sustainability—established in the fall of 2008—has been tasked with keeping every Harvard division on track to meet the same 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions.
But given the unique starting point and varying operational needs of each school—Harvard Medical School’s energy expenditures include the electricity demands of its labs, where thousands of students and faculty conduct research, for example—it is unclear whether Harvard will be able to achieve 30 percent reductions across the board.
THE RAW MATERIALS
For the School of Design, meeting Faust’s challenge would require major renovations to its only building, Gund Hall,a 1970s Brutalist concrete building half occupied by a 35,000 square foot open studio space where the temperature varies by as much as 15 degrees between the bottom and top levels.
Gund Hall’s vast expanse of single-paned windows overlooking the large studio space is a major source of heat loss in the winter and overheating in the summer, the school’s facilities manager W. Kevin Cahill explains.
Additionally, the school has struggled to find an economically viable solution that would not ruin the architectural integrity of the building, says School of Design professor Christoph F. Reinhart, who has spearheaded many of the school’s sustainability efforts.
“This building was built before the oil embargoes, before the whole dynamic of heating costs,” Cahill says of Gund Halls’ energy-inefficient design. “They wouldn’t do that today.”
Similarly, Harvard Law School has run into difficulties in meeting its sustainability goals, as many buildings on campus were constructed in the 1950s, according to the school’s facilities director John Arciprete. The Law School has cut emissions by 14 percent thus far.
“The Business School would just have to change a setting on a pump to make it more efficient,” Arciprete says. “We would have to buy a whole new pump.”
The “growth inclusive” stipulation of the goal—meaning that any emissions associated with renovations or expansions must not push the school over its 30 percent targeted reduction—has proven to be another challenge for the Law School, which broke ground on a new construction project in 2007.
The Northwest Corner project, which is slated for completion by the end of 2011, will add about 250,000 square feet to the Law School’s campus—and a much larger real reduction goal in existing buildings, Arciprete says.
At the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, high-energy labs take up 25 percent of building space on Harvard’s Cambridge campus but account for half of FAS utilities costs, according to the Earth and Planetary Systems department website.
OFS Director Heather A. Henriksen adds that labs and computing systems—areas in which the University is growing most rapidly—have also presented problems for the Medical School, which has seen a 8.9 percent reduction in emissions.
GRASSROOTS GREENING
Though the Business School has continued to finance seven to 10 substantial sustainability projects each year since 2005, the $11 billion decline in endowment value in the year ending June 30, 2009 has affected other schools’ plans for green infrastructure changes.
For example, the School of Design, which receives 41 percent of its revenue from the endowment, has had to dramatically cut back on planned renovations of Gund Hall—such as replacing the large windows in the studio area—after this year’s endowment payout declined by 8 percent from the previous year, Cahill says.
“It’s always interesting at Harvard to say this, but we’re one of the poorer schools,” Cahill says.
To facilitate sustainability projects with large up-front costs, OFS manages a Green Campus Loan Fund, which allows schools to borrow up to $500,000 for initiatives and upgrades that will generate net savings within five years. According to the OFS website, the fund has provided $11.5 million in loans for 153 projects—including lighting upgrades, improvements to heating and cooling systems, and composting programs.
“We’ve had pretty broad support from the schools and units using it,” Henriksen says.
OFS has also encouraged schools to roll out “occupant engagement” programs, where Green Teams comprised of staff and students promote environmentally friendly practices such as composting, recycling, and saving energy.
These grassroots efforts have contributed the most to the Law School’s reductions, according to Arciprete, who says that the school focused on behavior modification during the initial phases of their sustainability efforts due to high renovation costs.
At the Design School, Cahill says that 10 percent of the faculty and staff are members of the Green Team, which has encouraged composting and recycling of wood and other design materials, and Henriksen says that initiatives such as low flow fume hoods have been able to maximize efficiency in a typically energy-intensive environment at the science schools.
Simple steps such as running the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning systems only when buildings are heavily occupied have contributed to significant cost savings, Henriksen adds.
“This isn’t the sexy stuff, but they’re also the stuff that have the big impact,” Henriksen says.
THE MAGIC NUMBER
After evaluating Harvard’s GHG reduction efforts thus far, Henriksen says that OFS is reassessing the different divisions’ plans to create a University-wide master plan that will be released later this year, marking Faust’s efforts to bring together the University’s schools that have traditionally operated under the “every tub on its own bottom” philosophy of decentralization.
Though OFS assistant director Jaclyn Olsen says that the relative decentralization of green efforts provides room for innovation at the school level, the office would like to see more coordination among individual efforts across the University.
“It takes some time to build up the expertise to have the ability to implement these things,” Olsen says.
OFS has helped organize several successful cross-university initiatives, according to Henriksen, including the sharing of behavioral best practices, the Green Office certification program, and the implementation of the University-wide temperature policies.
“We’re very positive because all the schools and units are working together,” Henriksen says. “There’s a strategic plan that they’re moving in the same direction with.”
But in terms of achieving the 30 percent targeted emissions reduction, the outlook is more varied among the individual schools.
The Law School’s sustainability coordinator Cara E. Ferrentino ’08 says that it is difficult to engineer a University-wide initiative that will address all school-specific needs.
“You find areas for collaboration, but it ends up being a different project,” Ferrentino says. “Each program responds to the culture of the school.”
Cahill adds that he “really couldn’t say” if 30 percent is a realistic target for the School of Design.
“It’s a goal, but at the same time it’s a challenge,” Cahill says.
—Staff writer Stephanie B. Garlock can be reached at sgarlock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For Shawn Low ’11, time is of the essence.
Not only is his thesis about the body’s internal clock, but it’s already done—an unimaginable feat for most juniors.
Low has worked in the lab of Molecular and Cellular Biology Professor Erin K. O’Shea for five semesters and two summers to prepare his thesis on temperature compensation in the three protein circadian clock.
Low said that he was able to finish his thesis a year ahead of schedule because O’Shea encouraged him to conduct his research on a fast-paced schedule, which would allow him to contribute concrete discoveries to the quickly evolving field of chronobiology.
Low’s research focuses on temperature compensation of the three-protein post-translational oscillator in the cyanobacterial biological clock. The oscillator controls global gene expression and regulates cyclical changes in the organism's physiology, biochemistry, and metabolism.
 
He studies how these three proteins—called KaiA, KaiB, and KaiC—respond to high and low temperature environments.
Low used existing mathematical models of the biological clock developed by others to predict the effects of temperature changes on the in vitro clock. He then compare the predictions from the model to experimental data.
To his surprise, the clock experienced no effect and ticked at a regular rate despite the changes.
Low found that a majority of the rate constants in the oscillator are not temperature-sensitive, but a small number are—suggesting that the temperature compensation of period length may result from a more fundamental property of the clock. Low proposed that the small number of temperature-sensitive rate constants may play an integral role in entraining the clock to diurnal temperature cycles in the environment.
Low, a Singapore native, said that he initially considered concentrating in Economics.
But upon finding himself enjoying Life Sciences 1a and contemplating the idea of research, Low asked O’Shea—who taught the course—about joining her lab.
With little to no experience in scientific research, Low was able to emerge with a thesis that is currently in the process of getting published.
He said he learned to speed up his experiments by running his pipetting and gelling procedures in groups rather than one at a time. He also economized his time by using the lab’s liquid handler, which runs and monitors certain experiments without human supervision.
“I learned a lot not just about the science of [chronobiology], but also, if you will, the business end of it—of how to actually optimize your experiments so that you get the most amount done,” said Low, who is considering business school after graduation.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections and clarification:
CORRECTION: April 24, 2010
An earlier version of the Apr. 23 news article "A Ticking Biological Clock" stated that Shawn Low '11 created a model of the biological clock. In fact, he did not create a model of the biological clock, but used existing mathematical models of the clock developed by others to predict the effects of temperature changes on the in vitro clock.
The article also stated that the temperature compensation of period length results from a process of entrainment. In fact, Low proposed that the small number of temperature-sensitive rate constants may play an integral role in entraining the clock to diurnal temperature cycles in the environment.
 
CLARIFICATION: April 26, 2010
The article also stated that Low's research focuses on three proteins that comprise the biological clock. To clarify, he focuses on temperature compensation of the three-protein post-translational oscillator in the cyanobacterial biological clock.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
People of all sexual orientations who have ever had a same-sex sexual partner are more likely to develop post-traumatic stress disorder, researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health say.
The findings, published online last week in the American Journal of Public Health, showed that sexual minorities—gay men, lesbians, bisexuals—and heterosexuals who have had same-sex partners are at a greater risk for developing PTSD than the general population.
Maltreatment and interpersonal violence—such as non-consensual sex, domestic violence, and kidnapping—of sexual minorities leads to the increased rate of PTSD in this population.
For the most part, these traumatic events occur at a younger age than what the general population experiences—another cause of the higher levels of PTSD within the group.
“It’s known that sexual minorities have high exposures to violence” and “high rates of mental health,” said the study’s lead author, Andrea L. Roberts ’88, a postdoctoral fellow in epidemiology at HSPH.
Using data from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions, which represents 34,653 U.S. residents, the researchers found that many of the sexual minority subjects who developed PTSD experienced their most traumatic event before reaching the age of 12.
Although these children are not aware of their sexual orientations at this age, they may exhibit atypical behaviors for their gender—for example, a boy may exhibit some feminine qualities, according to Roberts.
These tendencies can lead to bullying and other traumatic events, in which the parents do not intervene or provide adequate protection for their children, Roberts said.
In addition, the researchers found that heterosexuals who have had same-sex sexual partners have the same risk of developing PTSD as self-identifying homosexuals. But heterosexuals who are merely attracted to the same sex do not display as high of a risk.
The study, Roberts said, demonstrates that doctors, particularly pediatricians, need to recognize that their sexual minority patients may face victimization in the future, or have faced such experiences in the past.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In honor of the 360th anniversary of the Harvard Charter of 1650, the Native Americans at Harvard College celebrated the completion of an Indian hut at a ceremony in Harvard Yard yesterday.
Student members and other local Native Americans started building the wetu, or Indian hut, on Monday. They worked daily from 7:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. until the wetu’s completion on Wednesday afternoon.
The Charter, which was signed in 1650, dedicates Harvard College “to the education of English & Indian youth of this Country in knowledge.”
The Native Americans at Harvard College chose to build the wetu outside Matthews Hall because recent archeological digs have pinpointed it as the site of the Harvard Indian College.
The wetu, which is also known as a wigwam, is the historical home of the Wampanoag Indians who are native to Massachusetts. According to a sign in front of the structure, a wetu is "similar to and sometimes referred to in some northeastern communities as a wigwam."
Tiffany L. Smalley ’11, the president of Native Americans at Harvard College, said that the group hopes to educate students and faculty about the history of Harvard’s interactions with Native American culture.
“We hope to perpetuate the cultural exchange,” she said.
William L. Fash, the director of Harvard’s Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, expressed similar sentiments.
“I hope this will allow students to reflect on the fact that this is the type of architecture that used to be here, and that there were people here thousands of years before there was ever a Harvard,” he said.
At the ceremony, which drew around 100 attendees, professors and student members of the Native Americans at Harvard College spoke about the project and the history of Native Americans at Harvard.
“Thank you for allowing us to continue an honored tradition within these ivy walls,” said Kelsey T. Leonard ’10 in an invocation speech.
Assistant Professor of History and Literature Lisa T. Brooks said in an interview that when the first Wampanoags learned to be scholars of literature and religion, the notion of exchange helped guide their education.
“I think that there could be nothing more important here than being engaged in that kind of exchange with each other—an exchange of understanding of the different places that we come from,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Autonomous individuals who can reason independently are responsible for analyzing and even criticizing existing belief structures, renowned philosopher John McDowell said in a lecture yesterday.
McDowell, a philosophy professor at the University of Pittsburgh, was invited by the Harvard Review of Philosophy for the publication’s fifth annual lecture.
“John McDowell is one of the most revered philosophers who is living today,” said HRP Editor-in-Chief Max H. Wong ’10, who helped organize the event. “It’s hard to pinpoint his effect on philosophy simply because his influence pervades quite literally everything.”
McDowell’s lecture, entitled “Autonomy and Its Burdens,” discussed the nature of human autonomy—or, “what it is to be in control of one’s life.”
McDowell—who contrasted humans, as reasoning beings, against animals—described the human characteristic of autonomy as the self-government of the mind and “the capacity of an individual to determine her thought or act for herself.”
Independent thought processes require the honest assessment of community teachings and beliefs that condition most individuals into a particular mode of thinking, according to McDowell.
Calling autonomy a privilege and responsibility, McDowell said that an autonomous individual is entrusted with the task of assessing and even challenging surrounding belief structures.
“If one takes on a trust from others, one takes responsibility,” McDowell said. “One shouldn’t take that politely.”
In an interview with The Crimson after the event, McDowell said that he did not personally believe an understanding of philosophy is a necessity in some aspects of education.
“It’s not obvious to me that there’s any role for philosophy in a whole branch of academics, like biology,” McDowell said. “There are some systems that simply don’t use philosophy.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Anti-virus program McAfee caused computers world-wide to malfunction on Wednesday due to a bug within the software, but the virus outbreak had minimal effects on Harvard computers.
According to Senior Client Technology Advisor Noah S. Selsby ’94, the problem was caused by McAfee’s software update and targeted only Windows XP with Service Pack 3. The bug misidentified a harmless file and caused computers to lock down and reboot repeatedly.
The anti-virus program malfunction affected companies, hospitals, and schools around the world, but had little impact on the Harvard community.
As of yesterday, approximately 20 students requested assistance with locked computers, Selsby said.
The McAfee malfunction did not affect any computers in Harvard facilities because FAS IT had been coordinating a test run of a new anti-virus software program at the time. According to Selsby, the program will be released soon, as FAS IT is in the final stages of negotiation with the software’s vendor.
“We are about to finish a head-to-head product comparison, having chosen another product to replace McAfee which we will announce in the coming months,” Selsby said.
Since the problem with the McAfee virus was detected Wednesday afternoon, FAS IT has worked both internally and with the McAfee company to resolve the problem. FAS IT also issued a public statement containing instructions for preventing the bug at 5:10 p.m. by e-mail.
“A solid anti-virus program is only a part of the complete plan that we take to minimize risk to our faculty, staff and students,” Selsby said. “We also make a great effort...to educate [students] on how to set up their computers’ security settings in order to minimize attacks on their machines.”
The McAfee bug can potentially affect hundreds of thousands of computers across the nation, according to reports from the tech blog Gizmodo.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eric Carle, the author of “The Very Hungry Caterpillar,” encouraged a packed audience to pursue their creative ambitions—even if it means holding onto childhood whims.
“I like to work with colors like I did in kindergarten,” Carle said at the Graduate School of Education last night.
Though Carle abandoned formal education at the age of 16, his “education as a good picture writer” was shaped by mentors who fostered his love of nature, art, and visual creativity.
Though Carle’s father—who joined the German army when Carle was 10-year-old—was absent for much of his son’s formative years, he sparked Carle’s love of nature and gave him some of his fondest childhood memories of Sunday morning walks.
“My father taught me how to catch a lizard in the morning when it’s still cold,” Carle said.
But dismayed by his son’s lack of interest in becoming a doctor, Carle’s father told him, “Eric, you will amount to nothing.”
Carle said he was furious and locked himself in his father’s room to tear down the wallpaper: “My father never bothered me about it again,” he said.
Carle said he remembers an art teacher who secretly showed him non-traditional art when it was forbidden in Germany during World War II.
“My teacher told me, ‘I like the looseness of your style, and I want you to see this,’” recalled Carle, who was especially inspired by Picasso and Matisse.
Years later, writer Bill Martin Jr. sparked Carle’s interest in children’s books when he asked Carle to illustrate his work “Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?”
Carle has written 70 children’s books since then, but said he does not plan to write any more.
Dean of the Graduate School of Education Kathleen McCartney said that she invited Carle to speak partly because of his popular appeal. His work also carries personal significance, she said.
“The books were beloved,” McCartney said. “They were very special to my daughters.”
Yesterday’s event marks the first time that Carle has spoken at any school of education, according to McCartney.
“We were so honored that he would come and talk to us,” McCartney said.
Six-year-old Ashleigh, who wore a t-shirt that read “I am a very hungry caterpillar,” said she once dressed up as Eric Carle for an educational fair at her school. When she approached him to get her book signed after the talk, she presented Carle with a photograph of herself in costume.
Five-year-old Eliza Weinberger—whose favorite book is “The Very Hungry Caterpillar,” which was published in 1969—said that she enjoyed hearing Carle speak at the event.
Eliza’s mother, Joanne, said she believes that they have read almost all of Carle’s books and have loved every one.
-Staff Writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard will open its gates to about 1,000 prospective students this weekend under the heading of a new unofficial name: Visitas.
The new moniker for the program is one of several changes to the annual weekend geared toward introducing admitted students to life at Harvard.
The Undergraduate Admissions Council solicited suggestions in the fall for a new, more Harvard-specific name, said UAC Co-Chair Kevin X. Liu ’11.
After receiving several hundred anonymous suggestions in response to their e-mail to House and dormitory lists, the UAC board selected Visitas.
Visiting Program Director Valerie A. Beilenson ’07 said that the name was chosen too late to replace “April Visiting Program” on official printed materials this year, but that she hopes to see “Visitas” as the official name of the weekend next year.
The printed program does contain a few modifications from last year’s schedule. After last year’s arts and humanities panel received positive feedback, all three academic divisions will offer informational panels this year.
The a cappella concert that was traditionally a hallmark of the weekend has been reinvented as “Pre-Frosh Palooza,” a multiethnic performance featuring the Harvard Breakers Organization, Asian American Dance Troupe, Pan-African Dance and Music Ensemble, RecKlez, Mariachi Veritas de Harvard, and the Harvard Ballet Company, in addition to three a cappella groups—the Pitches, Callbacks, and Din and Tonics.
In an effort to help admitted students attend the visiting program, Harvard is covering transportation costs for more prospective students. Thanks in part to an alum’s donation, students whose families earn under $80,000 per year will have their transportation fare either arranged and paid for by Harvard or reimbursed after the weekend, according to Director of Financial Aid Sally C. Donahue.
Last year, free trips were offered to students from families earning less than $60,000 per year. The expansion will cover an additional 70 to 100 students, Beilenson predicted.
“Particularly if they’re from a distance, I think it’s really important that they come to Cambridge if they haven’t been here before,” Donahue said. “And it’s really important as well that they meet their future classmates.”
For the first time, the admissions office plans to count the number of parents and other guests who attend with prospective students.
“In the past we’ve had no idea,” Beilenson said. “My guess is several hundred based on the fact that we give away several hundred t-shirts.”
Beilenson said that over 100 student organizations will host events geared toward prospective students this weekend.
“Obviously not every weekend is this busy,” she said. “It’s a good showing of all the opportunities and resources available at Harvard. Some of these things are a little harder to find on any given day.”
Current Harvard students can also find something new at prefrosh weekend this year—Beilenson said that all students acting as hosts for the visitors can pick up their own complimentary t-shirt in the admissions visitor center any time this weekend.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Harvard undergraduate was diagnosed with tuberculosis by University Health Services several weeks ago, and roughly forty students at risk for exposure have been asked to submit to a TB skin test, according to information provided by UHS and the Cambridge Public Health Department.
The student, whose identity has not been made public, was released earlier this week after public health officials determined he or she was no longer infectious, according to an e-mail from Jennifer B. Anderson, a UHS Communications Officer.
Anderson also said that no other students have presented signs of an active TB infection.
“We know of no other confirmed cases of TB at Harvard,” she wrote.
But among those students who have been asked to submit to a Mantoux Test, which determines whether an individual has produced antibodies to the tuberculosis bacterium, some have tested positive, according to Kate Matthews, a nurse in the Cambridge Public Health Department.
Matthews stressed that a positive skin test does not mean an individual is actively sick with TB.
“What it means to have a positive skin test is that you’ve had the TB germ in your body at one point. It doesn’t mean you’re sick or contagious,” she said, noting that roughly one in three individuals worldwide have been exposed to TB at some point in their lives.
According to Eric Rubin, a professor of immunology and infectious diseases at Harvard Medical School, those students who test positive for TB without showing signs of illness will be recommended to start a nine month regimen of daily antibiotics.
Rubin also said that there was another case of tuberculosis at a Harvard graduate school within the past two years.
But Matthews, who noted that there are roughly eight to twelve cases of tuberculosis in Cambridge each year, said that this was the first case among undergraduates in “a long time.”
—Staff writer Evan T. R. Rosenman can be reached at erosenm@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the elegance of the Charles Hotel Regatta Bar, members of the Harvard community gathered to honor the recipients and nominees of the 13th annual Harvard College Leadership Awards.
The main award went to Eva Z. Lam ’10, former president of the Harvard College Democrats, and an honorable mention was presented to Andrea R. Flores ’10, former president of the Undergraduate Council.
“Both students being honored tonight made a difference by standing up to traditions that say that women don’t typically run high-profile political organizations,” said Susan B. Marine, Women’s Center director and assistant dean of student life at the College.
Marine said that through their work, Lam and Flores have helped to refute the claims of individuals who still see women’s involvement in politics as less than integral to democracy.
“These young women’s achievements paint a formidable picture of what it means to truly lead: making the voices of others—especially those not always at the table—more vividly heard, and their hopes and dreams more possible,” Marine said.
As the audience stood to applause, Lam proceeded to the podium.
“I didn’t know I was that awesome until that fabulous introduction,” quipped Lam, who said that Flores’ friendship and advice had been instrumental in her own role on campus.
Lam said that she did not want to talk broadly about leadership, but about getting things done.
“As a leader, if you want to get people to do hard work for you, you have to be willing to put that much work in as well,” Lam said.
A leader must be willing to take on grunt work and find a common goal when working with others to promote unity within the group, Lam said.
Women leaders, she added, face a particular challenge because they are often not given the benefit of the doubt without having to prove themselves first.
“I will never accept the argument that women are inherently less capable or even differently capable than men,” Lam said.
After the students were honored, the Women’s Center presented the Women’s Professional Leadership Award to Anne L. Garrels ’72, who served as a foreign correspondent in the former Soviet Union, Afghanistan, and Iraq.
Garrels ascended the podium with humility following an introduction that listed the numerous awards she had accumulated over the years for her work.
“I am such a late developer compared to Eva and Andrea,” said Garrels, adding that the undergraduate pair had presented a hard act to follow.
Garrels, who had lacked a definitive career path after graduation, said that even people without specific plans for the future should dedicate themselves to their passions.
“To those of you who don’t know what you’re going to do after graduating,” Garrels said, “one thing does lead to another, and you should never feel defeated.”
—Staff writer Alice E.M. Underwood can be reached at aeunderw@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When most people skip classes, it usually isn’t because they are doing something productive.
But freshman Kim Goh played hooky to play hockey.
Goh recently returned from Argentina, where she played for the United States Under-19 women’s field hockey team.
The squad played four games against Argentinean field hockey clubs during its tour, which lasted from Apr. 6 to Apr. 10.
Though Goh has been on the U19 team for two years, this was her first trip to Argentina with USA Field Hockey. In 2009, in the wake of the Beijing Olympics, the tour was cancelled for budgetary reasons.
After being chosen as one of the final 21 players looking to make the travelling team, Goh earned an official roster spot in February.
“I was really excited, because I really wanted to go to Argentina the first year,” Goh said. “They did a really wonderful job getting us around [Buenos Aires]. It can be sort of a daunting task taking a team of young Americans to a foreign country.”
The U.S. team played four games against various Argentinean field hockey clubs.
The Americans split two games against Argentina’s U18 team, winning the first game, 2-1, before falling by the count of 3-0 the next day.
Against field hockey club GEBA U18—some of whose players, according to Goh, “[are] on the brink of going to the 2012 Olympics”—the US team lost, 5-0. In the final match of the tour, the squad defeated Banfield U18, 5-0, to finish the trip with a 2-2 record.
“I think that over the course of the four games, we saw some different styles and different levels, but it bodes very well for us towards the end of the tournament,” said Diane Madl, the coach of the American U19 team during the tour.
Madl is currently the head field hockey coach at Providence College. The U19 team she led through the Argentina trip had not played together before February and only began its serious practices in the few days before leaving, according to Goh.
The freshman, who started every game on defense for the Crimson this fall, also earned Madl’s praise for her play during the exhibition tour.
“Kim was ‘Steady Eddie,’” Madl said. “She played very consistently and was a solid member of our defensive unit.”
But beyond the games themselves, Goh noticed a difference in attitudes between competitors before and after the matches.
“It’s really more of a community—we could go practice there and stay for dinner and talk to some of the players,” she said. “That was really great, because we don’t have that here at all. We go to other schools and play them and sometimes hold grudges for a while.”
The Harvard freshman also had the opportunity to represent America rather than her school. Though the exhibitions did not have any major implications, Goh said that her mindset was different from that when playing at Harvard.
It was also a chance to take part in that ubiquitous, three-letter patriotic cheer that permeates almost any sporting event where American pride is at stake.
“The first game, we got to cheer ‘USA,’ which is kind of cliché, but you don’t get to do that [very] often,” Goh said. “It’s kind of humbling and puts things in perspective when you get to say that you’re representing your country.”
She also noted in her blog for Harvard’s athletic department that for many of the players on the team, it was their first chance to represent the United States in competition.
Even at a tournament taking place in another hemisphere, Goh could not put any of her work on hiatus. Madl noted that many of the players—and particularly Goh—spent much of the team’s downtime doing the academic work that they missed because of the tour.
Goh said the same, commenting that she was forced to work remotely for much of the trip and in transit.
“Luckily, I’ve got a lot of classes with lectures online—lots of lectures on plane rides and that kind of thing,” she said. “Everything can be managed, and it’s not something that I wanted to miss.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A quick glance through the hometowns of the players on the woman’s water polo team reveals a surprisingly high level of geographical uniformity: of the 16 players on the team, 10 of them are from the same state: California.
“For water polo, the bulk of the talent on the secondary level is in California,” Harvard coach Erik Ferrar said. “There are some good programs in Florida, and you get the occasional nugget out of Chicago.”
Care to guess how many “nuggets” are on the water polo team? Only one: sophomore goalie Laurel McCarthy from Oak Park, Illinois—a suburb of Chicago—who has been given an opportunity to shine this year in a new starting role for the Crimson.
McCarthy saw limited minutes as a freshman, stuck behind starting netminder Nicola Perlman ’09.
“She didn’t play much last year,” Ferrar said. “She sort of served as an apprentice last year, and she stepped very nicely into a starting role for us and she earned it. She was lights out against Brown and Hartwick the last time we played them.”
The game against the Bears on Apr. 15 involved an impressive 15-save performance from McCarthy that helped Harvard end a three-year winless drought against Brown.
“It was great to beat Brown,” McCarthy said. “Nobody on this team has beaten Brown in their time here. It was a win that we were really proud of as a team. Everyone played their role and everyone did a great job.”
Perhaps no player’s role is more important than the goalkeeper’s—the team’s last line of defense.
The goalie is the one player in the pool who can see all the action clearly and must inform her teammates about everything going on in the pool.
“Any goalkeeper is the rock on which you build the foundation of your defense,” Ferrar said. “She’s gotten pretty vocal and that can be a huge benefit to a field player. Especially if you’ve given up a bad transition situation, or the other team’s got a fast break, you take the word of the goalie and obey it without question.”
Jack Wagner, McCarthy’s coach at Fenwick High School, who also taught her to swim, described Laurel as “tenacious, unnerving, and outstanding.”
He also coached three of her older sisters, all of whom played water polo in college, including former Crimson goalkeeper Danielle McCarthy ’02.
Laurel had an impressive career at Fenwick High, serving as a team captain for three years and helping to lead the team to two Illinois state championships.
“Without a doubt she was a leader both in the pool and in the locker room,” Wagner said. “I’m not really sure which was harder to replace when she left, what she did for us in the water or what she did out of the water. Harvard got a really good player and a fantastic kid.”
How good? Look no further than a key save in the first half of the game against Brown, when McCarthy deflected a close range shot—just one of her many plays that helped to build a 3-2 lead going into the half.
“Laurel has been an integral part of our success this season,” junior Shami Entenman added. “She’s had some outstanding games. She’s done a great job, and definitely the Brown game was a highlight. She had some key saves at key moments.”
Fortunately for the Crimson, McCarthy appears to have saved her best performances for the end of the season.
“She’s getting better as the year has gone on,” Fish said. “And that’s all that we can ask of any of our people.”
McCarthy’s quality play could also have huge postseason implications for the team, which intends—like all other teams—to make a strong postseason run.
“One of our goals as a team is to go to Easterns, and go very deep into the tournament, and see how far we can go,” Ferrar said.
Harvard remains hopeful of receiving  an at-large bid to the Eastern Conference Championships, where an overall victory would lead to the NCAA tournament.
“Individually,” McCarthy said, “and this would go for everyone on my team, we want to walk away from every game, win or lose, knowing that we played our best and that we trained our hardest for that particular game.”
With every save she makes, McCarthy continues to prove that one doesn’t have to possess a Golden State pedigree to succeed in the pool.
"It’s important to me to let people know that there is water polo outside of Cali,” McCarthy said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past three years, the Harvard women’s golf team has made winning a habit, having taken the last two Ivy League team championships along with numerous tournaments.
The Crimson will have a chance to nab a third this weekend at Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, N.J., which has hosted seven US Opens, two US Women’s Opens, and one PGA Championship, and is slated to host the PGA again in 2016. Should the team win, it would receive an automatic bid to the NCAA East Regional Championships, which would give it a shot at Nationals.
Despite the significance of the task at hand, the Crimson finds nothing particularly different about the season-ending tournament, which kicks off this morning. Harvard sees itself as facing the same opponent it faces every week: the course.
“In golf, we don’t really worry too much about our competitors,” captain Claire Sheldon said. “We try to stay more internally focused­­­­­—try to go out and play her best round. We have been able to be successful in the past.”
Those successes include the past two Ivy titles as well as a current six-tournament winning streak. Both of the tournaments Harvard did not win this year took place in the fall.
Despite its recent success, the Crimson’s golfers haven’t been able to rest on their laurels. The squad’s depth forces each golfer to stay on top of her game, as the team has a weekly qualifying system to play in weekend tournaments.
“We have a small team—just seven people—but we’ve all competed,” Sheldon said. “We really are motivating each other. Every week, you’re competing against your teammates. When you have a strong team, you have to work harder…we always do, but this year, it’s more than any other year.”
Another factor motivating Harvard is the fact that its recent successes have absolutely no impact on this weekend’s results. The only scores that count toward the Ivy title will be tallied over the next three days.
“We’ve actually had a pretty phenomenal season, but that doesn’t change anything for us,” Sheldon said.
Penn and Yale seem to pose the greatest threats to Harvard’s quest for a three-peat. The two rivals finished second and third, respectively, at the Crimson’s tournament last weekend—the Roar-EE Invitational—where all the Ivy teams competed except Cornell, which does not have a varsity women’s golf team. The Quakers finished ten strokes off Harvard’s winning score, while the Bulldogs were five behind Penn. Yale fell to the Crimson by only two strokes at last year’s Ivy Championships.
“We’re pretty confident but we don’t want to get ahead of ourselves,” junior Mia Kabasakalis said. “We’re particularly focusing on one shot at a time.”
Though not the team’s main focus, Harvard boasts several golfers that have a shot at the individual title.
Kabasakalis was the headliner this past weekend, as she tied Columbia senior Nancy Shon for the best individual score. Shon went on to take the title in a nine-hole tiebreaker.
But Kabasakalis has hardly been the Crimson’s only threat.
The weekend before, it was sophomore Christine Cho who posted the top score, followed by Sheldon, who was the team’s top finisher three weeks ago.
Both Cho and Sheldon had the lowest scores of the tournaments in their respective weeks as Harvard’s leader.
Sheldon placed third at last year’s Ivy Championships to earn first-team All-Ivy honors, while Cho placed fourth to take All-Ivy honors along with the Ivy League Rookie of the Year award. Kabasakalis placed 14th.
Standing in the way of the individual title will be Shon and Yale’s Alexandra Lipa, among others.
“I think we’re pretty team-oriented,” Kabasakalis said. “It would be nice if someone won the individual title, but I don’t think that’s any one of our goals. We’re just trying to take each hole at a time.”
With individual accomplishments off the radar, the team remains focused on continuing its rise to Ivy powerhouse status.
Kabasakalis’s classmates and younger teammates have known nothing but first place at the Ivy Championships, though the title two years ago was the first in the team’s history. The Crimson’s youngest three classes have no intention of learning what it was like before the squad rose to prominence.
“The team has been on the up,” Kabasakalis said. “We’ve been improving so much. It had never happened before [two years ago]. Now it’s kind of expected, but at the same time it’s important to get perspective, not take anything for granted, and stay motivated.”
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Day two of the 116th Penn Relays started out with a bang for Harvard’s women’s track and field team.
In the squad's first day of racing, the Crimson captured gold in the distance medley event, bringing home its first medal of the games.
In the early morning hours, Harvard’s first participant in the Penn Relays took her place amongst a pack of 53 runners. With the top 18 athletes finishing within three seconds of each other, the women’s 400-meter hurdles championship proved tough competition. Competing in her first Penn Relays in crimson, freshman Melissa Bellin crossed the finish line in 33rd place, only four seconds behind first place.
Four hours later, the next Harvard athlete stepped up to the line. In the college women’s shot put eastern championships, freshman Shannon Watt grabbed fourth place with a throw that landed just 0.29 meters short of the third-place distance. Saint Francis’ Christin Brigg placed first in the event with a new meet record of 15.08 meters.
The last race of the day, the college women’s distance medley championships, proved the most exciting for the Crimson. Junior co-captain Thea Lee ran the first leg of the relay, followed by Bellin and fellow freshman Carlyle Davis, who ran her portion faster than members of eight of the top 10 teams. Junior Claire Richardson anchored the last leg of the race, as Harvard crossed the line in first place with a time of 11:21.31.
With a win in the nation’s largest track and field event, who knows how far the Crimson teams will go when day three begins.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After all the hype that surrounded a No. 12 preseason ranking and the third-best recruiting class in the country, the Harvard men’s lacrosse team has a better chance of finishing dead last in the Ivy League than becoming one of the top four teams who will be invited to the inaugural Ivy League lacrosse tournament.
The Crimson is currently tied for fifth place with Dartmouth and only a half-game ahead of last place Penn.   While Harvard is still mathematically eligible to qualify for the Ivy League tournament that will determine the automatic qualifiers to the NCAA tournament, it most likely needs to win out against No. 6 Princeton and at No. 13 Yale.
Cornell, Princeton, and Yale are guaranteed to finish above Harvard, and it would take Brown losing out to force a fourth-place tie between the Bears and the Crimson.
This season, Harvard has posted a 1-3 record against Top 20 opponents, with the lone win coming March 13 in a 14-13 victory over No. 16 UMass.
Beating the Tigers may not be as daunting as it seems.  Aside from a 16-2 pillaging of Dartmouth last weekend, all of Princeton’s conference wins were by two goals or less.
The Crimson is 4-2 when scoring the first goal, so look for Harvard to want to get off to a quick start.  If not, a fight for the postseason will turn into a fight to avoid finishing last in the Ivy League.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the cruel world that is the Ivy League baseball schedule, the winds of fortune are unpredictable. One weekend set of doubleheaders can turn a last-place loser into a contender, while at the same time derailing a promising championship run with ruthless efficiency.
Consider the Rolfe Division standings. Before this past weekend, Brown sat securely in the driver’s seat, boasting a 6-2 league record and cruising on its way to the Rolfe title with a scuffling Harvard squad on deck. But the Bears could only muster a four-game split with the Crimson, and in the Ivy League, splits kill.
Brown’s inability to at least squeak out a series win against Harvard opened the floodgates for a surging Dartmouth. The Big Green wiped the floor with Yale and vaulted itself from the middle of the Rolfe pack into a tie with the Bears for the division lead with an 8-4 Ivy record.
Now we have a race to the finish, and Harvard is in danger of once again being left in the dust. At 6-6, the Crimson is two games out and certainly not dead, especially in the volatile Ivy League. But another split weekend, Harvard’s hallmark this season, is a one-way ticket to another year defined by mediocrity. The Crimson needs to make a stand now, or else sit on the sidelines as the rapidly-flagging Bears and suddenly-streaking Big Green duke it out for a spot in the Ivy League Championship Series.
DARTMOUTH (18-12, 8-4 Ivy) AT BROWN (11-24, 8-4)
This outcome of these four games may very well affect Harvard’s Rolfe chances more than the Crimson’s own pair of doubleheaders.
If the Big Green beats up the Bears, Brown will be effectively knocked out of contention and give Harvard (provided that the Crimson picks up at least three wins this weekend, not a given by any means) a legitimate shot at upending Dartmouth in the season’s final pair of doubleheaders.
If the Bears take the series or even manage a split, too many factors will be in play to give Harvard any real chance at winning its division.
Fortunately for the Crimson, Brown’s store of early-season luck has run out, and the Big Green has found its pitching groove. I’m less confident about Harvard’s ability to position itself for title contention, but I think Dartmouth will at least provide the Crimson with the opportunity.
Prediction: Dartmouth wins, 3-1
COLUMBIA (18-16, 9-3) AT CORNELL (11-17, 4-8)
Columbia’s lineup is a behemoth, with seven regulars batting at least .300 and a team slugging percentage of .480. Add a decent, if not exactly inspiring, pitching staff, and the Lions are the best team in the Ivy League.
Cornell is not. In Tony Bertucci and Corey Pappel, the Big Red boasts two front-line starters better than anyone in Columbia’s rotation, but beyond that the pitching wears thin, and there’s no one in the Cornell lineup that holds a candle to the Lions’ sluggers.
Prediction: Columbia sweeps
PENN (17-16, 6-6 Ivy) AT PRINCETON (9-24, 4-8 Ivy)
These squads had their weekend set shifted to Friday and Saturday, with Princeton having won the first game and Penn leading in the nightcap as I’m writing this. The Tigers’ victory, an 8-7 nailbiter, comes as a surprise, but Princeton does have a few guys in its lineup—including Jon Broscious, who’s kind of like Adam Dunn without the on-base percentage—who can knock the ball out of the park and keep things interesting.
Penn has been killed by inconsistency and seen its formidable lineup negated by its lackluster pitching. The Quaker hitters can mash, but without effective arms Penn is just a very entertaining non-contender.
Prediction (for Saturday’s games): Penn sweeps the final two.
HARVARD (13-21, 6-6 Ivy) AT YALE (16-18, 3-9 Ivy)
With Ivy gutter-dweller Yale on its agenda, Harvard would seem to be in prime position to win out this weekend and make things interesting atop the Rolfe Division. But the Bulldogs have been hit time and time again by bad luck in their Ivy slate, and their lowly standing among the Ancient Eight obscures what has otherwise been a solid season for Yale.
Like many middle-of-the-road Ivy teams, the Bulldogs can hit the cover off the ball, but have a hard time throwing it. Yale can hurt you from anywhere in the lineup, and neutralizing the Bulldogs’ batters will be no easy task for the Crimson.
Does Harvard have the horses to hold Yale down? Yes...maybe. The Crimson pitching staff is full of hurlers capable of throwing a gem on any given day, but Harvard has yet to conjure the perfect storm necessary for sweeping a weekend series.  I’d like to think that this weekend is the one where it all comes together, but in four years of covering the Crimson, inconsistency has been the only consistent narrative.
Prediction: Split.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“The freshmen this year are so odd,” one junior says to her friend as they make their way to class earlier today. “Why did they go and build a coconut in the ground?”
“Yeah, its really no wonder why they weren’t allowed to have River Run,” the other responds.
Much to the surprise of these juniors, both of whom wished to remain anonymous because of the cultural (in)sensitivity of their comments, and many others who have seen the large, brown structure in front of Matthews Hall, freshman debauchery is not responsible for the new addition to Harvard Yard.
The construction is called a Wetu, and it is the result of a collaborative effort between the Harvard College Native Americans and supporters from the surrounding area. What French native Anouk A. Kemp ’12 called “a homage to American football or something,” is actually a handmade replica of a home commonly used by Native Americans in the Northeast.
The Wetu was built to commemorate the inextricably bound histories of Harvard University and the Native American community. Its location outside of Matthews marks the site where the Harvard Indian College once stood.
But the Wetu elicited some interesting responses from passersby. “It wouldn’t really bother me to have it there for a long time…but imagine waking up in that thing…” said one freshman who plead anonymity, so as not to seem culturally insensitive. Another student, who also wished to be anonymous, belittled the Wetu as “a project for some anthropology core.”
But “Harvard is both a native and Western place,” Assistant Professor of History and Literature and of Folklore and Mythology Lisa T. Brooks said at the ceremony today for the Wetu.
To the unknowing it may seem like a coconut, but really it is much more.
Still curious about the Wetu? Check out today's issue of The Crimson for more info.
Photo by Kane Hsieh, Crimson Staff Photographer.
Sections
Check out this video of The Crimson's exclusive interview with Bill Gates!
Photo by Sara Joe Wolansky/The Harvard Crimson.
Sections
Like to save money? Thanks to the Undergraduate  Council and Groupon, Inc., now you can do just that.
According to e-mails sent over House lists earlier today, the UC has  recently partnered with Groupon, a website that offers bulk discounts  for just about everything around Boston, from restaurants and concerts  to rock climbing and day spas.
The e-mails advertised  that you should sign up “if you’re looking to save up to 90% on  purchases at the places you love in Harvard Square and Boston.”
Every day, the website features a “groupon”  for something to do around Boston and releases it if enough people  sign up.
“Groupon cuts the UC in every time a  student signs up, so that means the UC gets money and students get sick  discounts, so it’s really win-win for everyone,” said Senan  Ebrahim '12, chair of the UC Student Life Committee. “Sign up for  Groupon and go save money!”
Interested? Sign up here.
Sections
Visitas is the new, soon-to-be-official name for Harvard's "April Visiting Program," which essentially starts today. Over the next few days, we'll bring you everything you wanted to know (and maybe what you didn't) about this storied weekend.
As an upperclassmen, you've probably completely forgotten what it was like to be a prefrosh. Well, here's your chance to look beyond the red folders and Class of 2014 T-shirts to see what the young'uns are really like these days. We interviewed two of them (both of whom went to sibling schools in Chattanooga, Tenn.) as they were checking in at the Admissions Visitor Center earlier today.
TYLER RICHARD
Where are you from and what  sort of high school did you attend?
I attended a boarding school  in Chattanooga, Tennessee, but my family lives in Colorado.
What sorts of activities  were you involved with in high school?
I ran cross-country, [did] climbing and yoga, and was involved in the Spanish clubs at my school.  I was also a resident advisor in the freshman dorm at my boarding school.
Are you decided on Harvard  or are you still choosing between schools?
It’s probably like 90 percent  for Harvard. I really like Harvard, but I’m still considering other  schools. I’m also looking at Princeton University and Davidson College.
What makes you want to come  to Harvard?
It’s basically for the  people. I feel you can get the same caliber of education at a lot of different  institutions, but the type of people you meet are the real appeal. Harvard  also has so many great resources.
Have you heard about any  interesting classes that you’re thinking about taking at Harvard?
I’ve heard about "Justice"  and it seems like a pretty interesting class. If I have time, I definitely  want to take that course.
What clubs and extracurricular  activities do you plan on doing in college?
I’d really like to get  involved with club crew and would like to write for the Harvard Advocate.
IOANA FLOREA
What sort of school did  you attend?
I’m originally from Romania,  but I went to an all-girls college prep school in Chattanooga.
What sort of extracurricular  activities were you involved with in high school?
I was involved with yearbook,  high school newspaper, Model UN, and Amnesty International for a little  while. I also did Science Olympiad all four years—that was fun.
Was it a surprise when you  got into Harvard? How did your family and friends react?
I got a likely letter in  January, so I had like a heart attack. It was a huge shock. My mother  and dad started crying and my friends were just really excited.
What are your favorite things  about Harvard that make it your top choice?
I toured fall of my junior  year. I’m looking forward to the research opportunities and am really  looking forward to doing academic science. And also the people seem  amazing.
How are you enjoying the  weather in Cambridge?
I like the weather. I’ve  lived in New York for a little while, so there were different seasons.  After living in the South for so long, where there’s no snow, I’m  looking forward to finally having snow.
What activities are you  hoping to get involved with on campus?
I would like to do a lot  of independent research. I also want to get involved in club sports  because I haven’t done a sport in so long.
Have you found the student  body to fit the Harvard stereotype?
The students I’ve met  so far have been really nice and welcoming. Kids I’ve met at other  events before also seem like very nice, welcoming, non-elitist, smart-alecky  people. Everyone I’ve met I really like so far.
Photo by Lily G. Bellow/The Harvard Crimson.
