Sections
Greetings, Lamonsters. For those of you who weren't actually in Lamont last night around this time—or have simply been so busy studying that you've forgotten what day of the week it is—be forewarned that within the next hour, you will need to vacate your favorite study haunt.
Since tonight is a Saturday night, Lamont is set to close a 1 a.m., and according to the Harvard College Libraries website, there will be no other library alternatives until Lamont re-opens at 8 a.m. Sunday.
Although being forced to pack up and move in the middle of the night might be an annoying inconvenience, never despair. Quadlings can visit Hilles, which is reportedly open until 4 a.m. every night, and House libraries are always a viable option—just make sure you check the hours at each location.
And if libraries just aren't your thing, check out the first installment of FlyBy's secret study spaces series.
Sections
This week, we'll bring you dispatches from fellow students in Lamont as they fight valiantly against looming deadlines and final exams.
JOHN D. BRYANT '13
 
Concentration: Possibly English or Molecular and Cellular Biology
Time of Interview: 21:30 (a late night at Lamont for a Saturday)
 
Location in Lamont: Level 3, Farnsworth Room
What have you finished, what do you have left, and how much time do you have?
I finished a paper and a take home final—I'm doing a 25-pager now. I also have to study for a final Tuesday and Saturday.
 
What did you eat last?
 
I ate chicken and rice in Adams dining hall around 6:00 p.m.
When did you shower last?
Three days ago.
How many consecutive hours have you been awake? How many hours have you been in this spot?
I slept last night from 3 a.m. to 8 a.m. I've been working here off and on all day.
What's keeping you going?
Summer.
Photo by The Harvard Crimson.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 10, 2010
An earlier version of the May 9 FlyBy post "Dispatches from Lamont: John D. Bryant '13" incorrectly stated that the interview occurred on a Friday. The correct day is Saturday.
Sections
This week, we'll bring you dispatches from fellow students in Lamont as they fight valiantly against looming deadlines and final exams.
JASMINE K. CASART '13 and NICOLE K. CASART '13 (Identical Twins)
Concentration: Jasmine is a potential History of Science concentrator and Nicole is a potential Psychology concentrator
Time of Interview: 14:55 p.m. (right before the café opens)
Location in Lamont: Two adjacent second floor carrels
What have you finished, what do you have left, and how much time do you have?
Jasmine: I have 23 hours before my chick lit class final. Then I’m done. I already did two take home finals and a three-part Spanish final.
Nicole: I have done my final expos paper and my French final, and I have 20 hours until I have to turn in my take home final for Hist of Sci—Modern Techniques of Mind Control.
What did you eat last?
Jasmine: I had part of a Veritaffle like three hours ago.
Nicole: Today was our last Annenberg brunch so we had to go.  The line for Veritaffles was huge, but it needed to be done.
When did you shower last?
Jasmine: This morning.
Nicole: Me too.
How many consecutive hours have you been awake? How many hours have you been in this spot?
Jasmine: I’ve been in this spot since 11 a.m. and I only had five hours of sleep last night.  I’ve been awake for seven hours.
Nicole: We’ve been awake for seven hours and been in Lamont for five of those seven.
What's keeping you going?
Nicole: [The thought of] tomorrow afternoon after my finals, because then I can do whatever I want.
Jasmine: Seeing my doggy in a week—he’s an aerial terrier.
Sections
If the number of episodes of The Office you've watched is more than the number of lectures you've attended, or if despite the ban on parties you still managed to make it to Stillman last night, or if your big achievement of the weekend is watching Betty White on SNL, you might need a study guide.
Thankfully, there are some websites out there that can help.
1. MK2Review: While this resource is limited in its offerings, MK2Review is remarkably accessible. Type in "Harvard" at the home page and MK2Review will store it for future visits to the site. From there, click on one of the popular searches, most of which are categories from the Core Curriculum. Though they've yet to list General Education courses, you can still click "Search" up top and then find other courses manually. For those nervous about tomorrow's Ec 10 final, the study guide for Social Analysis 10: "Principles of Economics" is pretty good, if a bit lengthy.
2. FinalsClub: Integrating study guides with opportunities to form study groups is a great idea that this website uses to its advantage. Sadly, it lacks guides, so unless if you're taking Science A-35: "The Energetic Universe," you don't have much to gain. If you want to try to navigate this site, click on "Course Notes." There are only two pages worth of course listings, so filtering or searching further is probably not worth your time.
3. SparkNotes: We don't really have to tell you about this classic website, which saved many of us from having to read Charles Dickens back in high school. But if you realized that watching the movie for "Pride and Prejudice" doesn't actually save you that much time, SparkNotes may be worth a look-see.
4. Paul's Online Math Notes: While most pre-100-level math finals are over, if you think you'd benefit from a refresher on calculus, differential equations, or linear algebra, Paul Dawkins' guide can help you out.
5. The UC Study Guide Library: Dead on arrival?
Have any other study guide tips? Leave a comment!
Photo courtesy Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
There are a lot of things you  may notice in the yard these days. John Harvard is now almost constantly  attacked by tourists, different structures seem to be sprouting up all over the place,  the grass has turned an almost unnatural shade of green, and the popular chairs are back—but with a new addition.
If you look closely, you will  find excerpts of Emily Dickinson poems on the front of some of the lighter-colored  chairs in the yard. So what's it all about?
The excerpts are part of an  installation of work done by Expos Preceptor  and Adams House tutor Zachary C. Sifuentes '97-'99 in response to the poetry of Emily Dickinson.
"It came about as part of the National Poetry Month, and it dovetailed  right into the time period when the chairs would be coming back out  into the yard," said Sifuentes. He added  that Associate Provost of Arts and Culture Lori E. Gross, having  heard about his exhibit in the Woodberry Poetry Room, approached  him about doing a project to inaugurate National Poetry Month.
Why Dickinson? Sifuentes' work focuses on  the behavior of lines in Dickinson's poetry. "Her lines are autonomous  entities. Read the lines in any order that you want and it still creates  a Dickinson poem," said Sifuentes. He said that when Gross asked  him to do a project for National Poetry Month, he decided to print up  lines from various poems and put them on the chairs, allowing them to  be reconfigured every day.
"It's a nice way to  take a practical matter and turn it into a work of art," said Sifuentes of his goal in undertaking the project. "My sense is  to see how randomness can create its own sense of logic. You can randomly  order lines together but still have a logical poem."
He later added,  "the [Facilities Maintenance Operations] recreate new poems every day!" (The FMO groups together and chains up the chairs at night.)
So keep on enjoying the weather,  don't stress over finals, and in the meantime, check out some of the  poems in the yard. And if you want to see more of  Sifuentes' work, check out his exhibit in the Lamont Library Poetry  Room about artwork responding. Study break, anyone?
