News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With vuvuzelas blaring and an unprecedented turnout for Crimson soccer lining the sidelines, it was clear that the spirit of South Africa had made a pit stop in Cambridge for the night.
The new Soldiers Field Soccer Stadium was rocking Saturday night as a boisterous crowd of 3,221 fans spurred the No. 10 Harvard men’s soccer team (1-0) to a 2-1 win over No. 13 Stanford (0-2).
The game was decided in the 80th minute thanks to a superb run by sophomore forward Brian Rogers, who calmly put the ball past the Cardinal goalkeeper and caused the stands to erupt with cheers. It was the Crimson’s first win of the season and an ideal way to inaugurate the newly-built arena.
“The atmosphere was incredible,” Harvard co-captain Robert Millock said.  “It was the best game atmosphere we have ever had. The support was awesome. I think we fed off the energy a lot, so I think this would be the biggest win in our time here.”
Saturday’s game was Carl Junot’s first match at the helm of the Crimson soccer program. Junot, who served as an assistant coach for Harvard during the last two seasons, became head coach for the men’s team over the summer after his predecessor, Jamie Clark, departed for Creighton. A former collegiate player for the Furman Paladins, Junot understands the pressures of a big game and was proud to see his players deliver.
“Overall, it was a spirited performance,” he said. “We showed a lot of faith in ourselves, being able to change the momentum in the second half, because I thought early in the second half, Stanford was able to put some pressure on us.”
The game started with both sides trying to establish control of the ball. Five minutes into the match, the Crimson wasted an opportunity to get on the scoreboard when Rogers failed to get a shot on goal after cutting the ball back on several Cardinal defenders. Nine minutes later, Stanford had its own shot on goal from close range that barely missed the top left corner of the net.
With 19:07 left to go in the first half, it seemed that the Cardinal had a good grip on ball possession until junior Jamie Rees ran down the right side of the field and sent in a cross directed at a charging Alex Chi. The senior never connected with the ball, because it deflected off the head of Stanford senior Shaun Culver into the net he was defending.
The fortunate goal shifted the momentum onto Harvard’s side. The Crimson ended the half outshooting the Cardinal, 9-4.
The second half began with Stanford increasing pressure on Harvard. The Cardinal got what it was looking for in the 50th minute, when 2009 Hermann Trophy semifinalist Bobby Warshaw’s 25-yard free kick got past Crimson junior goalie Austin Harms.
Stanford kept looking for another goal but the Harvard back line, anchored by captains Millock and Jaren LaGreca, kept all threats at bay.
With 19 minutes left on the clock, the crowd started chanting “Let’s Go Harvard,” feeling the transfer of momentum over to the home side.
“I thought the last 20 minutes of the second half completely belonged to us,” Junot said. “I was very pleased with the team’s performance tonight.”
Rogers had a good chance in the 77th minute when his footwork and speed produced a shot to the side of the net.
It was a warning of what was coming three minutes later, when Rogers forced his way past a stumbling Cardinal defender to go one-on-one with the goalie. The reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Year maintained his balance and slipped the ball under diving Stanford goalie Jason Dodson.
“When I saw the ball go in the net, it was a great feeling,” Rogers said. “I saw my friends in the crowd and just wanted to go share the moment with them.”
Though the goal proved to be the difference-maker, the Cardinal kept fighting until the final whistle. In the waning seconds of the game, Stanford was awarded a corner kick and nearly headed the ball into the net, but the shot flew wide of the goal as time expired.
Stanford was 5-0 against Harvard before Saturday night and has now fallen to a 0-2 start on the season.
—Staff writer Brian A. Campos can be reached at bcampos@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We would be remiss not to pass judgment on the recent trailer created by Harvard Public Affairs and Communications about the First-Year Outdoor Program. While FOP leaders talk about rain washing out their trips during their week-long voyages into the forest, we really, really wished that the rain had washed away this video, too.
If the dialogue weren't bland enough, the compilation of photos in the slideshow shows perhaps the most hackneyed clips of random Harvard freshmen trekking through the woods. Simply put, we hope that there were more exciting things that happened on this trip than, well, walking.
While FOP might include exciting adventures in the wilderness and romantic evenings under the stars, this video, unfortunately, fails to capture any of those great traits. So in short, if shopping period stress is keeping you up, we suggest you turn to this video if you need to fall asleep before your 8 a.m. seminar the next day.
Photo courtesy of Urban/Wikimedia Commons.
Sections
For the transcript-conscious, try distracting recruiters and grad-school admission boards from those sub-par grades with these flashy titles. We recount this semester’s coolest-sounding course titles for those looking for the right mix of pretentiousness and PR.
Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding 30: Love In A Dead Language: Classical Indian Literature and Its Theorists—For the inner hopeless romantic inside everyone, “Love in a Dead Language”—a class to refine the inner connoisseur of romantic Sanskrit and Hindi literature—speaks to the passions of the classical Indian poets and authors.
Science of the Physical Universe 27: Science and Cooking: From Haute Cuisine to Soft Matter Science—Though it’s the course most un-needing of added publicity this semester, we do give kudos to course heads Professors David A. Weitz and Michael P. Brenner for a cool colon-bearing title when the class could easily have been called “Cooking 101.” And double points for all the “haute” puns this class permits—and The Crimson’s already rampant overuse of them.
Science of the Living Systems 24: From Neurons to Nations: The Science of Early Childhood Development and the Foundations of a Successful Society—A class in an identity crisis of belonging to the Human Evolutionary Biology or Government departments, SLS 24 nonetheless alliteratively bridges the disciplinary spans intended by the General Education program. “Neurons to Nations” seems like a non sequitur at the surface, but with a large teaching staff of Harvard Medical School, School of Public Health, and Graduate School of Education professors, this class is sure to live up to its lofty name.
African and African American Studies 115: HBO’s The Wire and its Contribution to Understanding Urban Inequality—A class that drew a lot of attention when announced last year, “HBO’s The Wire” will hopefully be followed up by a continuing series of Harvard courses, each drawing closer and closer to Romance Languages and Literatures 48: “MTV’s The Jersey Shore and its Contributions to Understanding Guido Inequality.”
History of Science 151: Modern Pasts and Postmodern Futures—Cue up the DeLorean, Doc Brown! Professor Jimena Canales explore scientific and technological modernity in a class with a title sure to confuse anyone unfamiliar with historiographical lingo.
English 199: Expertise—A cool title indeed. We’re more impressed that a class like this exists nonetheless. Seems “meta” to spend a semester developing expertise about… well, you get it.
And finally, honorable mentions go to the following courses, “Statistics for People Who Would Ordinarily Hate Statistics, but Might Possibly Be Fooled by Bad Probability Title Puns”:
Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning 14: Fat Chance
Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning 16: Real-Life Statistics: Your Chance for Happiness (or Misery)
Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning 18: What are the odds?
Photo courtesy of Rursus/Wikimedia Commons.
