News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Friday night’s game between Harvard men’s basketball and Yale carried big implications for the Ivy title race, but both teams’ defense seemed to take the night off.
The Crimson allowed the Bulldogs to shoot 52.1 percent from the field and 61.5 percent from three. Yale was hardly better, as Harvard hit 50.9 percent from the floor and 44.4 percent from deep.
“Neither one of us seemed like we could stop the other team,” Crimson coach Tommy Amaker said. “We didn’t get many stops, and neither did they.”
A showdown in the low post was expected coming into the game, and, in that respect, each team delivered. The Bulldogs’ big men, Greg Mangano and Jeremiah Kreisberg, combined to shoot 13-of-22 for 31 points, and Harvard’s post duo of junior co-captain Keith Wright and sophomore Kyle Casey went 16-of-26 and tallied 35 points.
Unexpected, however, was Yale’s offensive onslaught from behind the arc. Bulldogs guard Austin Morgan hit 4-of-4 three-point attempts—his only four made field goals—en route to a game-high 22 points, and Mangano nailed three treys of his own.
“[Mangano] is very versatile…He’s not your traditional big,” Wright said. “He can score down low, and he can also hit the three, as we saw.”
Harvard did manage a couple of key defensive stops down the stretch. With 44 seconds remaining and the Crimson leading, 72-70, Yale guard Reggie Willhite missed a runner on the baseline, and Kreisberg missed the put-back. Then, after Harvard extended the lead to 76-72, a wild three by Mangano with 11 seconds left clanked off the backboard and the rim and effectively sealed the win for the Crimson.
Though it improved in the final minute of action, the general sloppiness of Harvard’s defensive execution left a bitter aftertaste to the victory.
“We came out really slow [and] played pretty poor defensively,” Casey said. “Overall, we’ve got to pick it up a little bit.”
SUPER SUBS
On a night in which the Crimson and the Bulldogs were neck-and-neck—the game saw 13 lead changes and 11 ties—one statistical category was decidedly in Harvard’s favor: bench scoring. The Crimson bench outscored its Yale counterpart, 25-6.
Freshman guard Laurent Rivard chipped in 14 points in 22 minutes off the pine, and his backcourt classmate Matt Brown tallied six points in 18 minutes of action. But no minutes may have been more valuable than the nine of sophomore forward Jeff Georgatos.
“I thought Jeff Georgatos played really well for us,” Amaker said. “He was really a catalyst to help us from our bench, and I was very pleased with his production.”
In a 3:34 shift early in the second half, Georgatos first scored by posting up on the left block, then with 12:08 remaining, made one of the most decisive plays in the game. Receiving the ball at the top of the key, he put the ball on the floor and drove down the middle of the lane. Drawing contact from Mangano, Georgatos not only finished a difficult shot, but the Yale center was whistled for his fourth foul of the night, relegating him to the bench for the next six minutes.
Georgatos hit the free throw to complete the three-point play and give Harvard the lead, in the process denying Yale its biggest weapon for a crucial stretch of the second half.
“Jeff came out and gave us some key minutes tonight,” Wright said. “He’s definitely capable of scoring down low. It’s all about confidence in the game, and he’s definitely building his confidence.”
WHISTLE WHILE YOU WORK
Contributing to the defensive sloppiness was the tight officiating. The Crimson and the Bulldogs committed a combined 43 fouls. In the first half, both teams were in the bonus by the 11:39 mark. In the second half, Harvard reached the bonus by 9:44 and Yale starting shooting one-and-one at 5:56.
Harvard’s guards, in particular, struggled with the style of the game. Junior co-captain Oliver McNally and sophomore Brandyn Curry, tasked with guarding Morgan, repeatedly sent the Bulldogs guard to the line, where he hit all 10 attempts. McNally fouled out with 1:37 remaining.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
All 40 minutes were required to determine a winner in the Harvard men’s basketball team’s Friday night matchup against Yale at Lavietes Pavilion.
But when the final buzzer put an end to the back-and-forth game that featured 11 ties and 13 lead changes, the Crimson emerged victorious, 78-75.
Harvard (17-4, 6-1 Ivy) took its final lead of the contest with just over a minute to play. Following two free throws from Yale’s Austin Morgan that knotted the score at 70, the Crimson had possession with 97 seconds remaining. Harvard moved the ball to sophomore Christian Webster at the top of the key. Webster fed the ball to junior co-captain Keith Wright in the high post, and then cut to the basket. Wright fed Webster the ball, and the wing finished with a contested left-handed layup.
“I noticed when I passed it into Keith, their guards turned their heads,” said Webster, whose basket helped propel the Crimson to its 14th straight victory at Lavietes Pavilion, tying a program record for consecutive home wins. “I just thought if I could pass it in and got to the basket, I’d be open.”
On the other end, the Bulldogs swung the ball to Reggie Willhite, who drove to the basket and pulled up for a short jumper. Willhite’s attempt fell short, but Yale center Jeremiah Kreisberg collected the offensive rebound. Kreisberg’s put-back attempt was also off its mark, and Webster secured the defensive rebound.
With the shot clock still on and 37 seconds left on the game clock, the Bulldogs’ Porter Braswell sent Harvard point guard Brandyn Curry to the stripe with a foul near midcourt.
Curry sank both free throws, putting the Crimson up, 74-70.
Yale pushed the ball up the court quickly, and Morgan slashed to the basket, picking up a foul. Morgan knocked down both free throws to pull within two, and the Bulldogs immediately set up in their full-court press.
Harvard inbounded the ball to freshman Laurent Rivard, who was immediately trapped by two Yale defenders. But Rivard dribbled out of the double team, sent a pass up court to Curry, who fed Wright under the basket for a two-handed slam.
“They had the [possession] arrow; we thought they were going to go for a trap, steal, and a tie-up,” Amaker said. “I thought Laurent did a tremendous job of being strong on the catch, pivoting through the double-team, and splitting it…I thought he was really strong and tough with it.”
Out of a timeout, Yale’s Greg Mangano missed a contested three on the other end, and Rivard iced the game with two free throws.
“A gutsy win by our team,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “We did a lot of things late to figure out how to come through.”
The Crimson was led once again by its frontcourt duo of Wright and sophomore Kyle Casey, who combined for 35 points on 16-of-26 shooting.
Casey matched his season-high with 18 points, which came off a combination of post moves and mid-range jumpers. The forward notched 11 of his points in the first half, two of which came on a ferocious two-handed slam off a behind-the-back dribble
“I jabbed right, and I went left, and [Kreisberg] cut me off really quick,” Casey said. “It was just kind of instinctive to go behind my back, and I looked up and the rim was right there, so I just tried to tear it off.”
Yale’s frontcourt also found success on the offensive end, as Kreisberg and Mangano combined for 21 points and 14 rebounds.
The Bulldogs also received strong production from Morgan, a 5’11” guard who notched 22 points on just five shots.
“They’re really diverse [offensively],” Casey said. “They’ve got two great big men down low, and they’ve got guards that can knock down open shots. They run them off a lot of screens, and it’s really hard to guard. You’ve got to talk and communicate all 35 seconds.”
The Crimson struggled defending Yale’s offense in the first half in particular, as the Bulldogs shot 56 percent from the floor and five-of-nine from beyond the arc. Led by Mangano’s 12 first-half points, Yale went into halftime boasting a one-point lead, 39-38.
Harvard, keyed by baskets from Wright and Casey, opened the second frame on an 8-1 run to take the six-point lead. But just when it looked like the Crimson was poised to break the game open, Mangano punched back with a trey and a layup to make it a one-point game.
Yale regained the advantage with 9:27 remaining on a Rhett Anderson layup, but it didn’t last for long. Wright answered with a layup and freshman Matt Brown drilled a three to give Harvard the three-point edge.
While the score would become tied twice more, the Crimson never trailed the rest of the way en route to the three-point win.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Before you sit down to eat a low-fat muffin, hold the cheese on your salad at lunch, or indulge in a bowl of low-fat frozen yogurt, you might want to think again. Newly released information from Dariush Mozaffarian, associate professor of epidemiology at the Harvard School of Public Health, along with Ronald M. Krauss '64, director of atherosclerosis research at the Children’s Hospital Oakland Research Institute highlights the merits (or lack thereof) of low-fat foods.
At the Worlds of Healthy Flavors conference last month, Mozaffarian and Krauss drew on their previous research to offer commentary concerning the relationship (or lack thereof) between low-fat foods and health.
"The issue is really that there are healthy fats and unhealthy fats," Mozaffarian said. "To tell people to avoid healthy fat is bad. Our goal is to change that."
At the conference Mozaffarian asked people in attendance to take a pledge against using the term "low-fat." Relief and surprise were the most common responses to the news, Mozaffarian said, although the change in terminology may come slowly.
"It's an uphill battle. It's going to take time for the concepts to filter down to to the actual industry," he said.
What does all this mean for us? Whether you're relieved, surprised, or merely ambivalent to this news, "the take home message is to avoid unhealthy fat and consume healthy fats, nuts, [and] fish," Mozaffairan said.
Need more advice about healthy eating? Check out the HUHDS website, which offers nutritional information for every delectable (or disagreeable) bite of dining hall food.
Photo by The Harvard Crimson
Sections
Having trouble motivating yourself to wake up for that 7:00 a.m. yoga class at Hemenway or attend that 5:30 p.m. Zumba class at the MAC? Beyond laziness, part of the problem might be that we're not paying to attend our gyms as students.
 
Business partners Yifan Zhang '10 and Geoff L. Oberhofer '10 took this concept a step further with their newest idea, Gym-Pact, which adds a twist to regular gym membership. Instead of paying to simply work out, you are also charged a minimum of $10 if you skip a workout.
 
 
The two partners developed the program to help people keep commitments they wouldn't otherwise keep.
 
"It locks people in," explains Eddie Mortor, a receptionist at Planet Fitness in Porter Square where Gym-Pact has been implemented. 
 
"In college you don't realize that you have all this time [and that the] MAC is two blocks away," Oberhofer said. For this reason, Oberhofer's and Zhang's focus is on young adults who have just left college (and the luxury of free gyms) and moved into the Boston area for work.
 
Gym-Pact, an idea that Zhang credits to a conversation with economics Professor Sendhil Mullainathan, has turned into a profitable enterprise. 
 
"It's been so successful … a lot more than we expected. We started with just one gym. We [have been] able to open a lot more gyms in Boston," Zhang said.
Zhang and Oberhofer said that the idea even seems to work on themselves.
 
 
"We have been having a taste of our own medicine. We started the program like that because we wanted to have the motivation ourselves," Zhang said. "[We want to] encourage people who are looking for something a little different to check it out. We have some Harvard alumni and it's been great."
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
