News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Susan  Livingston, who was serving as Cabot House administrator for her 28th  year, died yesterday in her home, the Cabot House Masters wrote in an  e-mail to the House community.
 
According  to the Cambridge Chronicle, Livingston was found along with a cat when  firefighters responded to an electrical fire at 16 Chester St. yesterday  at about 6 p.m. She was 64.
 
"She  was deeply devoted to the Cabot community and truly cared about the  people, the traditions, and the history," stated the message, which was  signed by Cabot House Masters Rakesh and Stephanie R. Khurana.
 
Livingston,  who was passionate about movies, ethnic restaurants, and theatre,  produced and directed the Cabot House Musical each spring, according to  the House website.
 
"I  can’t imagine having a position at the University that would be as  rewarding, stimulating and fun as this one is for me," Livingston wrote  in her House profile. "I feel very lucky to be here."
 
The  House will be planning a memorial service for Livingston. She is  survived by her daughter Vanessa, according to the House Masters.
 
The  fire is still under investigation by the Somerville Police Department,  the city’s Fire Investigation Unit, Mass. police, and the State Fire  Marshal.
 
—Check TheCrimson.com for updates.
 
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
 
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you're on campus and have chosen not to play in the snow, you might be glad to know that the libraries are still open. Check out this schedule for library opening and closing times.
Don't forget to stay warm!
Sections
Over a foot of snow forced the closure of many Harvard University offices today. Take a look at some of our photographs from around campus. To see the full gallery in all its snow-laden glory, click here.
