News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As President Obama and the House Republicans prepare for an enormous budget fight this spring over the direction of government spending, House Republicans are poised to gut funding for countless government agencies and initiatives, including the healthcare reform and financial regulation bills, basic education and healthcare funds, and environmental protection. The Republicans loudly argue that everyday Americans would be better off with an economy free of regulation. They could not be farther from the truth; an economy free of regulation and government intervention would be an unmitigated disaster where the wealthy would trample over the poor and middle class.
The simple fallacy that the economy will be stronger without government interference or regulation can be disproven by examples and services so basic that we take them for granted. We usually trust that the mutual funds or asset managers that we invest our money with won’t steal it because doing so is blatantly illegal. Despite the Bernie Madoff scam, the Securities and Exchange Commissin has done a reasonably good job ensuring that scams have been a rare occurrence and has been empowered under the new financial regulation legislation to expand investigations for criminal activity in the financial world. The legislation has also empowered the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve to protect American consumers against unfair credit card and lending practices.
These financial regulators must now spend the funds to hire new employees and support more initiatives, but according to the current SEC chair, the agency’s current low budget is “compromising the agency's ability to police the financial markets.” Instead of increasing funding to fulfill these responsibilities, Republicans plan to cut the budget for financial services regulators by 16 percent for the rest of 2011, effectively bringing all the necessary hiring and expansion for regulation to a halt. Defunding will help financial institutions do anything they desire to make a profit, regardless of its legality or effect on the everyday American.
Government regulation has arguably been most effective in protecting the environment against negative market forces. In an unregulated world, businesses would buy every open piece of land, cut down most forests, and burn coal or drill oil wherever convenient. Instead, we live in a regulated economy where plenty of oil drilling, coal burning and land development is allowed, but within limits that still allow for National Parks, historic monuments, and clean air and water. Proposing to cut the budget for the Environmental Protection Agency and Department of the Interior by 14 percent, Republicans would weaken all of these protections, and leave Americans at the mercy of heavily polluting corporate forces. Taking away funds from these agencies would be popular with mining and energy executives, but average Americans will lose the essential environmental protections that are necessary to their livelihood.
Of course, there is also the healthcare marketplace, perhaps the Republicans’ most glorified battlefield for their so-called “economic freedom.” The Republicans propose to cut the 2011 budgets for the Department of Health and Human Services by 13 percent, significantly hurting the efforts to implement the healthcare reform bill. A bill that has already been passed will have to, in the words of Ezra Klein, “limp forward,” not being as effective as it should be in reforming the insurance market, stopping insurers from refusing patients with pre-existing conditions, and testing new pilot programs to reduce medical costs.
These are not the only regulatory functions that will be affected by the proposed cuts; everything from the safety of our food to workplace conditions will be at risk with a weakened and defunded government. Republicans frame many of these budget cuts as necessary to reduce the deficit. In reality, however, Republicans are avoiding the main long-term causes of America’s budgetary problems. Large entitlement programs and defense spending are the major federal fiscal outlays, while the financial regulation and healthcare reform bills, as well as many EPA rules, actually save Americans money over the long term. The Republican spending plan clearly favors the short-term interests of large businesses over the long-term interests of American citizens or the federal government.
Regulating the market economy is the one way in which citizens can organize to make sure that the interests of businesses do not actively harm the interests of everyday Americans. As the budget fight commences, Democrats must aggressively fight the efforts of Republicans to stifle regulations by illustrating the positive effects of government interventions in our market economy. We must realize that when we walk outside, drink water, invest our money, and buy healthcare, intelligent regulations make our lives safer and more secure.
Ravi N. Mulani ‘12, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A specter is haunting the Middle East—the specter of radical Islamism.
In the midst of the chaos currently engulfing the Arab world, many commentators have invoked this specter to describe the region’s future. The possible rise of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood, for example, has many in Israel worried that such a government will effectively obliterate the Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty. A pro-Hezbollah prime minister is now firmly in control in Lebanon. And anti-government protests in Yemen are interfering with American efforts to crack down on Al Qaida’s presence there.
But what about Tunisia, the country whose revolution sparked this wildfire last month? Most of the Middle East is wildly unpredictable at this point, but there is a very strong possibility that this country won’t turn into a theocracy as long as the new government doesn’t make the same mistakes as the old one.
With little historical precedent to analyze an upheaval of this caliber in the modern Middle East, some analysts have appealed to the 1979 Iranian Revolution—a revolt that resulted in a repressive, anti-Western, theocratic government—as a possible model. There are, to be sure, a number of superficial similarities between the Iranian Revolution and the Tunisian Revolution. One of the highlights of the former, for example, was the return of the exiled Ayatollah Khomeini—a charismatic leader banned for his religious preaching—whose return was met with much fanfare. And recently, Rashid Ghannouchi, the exiled Tunisian Islamist leader of the Ennahda party, also returned with much fanfare, and his party will almost definitely be included in any future democratic election.
But any analysis of Tunisia’s religious future must answer one basic question: what, exactly, does the religious Muslim population of Tunisia want?
Chaima A. Bouhlel ’11, a Tunisian expatriate currently living in Saudi   Arabia, wears a hijab—an act that caused her much anguish in her native country. “I started interning at a hospital,” she explained, “and one day they locked all the girls who were wearing [head-coverings]” in a room because a government official was touring the hospital. Chaima also recounted how all mosques were monitored by a secret police force that kept tabs on how often citizens attended prayers. “They count the number of people who show up to the mosques, their ages, their affiliations,” she said.
Chaima’s experience reflects the profound tension that Tunisia has had with religion since its independence from French rule in 1956. Tunisia’s official religion is Islam according to its constitution, but under the guise of stifling “sectarianism” and subversive religious ideologies, successive secularist governments have ruled over the country’s religious population with an iron fist. And the liberties that the Tunisian people were willing to give to their government to curb dissent soon created a police state that impacted everyone. Indeed, Tunisia was suffering from tremendous economic malaise and skyrocketing levels of unemployment when a street vendor named Mohamed Bouazizi set himself on fire last December, and the revolution that he triggered was itself primarily secular. “Everyone knew that if there was any change to happen, it would be through revolution,” Chaima told me, and Tunisia’s religious population dovetailed with the secular population to bring down the government.
And in the wake of its corrupt governance, Tunisia will once again need to deal with the question of its Islamic identity. “I don’t think [the Islamists] resonate with any of the people in Tunisia,” Chaima estimates, because the religious Muslim population “is going to be allowed their religious freedoms anyway” under the new government.
But then she adds a crucial caveat: “unless they aren’t.”
This goes to the heart of the difference between the Iranian Revolution and the Tunisian revolution. Aside from Ghannouchi’s stated disinterest in running for office—as well as his vocal support for women’s rights—Ayatollah Khomeini had managed to co-opt the ideology of the Iranian revolution even before the Shah fled the country and transformed it into something profoundly fundamentalist and anti-Western. In contrast, the wave of anger that brought down the Tunisian government was based in individual liberty and democracy—a cause that resonated with both the religious and secular Tunisian populations. As a result, many religious Muslims in Tunisia have less desire to bring an Islamist to the government’s forefront than they do to acquire the religious freedoms that they were denied under the previous government. The onus, then, falls on the secularists to protect the religious population’s rights. Indeed, the secularists are more likely to bring about the outcome that they dread the most if they fail.
This won’t be easy. With Islamism having been completely absent from the public eye in Tunisia for the past few decades, secularist hesitancy to allow religious Muslims to practice their religion freely is understandable. But whatever government forms from the ashes of the previous one cannot afford to take the same missteps. Indeed, the best way to exorcise the specter of radical Islamism in Tunisia is to remember that most religious Muslims in the country don’t want it either.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though Harvard makes bold and expensive steps toward greenness all the time, one of the simplest ways of being environmentally friendly is neglected. Instructors often print their exams and course handouts only on one side of the paper, effectively using twice as much paper as is necessary. Duplex printing can be easily done on almost any modern printer on the campus, and two-sided copying requires only slightly more effort than copying on one side. To ensure twice as much paper is not needlessly used at the hands of copiers who have little to lose from printing duplex, Harvard should mandate duplex printing.
In universities, where handouts and exams are distributed to scores of students at a time, the amount of wasted paper is immense. A typical six-page handout to a section of 30 students uses 180 sheets of paper when it could have used only 90. Multiply this by the number of courses that don’t use duplex, and thousands of sheets are wasted everyday.
Admittedly, it feels easier to print on one side because it is the default option on many printers at the College. No need to fiddle with the settings – simply click on “Print” and the task is done. But the 30 seconds saved from not clicking through a few windows are not worth the paper that is wasted as a result.
Any printer at Harvard is capable of duplex printing, and choosing to print one-sided on such a printer is simply a crime against the planet. Even if the printer does not have an automatic duplex printing feature, it most probably has a feature that replicates duplex printing. The process is completely automatized, and most people do not print in this way simply because they are not aware of the possibility. Two-sided copying, although seemingly a hassle at first, is easy after one figures out the mechanics of it.
An enforceable policy for a task as simple as duplex printing may seem like overkill. Reminders near printers and copy machines are the conventional way of encouraging printer-users to devote their 30 seconds for a greener planet, but there is only advantage to be gained and nothing to be lost through a mandatory policy.
Furthermore, the arguments against duplex printing are easily overcome. Some may argue that duplexed handouts are a hassle to read when stapled, but that problem can be resolved by simply stapling vertically, rather than diagonally. Others may prefer not to have ink on backsides because it slightly decreases readability, but this is not different from reading books.
Still, there exist others who do not want to print duplex simply because they do not want to. Though making them conform to a policy against their own wishes may seem to violate their rights to personal preference, this is not true because printouts and tests are not for the instructor’s personal use. Instructors should still be allowed to waste as much paper as they want to for their personal needs.
The policy would also not violate the students’ personal preferences because students are not currently asked whether they want to have their tests and handouts printed duplex. They receive both types of printing styles and they, if careless about the wasted backsides, are typically content with either. In fact, requiring one printing style might be convenient in that it would ensure consistency.
Granted, enforcing this policy might be problematic, but simple solutions like random checkups in classrooms, or student questionnaires could be employed to make sure policy violators do not go unnoticed.
Although any step toward more greenness is admirable, less ambitious and more traditional steps should also be remembered even as we build solar panels on our roofs and implement high-tech green projects in our classrooms.
Bilguun Ulammandakh ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Mower Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since the first sorority was established at Harvard in 1992, this year marks the largest rush class of female freshmen in the University’s history.
Typically, sorority rush classes number around 150; this year, however, the total was 268—a number so large that each of the three sororities on campus—Kappa Alpha Theta, Delta Gamma, and Kappa Kappa Gamma—have extended more bids to more women. Eight years ago, for instance, sororities accepted about 20 women each; now, the three organizations are accepting almost 60 women apiece, illustrating a rising demand for sorority life on campus. In response to that demand, Harvard’s Panhellenic Council—the governing body of the three campus sororities—is considering the possibility of establishing yet another sorority on campus, perhaps as early as next year.
Although sororities ideally foster sisterhood and empower women, sororities at our college are not unequivocally successful at doing this, and we are thus ambivalent about another sorority colonizing at Harvard.
As historian Diana B. Turk has written, since the creation of the first sorority in the mid-19th century, these organizations have enabled college women to “navigate collectively the perils of coeducational life.” As Turk points out, when women have confronted academic and social environments hostile to their presence throughout American history, sororities have often been the only organizations that have enabled them to carve out a place for themselves on University campuses. We have no doubt that, for some, sororities can still serve that function today.
However, Harvard’s sororities will never achieve this ideal; they will never become as deeply entrenched or as successful as sororities on other college campuses. At other schools, the rush and pledge process is much more intensive, and aspiring members often spend an entire term getting to know their sororities’ upperclassmen as well as their fellow pledges. To say the least, this is hardly the case at Harvard, where rush is only one week, pledging is similarly dialed down, and the sororities do not provide residential space for members. Even though two of Harvard’s three current sororities are in the process of purchasing real estate in and around Harvard Square, that space will never be used to provide the tight-knit sense of community that naturally comes from shared living arrangements. In short, the sorts of bonds Harvard’s sororities attempt to cultivate among members need more than weekly chapter meetings to develop, and given the unusually large size of this year’s rush classes, the close sisterhood experience seems even more difficult to achieve.
Finally, the University continues to respect Title IX and, because of gender exclusion, will never grant these organizations the legitimacy they need to become as effective as they often are elsewhere. The Harvard sorority experience, therefore, will always be significantly less meaningful than it would be at a peer institution.
This fundamental fact calls into question the notion that more women are interested in joining sororities merely because these organizations provide them with an outlet for community on campus. Instead, we suspect that more women are interested in Greek life because it helps them find a foothold in a social environment that, to this day, shamefully permeates gender discrimination at America’s oldest University and affords them no other option. In 2003, when the Panhellenic Council established Kappa Kappa Gamma, its third-ever sorority, one woman told The Crimson that, as a freshman girl, “you get caught up in the final club scene, and you think to yourself how great it would be if you could have an equivalent.” This week, another went so far as to say that she was compelled to rush merely because so many others were: “I definitely think that having so many people interested made me more interested,” she said. In the sense that sororities are organizations that encourage women to accept the gender divisions that exist on Harvard’s campus rather than to challenge them, sororities often seem to perpetuate Harvard’s anachronistic and male-dominated social scene.
Although sororities have select social events throughout the year—Delta Gamma’s Anchor Bowl and its campus-wide party Eden come to mind—many sorority social events seem to be held in conjunction with or at male social clubs, the latter applying also to rush events. Consequently, even though different women obviously have different motives for joining sororities, among incoming freshmen there seems to be the perception that one function of a sorority is to serve as a gateway into the elite world of the male final clubs, a world none of these women have any hope of entering when they become sophomores.
With this in mind, it is discouraging to see that Harvard women are turning to Greek life to circumvent the structural gender inequity in the College’s social life. Although the mission of all sororities is not to engage in the sort of exclusion that journalist Alexandra Robbins chronicled in “Pledged: The Secret Life of Sororities,” the effect of Greek life on a place like Harvard is not to be taken lightly. Thus, we are not convinced that the addition of a fourth sorority comes anywhere close to addressing what we believe to be the larger and more important problem: the problem of gender division in Harvard’s social space. Indeed, another sorority might even add to that problem by further enforcing those regrettable divisions.
The surge in this year’s rush class should serve as a warning call to the College to facilitate adequate social options within its recognized organizations. The University must address its failure in providing adequate social spaces that would conceivably obviate this rising demand for social organizations that discriminate along gender lines. Given the obvious effect of exclusive, male-only organizations like final clubs, the time has come for the University to go beyond renouncing its ties to such institutions and to provide alternatives that would welcome all Harvard students, regardless of gender.
CLARIFICATION: The Feb. 10 staff ed "The Fourth Sorority" incorrectly suggested that the University does not recognize fraternities and sororities due to Title IX. Title IX, in fact, makes and exception for fraternities and sororities. The Crimson Staff should have specified that the University respects "the spirit of Title IX."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
From the Adam B. Wheeler case to the fraud that led to the stock market crash, dishonesty has been in the recent public consciousness. Yet the cheating that takes place in college can still be surprising. That’s what Dr. Donald L. McCabe discovered when, nearly 20 years ago, he began surveying college students on issues of academic integrity and was so alarmed by the responses that he founded the Center for Academic Integrity (CAI) at Duke University. Now, almost two decades later, after being relocated to Clemson University, the center has surveyed 185,000 college students at over 180 schools–changing its name to the International Center for Academic Integrity to address the growing scope of the project. But the mission remains the same. And this week, the Academic Integrity Assessment comes to Harvard.
“The issue of academic integrity has always been on everyone’s mind, so why not now?” says Megan R. Mitrovich, Management Fellow for the Administrative Board of Harvard College. “I think there has been a lot of attention given to it in the media as of late. Not just at Harvard ... the ways in which people perceive dishonesty have been evolving.”
DEPENDING ON PERSPECTIVE
According to the e-mail sent to all undergraduate students by Dean of the College Evelyn M. Hammonds, the survey should take about 10 minutes and is primarily made up of multiple choice questions, with a few short answer ones. It will be sent to undergraduates, teaching fellows, and professors. All responses will be anonymous.
“The survey is designed to find out how students and faculty perceive certain behaviors,” says Dr. Daniel E. Wueste, Director of the Institute for Ethics at Clemson (where McCabe’s CAI is housed). This perception of “what is cheating” tends to vary, Wueste says. One person’s act of dishonesty is another’s collaborative learning. He understands why students may not know where to draw the line. But to him, the definition of cheating is clear: “Any unfair advantage.”
With the data from the assessment, the CAI will then work closely with the university to develop measures to address dishonesty. According to Wueste, “You get a pretty good picture of the current situation. But it often happens that a school decides to do the survey, and they’re quite sure that ‘there’s a problem elsewhere but not a problem here.’ Then they discover that they aren’t that different from other schools.” Public or private, religiously affiliated or otherwise, colleges tend to suffer from the same issues of integrity.
Once the problem has been recognized, the real work begins. The key is not to simply prevent or police cheating more stringently. Instead, the CAI tries to alter cheating culture. “Just preventing students from cheating is not enough,” says Dr. Teddi A. Fishman, Director of the CAI. “If you don’t teach students the reason why its important not to cheat, you haven’t really educated them ... You have to give someone the space to make a choice.” Ultimately, whatever reforms the university undergoes to limit cheating, the changes have to come from the students first. “When the faculty and administration comes up with what they think they should do ... it is almost always less effective than when the students figure out what the appropriate response should be.”
COUNTERING THE CHEATING CULTURE
Harvard College’s decision to participate in the Academic Integrity Assessment coincides with a recent study from the Harvard Business School (co-authored by Francesca Gino, Harvard associate professor of business administration and Dan Ariely, Duke University professor of behavioral economics) claiming that creative people are more likely to cheat and find justifications for their cheating.
Dr. Teddi A. Fishman, Director for CAI, which was unaffiliated with the HBS study, was not surprised by the results. Creative people, she says, are less likely to simply take a rule at face value. This applies to the college students surveyed as well, and she sees this as a positive thing. “College is testing boundaries, so we want to give students as much information as possible so they can make a decision, not just blindly follow a rule,” Fishman adds.
“If students understand that these rules are our rules, we own them, because we chose to be a part of them,” Wueste agrees. “That’s where I think the most significant work can be done, because it has potential to do two things; one, to diminish the cheating on college campuses, and two, it helps students think of themselves as being part of something larger than oneself.”
BEYOND COLLEGE
Even the global financial crisis can be construed as a major educational opportunity, emphasizing that dishonesty has consequences ‘larger than oneself.’ In the past, Fishman says, students have rationalized cheating by saying that it is widely used in the ‘real world,’ that it is a ‘part of business culture.’ When business leaders were recently surveyed, Fisherman notes, “We learned that the reasons they gave for their own ethical breaches are nearly identical to the ones students cite for why they cheat in school: lack of time, pressure to compete, believing that ‘everyone else is doing it’ or simply because they were otherwise ill-equipped to complete the task, so we speculate that the habits formed in school transfer to later career behavior.” Yet now, he says, “One upside to the global financial crisis is that it gives us an opportunity to point to what lack of integrity can do; that it can bring down whole financial systems.”
Wueste has high hopes that changes brought through measures like the Academic Integrity Assessment will alter the way students interact with their world. “When they become the leaders of [future] organizations,” he says, “they’ll make those organizations what they ought to be.”
Sections
An open letter to the phishers who hacked my Gmail account on Dec. 14, 2010 from Nigerian IP address 41.219.255.221:
I know it’s been a while, but I wanted to get back in touch. Valentine’s Day will be our two month anniversary. But don’t get any ideas.
I want to thank you. Now, you might think I’m being sarcastic. Yes, you hacked my Gmail account and sent a phishing message to all of my 2,593 contacts, saying I was stranded in London and begging them to wire money. You set up filters inside my e-mail so all my e-mail would get forwarded to you. You deleted all of my e-mail, all of my contacts, and all of my Gchats. But like any courteous guest, you cleaned up after yourselves and emptied Trash.
First, a word about subject lines. I understand you had to change it up to outsmart the Gmail sending limit, but let’s do a quick close reading. “PIS Help Chelsea Shover In Trouble” versus “Address: Shepiston Lane, Hayes, England, UK UB3 1LP” versus “Chelsea Shover In Trouble.” The last one is great. Clear and short. What does PIS mean? Is that supposed to be Please? And the address thing is just too complicated for a subject line.
Additionally, I have to applaud your form in the initial e-mail, but I do have one complaint: the AOL.com e-mail address you made to pose as me. I’m disappointed. First of all, who uses AOL.com anymore? I’m not in middle school. Secondly, the handle you chose—“cclshover?” Were you trying to make it look like I stutter? Here’s a clue. The C stands for Chelsea, the L is my middle initial (I don’t think we’re on a middle name basis yet), and Shover is my last name. Unless that first C was supposed to mean cute, or charming, or, heck, crafty—in which case you should have specified that in your sign-off—that was kind of insulting.
Maybe I’m being too hard on you. I don’t even know how many of you there are. The wide-ranging grammar suggests at least three. The grammar in one of the three versions—no doubt, again, rewritten with varying subject lines to bypass Gmail’s 500 recipients per message rule—was pretty good. That version actually fooled one or two people. But your follow-up? Not so great.
I developed an affinity for you as I watched you reply to e-mails as me. I was rooting for you as I watched my electronic doppelganger fumble basic spelling and capitalization. Take this message, a response to a friend who offered to check in again after a final exam: “please can you rush down to the Harvard Square now and make the transfer, i need to settle my hotel now they are putting much presure on me now.please Help In 3 hours time will be too late for me.”
The main giveaway is the dire tone of the final sentence. We’re talking about getting stranded in London, not being locked in a room gradually filling with sand. My friend had offered to go to “the Square” after the test, but you had to fly too close to the sun and throw in a “Harvard” for credibility. Finally, I think this “hotel” is a bit over the top. What kind of pressure?
When people responded, you replied quickly (realistic: plus) and insisted on cash from Western Union (pushy: minus). One friend just asked for a brief description of my relationship with him, to confirm you were not an imposter. This was a reasonable request, and you rolled with it for a few conversational volleys. However, your response, “Are you doubting me or what are talking about,So you don’t trust me.please am really in a serious mess.Am not in that mood of joke.If you really want to help me please do fast am getting late,” seemed unnecessarily hostile, I think.
On the subject of correspondence, I have a confession. The e-mail you got from “Uncle Greg”? The one who asked if you—I—were still stuck in London? The one who told you (me) to live it up in the U.K.? I was taking a turn at posing. I made a fake e-mail address. It looked like so much fun.
But alas, the grass was not greener on the other side. I hated pretending to be someone else online—though I know we all do it, constantly, as we bumble about our postmodern media-soaked lives, et cetera—but it was boring. My fictional relative was too much of a slacker to be very fun. I also regret that I did not choose a more allegorical name.
But back to your handiwork. I have to hand it to you; you put up a good fight. I kind of wanted to be pen pals, to compare notes on developing Chelsea Shover’s online presence.
Thanks for your Assistance,
C-Chelsea
Sections
Some say you don’t know a man until you walk a mile in his shoes. Well, the ladies of FM say you don’t know a man until you go through his shoe closet. And in the heady world of Harvard College, where dating seems to be obsolete, we’re getting straight to the point: Fuck, Chuck, or Marry.
Room 1
• Size nine-and-a-half feet: yeah, some guys are bigger, but we’ve seen smaller.
• Sports Illustrated and The Economist: cultivates both his masculine and intellectual sides; can talk about Bill Belichick and Ben Bernanke.
• One can of Coke in fridge: not enough to satisfy our late-night cravings.
• “Get well soon” card from grandparents: awww.
• Saves all old notes and exams—has them stored in notebooks in chronological order: we don’t want to date you, we want to be you.
• Burt’s Bees: soft skin, soft lips.
• Sensual excerpt from Ernest Hemingway’s “For Whom the Bell Tolls” handwritten on the wall: would probably hold you after.
• No shoes in shoe rack, some empty closet space: more room for us when we move in.
• CD’s entitled “Love Mix #1,” “Love Mix #2,” “Love Mix #4,” “Get It Bumpin’,” “Grindin’”: “Love Mix #3” must currently be in use.
• Most pictures on the wall are with guys but there is one recurring girl: taken!
We don’t want to rain on their parade, but they aren’t married yet—FUCK.
Room 2
• Blue bedspread but pink floral sheets: masculine with a feminine touch.
• Guitar: good with his hands.
• Aloe and Vaseline Men: well lubricated.
• A large number of dress jackets: hot dates at fancy restaurants?
• Tokens from all over the world (giraffe, camel, bird whistle): we’re     already planning our future vacations together.
• Different kinds of tea: in sickness and in health.
• Bob Marley poster: let’s get together and feel alright.
• Salt shaker stolen from the dhall: every girl likes a bad boy.
An adventurous spirit, a musical soul, and a bunch of lube—MARRY.
Room 3
• Minimal posters or picture decor: this guy likes his women like his walls—naked.
• Earth tone floral bedspread: meh.
• Brave New World poster: if this is your paradise, we’re going to keep looking.
• Lots of male care products, among them Old Spice Body Spray: smell like a man, man!
• Twenty-five pound weights: jacked—or trying to become jacked?
• Button-up shirts tossed in drawers: distinct lack of class.
• Pink satin cummerbund: are we supposed to match our dress to your cummerbund now?
• Fake leather pants: the only thing worse than real leather pants.
• Letters from head of state on door: we get it, you’re a pretty big deal.
We appreciate the effort, but we’re afraid you might be more into yourself than us—CHUCK
Sections
The competition for best House has always been a tumultuous one. Upperclassman housing at Harvard often means more than just which Georgian-style building one lives in for three years; the House takes on the role of a home, to which students swear an absolute and undying allegiance. Yet, undergrads have no control over their initial House assignment. Since 1996, assignments of blocking groups have been completely random. Before that, groups of students listed their top three choices and were entered into a lottery to determine the order in which their requests would be honored. This system however, was amended in favor of the more balanced student populations that a completely randomized lottery could provide. This new method has made it difficult to pinpoint exactly what it means to “win the lottery.” Alternatively, the prevailing sentiment when it comes to “losing the lottery” is still clear: banishment to the Quad or Winthrop House—last year’s lowest rated House on The Crimson’s blog. Luckily, for those unhappy with their placement, there is a way out: the opportunity to transfer from one House to another.
FILLING THE FORMS
This year, Tuesday, Feb. 15, is the deadline for applying to transfer. The process of filling out the application is very simple and straightforward: qualifying upperclassmen (a student who has lived in her assigned House for at least two terms, or one term for a transfer student) may download the application from the Office of Student Life (OSL) website and rank the Houses into which they would like to transfer. They submit this form to their House Administrator, who signs this form and then sends it to the OSL. The OSL then assigns a random number to each application.
According to Pforzheimer House Administrator Suzanne “Sue” M. Watts, there are no advantages. “Everybody goes in even,” she says. The only preference is given to students who have not transferred previously. After that it becomes all about the numbers. The OSL takes into account the current class populations in each house and then attempts to fit students into their top choices in such a way that class sizes and gender proportions are balanced. For example, Lowell House currently has a lopsided population with a sophomore class much larger than the junior and senior classes: the Harvard College Facebook lists 160 sophomores, 101 juniors, and 122 seniors residing there. This round of transfers allows administrators to bring more balance to the population. While this process proves beneficial for any rising seniors wishing to transfer to Lowell, hopeful rising juniors may be put at a disadvantage. Two other opportunities to apply to transfer exist: one in the summer and one in December.
However, these transfers can’t accommodate a large number of students, though administrators strive to meet all requests. Watts says, “You never want to deny anybody to come into your House. We do our best to take in everyone, but we’re limited by the House’s population.”
A DIFFICULT CHOICE
Though the form may be straightforward, before the applicant signs her name and agrees to break off all affiliation with her current House if transferred to one of her choices, a lot of thought goes into the decision. When the choice often involves leaving friends, students considering the move turn to their mentors, including staff in the House, for advice.
Allston Burr Resident Dean Lisa M. Boes says of her conversations with students, “They’re not always sure, because in this choice you gain something and you lose something, no matter what.” She elaborates: “If you decide not to go, you still have to deal with whatever made you consider transferring. And if you go, you’ve been in the House for a year and you often come in with people, and you have to give that up.”
QUAD TO RIVER AND BACK
Students who have transferred echo Boes’ point that there are always trade-offs made when moving.
Alex H.H. Housser ’12, receives bewildered looks whenever he mentions that he switched from Adams to Pforzheimer. It may be hard to believe that someone would willingly throw away the benevolence bestowed upon him by the river gods. A rower, Housser made the decision to transfer to Pfoho at the last minute possible this past summer in order to live with his teammates. He confessed that the waiting period to find out whether his request was accepted or not was very stressful, but he says the outcome of his decision has surpassed expectations. He cites the relaxed feel of the Quad as an unforeseen advantage to living in the sometimes chaotic center of Harvard Square.
Joshua R. Wortzel ’13 agrees with this characterization of the Quad and even fondly calls it “the Shire.” However, the current Pfoho resident hopes to make the opposite move as Housser. Wortzel depends upon the M2 shuttle to reach his lab in the Longwood Medical Area and puts in much time and effort at the Harvard Community Garden. For him, a transfer to Lowell makes sense simply in terms of the convenience. “It really is the lab. I think a bunch of people in the University would empathize with that ... It’s comparable to athletes that are far from the river facilities, and it’s an aspect that’s perhaps often overlooked,” Wortzel adds.
Another interesting relocation was made by Evelyn R. Wenger ’11: from Cabot to Currier. Both Houses are equally inconvenient in terms of getting to the hub of activity and commerce in Harvard Square. Wenger’s move was inspired by personal fit. “The housing in Cabot was great, the staff was great, I just fit in really well here,” says Wenger of Currier. It may be difficult to leave one group of friends to join another, but she notes, “Friendships will survive if you’re honest and forthcoming and willing to put the effort in to make it work for everyone.”
Housser suggests, “Put a lot of thought into it. I lucked out in my decision, even though it was a spontaneous one.”
Sections
Let me just start by saying that I get it. Snow is ice. Ice melts into water. And water has the potential to ruin a perfectly good hairdo. But girls, and for that matter men and people of all ages, if you’re worried about your general appearance, using an umbrella in the snow is not the answer.
In fact, it’s the problem.
You know those people who attach rubber coverings to their shoes? What about the ones who use rubber bands to tighten their jeans so that cold air doesn’t get through? How about, dare I say it, men in rain boots?
You, umbrella-wielder, are worse. Much worse. Because while these self-proclaimed practical (read: embarrassing) pedestrians don’t disturb anyone (physically, at least) with their mortifying winter gear, your umbrella is right in my face, blocking my view. Add on the 10 inches of snow on each side of us and you’re impossible to get around.
While you survey the scene, spending 20 minutes trying to choose the driest pathway across the Yard in order to keep your waterproof rain boots dry, I have to stare at the back of your umbrella, unable to make a plan of attack.
So, as I step into the giant puddle that you so skillfully avoided, I just have one thing to say to you.
Those puffy, polyester things that snow—even the most watery kind—seems to slide right off of? They’re called coats, and, more likely than not, they have hoods. And if, for some reason, a small snowflake happens to touch your clothes, let me introduce you to another property of water: it dries.
Sections
I’ve done my research and I’ve concluded: snow is wet. Wikipedia so aptly defines it for us as “crystalline water ice,” and though I don’t actually know what that means, it has the word “water” in it.
I didn’t wise up to the prudent practice of using an umbrella in the snow until I came to college. I’m not one of those hella awesome Californians who had never seen snow before arriving in Massachusetts. Instead, I’m the person who got the day off from school when 20 inches were forecasted. Before college and daily treks to the Yard, I would gaze longingly at the enchanting shimmery whiteness outside my window without needing to step foot in it.
But then I came to Harvard. And then I got Quadded.
Perhaps the best example of an umbrella as a symbol of preparedness in treacherous Cambridge conditions occurs when God blesses us with the beloved “wintry mix,” which in my experience is a euphemism for “wet shit falling from the sky.”
And even though it looks really hot to walk into class drenched from head-to-toe in dirty particle-ridden slush, I’ve heard that this isn’t the best way to ward off colds (and whatever else you might pick up from said questionable particles).
Besides, why not draw attention to your colorful personality with that equally vibrant yellow umbrella? Or, if you’re feeling a bit reclusive, they also afford you your own bubble of personal space on the invariably packed shuttle, since no one will want to stand near your dripping umbrella (open the umbrella for even more space).
But seriously, while critics argue that people whose massive umbrellas take up the entire sidewalk are obnoxious, I prefer to be more opportunistic about it: you could use its clumsiness as a smooth excuse to “accidentally bump into” that cute guy or girl after you both leave section and then invite him/her to stand under it with you (eh eh eh) ....
Sections
Maybe you’re planning to bury yourself in your books, or maybe you’re a cheapskate who’s just too darn stubborn to dish out the bucks to get to New Haven. Maybe you’re frantically avoiding the Yalie who broke up with you via Gchat. Whatever the case, you find yourself stuck on campus after the masses have departed for Harvard-Yale. What’s a straggler to do?
1. If you’re anxious to see some badass art:You’ve seen the MFA, HMNH, and [insert random acronym here]. But you haven’t seen culture until you’ve visited the Museum of Bad Art, or rather “MOBA: Art too bad to be ignored.” Located in the basement of Somerville Theater, the exhibit is perfectly situated for you can check out a movie while you’re at it.55 Davis Square, Friday, 5:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m, Weekends, 12:00 p.m.-10:30 p.m. Admission=your movie ticket.  (Seriously.)
2. If you want to show your Crimson pride:You don’t follow football, but still want to show some school spirit. Unleash some stress and take a study break by watching men passionately whack pucks with sticks.Men’s Varsity Ice Hockey vs. Clarkson, Saturday, November 21, 7 p.m.
3. If you like drinking in the afternoon but don’t have a tailgate to attend:Who needs tailgates when you can take a tour of Samuel Adams Brewery? Play tourist, take in history, and sip some free beer while you’re at it (with ID, of course).30 Germania Street, Friday, 10:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m, Saturday, 10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Admission free but donations welcome.
4. If you’re that kid who already listens to Christmas music:Check out the Harvard-Radcliffe Chorus concert, Handel’s Messiah (Part 1: The Christmas Story). Aww. Don’t you love the holidays?Sanders Theater, Friday November 20, 7:30 pm, $20 per adult. $10 per student.
5. If you need a temporary escape from psets and papers:Take in the brisk fall air with a stroll along the Charles while you can still feel your toes. Sure, you may be that loner surrounded by touchy-feely couples, but an empty campus = me-time. Embrace it.Charles River, 24/7. (Except when it’s really, really, dark.)
Sections
To: Dorm Crew Worker
I like the way you don’t mind getting down on your knees. I know you keep it clean, but I would love to get dirty with you.
To: Bio Lab Partner
I get the answers to psets, you get laid. Now that’s what I call a symbiotic relationship.
To: Dining Hall Server
You never leave the kitchen. Marry me?
To: Fuck Buddy
This Valentine’s Day, I want you to be the only one I’m screwing.
To: Student from TF
I may have given you a B for the semester but that thing you do with your tongue definitely deserves an A.
To: Guy From Grinding Last Night
The outline of your penis felt good against my butt. Oh hai.
Sections
Feeling blue as the world turns pink? Never fear: FM has the perfect pick-me-ups. If you are lucky enough to have a date for Valentine’s Day, these love potions mayw help you get ... even luckier. From the sweet to the sultry, one of these drinks will be perfect for your mood.
Are they aphrodisiacs? Try them out and decide for yourself.
1.  PEACHY KEEN
Directions:
Dip the rim of a cup in peach juice, then coat it in sugar
Add a shot of Absolute Apeach Vodka
Add seltzer and peach juice
Add a splash of grenadine to get that perfect pink shade
Grab a clean handful of snow and toss it in
Add a frozen raspberry
2.  LOVE POTION NO.9
Directions:
Nine-year-old red wine
Orange Juice
Seltzer
Orange slices
Halved strawberries
A splash of Limoncello
3.  POP-THE-CHERRY COKE
Directions:
Coca—Cola Cherry
Smirnoff Black Cherry Vodka
Stoli Vanilla Vodka
Two maraschino cherries
Sections
“People would never fall in love if they had not heard love talked about.”
François de La Rochefoucauld’s 17th century words continue to echo on the 21st century campus of Harvard. Here, love remains a timeless, elusive, and much talked-about ideal for young men and women hoping to make a bright future for themselves.
“I believe that romantic love is a social construction of the past few centuries,” says Social Studies Lecturer Bonnie M. Talbert, who taught a freshman seminar this fall about developing notions of romantic love in Western thought. “Romance the way we perceive it today in American culture has certainly not existed in all places in all times, and it also presupposes other concepts about the definition of the individual, marriage, and other ideas that we take for granted.”
And then from the trenches: “On my very first date at Harvard, I was asked out to a dinner and a movie by a guy that I really liked, but I thought it would be a friendly thing at first, not really a ‘date’ date,” says Philip de Sa e Silva ’13. “When the check came and he was offering to pay it, I was like ‘Oh my God—if he pays for it, it means I’m going to take my clothes off later and everything. Retrospectively, I realized that dating doesn’t have to be what you think you’re supposed to do; it’s really what you make of it.”
Indeed, all the talking about love can grow a bit cacophonous. We’ve tried here to cull some voices from the masses, lending some order to the madness.
On a campus where humanities devotees work to decode Montaigne’s writings on love, where science students learn the chemical underpinnings of our romantic tendencies, is there still a place at Harvard for romance—the unmistakably love-struck laptop-lit smile of an industrious Lamonster, that banality of butterflies in the stomach?
MACKENZIE J. LOWRY ’11 AND CULLEN D. MCALPINE ’11
A 160-minute drama biopic about the tragic life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart may not be every Harvard student’s film of choice for a first date. Not only is this 1984 movie, also known as “Amadeus,” so long that it comes in a two-disc DVD set, but throughout the film, the melodious strains of Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro” and “The Magic Flute” are punctured by the lead character’s eardrum-shattering, flinch-inducing, high-pitched laugh. We can only hope Mozart didn’t really sound like that.
“That laughter definitely dispelled the awkwardness,” Cullen D. McAlpine ’11 remembers as he sits in the Dunster dining hall with his girlfriend, Mackenzie J. Lowry ’11, reminiscing about their first “date” three years ago in Greenough Hall. Through the large window looking out onto the wintry courtyard, one can see students slipping or eating the ground entirely as they try to navigate along icy pathways in Hunter rain boots. “Awkwardness” can be found all over campus—whether in a Greenough dorm room at 10:00 p.m. on a Friday night or on the way to the dining hall at 1:15 p.m. on a Wednesday afternoon.
Yet the “awkwardness” does not begin or end with the fact that the two freshmen watched “Amadeus” for two hours and 40 minutes on their first date. Both Lowry, who hails from Iowa, and McAlpine, originally from Alaska, agree that their first date three years ago was also not the smoothest for other reasons. When the two freshmen began the movie, they mistakenly played the second of the two “Amadeus” discs first, remaining in a state of utter confusion for some time. They would have to return to “Disc A” later to fully understand the plot.
Despite the uncomfortable nature of that Mozart-filled night, the two remained close for years and became an official couple in the beginning of their senior year. From the spark in their eyes, it seems their prolonged courtship has made them all the more devoted to one another now.
“Even though we haven’t been in a relationship until this year, Cullen has always been someone very special to me at Harvard,” says Lowry.
Coincidentally, both live in Dunster House. When asked if being in the same house gave rise to their full-blown relationship, McAlpine answers: “It helped things along. It still took three years, though,” he says, pretending to be angry but smiling all the while.
Lowry lets out a laugh as she gazes down at the table and toys with the black plastic thermos in front of her.
Dunster House appears to be swarming with romantics. Their blockmates have also gradually begun to leave Harvard’s carefree (or tiresome) “hook-up culture” behind them. “In my blocking group of 10 guys, at least seven of the 10 are in serious relationships,” McAlpine recalls after counting on his fingers, eyebrows furrowed. “And in mine, four out of seven are in serious relationships,” says Lowry.
In fact, McAlpine, Lowry, and several of their fellow love-struck friends are going on a cruise around Mexico for spring break. “It’s slowly becoming a ‘Couples Cruise.’  We’re trying to just make it a ‘Harvard Cruise,’ though,” McAlpine jokes.
“But I think we’re the deviation from the norm,” says McAlpine, suddenly becoming more serious, his once U-shaped mouth straightening into a horizontal line.
While few Harvard students may be as steadily involved as these two seniors, both are optimistic about relationships at school.
“Yes, absolutely,” McAlpine says when asked if romance can exist at Harvard.
“I think romance is just a gesture of caring. You have to mean it. A rose can be really significant if it’s thoughtful and timely,” adds Lowry.
Students at Harvard are busy, to say the least, and smothering significant others with “I Love You” Hallmark cards, Godiva chocolates, and a dozen red roses from Petali Flowers on a daily basis is often not an option. But whether it’s by sharing a meal on a Tuesday evening at Russell House Tavern—Lowry and McAlpine’s favorite restaurant in the Square—or watching “Amadeus” backwards on a quiet Friday night, it appears easy to show someone at Harvard you care.
ALI BINAZIR M.D. M.PHIL AND JILLIAN K. KUSHNER ’12
Dr. Ali Binazir ’93, an M.D. with a master’s in Philosophy, is a romance guru, and his assistant and co-writer, Harvard’s very own Jillian K. Kushner ’12, is proving to be one as well. The two are not at all a couple: instead, Kushner is giving Binazir insight into the ups and downs of the single life at Harvard. Since the beginning of January, the pair has been working on a book catered specifically to college-aged women. It will provide readers with real-life experiences of female college students and give them advice on how to approach dating on their campuses. Binazir and Kushner hope to finish the book (currently without a title) by the end of the school year.
“You’re making me nervous,” Binazir says jokingly when told that he is on speaker phone. But as soon as he begins to meditate on the state of romance at Harvard from his office in Santa Monica, Calif., it is clear that he is anything but anxious. The richness in his voice, his fluency, evokes his expertise on the topic.
Binazir, who has written other books on romance—including “The Tao of Dating: The Smart Woman’s Guide to Being Absolutely Irresistible”—and Kushner are both of the notion that many women at Harvard and other schools are in a crisis when it comes to attaining meaningful relationships. “We want Harvard’s women to get better at dating and fulfilling their love lives,” says Binazir.
According to the doctor and his partner in crime, one of the main obstacles for frustrated Harvard women is their inability to accept that methods for approaching work and romance are not the same—there is no textbook for love. The co-writers suggest that students in America’s so-called “most prestigious,” most academically-oriented schools unburden themselves of their rigid, goal-driven mentalities to find romance: “You have Harvard men and women who are exceptionally good at achieving. Why should romance be any different? Because we don’t have the manual for it.”
He adds: “The reason this book is so important, is that you girls have a particular talent. For your entire lives you’ve been smart—and that has been good enough. But now everybody else is just as smart. Now you’re a woman.” Having a successful relationship, he says, is about evolving from an academic machine, into a softer, more compassionate human being.
“And this book is particularly important for places like Harvard, like Yale, because there is a massive misplacement of priorities. You’re just so caught up in the game of achievement that people forget that what really makes you happy in life is connection,” says Binazir. “If you went to Oxford or Cambridge, you would have spent three years socializing and this wouldn’t be a problem.”
“They have to realize that the primary love relationship is the most important thing,” says the guru in a matter-of-fact tone. Kushner expresses her agreement tacitly, nodding as she looks at the phone.
The junior in Adams House became an intern for Binazir over J-Term, a little over a month after Binazir flew into Cambridge during Harvard-Yale weekend to hold interviews for prospective interns. According to Binazir, Kushner is giving him new urgency to the project, flooding him with information about unsatisfied female students at Harvard.
“I’m helping by giving him case studies. I’ve had the chance to experience the challenges that women at Harvard face in terms of dating,” says Kushner.
The young intern is overflowing with dating stories of every nature, but many in Harvard’s female population undergo similar experiences. “There’s always the ‘I’ve been demoted to head-nod-status after hanging out with a guy or making out with someone’ story,” she reports. Suddenly Binazir interjects, saying, “Jillian! Jillian! Tell her about the girl who had to lose 10 pounds every time she was about to see her boyfriend!”
In addition to collecting and analyzing the anecdotes coming directly from Kushner, Binazir has spoken with hundreds of women seeking help via e-mail. The concern of females throughout American college campuses is real, he says. However, his focus remains on Harvard women for the upcoming book. “If you start with a representative sample from the smartest women then that should be applicable to all the rest,” he says.
In writing this book, the co-authors hope to make romance a little easier to find in college.
“I think romance can exist anywhere. I think there are no absolutes and it depends on individual situations. But Ali’s point of the book is to help women figure out what they want,” Kushner concludes.
LANGE P. LUNTAO ’12 AND KYLE JACKSON
Barack Obama brought Lange P. Luntao ’12 and his boyfriend of two years together. No, the president didn’t personally introduce them, but Lange (pronounced ‘Lang’) and his partner, who preferred not to be identified by name (we’ll call him Kyle Jackson), met while campaigning for him in New Hampshire in the fall of 2008.
“I guess we had a sort of unromantic way of meeting. We met through the Dems,” says Luntao, grinning in his red and blue plaid shirt, sunglasses lying by his hand. “It was one of those situations where I was a freshman on campus, and I had a crush on this sophomore, and I totally thought he wasn’t into me. But after the election, he texted me and asked me if I wanted to go to dinner. Obviously I interpreted it as a ‘friend dinner,’ because, you know, I was oblivious.”
Since their first date at Cambridge, 1, Luntao and Jackson have been, for lack of a better word, political. The two Harvard men are shrewdly tactful in their approach to managing their relationship. While they are undeniably in love, they are also able to exist separately from one another—the telltale sign of a healthy, functional couple.
Trying not to make broad generalizations about the Harvard student body, Luntao reflects on his time as someone in a long-term, monogamous relationship. “Especially in the gay community, there’s little in-between—there’s this idea that either you’re hooking up or you’re in a Harvard marriage. I’ve always really rejected that. I think there’s always space for a happy medium,” Luntao says, clapping his palms together and dragging them downwards to draw an invisible line in the air between the one night stand and vows to love “until death do us part.” “I think that’s what I found with the guy I’m dating. Harvard students like to gravitate towards somebody who’s really committed or not committed at all. But it’s been really meaningful for me to know that I have a boyfriend I can count on but also know that we have very independent lives.”
Oddly enough, the junior never dreamt he would be in such a measured, mature partnership with someone else when he first stepped on Harvard turf.  Luntao is at once serious and light-hearted when he comments on his pre-freshman year assumptions about Harvard’s LGBT community. For starters, he was unsure as to how easy it would be to find someone he was interested in.
“I expected Harvard to be much less gay, so that was a nice surprise. Now I think it’s a really great place to be a gay man. Gay men definitely know where to find each other,” Luntao says.
But furthermore, he wasn’t positive that a serious relationship was something he wanted in the first place.
“I didn’t imagine that a love life would be a significant part of my experience here, and I’m so glad that it has. It’s been a great supplement to my happiness here,” Luntao says, careful not to become overly sentimental.
At Harvard, there exists a common misconception that one’s social life and one’s love life, must fit around academic plans. But the two different “worlds” of scholarship and romance aren’t always in conflict with one another. From Luntao’s account of his two years with Jackson, it is clear that the flippant motto, “Work hard, play hard,” really can apply to the experiences of Harvard’s men and women.
“In reality, Harvard students are eager to meet each other and form relationships, and it doesn’t have to come to odds with your other goals. It’s an important part of life,” says Luntao. But once they have formed a meaningful bond with another person, Luntao explains, it can often be difficult for some of the more self-possessed members of the Harvard community to acknowledge their weaknesses and flaws to their respective boyfriends or girlfriends.
“I know it’s difficult for myself to accept that I don’t know what’s best. It’s difficult for me to accept that I need to ask for help—and I think that that can be applied to a lot of Harvard students,” Luntao admits as he moves his eyes down to the floor of the sun-filled Lamont Cafe. “My relationship with my boyfriend has been a process of me really opening up to myself and to him in terms of issues I’ve had. I’ve had to open myself up to the idea of dating and what it means to be a committed boyfriend.”
Self-discovery has unquestionably been a part of Luntao’s relationship with Jackson. His attitude towards dating at Harvard has changed significantly since their first encounter while campaigning for Obama. In advocating for broader political change, the junior began an inner transformation of his own.
Some things will never change, though. Central Kitchen in Central Square will always be his favorite date spot.
“It’s just so bougie.”
PETER A.D. CURTIS ’13
Wearing a number 43 Pittsburgh Steelers jersey and casual blue jeans, Peter A.D. Curtis ’13 doesn’t sport the classic look of the collegiate romantic. With a broad, easy-going smile and a voice whose tenor vaguely recalls the wave-swept beaches of southern California (Curtis is from Pittsburgh, Pa., curiously enough), Curtis doesn’t give off the slightly under-the-weather demeanor of someone who recently ended a long-term relationship.
His story is familiar: he and his ex-girlfriend Scarlett E. Austin went to the same high school growing up in Pittsburgh, with Curtis a year older than Austin. They began dating officially in January 2009 during Curtis’ gap year, after a five-month trip to Cairo, Egypt to study intensive Arabic and teach English to university students (“There were kids older than me calling me Professor, and I was like: ‘No dude, I’m Peter,’” he recalls lightheartedly). They were able to visit each other several times during the fall and spring semester, while Austin was attending Haverford College—an eight hour trip by bus. But each became involved with different activities at their respective schools and found themselves with less time for phone conversations and online video chats. By fall semester of this year, it became difficult for them to make even a few minutes of time per day to stay in touch, and although winter break found the two reunited, a mutual decision was made to separate—at least for this semester, for the sake of academics and the happiness of both involved.
Speaking with the past behind him, Curtis reflected upon the two years during which he was actively in a long distance relationship.
“The whole long-distance thing actually made it easier to focus at school—at least in the beginning, when you’re not worried about having to play ‘The Game’ at parties or wherever.”
For the two, the ground rules for the relationship were set without ever needing explicit discussion.
“We sort of decided not to dance with anybody else at parties, which was really a tacit agreement,” says Curtis.
Besides the obvious challenge of becoming adjusted to the physical absence of the other partner, Curtis also noted the challenges of being single in a college environment where young men and women are encouraged more and more to explore and understand their own desires and romantic (or not-so-romantic) wishes.
“Some people really thought I was crazy. I had some friends who’d say, ‘Dude, you gotta get out into the field.’ I had one guy who said, ‘You need to break up with your girlfriend,’ and that was taking it too far, so I let him know what I thought,” says Curtis, now mostly looking at the table with his smile fading, as he began to speak about the most sensitive aspects of his long-distance experience.
“Most of last semester was spent working out how to communicate more, so unfortunately a lot of the time we did communicate it was fighting about how to communicate more.”
By the time winter break rolled around, even Curtis’ parents noticed that things didn’t seem to be going as well as they had before.
“My mom just sat me down one day and said: see what else is out there. And my mom is generally, most of the time, right about advice she gives me, even though most of the time I resist listening to her at first.”
While it didn’t work out in the end, Curtis doesn’t regret staying together with Austin for two years. Talking about some of his favorite moments, like sharing a bread bowl filled with steaming hot clam chowder while traversing the pouring rain of Quincy Market, the corners of his lips began to curl: a sort of subconscious bittersweet response to a relationship now only ongoing in memories and Facebook photo albums.
We asked Curtis one more question before ending the conversation: did he believe that finding true romance at Harvard was possible?
“Absolutely. With 6,500 people, there’s at least one person you can really get along with. I’ve seen people dating who seem really happy—some of them,” Curtis noted, with a smile and unconsciously half-crossed fingers.
Curtis didn’t come off as the romantic type at first, but he’s a bona fide example of one of many students at Harvard who haven’t become sufficiently cynical to believe that love can’t be found in Annenberg, or the Science Center, or the laundry rooms of Currier House. He mentioned that he and Austin may try again in the future, but for now, he’s a free agent.
“Oh, and it’s spelled ‘Scarlett,’ with two t’s,” points out Curtis with a smile, dutifully correcting me before putting on his coat and stepping back outside, into the vast, sometimes unforgiving world of college dates, hook-ups, and star-crossed relationships.
BALTAZAR ZAVALA ’11 AND MELANIE JOHNS
Students on campus may recognize Baltazar ‘Zar’ A. Zavala ’11 for a number of reasons: he plays varsity football, he’s a Rhodes Scholar, and he’s also an indisputably, genuinely nice guy.
He’s also very, very committed to a lucky lady. In fact, he’s engaged to his girlfriend of seven years, Melanie Johns, whom he will wed on their anniversary this June.
Having met during their freshman year of high school, they were best friends from the start and began dating a year later. After deciding that they would stay together in college, the couple tackled the same challenges of adjusting to college life as Curtis and Austin.
While Johns stayed in El Paso, Texas to teach dance at a private school, Zavala left his home-town for the hectic life of an intellectually-gifted student-athlete. A joint concentrator in neurobiology and engineering with stellar grades, Zavala faced pressures from all sides. Not only having to negotiate his schoolwork, Zavala also had to simultaneously overcome the hollow ache of missing someone half a continent away, as well as the solid, present fatigue of high-intensity football practices and workouts.
“It was really hard to find time each day to stay in touch with Melanie. During football season, the most we’d get to talk at a stretch would be 15 minutes,” says Zavala.
These few precious minutes on the phone did not come without a price, however.
“Those 15 minutes were the time I spent walking from Matthews [and later Kirkland House] to the Stadium across the river for six o’clock lift. Melanie would wake up at four a.m. El Paso time and we’d finally get to talk for a while until I had to go to practice—then she could go right back to sleep for a few more hours before work. When it got cold late in the fall, sometimes I’d have to wrap my hand and the phone in my scarf to keep from freezing during the walk across the Charles.”
Zavala recalls one of the lowest points of his now retrospectively-accomplished college career. During sophomore year, he took a particularly difficult course load and was also unable to play football because of an injury. Melanie had come to visit that weekend, but the day she arrived, Zavala stumbled uncharacteristically—he failed his CS50 midterm. By this point, Zavala recalls he was in the darkest hour of his “sophomore slump.” He remembers taking Johns on a trip to the aquarium.
“I ended up moping around at the aquarium, thinking, ‘Oh, penguins. This sucks.’ Melanie saw how down I was, so she took me outside by the 7-Eleven and sat me down on the bench, and then she told me straight, ‘This one test isn’t going to destroy your grade in the class, and that grade won’t destroy your GPA, and your GPA isn’t going to be the be-all-end-all for what you do after college. You’re going to be fine.’ And I knew I had to toughen up and get through my own negative feelings for us to be okay.”
Zavala didn’t forget that crucial moment, nor did he forget that particular 7-Eleven.
People today talk about love all the time, in its many forms—delayed, like for McAlpine and Lowry; fulfilled, for Luntao and Jackson; up in the air, in Curtis’ experience.  But it seems it’s true, the tired banality, that love speaks for itself.  And in the end talk is cheap, something that Zavala knew.
“The next year when she came to visit for Harvard-Yale, I took her out to dinner in the North End and then asked her if she’d like to go on a walk. We went by the 7-Eleven and this time, I sat her down on the bench and got on one knee and asked her if she’d marry me. She was there when things were going terribly, and she was here again when I got the Rhodes in front of my whole family, so she’s really been with me through thick and thin.”
Sections
During high school, Valentine’s Day was always unpleasant. It usually started with an uncomfortable assembly in which zealous feminists sang the praises of “V-Day.” I will spare details, but suffice it to say: their rhetoric was awkward for (still quite immature) high-schoolers, especially when flanked by elderly faculty.
V-Day didn’t improve from there. The varsity field hockey team held an annual Valentine’s Day rose sale for charity. It was a rather uncharitable event for those of us who didn’t receive dozens of flowers. Yellow roses and cards came from friends; red, significant others; pink, secret admirers. Each year, popular girls flaunted the number of roses they received, insincerely lamenting the clumsiness of the bouquet they had just collected. If you received fewer than five flowers, you might as well have just thrown them out. To acknowledge such a dearth was worse than to carry none at all. The sale was dreadful for us students, heightening our teenaged insecurities. It was completely unavoidable, too; the rose distribution took place en route to the cafeteria. And even if it hadn’t, we probably couldn’t have escaped the temptation of seeing whether this year would be different, whether this time we would receive a pink rose.
At Harvard, too, I have found it difficult to escape the horrors of Valentine’s Day. For my first two years here, it has fallen on a weekend. The perfect “date nights” called; few perfect dates followed suit. All I wanted to do was let the “holiday” pass by quietly, unnoticed. So I removed myself. Freshman year, I stole away for the weekend, bringing my roommates home with me. We cooked, watched movies, sledded, and went cross-country skiing. We returned to campus late enough to justify starting homework rather than acknowledge our lack of other engagements.
Sophomore year, Valentine’s Day was on a Sunday. Though Sunday is not de jure date night, President’s Day fell on the following day, so it was de facto date night. Thus, Valentine’s Day weekend became an extended hell. My female blockmates and I did our best to avoid the whole thing. All of us single, we sequestered ourselves in a kitchen in Currier House. One of us made chicken and rice for the group; another baked an apple pie. Together, we adopted a “screw love” attitude (an inevitable part of Sophomore Slump), singing and dancing to “Believe” by Cher. To answer Cher’s question: we believed in life after love. At least, that’s what we told ourselves.
This year, escaping Valentine’s Day could be easy. Feb. 14, 2011 falls on a Monday, comfortably far enough from Friday and Saturday that Valentine’s Day weekend doesn’t need to feel like much of a weekend at all. If I don’t have a date on Friday or Saturday, I could have an alibi (“It’s not Valentine’s Day”). On the day of, I could complain of homework and easily hibernate in a library (“Ugh, response paper ...”). And to sweeten the deal, the canoodling couples of Lamont probably would not be there to remind me of my datelessness. This year, Valentine’s Day could be exactly what I have always wanted: just another unspectacular day, one easily overlooked, one in which I won’t have to acknowledge the fact that I don’t have anybody with whom to spend it.
But I don’t want to do that this year—just blur over Feb. 14. As I reflect on the Valentine’s Days of my freshman and sophomore years, I realize that I haven’t actually forgotten those days, nor do I want to. I loved sledding with my roommates in 2009 and dancing with my blockmates in 2010. While doing so, I thought I had been avoiding Valentine’s Day. But I was, in fact, spending it with people I cared about. The efforts I took to bypass Feb. 14 didn’t help me to erase the day at all; rather, these compensatory activities resulted in some of the best memories of my first two years here. Though I hate to admit it, Valentine’s Day at Harvard hasn’t turned out to be all that bad.
As to what this year holds, I’m not sure. Who knows? Maybe this time, I’ll get that pink rose.
—Elizabeth C. Bloom ’12 is a junior in Currier House. She’s a hopeless romantic.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A reportedly mentally ill man was taken into custody yesterday by the Cambridge Police Department after leaving a note that suggested he planned to kill himself by jumping in front of a bus.
He was apprehended on JFK Street around 2:45 p.m. and taken to a hospital, according to Cambridge Police spokesperson Daniel M. Riviello.
The Harvard University Police Department issued an advisory to Harvard University Transportation Services and the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority to be on the lookout for a 46-year-old man who was last seen near the shopping area around the Harvard Coop.
The man was described as wearing a blue jacket and carrying a green duffel bag.
Around 2:40 p.m., police issued an advisory with that description to all Harvard shuttle drivers, according to General Manager of the Harvard University Transportation Services David E. Harris Jr.
“Apparently the person had a mental illness, and we were issued an advisory,” Harris said.
Emergency police advisories such as these are not typical for Harvard University Transportation Services, according to Harris.
“This was the first time in the 12 years that I’ve been here that we have had an advisory like this,” Harris said. “We usually issue safety advisories for traffic or weather advisories.”
The shuttles were not delayed due to the advisory, and the man was apprehended before any harm occurred around five minutes after the notice was delivered to Harvard drivers.
Cambridge police has not released the name of the individual.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School altered the 2011 schedule for their annual Early Interview Program, moving on-campus recruiting to mid-August and allowing second years to finish the entire interview process before the beginning of classes.
The Early Interview Program allows employers to recruit students for summer jobs, which are considered to be a stepping stone for future permanent employment.
During the next academic year, the program will be held between Aug. 15 and 19, and students will have three weeks to travel to callback interviews before classes start for upperclassmen on Sept. 12. In the past, classes were cancelled after a few weeks of school so students could fly out to interviews.
Mark A. Weber, assistant dean for career services, said that the former schedule distracted students from their course work.
“The new schedule lets students interview without interfering with studies—which is the primary reason they’re here,” Weber said.
The recruiting process has been shifting earlier and earlier over the past five years. In 2006, callback interviews were completed in late October.
Despite its early start, Weber said that the new schedule would not cut students’ summer jobs short, saying that firms have cut summer programs to end in late July.
The Law School’s Office of Career Services wrote in an e-mail to students that the changes would enhance student employment opportunities and enable students to have more flexible calendars when scheduling callback interviews.
Weber said that there is “no downside” to making recruiting earlier.
“Why not?” Weber asked.
Most other law schools have already scheduled on-campus recruiting during mid-August, Weber said. Yale Law School made the decision to move on-campus recruiting from mid-September to mid-August last year.
Despite the large number of schools hosting potential employers during the same time period, Weber said that he is confident that potential employers will recruit at Harvard.
Employment after graduation for Law School students has been steady for the past 20 years, despite the financial crisis. According to the Law School’s Office of Career Services, between 92 and 95 percent of third years who graduated last year obtained employment.
—Staff writer Caroline M. McKay can be reached at carolinemckay@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Faced with the recent departure of about a quarter of its faculty, the Classics Department expects that it will take several years to fill the positions, according to Classics Department Chair John M. Duffy.
To fill the gaps during what is forecast to be an extended personnel search, the department has turned to the Harvard College Fellows program, which employs recently minted PhDs who have shown an excellence in teaching.
“We are trying to recoup our strength because we have several gaps, a number of which are quite serious,” Duffy said. “That’s where a lot of our energy has been going and will continue to be going for the next few years.”
But Duffy added that the fellows program has helped to support the department as it seeks to execute a search for multiple positions within a climate of strict financial constraints. The Department currently employs two College Fellows as visiting faculty.
“It used to be that you could invite a visitor from outside, or that you could appoint a recent PhD student from within the program as a lecturer for one year, but we’re mainly using the Harvard College Fellows program right now,” he said.
The fellows program is supported by the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning, which aims to enhance the quality of undergraduate education by providing resources and programs to promote excellence in teaching.
“We try to provide them with a series of meetings across the year,” Bok Center Executive Director Terry Aladjem said. “We engage them in discussions about pedagogical and teaching issues, but their involvement depends on the individual fellow.”
In addition to relying on the Harvard College Fellows, the Classics Department has divided the courses as needed between the faculty members to ensure that all areas are covered, which has increased the average teaching load.
The undergraduate curriculum, which originally included multiple tracks, recently underwent reform and now has two that divides concentrators based on their interest in either the study of literature in the original language or the study of the history, culture, and philosophy of classical civilizations.
Duffy said that although there remain many vacant positions, notable progress has already been made in the faculty search. Most recently, the department hired Adrian Staehli, a senior professor of classical archeology from Switzerland.
He also said that the department is in the middle of a search for a junior ancient Greek historian and expects to have a candidate within the month.
“In the meantime, we’re waiting to fill the gaps that have occurred, which we expect to take several years to fill,” Duffy said.
—Staff writer Barbara B. DePena can be reached at barbara.b.depena@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Police Department reported that last year saw no murders in the city, just the fourth time in the past 50 years that no murders have occurred in Cambridge.
Serious crime increased by 1 percent in 2010, but that slight rise comes on the heels of a 40-year low in serious crime in 2009, according to department statistics.
The 3,614 serious crimes in 2010 was the second lowest number in Cambridge since 1970.
But the past year also saw a 15 percent increase in the number of reported rapes.
“2010 was slightly up, and there was a different mixed bag of crime, but we were very excited to see no murders,” said Daniel M. Riviello, a spokesperson for Cambridge police. “It’s something that’s very dramatic and people really focus on.”
Other years without a homicide include 1985, 2004, and 2007. Between 1960 and 1989, Cambridge averaged less than five murders per year, and since 1990 the annual average for the city has fallen to two murders per year, according to Cambridge police.
Cities with comparable populations average 10 murders per year, according to department statistics.
“It’s a sign of how seriously we take crime as a city,” said Cambridge City Councillor Leland Cheung.
Since July 2010, Cambridge police has utilized a crime tracking program known as BridgeStat, which is a monthly report that includes data on crime, traffic incidents, and other disturbances.
According to Riviello, the department has used this report to more effectively deploy its resources, a change that he said contributed to the lack of murders in the city last year.
“The department is very sophisticated in tracking crime patterns and anticipating criminal activity before it even occurs,” Cheung said. “They have deployed officers accordingly.”
Police officials meet monthly to identify crime patterns and compile the data, which includes information on historical trends and breakdown by different crimes.
The report is issued to the public on the first Friday of every month.
“We want the public to know what the officers are doing and give them tips on how they can protect themselves from being victims of crime,” Riviello said.
BridgeStat is similar to the CitiStat programs used in New York City, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Chicago, and Baltimore to track performance in city government using extensive data.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The cafe and three bathrooms in Lamont Library are operational again after being closed Tuesday due to a sewage blockage.
The blockage, which occurred in a sewage line on Quincy Street next to Lamont, caused sewage to back up in a mechanical room on the second basement level in the library.
Lamont Cafe employees received an e-mail five minutes before the cafe was scheduled to open Tuesday afternoon, with a subject line punctuated with 15 exclamation marks, stating that the cafe would be “closed until further notice” and that they should not report to work.
Harvard College Library spokesperson Beth S. Brainard wrote in an e-mail that the cafe was closed in order to keep the cafe in compliance with health codes, which prohibit operating a food service establishment without running water for cleaning.
Although there was no food or beverage service, the seating area in the cafe was still bustling with studying students Tuesday. Eli A. Kozminsky ’14, who spent the evening in the cafe, said that students seemed unaware of why the food counter was not open.
“Some caffeine peeps were getting kind of feisty,” he said.
Three of the four bathrooms—all of the library’s restrooms except the women’s bathroom located on level B of the basement—were blocked off Tuesday with plastic sheets and thick blue tape.
Brainard said that the fourth restroom was able to remain open because it is serviced by a different sewage line.
Students who visited level B in Lamont yesterday, where the backup occurred, reported an unpleasant odor.
Emily S. Shire ’11, an inactive Crimson editor, described the smell on the second basement level as “like a horse’s stable, like manure.”
Brainard said that University Operations Services’ Environmental Health and Safety Unit conducted air quality testing and determined that the smell was not hazardous.
The City of Cambridge fixed the blockage on Quincy Street, and Lamont’s custodial staff cleared the blockage inside the library and disinfected the area.
­—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard College’s admissions office will announce whether it will bring back an early admissions program within the next several months, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said in an interview earlier this week.
“By the time spring comes around, we’ll have to have made a decision,” Fitzsimmons said.
Harvard decided to eliminate its non-binding early action program in 2006. At the time, College officials stated that the early admissions program—regarded by many as an advantage in the admissions process—disproportionately benefited affluent students, who were more likely to have access to resources that could help them prepare their applications for an early deadline.
In addition, the College claimed that the binding nature of many early admissions programs at other universities discouraged less wealthy students from applying, because they would not be able to compare the financial aid packages offered to them before choosing a college in which to matriculate.
Despite the College’s strong stance against the program five years ago, this week Fitzsimmons described the elimination of early action as “an experiment” that his office underwent when it decided to get rid of the program.
According to Fitzsimmons, his office always intended to reevaluate the merits of the decision after five years.
“The world changes, so you have to see where you are at the end of that time,” Fitzsimmons said.
The University of Virginia and Princeton University both announced their intentions to eliminate their early admissions programs shortly after Harvard did in 2006.
While Princeton has not indicated that it is considering bringing back such an offering, Virginia unveiled a new early action program last fall that will be in effect for applicants to its class of 2016.
Under the option, students will be free to apply early to as many schools as they choose.
“From a university institutional self-interest perspective, we felt like there were students we were missing who were interested in applying and receiving early notification,” Virginia Dean of Admission Gregory W. Roberts told The Crimson this past December. “We felt like we will be able to enroll the same type of class ... and also respond to student interest.”
Roberts, along with Princeton representatives, declined to comment for this story.
Fitzsimmons would not specify which type of early program—the binding early decision option or the non-binding early action—Harvard would employ, should it bring back an early admissions option.
Amy Sack, president of college counseling firm Admissions Accomplished, said that Harvard’s lack of an early admissions program has not discouraged her students from applying to the College. According to Sack, students who want to attend Harvard usually apply early to comparable schools such as Stanford University or Yale University, both of which offer non-binding early action admissions programs.
“I think it would be nice for them to be able to indicate that Harvard is their first choice. It would let them not have to play the game as much,” she said. “I think my students would be happy if Harvard brings it back.”
In 2006, the last year early admission was offered, Harvard received 4,008 early action applications.
The early acceptance rate was 21.5 percent compared to below nine percent overall.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Patricia Kelliher stopped working as a freelance photographer a few years ago and decided to try something new, she chose to start her own business.
After a year and a half of researching on the internet, calling banks, and soliciting donations from friends and family, Kelliher opened a vegetarian-friendly, old-fashioned American cafe—Happy Owl Cafe—in Brighton three months ago.
“I had never owned my own business, so everything that I had to do in the beginning was very difficult,” she said.
Kelliher—a third generation Allston resident who raised her own children in the neighborhood—said that it took her time and energy to develop the skills necessary to start her business.
Now—perhaps too late for Kelliher—Harvard is opening a resource center called the Harvard Business School Innovation Lab in the fall that will help Allston entrepreneurs develop their business plans.
The Lab is a multi-million dollar space where people from across the University and local residents can work together to develop small businesses and non-profits in the Allston-Brighton community.
Business and non-profit leaders in the community have expressed optimism about the new project, which has the potential to help reinvigorate Western Avenue.
Harvard University owns a number of properties along Western Avenue that have been left vacant since the University halted its construction in Allston during the financial crisis in 2009.
With the planning process underway, several local non-profit directors said they expect that the Lab—which will offer educational workshops and business coaching—will be a valuable resource.
Jack Fucci, executive director of the Oak Square YMCA, said that he hopes the Lab will teach him statistical methods to better measure the impact his organization is making on local residents.
Nicholas A. Papakyrikos, co-owner of an accounting and consulting firm in Brighton, also said he had high hopes for the lab.
“I believe that the idea of pairing one of the top business schools in the world with a fully functional ‘business’ laboratory is a natural fit.  It is the commercial equivalent of a major medical school opening a medical center,” he wrote in an e-mail.
In addition to the talent that it will bring into the community, the Lab’s uniqueness will also make the Lab attractive for entrepreneurs, he added.
“Many new ideas never make it to the market simply because the ‘inventor’ was unable to connect with other people who could see the potential and who had the resources to fully develop the product,” Papakyrikos wrote.
In addition to providing businesses and non-profits with strategic advice, the lab will also offer a coffee shop, a 24/7 public meeting space, and a place for networking between professionals from a variety of disciplines.
The Lab will occupy 125 Western Ave., a building that housed the public television and radio station WGBH until 2007. The location sits almost directly across from the now paved-over five acre plot that was intended for the Science Complex, a project now indefinitely halted due to financial concerns.
While a number of community members said they are excited about the project, others said they simply had not learned about Harvard’s plans for the Lab, which will open sometime next fall.
Paola M. Ferrer, the grants and development director at Joseph M. Smith Community Health Care in Allston, said she has yet to learn the specifics about how the project will help her non-profit, but said she will be participating in a focus group that Harvard is organizing.
Additionally, some small business owners said they had never heard about the project, including Kelliher and the owner of The Bus Stop Pub on Western Ave.
Like Ferrer, Allston resident and Harvard-Allston task force member Bruce E. Houghton said he was unsure what resources would be available at the Lab.
“There’s a lot of hope for communication and integration between Harvard and the neighborhood, but as for exactly what support services will be provided is unclear,” he said.
But Houghton, a long-time business owner of Houghton Chemical Company in Allston, said it was unclear how he would benefit personally from the Lab.
“Me personally, I’ve been around a long time,” he said.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.                —Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Haley E. Bowen ’14 had waited until the last possible day to write her expository writing placement essay. She had been in Brussels for the past eleven and a half months for her gap year, and all she wanted to do was “walk the streets of Brussels and drink a beer,” she says. Instead, Bowen argued for the morality of favoring family members in ethical decisions while listening to the “Pride and Prejudice” soundtrack and eating Nutella.
“[Prioritizing family members] is more socially acceptable,” she says, describing her logic, which stitched together arguments from Confucius to a fictitious story of a family on a boat.
The Expository Writing Program receives over 1600 of these types of essays over the summer—pieces that draw from sources ranging from “Moby Dick” to the Constitution. These essays are reviewed by two preceptors who will determine the first of many essay grades that these students will receive during their time at Harvard.
The majority of students receive a high enough score to enroll in Expository Writing 20: “Expository Writing,” the standard mandatory introductory writing course for freshmen.
But each fall, an increasing number of students—147 last fall—will opt to first enroll in Expository Writing 10: “Introduction to Expository Writing.” Some take the course as a result of a recommendation based on a low placement essay score, while others sign up out of a desire to improve their writing skills.
Many of these students say they graduated from the course as stronger writers. The course has received consistently high Q Guide rankings—receiving a 4.3 last year—with students extolling the class for preparing them for future writing pursuits.
“Coming out of Expos 10, I probably wrote the best essay of my life for my bioethics class,” Stephanie N. Regan ’13 says.
Indeed, the Standing Committee on Writing and Speaking, chaired by Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, is currently one year into its evaluation of whether the Expos 10 program prepares its writers to be successful both in Expos 20 and their future courses at Harvard.
Unlike its less popular counterpart Expos 20, which has garnered mixed reviews, students praise Expos 10 for offering a course structure that allows them to think critically and write with sophistication.
EVALUATING EXPOS 10
Harris’s committee is currently exploring the ability of Expos 10 to train its students to become stronger thinkers and writers.
At the start of the fall semester, 12 percent of the Class of 2014 were recommended to take Expos 10 based on their performance on the placement essay, but 24 percent of these students opted out of taking the course.
Expos 10 is currently divided up into two units: the first essay, “Analyzing an Argument,” allows students to study issues surrounding higher education, while the second essay, “Testing a Theory,” gives students the opportunity to think critically about art.
The committee will soon report on its findings and suggest modifications to the current curriculum.
“It’s basically—‘What’s working, how can we improve it?’” says Thomas R. Jehn, director of the Harvard College Writing Program. “Is Expos 10 doing all it can for students who go into [the class]?”
Les Perelman, the Director of Writing Across the Curriculum in the Program in Writing and Humanistic Studies at MIT, has been hired to conduct the ongoing assessment. He declined to comment about his role in the review.
Jehn says that the evaluation, which is currently collecting and processing data, may not be complete for a number of months.
He adds that Perelman will divulge his findings to Harris, who will then communicate those results to the College.
THE EXPOS 10 EXPERIENCE
Like many of her peers, Regan voluntarily enrolled in Expos 10 in the fall of her freshman year, feeling inadequately prepared for the challenges of college writing.
“I never felt like I was a really strong writer,” she says. “And that can really show in your writing down the road.”
Expos 10 preceptor Zachary C. Sifuentes ’97 says he thinks Expos 10 is successful for students like Regan, as the course allows students to make an active decision to dedicate themselves to improving their writing.
“I think everyone who chooses to take Expos 10 is demonstrating a kind of awareness that is at the heart of an educational institution,” he wrote in an e-mail.
When first beginning the art unit, Regan says she was skeptical about the value of the assignments, but she ended up surprised by her appreciation of the material.
“In a subject where I would have never cared about art, I actually found it extremely enjoyable,” she says.
Regan said that the two-essay structure of the course—instead of the three essays assigned in Expos 20—allowed her the time to more fully develop her ideas.
Other students similarly praised the program, but questioned the transferability of the skills they learned in the course.
“In Expos 10, I got more of the ideas of how to craft an essay,” Nancy Chen ’13 says. “I don’t know how much I applied them to other classes.”
But the course still sets up students to perform well in Expos 20, instructors say.
Joaquín S. Terrones, who is a preceptor for the “HIV Aids and Culture” section of Expos 20, called Expos 10 an “excellent course,” saying that students who have completed Expos 10 are better prepared to succeed in his spring Expos 20 course.
“They come really equipped with the vocabulary to think about the elements of what makes good academic writing,” he says. “Expos 10 really prepares them to be very attentive to their own writing and to be very mindful of the revision process and what that brings to their own work.”
Regan echoes Terrones’ sentiments about Expos 10.
“I would say that I felt a lot more prepared than I would have been if I had taken Expos 20 right away,” she says.
Though Regan says she enjoyed Expos 10, she describes her experience in Expos 20 the following semester as unsatisfactory.
EDITING EXPOS 10
Pending the Standing Committee’s report, Expos 10 will continue to be modified in the future. Jehn stressed the program’s commitment to frequent revision of Expos 10’s course structure.
“Unless the assessment reveals something quite dramatic about what we need to change, I’m very interested right now in tweaking the current curriculum so that we can do a better job of responding to students on their response papers,” Jehn says. “We don’t want them to ever feel as though the response paper experience is random.”
Jehn says that one of his top priorities in refining the course is improving communication between preceptors and students at every point of the writing process.
“We want to make sure that how we are giving feedback to students on each of those steps really helps them towards the draft,” says Jehn.
Jane Rosenzweig, the director of the Writing Center, says that the two types of essays assigned in Expos 10 will likely stay constant, but the topics of the units may change.
“There are plenty of arguments that can be analyzed, and plenty of theories that can be tested, and they don’t have to be about education and art,” she says.
Rosenzweig adds that the decision of whether to change the content of the units will likely be discussed over the summer.
Jehn says that he hopes the Standing Committee’s evaluation of Expos 10 will improve the program.
“At its best, what assessment does ... is to make you think in vibrant ways about the curriculum and teaching methods,” he says.
—Hana N. Rouse contributed reporting to this story.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
By the end of this weekend, the Harvard women’s basketball team will  have played every Ivy League opponent once. The question is: will it  remain undefeated in league play?
As the Crimson has learned thus  far, every game must be treated like it’s a do-or-die situation. In the  second weekend of Ivy competition, Columbia—at the time 2-14 overall  and 1-1 in Ivy play after having split its series with Cornell—could  have upset Harvard had it not been for rookie Christine Clark’s shot  with three seconds left to play.
This past Saturday, a day after securing a close win against  defending Ivy champs Princeton, the Crimson almost fell to another lowly  team—this time, Penn. The Quakers finished dead last the previous  season and were projected to have a similar fate this year by the  2010-11 Ivy League Women’s Basketball Preseason Media/SID poll (and by  The Harvard Crimson’s 2010-11 Basketball Supplement). Penn was 1-3 when  it came to Lavietes Pavilion, but it didn’t play like a team with a  losing record. Instead, Quaker guard Alyssa Baron went bonkers, lighting  up the scoreboard for 38 points in a double-overtime effort.
Now that we have gone over a little history, what can we say about  the two upcoming games? Friday night’s encounter with Yale should be one  that Harvard can win. The Bulldogs are currently third in the Ivy  League with a 4-2 record but were soundly defeated by both the Tigers  and the Lions this season. Yale will probably be in the hunt for a spot  in the WNIT though, and an upset against Harvard can bring the Bulldogs  one step closer to that goal.
The next day, the Crimson will face current bottom-dweller of the  Ivy League standings, Brown. If this trend of lowly teams giving Harvard  trouble persists, then this game is anything but an assured win. The  Bears have gained some confidence after handily beating Cornell at  Ithaca last Saturday, so they have nothing to lose by going at the  Crimson with everything they have. If the stars line up correctly  (Harvard shoots the ball poorly and Brown comes out strong), the Bears  can cause some real chaos in the standings.
After last weekend, the Crimson has made it known that it’s the team  to beat in the Ivy League. The second half of the conference season  will surely put that reputation on the line.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Super Bowl Sunday is always a day of mixed emotions. Naturally, when the Packers took home the title last weekend, some rejoiced, some broke down in tears, and still others conveniently ‘don’t remember’ what happened. For delusional Pats fans like myself still dwelling on games past, it was a pretty disappointing occasion. But not to worry, there’s always next year. Besides, in the far-off land of Ivy League sports, there is a lot to celebrate this week. Harvard and Princeton take home league and national honors, and the Ancient Eight celebrates Black History Month. So join in the party and gather Around the Water Cooler. We all know you’re thirsty. 
And we’re off to a quick start—literally. Princeton had an impressive weekend on the track, as the 4x400m relay team of Mike Eddy, Tom Hopkins, Russell Dinkins, and Austin Hollimon set an Ivy League record in the event. The men blazed through the finish line at Penn State’s Sykes/Sabock challenge with a time of 3:09.35, enough to surpass Cornell’s 2008 mark by just under one second.
The Harvard men’s swimming and diving clinched the Ivy League regular season title, earning a perfect 9-0 record, 7-0 in the Ancient Eight.  Coming into the annual H-Y-P meet, both the Crimson and the Tigers had yet to lose a contest. When the Crimson came out on top, Harvard coach Tim Murphy recorded his sixth perfect regular season with the Crimson.
Jordan Culbreath of the Princeton football team earned a different kind of honor last week. Culbreath is one of five national finalists for the 2011 Uplifting Athletes Rare Disease Champion Award. The honor is given each year to one college football player for his enduring influence on the rare disease community. Culbreath was diagnosed with aplastic anemeia during the 2009 football season, one year after being named first team All-Ivy by unanimous vote in 2008. After six months of treatment, he returned to the gridiron and ends his senior season ranked No. 8 in all time rushing yards for the Tigers.
Throughout February, Ivy League student-athletes and coaches will honor Black History Month in a special video series. So far, the series has featured three members of the Harvard athletics community, most recently sophomore lacrosse player Mariel Jenkins.  Crimson coach Tommy Amaker and sophomore forward Kyle Casey of the men’s basketball team were also interviewed for the project. Check out the videos here, and have a happy February!
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Off to its best start since 2004, the Harvard men’s volleyball team picked up another win last night at the Malkin Athletic Center.
Facing off against Rivier (10-4), the Crimson (4-1) snapped its two-game losing streak against the Raiders, winning the match in four games. Led by a strong offensive performance, Harvard captured the first two sets before closing out the match in the fourth.
“It’s good to get a win—4-1 sounds good,” junior co-captain Dan Schreff said. “I give it to the guys for closing out the game.”
The Crimson started slow in game one. After a series of miscues, the squad found itself at its largest deficit, down 4-1, forcing coach Brian Baise, to call a timeout.
The Raiders appeared dominant early on, but in the huddle, Harvard regained its composure and returned to the court strong. The Crimson consistently lagged by two points throughout the opening set, until it fought back to tie the Raiders at 16. On the next play, Harvard took its first lead, going up 17-16. Raider coach Craid Kolek called a timeout in an attempt to stop the Crimson momentum, but sophomore Rob Lothman’s float serve propelled Harvard to a 20-17 lead.
The Raiders responded with a kill and a missed serve by junior co-captain Matt Jones gave Rivier an opportunity. But the Crimson hitters closed the set with two kills, besting the Raiders, 25-22.
The energy from the previous set carried over; Harvard started set two with a kill by Jones and an ace by Lothman. While the teams exchanged points early on—tying the score at eight—the Crimson seemed to control the pace of the game, pulling ahead to win, 25-18.
For game three, Harvard switched setters, substituting Lothman for fellow sophomore setter Derek Jansma. The two teams competed closely, exchanging the lead on three occasions and tying 13 times throughout the set.
When tied at 19, the Crimson seemed poised to pull ahead following a perfect pass by Schreff, set by Jansma, and kill by Jones. But defensive coverage and communication errors lead to a 25-23 loss.
But third-game losses are commonplace for Harvard.
“A number of times we’ve gone up two games, then the negative is we lose that third game,” said Baise, whose squad has picked up each of its four victories in four sets. “But the positive side is we are able to turn it around in the fourth. And there were some pressure points there, and we came up big in those pressure points.”
The Crimson was true to trend last night and was able to come back strong for a tight fourth set. A young team featuring four freshmen in the starting lineup, Harvard gained momentum early when rookie Chris Gibbons crushed an accidental overpass by Rivier.
The two teams stayed within three points throughout the game, but the Raiders never regained the lead after the Crimson overtook Rivier at 6-6. Lothman returned as a vital player during the set. The setter landed a well-placed fake out, bringing Harvard ahead, 21-20.
“Rob knows how to manage a game,” Schreff said. “He lulls them into a false sense of security then puts it away.”
Lothman proceeded to provide the Crimson with consistent serving through crucial points. After Harvard lost the ball, Rivier tried to capitalize on the opportunity with Alex Xenidis at the service line. Xenidis delivered a topspin jump serve, but the Crimson picked up the serve and Jones terminated the play with a clutch kill. Moments later, Gibbons ended the match decisively with a kill down the line at 25-23.
Lothman led Harvard, racking up an impressive 34 assists, four digs, three attacks, and two kills in three games.
“Rob stepped up,” Schreff said, “The passing today was not as good as we like it to be, so Rob really made the most of every play, I thought, and really got everyone going by running our offense effectively.”
Outside hitters Jones and Gibbons provided 14 kills each for the Crimson. Freshmen middle blockers Kyle Rehkemper and Nick Madden made a significant impact from the middle with nine and eight kills, respectively.
Despite some spectacular individual performances, Harvard struggled at several points during the match. The Crimson missed 11 serves and both Scheff and Baise were unhappy with the team’s defense.
“I didn’t think it was out best match,” Baise said, “But anytime a team, especially a young team, finds a way to win, even when we’re not playing our best, that’s a really important quality and that’s hard to teach.”
“We weren’t able to put it all together as well as we wanted tonight,“ Schreff added. “We have a lot to work on, but we’re kind of where we need to be in terms of having the right weapons to win a lot of games.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s squash team knew it was in for a test when the No. 1 team in the nation, the Trinity Bantams (15-0, 1-0 NESCAC) arrived in Cambridge to face the Crimson (7-4, 3-2 Ivy) at Barnaby Courts.
Harvard was able to take three matches from the Bantams, although the contest ultimately ended in a victory for Trinity, 6-3.
“The match was postponed [from January 26],” freshman Thomas Mullaney said. “We had to regroup, but we came back harder than ever. I think the results today really speak to our drive as a team.”
Last year, the Bantams swept the Crimson, but this year Harvard earned three victories, with freshman Gary Powers, Mullaney, and junior William Ahmed each defeating his respective Bantam opponent.
After yesterday’s match, Trinity improved its record to 15-0 this season while Harvard came away with a record of 7-4.
The Bantams will look to attain their 13th straight national title this season and are on track to do so.
Trinity added to its record-setting winning streak of a remarkable 239 matches after defeating Harvard last night. This streak is the longest in the history of varsity intercollegiate sports.
“When you’re playing a team like Trinity you have to give them a lot of respect,” junior William Ahmed said. “Because they haven’t lost a match in eleven and a half years. But you can also come into the match with a lot of confidence, because we were playing with nothing to lose.”
At the No. 9 spot, Ahmed demonstrated that confidence and defeated his opponent in just four sets. Although he was defeated in the first set, he fought back to win three consecutive sets to earn the victory. The first set went back and forth, and Ahmed was eventually defeated, 11-9.  Although the second set was tied three different times, Ahmed won, 11-9.
His momentum could not be hindered as he powered through the third set.
Taking an early 3-0 lead, Ahmed never lost that lead and took down his opponent, 11-5.
The battle continued as the fourth set heated up.
Tied up at four different points, it was a fight until the end.   Ahmed was up 10-8 and was fighting for match point when a let was called. He overcame his opponent by a final score of 11-9, earning the first individual win of the night for the Crimson.
Freshman Thomas Mullaney, playing at the No. 7 spot for the Crimson, took home Harvard’s second victory, overpowering his opponent, 3-2, in five sets.
The fifth set was a battle and, although Mullaney took an early 5-0 lead, his opponent fought back and tied the set at five.  The freshman finished off this contest, 11-8.
“Our freshmen played phenomenally,” Ahmed continued. “They’re very strong in general but played especially well tonight. We had two wins from freshmen and the other two went to four games.”
No. 1 Gary Power—a freshman from East Lyme, Connecticut—brought home the third and final victory of the evening for the Harvard.
Power came out strong and took the first two sets from his opponent 11-7 and 11-6.
In Power’s third set, the freshman suffered a 11-9 loss, but he came back stronger in his fourth and final set.
In the last set, Power faced controversial calls and numerous lets surrounding match point, but the freshman took home a 10-4 victory.
Two other freshmen, No. 4 Brandon McLaughlin and No. 6 Nigel Koh, each won one set in their matches.
The wins were impressive against a talented Trinity squad that does not face defeat often.
“Our freshman class has been doing really well. We have four guys playing in the top nine,” Mullaney said. “We’re having a blast and everyone’s really gelling and coming together.”
“[The contest against Trinity] is the match of our season, up to the moment,” Mullaney continued. “It’s what we have been playing for.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The No. 1 Harvard women’s squash team dominated late in the match to down No. 3 Trinity, 7-2, at Barnaby Courts last night.
Originally, the Crimson (9-0, 5-0) was set to face off against the Bantams (12-2) on Jan. 26, but heavy storms struck, forcing a rescheduling of the match and adding another tough match to Harvard’s late schedule.
With Harvard just squeaking by No. 5 Penn and No. 4 Princeton in last week’s matchups and Trinity having nine nationally ranked players, including No. 2 Pamela Hathway, the Bantams had all the elements to take down the defending champions and cut their 20 game winning streak.
But the Crimson took home the last six matches, proving that it is still the best in the nation.
During the first cycle, Harvard started shakily, uncharacteristically dropping two out of three matches.
Captain Alisha Mashruwala, who plays at the Crimson’s third spot and is ranked 13th nationally, lost a five-game heartbreaker after leading two games to zero.
“I started off pretty strong but in the third game, I thought there was a lapse in concentration,” Mashruwala said.
On another court, classmate Alexandra Zindman dropped a five game match to Trinity’s Robyn Williams.
No 37. Cecelia Cortes, the Crimson’s sixth player, picked up the only win during the first rotation as she won two straight points in a deuce in the third game to take the match 3-0.
Down two games to one, the Crimson women rallied in the second cycle and took all three matches in a dominant showing, winning nine straight games collectively to put Harvard up 5-2.
“This is the height of our season,” said No. 17 sophomore Natasha Kingshott, the Crimson’s fifth player. “We’ve been peaking for this match.”
The Eliot resident remarked on the team’s continued training and mental fortitude.
“There is a lot of pressure on us, so it is important to stay focused and calm,” she said. “We just want to play squash and to make sure it is the best version of ourselves that steps onto that court.”
Kingshott used a barrage of power and finesse shots to keep her opponent off balance. The sophomore easily took down her opponent in straight sets.
Junior Nirasha Guruge, Harvard’s No. 2 player who is ranked seventh nationally, had some trouble in the third game as her opponent came back down 6-1 to come back to tie it at nine all.
Still, with two well-placed power shots in the corners, Guruge closed the door and took the 3-0 sweep.
No. 29 Bethan Williams, a senior, came back from being down early in the second game only to dominate in the third game and add to the Crimson’s collective surge in the second cycle with a victory at the No. 8 spot.
Trinity needed all three games in the third rotation to tie it up but again, Harvard—led by sophomore and national No. 1 Laura Gemmell—showed no mercy and won all three matches.
Down two games to one, Gemmell rallied to win the match in a five-game thriller.
Posting a mix of drop shots and strong forehands, Gemmell won the decisive game by taking five points in a row to win 11-6.
“I started off slowly, but in the fifth game I cut out all of my unforced errors,” Gemmell said. “I was focusing on every point being important.”
Senior June Tiong, the Crimson’s No. 4 player who is ranked ninth nationally, had a much easier time with her opponent as she won her first two games in record time. Tiong battled in the third game, winning five points in a row to close it out.
In the No. 7 spot, Sarah Mumanachit, the No. 42 squash player in the nation, simply overpowered her opponent after fighting in the first game, which she won 15-13, the longest game of the night.
Although Trinity kept the pressure on the whole night, Harvard prevailed in convincing fashion.
“We are taking extra motivation from this match going into playing against Yale,” Mashruwala said. “We play them for the Ivy title so it is going to be very exciting because Yale is undefeated and we are undefeated.”
“It is definitely going to be a challenge,” Kingshott said. “Yale is a formidable opponent. We played them in the preseason and they were tough competition but this is what we live for. We want to win this and battle it out and really earn it. We are excited to show our stuff again.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
WOMEN'S SQUASH ENJOYS WIN STREAK
21 – The number of matches in the current win streak for the No. 1 Harvard women’s squash team. The Crimson has not lost since the beginning of the 2009-2010 season and is ranked first in both the CSA Team poll and the Ivy League standings.
11 – The number of victories that Harvard has claimed by perfect 9-0 sweeps during its winning streak. Last time out, the Crimson lost to No. 3 Trinity 9-0 but did pick up the victory, 7-2, improving its record to a perfect 9-0 on the season.
239 – The current win streak for the No. 1 Trinity men’s squash. The Bantams currently hold the longest winning streak of any team in collegiate varsity sport, having gone undefeated since the 1996-1997 season. The last team to defeat Trinity was Harvard on February 7, 1997, but the Bantams took the last meeting between the two teams, 6-3.
CRIMSON HOOPS ROLLS ON
13 – Number of games won during the current home winning streak for Harvard men’s basketball.
3 – Number of consecutive games won in overtime by the Crimson, the last being an 83-82 double-overtime victory over Penn last Saturday. Junior Oliver McNally hit the game-winning shot with 11.5 seconds to go.
1 – The ranking for the Harvard women’s basketball team in the Ancient Eight standings after wrapping up this past weekend with victories over Princeton and Penn. Harvard snapped the Tigers’ 22-game conference winning streak while also defeating the Quakers in a double-overtime contest, 88-84.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Whether you're awaiting Valentine's Day with eager anticipation or still looking for a date, groups across campus are offering opportunities to make the holiday fun for singles and couples alike. In order to help you get in the mood for this most romantic of holidays, we've compiled a list of Valentine's Day themed activities.
Indy 500
The Harvard Independent will be hosting a speed dating event tonight from 8:00 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. As a result of last year's gender ratio issues, the event organizer's are selecting participants through a lottery system. Sign up before it's too late!
Eliot House auction
Eliot’s annual Date Auction will be held at 10 p.m. on Feb. 11 and is open to all undergraduates. Over 50 Eliot residents and affiliates have already signed up to be auctioned off. Although some of them will be offering dates, others have donated Lady Gaga tickets, trips to four-star restaurants, gift cards, and a guitar lesson with a member of Incubus. All proceeds will be donated to Foundations for Joy.
Valegrams
The Harvard Callbacks will be partnering with Finale to deliver desserts and one-minute singing performances from Feb. 11 to Feb. 14. For only $15, the mixed gender a cappella group will visit your special someone at any time and place and break into song (choose between Bruno Mars, Boyz II Men, The Beatles, and Katy Perry). Order your valegram on the Callbacks’ website.
Flowers for Change
Send carnations or roses to any freshman dorm or upperclassman House on the morning of Valentine’s Day and support youth education and enrichment opportunities in Boston and abroad. The event’s co-organizers—The Boston Refugee Youth Enrichment Program and The Harvard Program for Sustainable Development—are accepting online orders through Feb. 12.
The Dating Game
Organized by the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention, Response Student Alliance, and Harvard Men Against Rape, the Dating Game will come to Harvard's Queens Head Pub on Feb. 11 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Similar to the original television show, the Dating Game will give student contestants the opportunity to select suitors based on their responses to questions. The winning couple will receive dinner and a movie, and there will be prizes for audience members as well.
Datamatch
If you’re still set on the idea of having a date for Valentine’s Day, try Harvard Computer Society's Datamatch, a service that provides users with a list of ten people that could be, according to the Datamatch website, "your perfect soulmate." Simply fill out a survey of 30 questions—some relationship-related, some seemingly random—and await your fate.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Sections
The phrase "get a room" took on a whole new meaning earlier this week after Cabot House resident Romeo P. Alexander '11 retrieved remnants of  those who had done the dirty—"Eskimo style"—in the Cabot House igloo. 

 "I was standing outside of the igloo with two other Cabotians as well  as a young mother from the neighborhood with her son of about eight  years old," Alexander said in an e-mail. "The mother and son went in briefly, only to come back out  shortly after with the mother complaining about the presence of a condom  inside." 
Upon entering the igloo,  Alexander said that he found the condom alongside a set of trash bags and a pair of 3D movie glasses.
"One  of the other Cabotions disposed of the condom with the trash bags. With  the condom gone, the mother felt like the igloo was now child-friendly  enough for her to take her son back in," Alexander said.
Although Alexander mentioned that a number of "eccentrics (mostly math and  physics majors, of course)" had slept or done homework in the igloo  since it was constructed, the identities of the frigid fornicators  remain a mystery.
"Whether it was these  same people who boned in the igloo, I do not know," Alexander added.
Photo by Daniel M. Lynch/The Harvard Crimson
