Sections
Move over, MAC rats. You've perfected sweating in place for 60 minutes on the elliptical, but can you do handstands on concrete? In a testament to the overwhelming physical and creative inadequacy of the rest of us, the Harvard women's track and field team produced a music video this J-term proving that hours of Wii tennis does not an athlete make.
The women's track and field team has been on campus since Jan. 5 and spent a week filming the video, which features team members sprinting, pole vaulting, long jumping, and hurdling to Chris Brown's "Yeah 3x."
"We had a lot of time over J-term because we've been practicing. We wanted to get rid of the Harvard stereotype and show that we have fun," said Jasmine Cho '13, a member of the track team and a Crimson design editor who produced the video.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and some other schools too).
Edward Hall III, a behavioral economics researcher at Columbia University, jumped onto a moving luggage belt after a Transportation Security Administration agent refused to screen him because he didn’t have any photo ID. Hall was promptly arrested and explained that he really just wanted to make his flight to San Francisco.
A 20-year-old man unaffiliated with the University of Pennsylvania died at the university's hospital from injuries sustained after falling 30 feet at a New Year's Eve party thrown by members of Phi Kappa Sigma, often referred to as "Skulls," at a privately owned building. The university is now investigating the incident, and the fraternity has announced it will not participate in this year's open rush.
Yale is considering going smoke-free. A committee formed by the administration in 2009 to examine the benefits of a smoking ban announced it plans to begin a survey of the Yale community in the near future.
Stanford University announced that Mexican President Felipe Calderón, will be the commencement speaker this year. Calderón was nominated by the senior class presidents in order "to send a powerful message" about the importance of leadership and social justice.
The Edgewood Yacht Club, where the Brown's sailing team practiced and stored their boats, burned down on the night of Jan. 12.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction and clarification.
CORRECTION: JANUARY 23, 2010
An earlier version of the Jan. 23 Flyby post "Luggage Belts, Falls, and a Smoke-Free Campus" misstated the year that the Yale committee charged with determining whether to make Yale a smoke-free campus was formed. The committee formed in 2009.
CLARIFICATION: JANUARY 25, 2010
An earlier version of the Jan. 23 Flyby post "Luggage Belts, Falls, and a Smoke-Free Campus" implied that a party at the Phi Kappa Sigma house was sanctioned by the fraternity chapter when it was, in fact, held by members of the fraternity without authorization from the chapter.
Sections
After tagging along for cheesemaking on Tuesday, we caught up with 12 students on Thursday as they embarked on a chocolate-filled HUHDS adventure. In an Optional Winter Activities Week event organized by the Food Literacy Project, these students learned to make chocolate mousse and truffles.Video by Jacob S. Beech and Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson
