News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the spring season concludes, a new chapter is just beginning in senior wide receiver Marco Iannuzzi’s football career. As was announced by the Canadian Football League earlier today, the Calgary, Alberta, native was selected by the BC Lions in the first round of the CFL draft. Click here for the full draft results.
The No. 6 overall pick, Iannuzzi sits atop the all-time leader board in both career and single-season average kickoff returns with 26.5 and 34.5 yards per return, respectively. This past season, Iannuzzi scored two touchdowns on kickoff returns for the Crimson, including a 95-yard return against Brown in Harvard’s first Ivy League game this year.
The football star wasn’t the only Harvard athlete who earned major recognition this weekend. Though both the men’s and women’s lacrosse teams lost in the finals of their respective Ancient Eight tournaments earlier today, stellar pitching from freshman Laura Ricciardone and junior Rachel Brown helped the Crimson capture the Ivy League title against rival Cornell. Harvard shut out the Big Red, 5-0 and 4-0, respectively, this weekend to sweep the best-of-three championship series. The series served as a rematch of last year’s Ivy League Championship, in which Cornell earned victory over Harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Like most prospective students, Saheela O. Ibraheem applied to Harvard as a high school senior. She participated in her fair share of extracurriculars—she played softball, swam, sang in the choir, and played trombone in the jazz band—and she took a slew of Advanced Placement courses. But unlike many of the high school seniors who get accepted to Harvard, Ibraheem is 15 years old.
The aspiring neuroscientist skipped the sixth and the ninth grades before she entered her sophomore year at a private high school in Piscataway, N.J. Her parents—a quantitative analyst and an accountant—began teaching her advanced math at a young age. Ibraheem even scored a 700 in the mathematical reasoning section of the SAT as a fifth grader.
Ibraheem said she applied to 14 schools the the fall, including seven of the eight Ivy League schools. She received acceptance letters from all of them except Yale.
She made her decision to attend Harvard after visiting MIT and Harvard during their respective prefrosh weekends.
"I really liked both sets of people, but the Harvard people seemed like a better fit," Ibraheem said.
Although she's unsure what classes she will take next year, Ibraheem does have words of advice for others who might want to move forward at a young age.
"It's important to follow your passions, even if you don't discover that at a young age," Ibraheem said." You can just try all these things [and] work hard at whatever that is."
