News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
"Are you not entertained?" roars Maximus after killing yet another opponent in the African stadium. The crowd of poor plebeians wildly cheers. It is undeniably clear that the bloodthirsty denizens of the ancient Roman Empire were getting their sesterces' worth in the movie Gladiator.
Your life probably is not as exciting as those depicted in the movie, but take a moment to ask yourself what you were doing the last time you fulfilled your own personal desire for enjoyment. Perhaps you ate a tasty burrito at lunch or watched an episode of your favorite TV show on Hulu last night. Maybe you cracked up during a hilarious conversation with a friend. But did you feel thrilled by fear or novelty? Probably not.
These small pleasures do make the day tolerable by splitting up our torrent of work into swallowable chunks. But short of the rare adrenaline junkie, the modern life could probably do with some more fulfilling sources of pleasure. Don't take this in the wrong way, as it certainly is a good thing that public fights to the death are no longer a source of enjoyment for most people. But it is worth asking ourselves if our standards of pleasure may have become rather low these days, and if so, how to fix the situation. The developers of Facebook have compiled a graph of the “Gross National Happiness Index,” put together from data compiled by people’s status updates. Those living in the United States tend to hover around the apathetic happiness level of zero, unless it’s a holiday like Halloween or July 4. This lack of any particularly strong feelings of pleasure may be explainable if we take a look at our ancestors.
Let us imagine the leisure of an earlier time and take the aristocratic Victorian woman of the late 1800s, who, at the end of a long week of social engagements, finally gets the time to read Charles Dickens' latest installment of Oliver Twist. She only gets to read material like this when she has no more dinners to organize or social gatherings to attend, and her husband is out smoking with friends on a Saturday night. A novel such as this would have allowed a woman to escape to the considerably foreign world of an orphan on the streets of London. Those tight corsets of the Victorian period held in a lot of repressed desire, and fulfilling such a forbidden pleasure as reading the mix of escapism and social criticism embedded in such novels would have been exhilarating for a well to-do woman at the time.
Yes, a temporary escape from economic poverty and emotional repression definitely played into the joy a Roman plebian or Victorian socialite gets from fulfilling their desires. But equally important to them was the thrill of trying out something new, unpredictable and quite possibly dangerous. Lord Layard, an economics professor at the London School of Economics recently mentioned how “in the past 50 years, average happiness has not increased at all in Britain or in the United States—despite massive increases in living standards.” This means that what causes happiness must be something more than an increase in comfort or luxury. Perhaps true human pleasure is a feeling of liberation that only comes with a clean break from the humdrum daily experience we are accustomed to and can only be attained through something completely incomparable to our previous experience.
In the 21st century, mild enjoyment is easily available in the form of fast food, libraries and the Internet. But the trade-off of this ease is the strong temptation to continue enjoying the same old things, at the risk of being amused so mildly it barely releases a single endorphin. Our minds become starved of those new experiences that build neural networks and open up new vistas to the imagination. So let's go skydiving and BASE jumping and maybe, if we are lucky, our hearts will be racing with a dizzy feeling of freedom.
Nikhil R. Mulani ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Pennypacker Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Congratulations to The Crimson for the recent publication of the articles “I Am Fine” and “Are We Fine?”. The article “I Am Fine” and the online comments have opened up channels of communication about an issue that is vitally important to college students: emotional wellbeing. The immensely positive response to these articles is an indication of a promising community-wide desire to promote emotional wellbeing on campus, as suggested by The Crimson Staff in “Are We Fine?”
The Student Mental Health Liaisons program was established on campus three years ago to encourage the development of a caring community and continues to promote emotional wellbeing today. Modeled, in part, after the Drug and Alcohol Peer Advisors and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Alliance, Student Mental Health Liaisons was founded in February 2008 by the office of Behavioral Health and Academic Counseling and students who believed that there was a lack of information available to students about their mental health resources on campus. Since its inception, the mission statement of the organization has expanded: “SMHL are student leaders who work collaboratively with the Wellness Proctors/Tutors, and other student groups to promote a supportive student community at Harvard. Liaisons educate, raise awareness, and engage in House and Freshman Yard programs in order to help our community (students, residential and administration staff, faculty) better understand the issues of emotional wellbeing, early recognition of students in distress, treatment effectiveness, and treatment options, as well as to promote emotional support in the community.”
SMHL has the potential to play a major role in implementing the changes that the Crimson has proposed.  SMHL sponsors significant mental health awareness events throughout the year. These include the fall semester Depression Screening in all the dining halls (more than five thousand screenings over four years), Mental Health Awareness Week in the spring, and the distribution of Lamont care packages during reading period. Recently, SMHL ran pilot freshman workshops, similar to those offered by DAPA and OSAPR, titled “Speak Up, We’re Listening."  These sessions used short case studies based on actual student experiences to educate students about the professional and peer-led resources available to them on campus and the importance of reaching out to others in distress. Also, in a short time, the SMHL website HarvardSmiles.com, a community blog and portal for information on campus resources, has become one of the most frequently visited websites on campus.
Substantial growth of student participation further indicates the importance of SMHL to the College community.  In February 2008 six students joined SMHL, encouraged by the hard work of Malorie Snider ’09. Today, twenty-six students from all four classes and all the Houses are active in SMHL. The rapid expansion of SMHL allows the group to reach the entire student body and to focus efforts on multiple aspects of the promotion of emotional wellbeing on campus. For example, liaisons work tirelessly both to develop and publicize events geared toward the promulgation of knowledge and compassion in regards to mental health. Others strive to frequently update HarvardSmiles.com with valuable blog entries and resources in order to foster thought and conversation among peers in the community. However, to respond to the rapid development of SMHL and the growing interest in mental health issues in the community at large, the organization needs the support of other groups and institutions on campus.  We hope that this information will inspire the entire community to support SMHL.  We encourage students to join SMHL and reach out to the liaisons in the Houses and Yard. Visit HarvardSmiles.com to learn more about your student mental health liaisons. Together we can build a caring community, a hope that inspired the creation of SMHL.
Paul J. Barreira is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry and the Director of Behavioral Health and Academic Counseling at Harvard University Health Services. Pilar A. Curtis ’11 is a psychology concentrator in Leverett House. Seth A. Riddley ’12 is a History and Science concentrator in Mather House. They are Student Mental Health Liaisons.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While you’re trekking through the Yard this morning to celebrate Housing Day, the House Committee on Homeland Security will be holding its first in a series of hearings on the “Extent of Radicalization in the American Muslim Community.” The hearings, chaired by Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), are intended to probe the threat of homegrown Islamic terrorism and the extent of the Muslim community’s cooperation with law enforcement on stymieing it.
A crowd of 500 gathered in Times Square on Sunday to protest these investigations, accusing King of bigotry and xenophobia for limiting his scope only to Islamic radicalism. A letter sent to King on Monday signed by over fifty American progressive groups echoed this concern. “Singling out a particular community for examination” will “provid[e] little valuable insight into the prevention of domestic terrorism,” the letter exhorts.
This argument is the epitome of spineless political correctness. To ignore the unique threat posed by Islamic extremism over any other religious or ideological extremism in the U.S. is myopic and dangerous, and to assert that we must also examine other extremisms in these hearings for the sake of “fairness” is absurd. The problem, however, is that King has done a terrible job of differentiating the miniscule number of radical Islamists in this country from the diverse population of 2.5 million Muslims living in America. In fact, given his past incendiary rhetoric on Islam, King is one of the worst possible people to head these hearings, and his continued involvement will only ensure that they further alienate American Muslims.
In the past two years, forty-nine suspects have been charged with acts of international terrorism in the U.S., nearly all of them Muslims acting by an extreme interpretation of their faith. A report by the Bipartisan  Policy Center released this past September argues that many of these men were in contact with radical clerics affiliated with Al Qaida, including the Yemen-based Anwar Al-Awlaki. The threat from Al Qaida “is more complex and more diverse than at any time over the past nine years,” the report asserts, precisely because of “the higher numbers of Americans attaching themselves to these groups.” To argue that a governmental committee devoted to America’s security should not examine this specific threat is preposterous.
Furthermore, there are serious discussions that need to be had regarding the role of some Islamic leaders in discouraging constituents to cooperate with law enforcement. Two months ago, for example, a chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the largest Muslim advocacy group in the United States, came under fire for distributing ominous posters exhorting the reader, “Don’t Talk to the FBI.” Indeed, CAIR has long taken umbrage with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice’s tactics for identifying security threats in the Muslim community, including the use of entrapment, racial profiling, housing raids, and wiretapping. These House hearings could help illuminate this strife, and create a productive discourse that would allow for communication between certain Islamic leaders and law enforcement to protect against future threats effectively.
Unfortunately, this will never happen with Peter King chairing these hearings.
By framing these hearings as though they are meant to examine the radicalization of the “American Muslim Community,” King is inherently implicating the majority of American Muslims in what should only be an inquiry into Islamic extremism. Less than 200 Muslims have been suspected of plotting terrorist attacks in the U.S. since 9/11, and poll after poll indicate that the vast majority of Muslims in the U.S. eschew violent belief. Indeed, although King believes that “there has been a lack of full cooperation from too many people in the Muslim community,” approximately forty percent of the terrorist attacks attempted by Islamists since 9/11 have actually been thwarted due to tips from Muslim Americans.
You would never know any of these facts, however, from King’s rhetoric these past few weeks. In January, for example, King asserted that “over 80 percent of the mosques in this country are controlled by radical imams.” Not only is this statistic wildly overinflated, but studies show that mosques are actually some of the greatest contributors to de-radicalization in the United   States. Furthermore, two weeks ago, King told the Associated Press that “there is a real threat to the country from the Muslim community,” dovetailing with his statement from 2007 that “there are too many mosques in this country.”
And then he reacts with shock when Muslims compare him to Joseph McCarthy.
Because of King’s involvement, instead of a necessary discourse on the threat of radical Islamism—and the nuanced and sensitive discussion required in order to help law enforcement deal with it efficiently—we now have hearings that only alienate the same moderates whose help the American government truly needs in order to solve this problem. The U.S. must not refrain from discussing the threat of Islamic extremism, but King needs to either dramatically change the tone of these hearings or step down entirely so that we can discuss it civilly, effectively, and maturely.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some Harvard professors run international development organizations in their spare time. Others participate in the governing of our country, advising the president on human rights or economics policy. Others run public service think tanks. Others, it turns out, advise and abet internationally despised dictatorial regimes. In the past few weeks, the authority of Libya’s leader—Muammar Gadaffi, who once accused foreign nurse workers of spreading HIV and who many believe to have personally ordered the bombing of PanAm 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland—has been admirably challenged by the Libyan people. And as much as we are inspired by these protests in the name of liberty, we are deeply concerned by an associated discovery here at home.
In a disheartening sequence of events, The Monitor Group, a Cambridge-based management consulting firm, received over $1 million from Gadaffi's government. The Monitor Group provides strategic advice to international clients and derives most of its revenue from Fortune 500 companies and their international equivalents. It has strong ties to Harvard Business School, having been founded in part by Michael Porter, the Bishop William Lawrence University Professor at Harvard Business  School, and Mark Fuller, a former assistant professor of business administration at HBS. Four out of 17 of its “thought leaders,” Chris Argyris, Bruce Chew, Fuller, and Porter, advertise current or former HBS faculty affiliations on their company biographies. Yet other Harvard professors were involved in peripheral ways.
As reported by The Boston Globe, the firm received $250,000 per month from 2006 to 2008 from the Libyan government for activities such as, “writing the book proposal, bringing prominent academics to Libya to meet Khadafy ‘to enhance international appreciation of Libya’ and trying to generate positive news coverage of the country.”
Even though the group has officially apologized for its involvement with the Libyan regime, its actions are still problematic. Given that several of the individuals involved were Harvard professors, it’s a shame that we find ourselves in a situation where professors have not only sacrificed intellectual honesty but social responsibility. Regardless of its intent, The Monitor Group—and, by extension, the Harvard affiliates associated with it—nevertheless used the credibility of this institution to put forth opinions that seem to have been informed by factors other than intellectual curiosity alone: Let us not forget the amount of money the firm received from the Libyan government for its services, which even went so far as to include items as academically questionable as a proposal for a book applauding Qaddafi’s alleged belief in “individual freedom.”
To a certain extent, the Harvard name lends a significant amount of authority to its faculty members, above and beyond their individual accomplishments in their respective fields. In the case of Monitor and these professors, it is an utter shame to see that authority so abused. In other words, few would take issue with an individual academic who genuinely believed that working within the framework of a regime as cruel as Gadaffi’s was the most practical course of immediate action and the best way to inspire change. But individuals bestowing their own academic authority—which, in many cases, does much to legitimize a cause—on Libya, for a firm that accepted money from the Libyan government for doing so?
The distinction is an important one, especially given that the authority the University affords its faculty affiliates reflects on the entire Harvard community. Were these professors genuinely interested in Libya’s potential for change rather than its surprisingly deep pockets, our community could hold its head high, and the Harvard name would remain untainted. But because The Monitor Group accepted such large sums of money, we are skeptical of any pure intellectual motive behind its services and are ashamed that the Harvard name has been devalued to such a degree. We regret our community’s culpability in facilitating the Qaddafi regime, no matter how small that culpability may have been.
In short, professors like these who consent to undertake paid consulting work for entities such as the Libyan government (before making academic pronouncements related to these cases) should be held accountable for their actions. This is not to say that the University should take any action against them, but rather that such individuals are aware of their community’s judgment on their decisions.
That said, it would be unfair to blame Monitor and these Harvard professors alone. For years, individuals, businesses, and governments have lent their tacit support to the regime, via diplomatic dialogue, financial stimulus, or tacit agreement. We encourage individuals in all parts of society to evaluate whether their everyday decisions are effecting institutions and organizations whose values do not align with their own.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Let’s imagine (briefly, briefly) that there comes a month reeking of better weather when the graduate boards of all the final clubs at Harvard University come together for a bit of a pow-wow. It will be held at the restaurant that does fresh fish in the North End, not the famous one where there’s always a line outside but the one a block away, with a back door for the boats to unload from the dock. They will rent the place out, and all come in tuxedos, except for the youngest ones—in khakis—and they will all know how to shake each others’ hands. They will discuss their new watches, the protests in the Middle East, the economy (“Not like it used to be. Terrible, terrible”), and most of all reactions to the movie, “The Social Network.” This will be the point of the pow-wow and a bone of contention between older members—who secretly wished the clubs had been like that in their days but because they weren’t,  come out as totally against it—and the younger ones, all of whom have had personal conversations with Eduardo Saverin. By the time the calamari is finished and the waiter, Manuel, is bringing out the linguine with clams, the older members of the grad boards will have pushed a decision down the throats of the younger ones in order to Preserve And Uphold The Continued Existence And Dignity Of These Aforementioned Clubs: no more open parties at any club, ever. Except for once or twice a year—they had always liked the sherry parties; and who could resist a little rowdiness after Easter.
Dismayed, the final club presidents will rail at their ancient arthritic overlords. This isn’t what they were in it for, that’s for sure, they’ll say. Seven members of the A.D. will secede from the union and start their own club, called the Yours Trulys, out of a bit of an apartment they’ll rent in Porter Square. But other than that the cause will die quietly because the first thing the older members of the grad boards will do is fire the stewards, and Lord knows no one’s cleaning up after these things on Sundays.
It will be the dawn of a new era in Cambridge. No one will be getting laid. For the first few weeks, people will hold candlelight vigils outside the Fly. A legion will lie in the street in front of the Delphic as means of protest, but the cops will come, and the news media won’t (the grad boards control that too), and then they’ll dust themselves off and get their khakis ironed again. There will be a flowering of room parties, and the Quad will shine like the middle section of a Ferris wheel, while the world spins around it, in an amusement park next to the water. The three empty walk-throughs in Dunster where no one was living once Jeanine and company went abroad will become constant hot spots, and people will invent a new drinking game there called Bleach Boys. Bleach Boys will sweep the country.
Administrators will be perplexed, and against all odds alcohol related admissions to UHS will increase tenfold, and President Faust will be overheard suggesting to the Undergraduate Council that it’s quite possible that the third floor of Sever could be turned into a dance club. The basketball team will offer Lavietes. Social Studies concentrators will march for the lowering of the drinking age. It will be decided to reinstate hot breakfast, but this is no longer what the masses want. They are tired, hungry, poorly dressed. Something will be about to change. There will be talk of breaking points.
Two months in and the Advocate will be in ascendancy, the Crimson charging admission. WHRB and the lacrosse team will co-host ragers in the basement of Pennypacker. That blocking group in Adams will become celebrities. The Harvard Band, in their secret room in the SOCH, will let freshmen sip on a musky mystic brew made of Wild Turkey and valve oil. Romance will flower, people will go on real dates to Celtics games and the Franklin Park Zoo, and someone will start a beach football league. There will be the girl who drinks alone, also the boy strumming a guitar softly in the neighboring room. Many parties will suck, and nearly everyone will wish the grad boards weren’t full of a bunch of d-bags, and political correctness (P.C., get it?) so salient, and the media the way the media is, always complaining about things like final clubs for exclusivity and everything else, when on the whole, besides the vague race and class things and less vague homophobic things, they’re just a nice bunch of guys looking to have a good time (especially Frem. God, Frem’s the man)—and people will think wouldn’t it be nice if everyone could just pile into the Fox basement again, already. But it will be too late, for there will be a New World Order.
By this time the Oak Club will have become a flash-mob performance-art group, holding impromptu keggers, in the cold, sometimes in the middle of streets. On warm nights people will take out barbecues that they’ll begin to stock in CVS, and HUHDs will provide hot dogs, but only hot dogs. There will be a CS50 final project used to coordinate the bicycle carriages that will run back and forth to MIT, until four in the morning. Brandeis will welcome all visitors. Someone will invent a system that will text you when your grill order is ready, even in Quincy. Fuerza will host soccer classes taught by Lionel Messi. La Vie and Pleiades will start accepting boys, until one day, their grad boards will say enough is enough, when Natalie Portman’s next tell-all tear-jerker hits the screen. Eventually everything’s grad boards, or senior student leadership—WHRB’s, Fuerza’s the lacrosse team’s—will decide that things have to be toned down, and the freshmen will stage a 30-hour dance-marathon-protest in Wigglesworth to no avail, and campus will be silent. Then there will just be lots of people, in a field somewhere or something, and someone will shout, “but this party still sucks!”  But it will be far, far too late to turn back.  In this end, there will be fire and darkness, like some of the books say, and there will be milk and honey, and though the Roots will break up the Beatles will be back together, and finally, finally, they will make society out of us all.
Sections
I simply can’t cut the mustard. No, it’s not sour grapes—it’s just that, well, I’m a bit of a wet noodle in the kitchen. I still haven’t quite mastered the art of preparing pasta, my fridge is stocked solely with water and wine, and my sous chef is a mouse.
The truth is, until recently, I’d never had much of an interest in cooking. Maybe my klutziness predisposed me to avoid situations in which fire and boiling water are so prominently featured—or it could just be that I’m still scarred by my high school chemistry experience. Whatever the case, growing up, there was a reason I was lauded as the family dishwasher. Though I couldn’t sauté, I sure was a hell of a scrubber.
I should have taken it as an omen when I was lotteried out of the Science of Cooking class after arriving at school this fall. Still, having moved off campus, I was eager to put a dent in my kitchen—which I began to do by whipping up al dente pasta and tomato sauce nearly every night for the first two weeks in my new digs. Of course, that soon got old. But I was determined to branch out and become the domestic goddess I knew I could be. If the Science of Cooking lottery was going to chew me up and spit me out, then my education would simply have to be a bit more informal.
So, I did what any fastidious English concentrator would do: I read up. Emeril is beside Emerson on my bookshelf—and I’m pretty sure Batalli and Bronte are on intimate terms these days. Since Top Chef had whetted my appetite for cooking, I knew I would need to beef up my DVD collection as well. Of course, that meant ordering “Kitchen Confidential” and inviting some girlfriends over to watch “Julie and Julia”.
Now we’re cooking, I thought to myself, as my friends and I huddled around the TV and chomped on freshly baked chocolate chip cookies (if by freshly baked, you mean slice and bake). Sorry, girls, they really were too good to be true. And no, ladies, the candles were not so much for the ambience as an attempt to cover up the burnt smell from earlier that afternoon.
But I’d seen enough episodes of “Top Chef” to know that a real cook can take the heat. So, I made a date with Rachel Ray and attempted some (45-minute) 15-minute meals. I experimented with multiple varieties of stir-fry, and mastered the veggie omelet. I was becoming quite the pro—that is, until I encountered a sight even more horrifying than my botched Boeuf Bourguignon: real-life protein scampering across my countertop!
And there was more where that came from. Way more. If my loved ones were underwhelmed by my culinary prowess, apparently the mice in my building didn’t have quite the same discerning palates. I soon found myself swapping my oven mitts for rubber gloves. So what if I hadn’t found my stride as a cook?  My scrubbing skills were as finely honed as ever. My cuisine may not be plate-licking-delicious, but I still know how to make those plates shine.
My culinary exploration has been put on hold for a while, though I like to tell myself that those pesky critters aren’t just a convenient excuse to start ordering take-out. Okay, so maybe my traps have been safely mouse-free for a couple of weeks now. Don’t tell the exterminator, but I’m kind of relishing the respite from the fire.
—Lindsay P. Tanne ’11, a former Magazine Editor-at-Large, is an English concentrator affiliated with Adams House. She is happy to report that she will be moving to Manhattan, the home of the take-out menu, after graduation.
Sections
I was in Israel the first time I drank an entire cup of coffee. It was the summer after my freshman year, and the time had come to graduate from chocolate milk and move on to more caffeinated things. The mug I used was small; I filled it with that instant stuff, but the ratio of sugar and cream to actual brew was high. For me, that cup of coffee served purely utilitarian purposes—I was still jetlagged and exhausted from a busy trip, and I thought caffeine would help.
It did. I couldn’t believe how much my day improved—and how much my life could improve—by drinking a mug of caffeinated gold. I was hooked. I now use various liquid mediums to stay awake, usually espresso drinks at cafés or soda from the dining hall. And what wonders it has done for my social life! Going to cafés with friends is a new option that makes me hip.
I’m not, however, addicted to espresso, but I am addicted to cafés. One of my most important tasks each week is to find coffee shops in which to do my homework. Why? I think it’s cool. I think I look cool in them. I think my homework looks cool in them. I can count at least 18 cafés in Harvard Square and the immediate surrounding area in which I have done my homework. Here are a few of my favorites, in no particular order, with their corresponding charming attributes:
Crema Café—Best Scene to See and Be Seen; Best Cookies.
Au Bon Pain—Extreme Makeover: Chain Restaurant Edition.
Dado Tea—Best Random Place You Always Forget About But is Actually Pretty Good.
1369 Coffee House—That’s Right, I’ve Gone to Inman Square for My Coffee. That Is Really, Really Legit.
Tealuxe—Runner-up, the Dado Tea Random-But-Good Café Memorial Award.
Lamont Café—Most Convenient (er, post-sewage fiasco); Best Place to Burn Board Plus.
Starbucks on Church Street—Best Starbucks in Harvard Square.
Starbucks in the Garage—Second-Best Starbucks in Harvard Square.
Clearly, I am a café nomad. At times, I attempt to find a home base. Last year, I took a stab at ingratiating myself in Café Pamplona. That effort was about as fruitful as trying to leave Lamont Library without having one’s backpack violated. I told my mother that I wanted to become a regular at Pamplona and heeded her advice to figure out the waiter’s name. I even said to one of the waiters, “See you soon,” in the hopes that he would start to consider me one of Pamplona’s kind. But it just never quite fit. Sure, I learned his name (Chris), but he didn’t know mine (Liz). I spoke American English while there, not Spanish or French, and I wasn’t working on a film. I still gladly patronize Pamplona, but I have accepted the fact that I will never be a regular there.
Where else could I become a regular? Au Bon Pain wouldn’t do the trick. Before it was renovated, ABP was just a little too disgusting to spend a significant amount of time in. If I had to make a Top 10 list of the Grossest Things in Harvard Square, I’m fairly certain at least five of them would have been inside the old ABP (e.g., the congealed food displays ... the bathroom ... the birds flying inside the restaurant ...). But now that ABP looks like a legitimate institution, it’s lost all of its charm. I have no interest in it anymore. Right now, my spot is Café Gato Rojo, but will it last? I simply don’t know how long I’ll call “the Gato” my teafault.
As much as I’ve tried to become a regular at various institutions of higher caffeination in Harvard Square, I’ve become comfortable with my nomadic ways. I like roaming. Not being a café regular means I go to different spots depending on my mood. I like going to Algiers on some occasions (think Casablanca) and to the COOP Café on others (a reward for being sufficiently ripped off). I go to Petsi Pies when I want, well, pie, and to Simon’s when I want a good cappuccino. I’m not a regular at any of these places, but that’s okay. For me, coffee shops are just a place to detox—but never with decaf.
—Elizabeth C. Bloom ’12 is a junior in Currier House. She’s got a latte of caffeine in her system.
Sections
Learning at Harvard is more often associated with struggling through Organic Chemistry than with discovering how to enjoy yourself, but happiness is gaining traction as an object of study. Both in course offerings and academic research, members of Harvard’s faculty are examining this seemingly elusive emotion in an academic light.
LEARNING HAPPINESS IN THE CLASSROOM
Shalhavit-Simcha Cohen exhudes happinness, in a genuine sense, as she speaks over Skype. Simcha, in fact, means happiness in Hebrew. With a degree in Molecular Medical and Cellular Biology and a background in Torah study, she has devoted much of her time to the study of happiness and to disseminating that knowledge to the public.
Since 2007, Cohen has worked extensively with former Harvard University Psychology Professor Tal D. Ben-Shahar ’96. Ben-Shahar’s “Positive Psychology” course was more than a self-help lecture series, focusing on contemporary research on what makes people happy. In 2006, it attracted 855 students, making it the most popular course at Harvard, even more popular than Ec 10. Each time the course was offered, CUE reviews glowed.
The field of positive psychology is relatively new in the realm of psychological research, but it has exploded over the last decade. While most psychological research deals with the study of mental illness, positive psychology, on the other hand, seeks to study the things that make people flourish. Over the years, Harvard’s Faculty has featured multiple leaders in the field.
Though Ben-Shahar is not currently teaching at Harvard—he has said that he took himself off the tenure track in order to pursue his own personal happiness—Nancy L. Etcoff, assistant professor of psychology in the psychiatry department at Harvard Medical School, teaches a similar class called “The Science of Happiness.” “The aim is to critically examine current scientific knowledge on happiness,” she explains. “Our discussions cover the range from issues of definition and measurement, to the brain reward system, genetic contributions, the effects of positive emotions on health and longevity, and the centrality of love and relationships.”
Etcoff explains that the more that we explore different aspects of happiness, the more we realize how little we know about it—there is much to learn and be learned. “Happiness is not just a way of feeling, but a way of thinking and a way of being,” she says.
According to Harvard Philosophy Professor Sean D. Kelly, happiness actually has stood at the center of philosophical inquiry since ancient times. In January, Kelly published a book about the struggle to find meaning in a secular age. “The question of ‘What is happiness?’ doesn’t quite capture the essence of the philosophical question,” he adds. “Rather, it should be phrased ‘What makes a life worth living?’”
BEYOND THE IVORY TOWER
Cohen is currently working to spread the wealth of academic knowledge that exists on the study of happiness to the wider world. As the Projects Manager and teaching assistant for Ben-Shahar, she worked with him to conduct seminars on positive psychology, introducing current research to the Israeli government and education system.
Two months ago, back in Cambridge, Cohen created an online television show called “UnMiserable.” Inspired by Ben-Shahar’s course, the show seeks to promote happier living in addition to giving people access to contemporary research on happiness. Currently, the project is aimed locally, but she is hoping to gain a broader audience. “I am bringing the academic wealth of research on topics such as self esteem, time management, emotional intelligence, social intelligence, relationships, self actualization, outside of Harvard—or, in Ben-Shahar’s words, out of the ivory tower to Main Street.” Cohen says her  efforts have been well received, and she is working with Comcast to produce episodes that will be aired nationally.
Cohen explains that many Harvard students associate happiness with the accomplishment of the next goal; many spend their time convincing themselves that happiness will come once they do this thing, or finish that thing. According to Cohen, people at Harvard forget to enjoy the little moments that make us happy.
HAPPY HARVARD STUDENTS
Beyond popular course offerings in positive psychology, the so-called happiness-craze at Harvard functions on a small scale as well. In October, House tutor Christine S. Woodward created a “Happy Room” in Pfoho that has been well received by students. With oceanic murals, beach chairs, and soft lighting, it creates a peaceful atmosphere for students who often get lost in work and obligations. Like Cohen, Woodward wants to remind them that its okay to take a second and relax.
As a graduate student in architecture and design—and a native of sunny California—Woodward sees the importance in designing such a place and advocates “happifying” all Houses. “It’s my job to create and design,” she says, “and with this room, I want to create a happier mindset for students.”
Sections
Two Bros
Bro 1: (Bro!)
Bro 2: (Bro!)
Bro 1: (Last night?)
Bro 2: (Last nightttttttt. Last night?)
Bro 1: (Last nightttttttt.)
Bro 2: (Food?)
Bro 1: (Foodddddd.)
Bro 2: (Tommy’s?)
Bro 1: (Tommy’s!)
Bro 2: (Broooo!)
Bro 1: (Broooo!)
At Sunday Brunch
Girl 1: (Greeting!)
Girl 2: (OMG greeting!)
Girl 1: (Last night?)
Girl 2: (Fox. Last night?)
Girl 1: (Owl. End of night?)
Girl 2: (Delphic. End of night?)
Girl 1: (Delphic. Sketchy.)
Girl 2: (Sketchy.)
Girl 1: (Guys?)
Girl 2: (Random hookup. Douche bag. Guys?)
Girl 1: (Got nothing. Douche bags.)
Girl 2: (Douche bags.)
Girl 1: (Split veritaffle?!)
Girl 2: (Split veritaffle!!)
At UHS
Student: (Not feeling well.)
UHS: (Pregnant.)
Sections
These are troubled times indeed for male hubris. Testosterone once reigned supreme, free from the twin threats of female emancipation and New Age manhood. But now, in Australia, day-to-day displays of virility are under threat from the unlikeliest of sources: the little finger.
Australian machismo has had its good moments (See: “Crocodile Dundee,” “The Crocodile Hunter,” and crocodiles generally). Yet to Steve Irwin’s affable Jekyll, there is a dangerous Hyde: the culture of speeding.
Government shock campaigns had consistently failed. Something else had to be done. Enter the Roads and Traffic Authority (RTA) of New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state. After a series of expensive tests and surveys, the assembled gurus of the RTA discovered that a young man’s greatest fear is having his masculinity questioned.
In June 2007, they unveiled a multimedia campaign designed to strike at the deepest heart of male bravado. Television ads terrorized young men with clips of blokes wielding their cars at tremendous speeds, only to be met with derisive sneers and wiggling pinkies from the bonzer sheilas on the footpath.
The slogan for the campaign—worth 1.9 million Australian dollars—would then come up alongside the pouting face of the most bonzer of the sheilas: “Speeding. No one thinks big of you.”
The RTA recorded the campaign as a wild success. One test subject raved enthusiastically in the official report: “The thought of being ribbed by your mates is much more relevant than the thought of crashing your car. I’m going to put dirt on my mate the next time he’s speeding like that!”
And in a nation so constitutionally opposed to smug accomplishment, insinuations of phallic inadequacy met anyone appearing to show off. The finest anecdote of Friday night triumph and the subtlest name dropping could be instantly derailed by one deft turn of the digitus minimus manus.
Man lives under a cruel tyranny, to be sure. But he probably deserves it.
Sections
A faded portrait of the late Reverend Peter J. Gomes looked out at Memorial Church last Thursday, dimly illuminated in the glow of candles held by those who came to pay their respects. The multitude of parishioners, friends, colleagues, and students sat shoulder to shoulder in the pews, honoring a man who has become a spiritual icon at the University.
And yet Gomes, who died on Feb. 28, was not just the Minister of Memorial Church or a world-renowned preacher. He fulfilled a myriad of roles, simultaneously serving as a religious leader, an academic instructor, and a remarkable friend to many.
“He was a man who was able to transcend, when necessary, any identity,” says Gomes’ longtime friend S. Allen Counter Jr., Director of the Harvard Foundation and a professor of neurology.
Gomes held his position as Minister for the past 35 years, during which he spoke at many University events, advised on dissertations at the Divinity School, and trained upcoming seminarians.
“He asked people to discover their own ministry,” says Reverend Janet Hatfield Legro, who was hired by Gomes on the spot as a seminarian after a particularly good waitressing performance one Sunday lunch. Legro became the Assistant Minister in Memorial Church in the late 1990s and now preaches at Harvard one Sunday each year.
Legro emphasizes the seriousness with which Gomes viewed worship and the offering of religious guidance. “Worship had to have integrity,” she explains. Gomes often reminded her that it didn’t matter if she was preaching to two or 2,000, insisting on the need to “take care with what you do because the person you’re affecting is God’s beloved child.”
Outside of his role at Memorial Church, Gomes, the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals at the Harvard Divinity School, taught Religion 42: “The Christian Bible and its Interpretations” and Religion 1513: “The History of Harvard and its Presidents.”
“He was spiritual, religious, in a very idiosyncratic way,” remembers Ari R. Hoffman ’10, who took Religion 42 his freshman fall. “He kind of modeled a sense in which you could be yourself, in all of your ridiculousness and absurdity, but still reach for something greater.”
Hoffman describes walking through the yard with Gomes one day after class. “We were talking about different professions and what one would go into. He asked me what I was interested in doing, and I said, ‘I have no idea.’ He said, ‘You know Ari, the great thing about being a clergyman is that you hold people’s eternal souls in the palm of your hand,’” Hoffman chuckles.
Teaching allowed Gomes to extend his influence beyond Harvard’s religious institutions—an opportunity he greatly valued. Every Wednesday afternoon he hosted a tea in his home, a mansion located behind Memorial Hall. The teas were open to the entire Harvard community, and students were frequently among the attendees.
“He felt they kept him young,” says Stephen P. Shoemaker of Gomes’ relationship with the undergraduates. Shoemaker is a teaching assistant in the Study of Religion who co-taught both of Gomes’ classes. “He enjoyed the stimulation of their brilliance and their engagement with their material. But, even socially, he really appreciated the opportunity to be with them.”
Shoemaker recalls one particular spring, after he and Gomes had administered their final exam, when he received a call from Gomes. “‘Stephen,’” Gomes said on the other line in his low, commanding voice, “‘your presence is required at the Kong.’” When Shoemaker arrived at the Hong Kong Restaurant, he found Gomes sitting with 15 students around a table of Scorpion Bowls. “The professor is diving right in,” Shoemaker laughs, “hands me a straw, and says, ‘I don’t know what they put in these, but it’s delightful!’”
This ability to relax and enjoy himself in almost any situation was an integral part of Gomes’ personality. With his far-reaching sense of humor, he managed to relate to people of all ages, cultures, and religions. “It was a gift that he could look at a situation, see what was humorous and how to present it that way so that everyone listening understood what was funny,” Shoemaker reflects.
Legro recounts the panic attacks she experienced each Sunday as the clock crept toward the starting time of the 11 o’clock service, with Gomes still absent. “But he would appear without fail, bursting through the doors of the preachers room of The Memorial Church, fully robed, sermon in hand, exclaiming, ‘Are you ready, Janet?  Are you ready to worship?’” Legro, close to tears, laughs at the memory. “He shortened my life for making me worry like that every Sunday.”
Legro wasn’t the only one at the butt of Gomes’ jokes. “He had a wonderful way to make people feel like you were on the inside of the joke,” remembers Andrew F. Saxe ’84. “And then you’d find out he had a wickedly funny imitation of you.”
Luke L. Sperduto ’11, who admired Gomes from afar, called the Reverend a “badass,” and commended him for not taking himself too seriously. “That is such a lesson that Harvard needs to remember at all times.”
Gomes’ exceptional love of life and of people is part of what made him such a remarkable individual. “He gobbled up life,” Legro remembers. “He lived a thousand years in 68.”
Sections
As the saying goes, if you want to know how a man will treat you, just look at how he treats his mother. So, this Junior Parents’ Weekend, FM goes on the prowl in search of hot, eligible bachelors. Here’s the catch: we’re dating their moms first.
Mom 1
Ideal date: By the ocean, with a picnic, then going for a hike. Mmm. This picture is so right—an active lifestyle, a romantic sensibility—hopefully “fit and tan” runs in the family?
Her style: Elegant and classic. One gorgeous mama!
Her ideal man’s style: Polished but carefree. We’re liking this picture of a well-dressed but sporty boy.
Which Academy Award nominee she would date: James Franco. She likes ’em young ... cougar mom!
Beauty or brains: Brains.
Night in or night out: Night in. We can think of a few things to keep him occupied.
Wine or beer: BOTH! (With a giggle and a wink!) See above.
What she thinks of Harvard men: The majority are gay. Uh-oh ... are we being too heteronormative about this date?
Is her son a mama’s boy: “TOTALLY” Aww. Considering the vivacious charm of this hawt momma, we totally commend this.
Describing her son in three words: Amazing. Brilliant. Driven. And FUN. OK, not three words but her enthusiasm clearly wins points in his favor.
We’re sure interested in this well-dressed, fit, male specimen. Can we go on a second date with his mom instead?
Mom 2
Ideal date: Casual and comfortable. The back corner of a coffee shop, lounge, diner, or café.  Intimate, relaxed—this guy’s probably a romantic.
Her style: Youthful, energetic, personable, approachable, and sporty. Makes us think that her son might also love sports .... Big plus.
Which Academy Award nominee she would date: Jeff Bridges. The silver fox—We can dig it.
What she thinks of Harvard men: Very focused and methodical—they don’t seem to have an awesome social life. It’s all “study work study work.” We’ll find a way to entice him to play.
Beauty or brains: Brains. See above.
Night in or night out: Night out.
Wine or beer: Red wine. Red red wine? You make me feel so fine. You keep me rocking all of the time.
Is your son a mama’s boy: NO. Red flag, girls like boys that like their mothers.
Her son in three words: Brilliant, opinionated, and very funny. “If Harvard doesn’t work out, I wouldn’t be surprised if he were to become a comedian.” Brilliant and opinionated tends to be a given here at Harvard. But funny ... might we have a future member of The Lonely Island on our hands?
While he may very well be an athletic and hilarious genius, we feel like we might be competing for his affection ... with his orgo homework. Sorry, no.
Mom 3
Ideal date: Cruise to the south of France, spending the week relaxing and enjoying the cool environment. ¡Qué romántica! And maybe she’ll share the love and take the daughter-in-law along. Hint, hint ....
Her syle: Very chic. As long as that doesn’t mean he layers his polos ....
Her son’s style: Very well-dressed but it takes him a while to get ready in the morning. He likes to look “perfect” and “well-groomed.” We don’t want our guy’s morning bathroom routine to take longer than ours ....
Which Academy Award nominee she would date: Colin Firth. The British gentleman. Classy.
Beauty or brains: BOTH. High standards.
Night out or Night in: Night out. DTR (Down To Rage).
Wine or beer: Wine.
Is her son a mama’s boy: He’s not a mama’s boy, but he loves his mother. ADORABLE.
Her son in three words: Smart, handsome, kind. Let’s be real—isn’t that what every girl looks for in a guy?
This guy seems classy, well put-together, and romantic. And if he’s spending that much time in the bathroom in the morning, he’s probably lookin’ good once he steps foot out the door. DATE.
Sections
If you just can’t get enough of the Sheen Machine, then you’re in luck— because Harvard Square’s very own Mr. Bartley’s Burgers just cooked up something that will make HUHDS food look like droopy-eyed, armless children: the Charlie Sheen Burger.
Packed with grilled peppers, onions, mushrooms, and topped with teriyaki sauce, this burger is probably more than anyone could survive. “It had more flavor than Charlie Sheen’s personality,” said Angie Peng ’14. “I’m in such a big food coma.”
First time Bartley’s patron Jennifer S. Wu ’14 agreed. “I like the sweet teriyaki sauce,” she said. “It went really well with the rest of the toppings.”
With fries that can’t be processed with a normal brain, this meal makes for a scrumptious, dare we say—winning—combination. So put on your total-bitchin’-rock-star-from-Mars pants, and gear up that tiger blood, because you’re about to have a dining experience straight out of Awesomeville.
“People have liked it and have been taking pictures of the sign outside,” said owner Billy Bartley. “We’re bringing joy to the community one burger at a time, just like Sheen got joy one hooker at a time. It comes with 20 ounces of coke … get it?”
Sections
The hollow tunnels beneath Adams House are weary with disrepair—pipes are exposed and the paint chipped—and are surprisingly unbecoming of the Harvard pictured in brochures and admissions pamphlets. Recently, talks of House renewal have stirred in University Hall, that well-kept marble building in the center of the Yard. But in the Houses, leaky pipes, cockroaches, issues with temperature control, and outdated rooming floor plans are some of the physical realities that make the Houses’ ages apparent.
But when the haphazard paintings and sketches lining the walls of the Adams tunnels come into focus, the work of graduating classes long gone, a different kind of impression emerges—there’s a heritage here. Less apparent than the uncomfortable walk-throughs is the endangered social function of the Houses. From their conception in the late 1920s, the Houses were intended to be central aspects of students’ social lives. In 2008, Dean of Harvard College Evelynn M. Hammonds wrote that this vision of the Houses “still resonates with students.”
The House formals, tutors, faculty advisors, and nightly brain breaks, as well as the House Masters, are all presented as metonymies of this mission. We are told that Adam’s Winter Dinner is House spirit. That Lowell’s weekly House Master Teas are House spirit. And we are reminded to attend Leverett’s winter formal year after year, in the name of House spirit.
But it is unclear whether the original vision in fact still resonates with students, or whether the Houses are actually failing to cultivate social organization within their physical dorms.
The widespread belief is that the Houses should stand for more than just the bricks and mortar that they are made from. The history of Harvard’s houses tells the history of the College’s changing landscape, both physical and social. But the question emerges: how has the function of the Houses changed, and do students still feel as connected to their House as they used to?
It seems, in actuality, that while the Houses do serve certain functional capacities (as dining hubs, as open study spaces, as living spaces), the social aspects of the Houses may be lacking.
Rounding off their first year in Cabot House, a group of sophomore blockmates sits casually, sweatshirt-clad, at their own table in the dining hall. They say they are happy in their House, making jokes about Quad solidarity. The girls laugh when asked if they socialize much within the House outside of their blocking group. “We’re a very close blocking group,” says Andrea A. Henricks ’13, suggesting that the answer is no.
But, “I would kinda like to see more happening in the House,” admits Lillian C. Alexander ’13.
“But I mean, we love Cabot,” adds Kathleen E. Goodwin ’13.
THEN AND NOW
Returning to Cambridge for a Winthrop House Class of ’78 reunion, Robert S. Rubin ’78-’79 reminisces about his days at Harvard. “My friends and I had a really great time,” he says, looking around the empty Winthrop Junior Common Room (JCR) with a hardy smile, remembering the happy hours that he and his friends used to host in the room some 30 years ago. “Every Friday night, this room would fill up. A great deal of people from across campus would come,” he explains.
“Winthrop in my day had a lot more cohesiveness than it seems today,” says Rob. “It’s my impression that the spontaneity has been removed.”
One thing that stands out to visiting alums is this lack of social cohesion. “The alums don’t believe it when I tell them,” says Rob. “The rooming experience was a very strong social activity. It seems people used to spend a lot of time in rooms and in the House.”
He adds, “When you consider that dorm life at Harvard was founded in that concept [the House system], I think the quality of House life is not near what it could be today and certainly not close to what it was when we were here.”
His son, Ari L. Rubin ’13, also a Winthrop resident, can’t help but compare his own experience in the House to what he’s heard about his father’s. “I grew up hearing stories not about Harvard, but about Winthrop House. I heard stories about moving the tables in the dining hall and throwing dance parties in there, and throwing keggers in the courtyard. And I got here and that doesn’t happen anymore,” he says.
A possible instigator of the shift in House tone is the drinking age, now set at 21, instead of 18 when Rob was here. “I am sympathetic and empathetic to the administration’s position with the drinking age, but many other schools deal with it differently,” Rob says.
And being able to throw parties in the House, whether with alcohol or without, seems to be one of the largest complaints about House life by students. Ari says, “We have ‘Stein Club,’ but it’s just not the same. It seems that House life used to be a dominant social structure and that’s just not the case anymore.”
This is not to say that socializing necessitates alcohol. Jonathan H. Alter ’79, (who is a former Crimson editor, and whose daughter currently lives in Winthrop), shares the sentiment regarding lack of social space, explaining that he feels access to social space has decreased since his days at the College. Alter says, “We used to have a lot more theatrical productions in the common rooms. Just spontaneously, unplanned.” He laments, “You just get the feeling now that there’s less of this. For whatever reason the common rooms are not used as much. They’re empty a lot of the time. They were used more [before] for concerts, plays and other kinds of things.”
But with regard to throwing social events in the dorms, to Ari, “It’s as simple as the fact that we need a party form. And even then parties get shut down all the time.”
Indeed, in the absence of access to alcohol in the Houses, students are increasingly looking outside of the Houses for social outlets: final clubs, off-campus housing, and other spaces open to students where parties can be thrown. Complaints about this transition has already been lodged by organizations across campus, including the Anti-Final Club Campaign and the Undergraduate Council.
“Well, I don’t want to generalize,” begins Rob, “but final clubs weren’t that big [when I was here]—many of my friends were in final clubs but it wasn’t huge. Final clubs were a primary social outlet for a very small group of people.”
Rob adds amid laughter, “When my friends from then hear how big final clubs are now from things like ‘The Social Network,’ they just say ‘What planet is this?’”
For this reason, Rob was surprised when Ari expressed interest in joining one of the clubs.  “When I told my dad I was joining he was like ‘Why would you want to do that? Why don’t you just throw a party in Winthrop?’” Ari laughs, “I was just like, ‘You can’t do that anymore, dad!’”
Alter has made similar observations. “The final clubs weren’t nearly as big a thing as they are today. But that’s because the 70s were still operating in the spirit of the 60s. The final clubs were mostly dominated by prep-school students.”
But he adds, “I’m not suggesting it was a kumbaya social environment, but there was more a sense that it should be connected to merit, not social capital. The final clubs were just an aspect of campus life, not a dominant aspect.”
Likewise, Alter adds, “It wasn’t like everyone’s social life involved around the Houses—people’s social lives evolved around other activities and sports as well. But yes, sometimes Houses.”
HOUSE CHARACTER, OR HOUSE ELITISM?
Context is key.
A hundred years ago, undergraduates lived in dorms only loosely affiliated with the College, largely partitioned among socio-economic lines distinguishing the rich from the richer. A House system like the one in existence today would not be created for another 30 years. Then, Harvard students (that is, Harvard men) were still required to wear a jacket and tie to dinner, dining together in the still-new House system consisting of the neo-Georgian river Houses.
But the distinctions between that Harvard and this Harvard are easy enough to see. What is surprising is that just 20 or 30 years ago the intra-House cohesion in fact resulted in divisions across the College between the different Houses. Many of the Houses, originally intended to be microcosms of the College, in fact developed very strong identities independently of each other. Today, memories of these “House characters” persist in the student body, but mostly in the form of myths and fictions.
The real story, Alter says, is that “The Houses had a certain character to them. It didn’t mean everyone in the House was representative of the stereotype of the House, but there definitely were such stereotypes.”
Back in the day, Adams House was notorious for its sizable queer and arts community; Kirkland House was home to a large contingent of athletes. And for the politically active—and extremely liberal—Dunster was known as home.
In this way, the Houses formed a sort of harmonized community of like-minded students that many are lacking today. But sometimes this manifested negatively. One controversial survey of the College’s demographics in 1982 found that many minority students gravitated to the same few Houses and remained largely separated from the rest of the College. In 1982, if you were a black student at Harvard you were probably living in either Currier or Mather House.
“I think there was a sense in which African-Americans often gravitated toward Mather House [while I was there],” Alter says, though he also notes that, “It wasn’t like everyone in there fell into these categories, but these were their reputations.”
These divisions existed along socio-economic lines as well, with Eliot and Lowell Houses acting as homes to some of Harvard’s wealthiest students. Often exhibiting the snobbery of “Old Harvard,” these Houses tended to have a stuffier, more judgmental character.
“What would happen is that the character would sort of pass down, sometimes generationally,” says Alter.
The selection process used by the College to organize the House system before the current randomized model had a large hand in creating these communal disparities, and in fact the selection process itself says something about Harvard’s values and mission at the time.
Indeed, students in the 1970s had to apply for a spot in the House of their choosing, schmoozing with House Masters and throwing legacy weight around to obtain their top pick. This of course has all changed now under the new sorting system for housing, where students pick a blocking group and together submit their names into the lottery.
Alter notes the differences, and thinks the current process is fairer to students: “I think it’s better—one of the realities of life at Harvard is you compete a lot to get in and you get there and then you have to compete all over again. To eliminate the Houses as something you have to compete for is a good thing.”
CHANGING HOUSE COMMUNITIES
As a byproduct of the randomization system, students have to be sold on their new House, whether they are unexpectedly thrown to the Quad, or “win the lottery” by being placed in one of the River Houses. No longer do students show up at Quincy House knowing that many of their friends already reside there. Increasingly, it seems like Houses are becoming less and less the social institutions they used to be.
In 2008, the College commissioned a survey to gauge student satisfaction with House facilities as a part of the larger Report on Harvard House Renewal. The survey found that 83 percent of students study in their bedrooms, 59 percent study in campus libraries, and 55 percent in House dining halls.
These findings are hard to disentangle from the fact, however, that the Houses with the most active response rate were Currier, Quincy, and Leverett—all Houses typically associated with high levels of House spirit and all with typically good housing available for upperclassmen, defined by space distribution and privacy (that is, availability of singles or spacious doubles). These Houses also have modern construction, and thereby more available social space than their neo-Georgian counterparts.
Interim Currier House Master James L. Cavallaro ’84 believes that the physical layout of a House can have an important effect on social life. “Currier House, which is the house I know best, has a lot of community spaces which is great for the development of a community in a house. I’ve only been here for this year [as interim House Master], but it is a House that I think has significant community,” he says. He continues, “It’s certainly a House whose physical layout facilitates community.”
Indeed, it does appear that there is a certain amount of “Quad spirit” that manifests itself in residents of Cabot, Currier, and Pforzheimer. “One thing I do have to say,” shares Alexander, who lives in Cabot, “I don’t really have Cabot spirit, but I have Quad spirit. The Quad itself is something of a unified social institution. I don’t know that that’s true for some of the River Houses.”
“There is a tight-knit community—in part because the Quad is one center with three Houses,” says Cavallaro. “There’s a greater sense of community, and that gets passed on [to future classes].”
HOUSE DISUNITY AND SOCIAL SPACES
Sitting in the Winthrop Junior Common Room, it’s impossible to disregard how spacious and regal the interior looks, equipped with lush rugs, couches, and a TV. But such ornate decorations only emphasize how lonely the space is. Looking around the empty room, Ari notes, “It’s so frustrating. I look around and this room is a really cool room, and a room that I know has so much legacy and importance. Not just for speakers—Mass. Representative Barney Frank ’62 spoke here yesterday—but also for the social aspect of it.” He continues, “And it’s frustrating that most people have zero appreciation for that because it’s just not the case anymore.”
Reconciling the emptiness and disuse of the JCRs with the student outcry for more social space is difficult. But it’s important to consider that students feel disconnected with their respective Houses. This is especially true when compared to past generations of Harvard undergrads. “From what I can tell,” Rob says, “the atmosphere on campus overall seems very different compared to when we were here. I’m not completely happy at the vibe I get compared to how it was.”
These days more students watch movies on their laptops than in TV rooms. Indeed, when it comes down to it, many spend their time away from the Houses, crowding around tables at Lamont during the week and rushing to the Spee or the Advocate on weekends.
While this may not be the case for all undergraduates, past and present, complaints about House life are hardly contained to a quiet minority. The crucial lack of cohesion that has come to define the Houses is most notable in the empty JCRs and the under-attended Stein Clubs.
While the 2008 survey in the Report on House Renewal found that the Houses meet students’ expectations, the survey does not define what those expectations should be. The survey results state that “Overall, on a scale of 1-5, students found the House to meet their expectations ‘well/very well’ for most functions.” But the question is not whether the dorms function as living spaces—with beds and dining halls, they do. The real question is whether they function as social spaces.
RALLYING AROUND NEW COMMUNITIES
It is clear that the practice of House life has fundamentally shifted from the guiding vision of House life. But even without the active JCRs on Friday nights, the traditions and heritage of the College and of the Houses remain intact and provide something tangible for students to rally around. The House Masters are often responsible for this institutional memory.
“I don’t think that any of the Houses have House character in the way that they used to, by definition, because they were defined by the students that were admitted to the House, who wanted to come, combined with what the Master wanted to do,” says Adams House Master John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67. But this self-selecting aspect “was a problem,” he adds.
The House Masters’ task of maintaining House traditions and fostering student unity, however, can be difficult when students are randomly sorted into a House in which they have no personal stake.
“I think that creating a House spirit has to be a partnership between the House committee, the students, and the administration. I think it can be done, but I also know it’s harder than it would have been in 1975. The challenge is that you have to put out there what is great and unique about the house that you’re in,” Lowell House Administrator Elizabeth G. Terry says.
Communicating a House’s unique and special traditions is a difficult task, however, especially because students in the Yard are so separated from the House system as it is. Terry thinks the best way to accomplish this is to be fully invested in the House you’re in. “It sounds cheesy, but one has to believe. I think the Masters have to really believe in what they’re doing and in the tradition,” she says. “I love Lowell House, I really do,” she adds warmly.
“Probably part of the reason that we were asked [to be the Adams House Masters], or chosen to be here, was that we treasured the history of Adams House and also treasured the diversity,” adds Palfrey.
While House character might be somewhat sacrificed, House spirit does not have to be.  Despite the shifting social role of Houses, students can still learn to rally around  their House and buy into their House traditions.
“When I saw ‘Housing Day’ in 2008, when my daughter was applying to Harvard, I told a couple of my classmates about it—it would have been unheard of in our day,” Alter says of the new excitement surrounding Housing Day. “There just wasn’t that kind of school or House spirit [when I was here]. There just wasn’t.”
Palfrey agrees on this point, stressing the importance of House identity at Harvard. “You will forever identify with your house. People come back and one of the first questions is, “Oh yeah we graduated in 1973.  What House were you in?’ That is an important part of this. And we want to maintain that.”
Sections
1. Thinks he’s got it going Bossa Nova. No way. No way. What is this garbage? What is this?
2. All of them just look like droopy-eyed armless children.
3. Oh, I’m King of the Trees, I’m the Treemeister. I count on them. But sometimes I prieg, I like to stealst.
4. It’s like an organic union of the hearts.
5. I bet her fesst-, I bet her feah-de-lesk. BARNDT. Patersk-um-fedddhle.
6. Who’s this guy? Mista Balloons. Mista Balloon Hands. No way. No way. Get real. Like those things.
7. If you try it once, you will die. Your face will melt off and your children will weep over your exploded body.
8. When you’ve got tiger blood and Adonis DNA, it’s like, “Get with the program.”
9. I use a blender, I use vacuum cleaners, I use household items ...
10. Who paid for that floor? Not me, no way. Never paying for no floor ever again. Not once, not never. Nope.
11. Aren’t there moments when a guy crashes in the corner like, “Oh my god, it’s all my mom’s fault”? SHUT UP, move forward.
12. Seahorse Sea Shell Party? Who didn’t invite me? Why didn’t I get invited to the Seahorse Seahell? What is this? Get real.
13. Dying is for fools—you should have read the instruction manual before you showed up to the party.
‘Drinking Out of Cups’ — 1, 3, 6, 10, 12
Charlie Sheen — 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13
Unclear — 5
Sections
Beyond Prescription Glasses: An Ethnographic Study of Junior Social Studies Tutorial 73
The culmination of a four-year ethnographic insertion, this study offers a fascinating in(sight) into the sociological practices of a long misunderstood society. With funding provided by the Department of Sociology and the Harvard Advocate.
Understanding Happiness through the Eyes of Hens: The Case for Free-Range Eggs and a Student Center
Interviews and first-hand testimonial establish that hens are happier with more space to socialize outside of their eating and sleeping spaces. With funding provided by the Vegetarian Society and the Office for Student Life.
Finance and Society: Touring Western Europe in the Context of a Wall Street Salary
An aspiring 19-year-old investment banker’s exploration of five-star hotels, fine dining, and first-class air travel. With funding provided by the Department of Economics and the Porcellian.
Draft 2012 Creative Folklore and Mythology Thesis: !?@%$#^
The meaning of life. With no outside funding.
Criminology On Campus: Chronicling the Missing Laundry Movement
Those barely excluded from the University’s financial aid policy turn to crime during recession. With funding provided by the Student Labor Action Movement and Revolution Books.
Free Radicals in the Kitchen: Thermal Variance and Electron Shell Decay in Sunrise Pizza
Why hot breakfast is bad for you. With funding provided by HUHDS.
Would You Like Fries with That?: The Hegelian Implications of Work in the Fast Food Industry
An immersive dissertation on the contemporary intellectual struggles generated by employment at the Unit 7a Newton Industrial Park McDonald’s franchise, with saucy perspectives on a philosophy degree. With funding provided by the Office of Career Services and the Department of Psychology.
Constructing of Sexual Identity: Awkward Conversations with Ex-Boyfriends
Oh sweetie, it wasn’t because of you. Probably. With funding provided by the Committee on Degrees in Studies of Women, Gender and Sexuality.
Sections
For those of you who might be thirsty this St. Patrick’s Day and want something with a little more kick than a Shamrock Shake, FM presents three essential cocktails for the occasion:
1.  The Irish Coffee
Directions:
St. Patrick’s Day is a marathon, not a sprint, and this suggestion is subtle enough not to draw dirty looks at breakfast. It’s the best part of waking up!
2 1/2 oz strong, hot coffee
1 1/2 oz Irish whiskey
1 tsp sugar
1 oz whipping cream
2.  The Green Monster
Directions:
Drink up, whether you’re going to be surrounded by people who still think St. Patrick’s Day is all about the color green or you want a beverage that’s sure to draw a curious glance.
1 ½ oz Blue Curaçao
Stir and fill with orange juice until you like the shade of green
3.  The Irish Car Bomb
Directions:
This one will leave you wondering what the hell happened last night (since that’s what St. Patrick’s Day is really about).
12 oz Guinness stout
1/2 shot Bailey’s Irish cream
1/2 shot Jameson Irish whiskey
Sections
Teams of four bedecked in tutus, pink onesies, and lab goggles hurtled down Mass. Ave. last Saturday afternoon, dragging shopping carts behind them and stopping bemused passers-by in their tracks.
“Is this some kind of fraternity stunt?” wondered an elderly woman forced off the sidewalk by determined racers.
In fact, it was the inaugural Boston Urban Iditarod, inspired by the renowned Alaskan dogsled race—but with a slightly different spin. Replacing sleds with shopping carts and dogs with teams of friends, the event had participants race between five different Cambridge bars and perform challenges at each, racking up points in an effort to win prizes and support the Boston Medical Center’s food pantry.
After throwing back shots at Middle East in Central Square, teams with names like Birthday Bitches and Latinas Locas took turns completing an increasingly seductive pole dance before rushing off to the Asgard, the last stop.
“This way! This way! Hustle!” shouted Tim W. Jones, one of the event’s organizers, through a loudspeaker as he directed racers to the final bar.
Jones and a friend were inspired by urban iditarods that have been taking place in cities across the country since San Francisco started the trend in 1994.
“But we added our own unique flair,” he said, referring to the charity element of the event. “It’s not a total drinking event—I didn’t want to run a big drunk fest.”
That seemed questionable by the end of the race, as some participants staggered into the Asgard for one last celebratory drink.
Reflecting on their third-place finish over drafts, the Bearded Clams—hailing all the way from Connecticut—were still hoping to make up for lost time through their performance in the challenges.
“We got a lot of points along the way—eating contest points, pole dancing points,” said team member Matt S. Cantner.
Cantner and other participants agreed: this year’s Urban Iditarod would be the start of a new beloved Boston tradition.
“Mark my words, this is going to get way bigger in the years ahead,” said Cantner. “These little Cambridge bars won’t be able to handle the number of people.”
“We’ll do it again next year,” added teammate Ricardo D. Morant. “But they’re going to have to have it end in the Harvard colosseum or something.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s recognition of the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps last Friday—following a 40-year hiatus of the program on campus—marks a turning point in University relations with the military.
Since ROTC’s withdrawal from campus in 1969 in the midst of anti-military sentiment during the Vietnam War, the atmosphere at Harvard has changed significantly, professors said.
The debate about ROTC’s role at Harvard since the 1990s has centered primarily around “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” a military policy that bans gays and lesbians from serving openly in the military. The policy was repealed in December, but will not be formally implemented until later this year.
According to Computer Science Professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, opposition to ROTC today is much more tempered than the strong anti-military sentiment in the late 1960s and 1970s, in part because of the more diversified nature of the student body.
Lewis said the College of forty years ago was largely comprised of bicoastal, privileged students that tended away from military service.
Now, there are more students at Harvard from communities where the military is highly valued and where “serving in the military is something people do,” he said.
Lewis added that the draft during the Vietnam War led to heightened emotions towards the armed forces.
“The military draft created a very different spirit,” Lewis said. “The College was both a sanctuary from war and a prison for students.”
Assistant Government Professor Michael L. Frazer said that changes in attitudes about the military on campus may be a reflection of historical circumstance.
“You have to distinguish between a general pacifism from opposition to particular wars that are thought to be unjust,” he said. “Presumably you don’t have anti-military sentiments for no reason.”
The University’s relationship with the armed services has warmed significantly in recent years. Since 2008, University President Drew G. Faust has attended the spring ROTC commissioning ceremony, continuing a precedent set by her predecessor Lawrence H. Summers. During a campus event with Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Michael G. Mullen in November, Faust made  it clear that ROTC would be welcomed back when the military changed its policy on gays and lesbians.
Several professors expressed approval for the University’s recent recognition of NROTC, which was formalized at a ceremony on Friday.
“I favor the return of ROTC to campus,” Professor Theda R. Skocpol wrote in an e-mail. “Harvard is now in a position to support and honor those who choose to serve in the military.”
While Professor John E. Dowling expressed his support for the return of NROTC, he said he was upset that the decision to recognize the program was made without any faculty-wide discussion. He said he hopes that the administration will consult the faculty if military classes will ever be adopted into the curriculum.
“Maybe the president feels she doesn’t need to discuss this with the faculty,” he said.
However, professors said that they look forward to a closer relationship with the military.
“In general, it will be a good thing for the country if stronger mutual relationships are forged between universities and the officers in our military,” Skocpol wrote. “Both institutions have things to learn from one another.”
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Zoe. A.Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: APRIL 3, 2011
The March 10 article "Faculty Recall ROTC History" misstated Professor John E. Dowling's name. He is John—not Michael—Dowling.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Binge drinking among young adults—whose brains are in a critical stage of development—can lead to brain damage and impairments in neurological function,  warned Assistant Psychiatry Professor and behavioral neuro-scientist Marisa M. Silveri in a lecture last night.
Silveri’s lecture elaborated on the most startling effects of alcohol consumption on the adolescent brain, ranging from a potential 10 percent reduction in memory function to a heightened risk of alcoholism.
“It’s a no-brainer that alcohol will affect brain development,” she said.
The increased vulnerability of young adults to alcohol-related brain damage coincides with an increase in alcohol consumption rates of over 70 percent between ages 13 and 23—a confluence of circumstances Silveri called “ironic.”
She cited several key factors as putting young adults, particularly college students, at increased risk for alcohol abuse, the most notable of which was increased impulsivity and reduced decision-making abilities.
“Most adults use signs of drowsiness or disorientation to know when it’s time to stop drinking,” Silveri said. “It takes adolescents a lot more alcohol to get to that point.”
Silveri added that cultural and societal factors may also have a “significant” influence on drinking habits.
“There is a big psychosocial component to all of this that we cannot capture in our experiments,” she said.
The lecture, which attracted approximately 20 students yesterday evening, was part of the College’s continuing efforts to educate students on the risks of alcohol overconsumption.
Student admissions to University Health Services for alcohol-related reasons have risen in recent years: the number of students admitted to UHS due to alcohol last semester almost matched the total number of cases for the entire previous year.
College and UHS administrators have refused to release alcohol admittance statistics for 2010, citing College policy, even though the Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services released the total number of students admitted to UHS due to alcohol—102—in the fall of 2009.
Despite a slew of somber statistics, Silveri also outlined the plethora of opportunities for intervention. For example, the brain’s regenerative abilities in conjunction with extended periods of abstinence from alcohol allow the brain to recover from the worst effects of binge drinking, she said.
Nonetheless, Silveri emphasized the necessity of education as the central mode of abuse prevention.
“We are at the point where we can show damage to the brain,” she said. “That is a lot more convincing than just showing a bunch of slides with cells.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
David G. Hankins, a student in the Extension School’s Health Careers Program, won $100,000  yesterday after a two-day run on ABC’s television game show “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.”
Hankins, who graduated from Dartmouth in 2005, was a holdover contestant on yesterday’s show after he ran out of time on Tuesday with all three lifelines remaining.
Hankins had answered two questions correctly and accumulated $7,100 in his Millionaire Bank by the end of the show the first day.
Yesterday, Hankins made his way through the rest of the 10 questions that made up Round 1, accumulating $48,600 and using all his lifelines.
Upon entering Round 2, Hankins faced Question 11, which was worth $100,000: “Who once wrote, ‘No one can make you feel inferior without your consent’?”
Unsure of the correct answer, Hankins took a guess at “B: Eleanor Roosevelt,” and was shocked when he heard he got it right.
“It was more money than I could imagine at the moment,” Hankins told The Crimson after the show aired yesterday.
Per this season’s rules, Round 2 consists of questions 11 to 14. Unlike Round 1, whose questions’ monetary values between $100 and $25,000 were shuffled and hidden, each question in Round 2 increases in difficulty with known dollar amounts. If a contestant chooses to walk away during Round 2, he gets to keep all of his accumulated Millionaire Bank.
Hankins chose to walk away with his $100,000 after he saw the next question, worth $250,000: “What country’s flag is the only national flag in the world whose front and back sides feature different emblems?”
The answer was “D: Paraguay,” but Hankins did not want to take the risk again.
“The thought of risking that much money seemed crazy to me,” said Hankins. “It was definitely a heart breaker, because I’ve always been obsessed with geography, and I could remember collecting flags when I was little.”
Originally from Minneapolis, Minn., Hankins auditioned for the show in New York City in June and filmed his episodes on Oct. 29 and Nov. 2. Hankins said he plans to use his winnings to pay for medical school.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A small group of students and faculty gathered to remember the late Reverend Peter J. Gomes at a tea in the basement of Memorial Church.
The conversation gave members of the Harvard community the opportunity to reflect on the personal impact Gomes had on their lives. For an hour and 40 minutes, attendees took turns sharing their own personal thoughts and experiences at the tea.
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, a lecturer on History and Literature and on Public Policy, recounted the story of Gomes climbing the steps of Widener Library in 1991 to come out to a crowd protesting the homophobic remarks published in what McCarthy described as “a right-wing version of The Salient,” Harvard’s conservative opinion magazine.
The crowd erupted in applause when Gomes told the protestors that he was a Christian minister who happened to be gay.
“That’s the last prejudice standing, and I’m going to challenge it,” Gomes told Harvard Foundation Director S. Allen Counter, Counter said.
McCarthy said Gomes’ revelation made the issue of equality for gays and lesbians much more prominent on campus.
“Here was a man who wasn’t possible to put in a box. He showed that if there’s anything that should be exploded, it is the box,” McCarthy said.
Harvard College Women’s Center Director and Assistant Dean Susan B. Marine was a student at a conservative Kentucky college when she heard that Gomes had come out. While Marine said she had never heard of Gomes, she said the experience had a profound impact on her.
“Maybe I’m not going to hell,” she said she thought. “I knew there was something really powerful about someone who was a Christian minister coming out at a place like this.”
A teary-eyed Evelynn M. Hammonds, Dean of Harvard College, highlighted Gomes’ ability to encourage diversity while at the same time honoring tradition.
“He demanded that the institution remain true to our values and created a community that could celebrate diversity and tradition,” Hammonds said.
Gomes opened his house for tea on Wednesday afternoons, one of many long-standing traditions that he maintained while at Harvard.
Harvard student organization GLOW—Gay, Lesbian, or Whatever—hosted the event with support from the Black Students Association, Memorial Church, and Queer Students and Allies.
At the tea, Memorial Church Epps Fellow Nathaniel P. Katz stressed how Gomes was an approachable figure for people in times of trouble.
“This is a place where every single person on this campus is welcome,” he said of the Memorial Church. Katz jokingly said he wished that he could post a giant “safe space” sign on Memorial Church.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Commander of the Joint Forces Command General Raymond T. Odierno said he believed that the U.S. would only take action in Libya—such as creating a no-fly zone over the North African nation—in conjunction with other nations.
NATO has begun constant aerial monitoring of Libya—which is undergoing a tumultuous revolution—and is considering implementing a no-fly zone, major news outlets are reporting.
During his speech at the Institute of Politics yesterday, Odierno said a no-fly zone could be implemented, if need be, “within a couple days” and that heavy equipment, including tanks, could feasibly be brought in within a week.
While Odierno did not discuss any specific plans for the U.S., he said he expected the internal struggle in Libya to go on for “a very long time.”
Odierno discussed the conflict in Libya in response to an audience question, but spent much of the talk considering the ideal relationship between the military and the government.
The former Commanding General of U.S. forces in Iraq, Odierno led troops through “the surge,” and then the withdrawal.
But yesterday at the Forum, the general spoke about how his previous experience has taught him the limits of military power.
“The utility of force is greatest when it is part of the broad array of options the President may choose,” he said.
He emphasized that the nation’s success must be the priority, not the glory of the military or any individual.
“It doesn’t matter who gets the credit, it only matters that we compete and win honorably and ethically as a nation,” he said.
Beyond his discussion of Libya, Odierno also addressed two major regions of interest to the United States: the broader Middle East and Asia.
Odierno said he believed that many of the recent rebellions in the Middle East represented a “changing distribution of power,” motivated by the vast divide between the rich and the poor and the people and their government.
Odierno pointed to Asia as another rapidly evolving region that has “the greatest shifts in the balance of power.”
According to Odierno, there has been not only a political but also an economic power shift from Japan to India and China—but India and China have yet to match the quality of life of citizens in Japan due in part to their enormous populations, he said.
He also praised Harvard’s decision to recognize the Navy’s Reserve Officers’ Training Corps as one that President John F. Kennedy ’40 would be proud of.
Odierno encouraged the audience to both support the military, and to dedicate themselves to the nation.
“I believe in the value of service—selfless dedication to a cause greater than oneself,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Geoffrey W. Challen ’02-’03, a resident tutor at Eliot House, put forth his views on underage drinking at Harvard in a recent Crimson column, he wrote that “[s]tudents hide their parties because inevitably some of the attendees are underage.”
During last night’s “River Run”—a recent pre-Housing Day tradition in which students take shots of alcohol with their blocking groups in each of their preferred Houses—freshmen seemed to witness such a hide-and-seek game.
One male freshman who said he planned to visit several Houses with his blocking group noted that “[t]o say that there won’t be drinking and partying is a blatant lie”, adding that he gleaned those two activities to be “crucial, according to tradition.”
Around 11:30 p.m., streams of freshmen were seen walking towards Mather and music could be heard from Leverett.
“Everything’s awesome,” someone shouted excitedly outside of the Leverett Towers.
But drinking and setting burning boats labeled with the names of wanted or unwanted Houses afloat on the Charles—festivities now seen as River Run traditions—have in fact only been adopted since 2008 by the Class of 2011, according to Associate Dean of Student Life Joshua G. McIntosh. Other Housing Day eve rituals have long existed before these, including bonding rituals within blocking groups, according to Crimson archives.
Last week, Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 sent an e-mail to freshmen, reiterating the College’s opposition to boat-burning and underage drinking.
“While we certainly want you to have fun and celebrate together, we cannot condone and must prohibit the continuation of some of these practices,” he wrote. “Should you choose to participate in the River Run, be prepared to accept consequences related to your actions, including possible arrest and charges before the Administrative Board.”
Many current freshmen and even upperclassmen said they perceive the College’s restrictions on River Run as suppressive of school spirit.
Some upperclassmen sent out invitations to freshmen to join them in private parties, offering them a space “to do whatever housing traditions you choose.”
One upperclassman included a serious word of caution in his invitation, saying, “Don’t get arrested or Ad-Boarded.”
Some freshmen, though, found alternative ways to celebrate and bond. Stephanie L. Grayson ’14 said she and her friends decided to make ice cream sundaes together.
Others headed to “Fresh Fest” in Annenberg, an alternative event to River Run organized by the First-Year Social Committee, where freshmen were encouraged to bond over free massages, balloon animals, free snacks, puzzles and board games.
While some freshmen said they were only attending the “official” programming, others said they planned to go to the River after Fresh Fest.
A number of freshmen did not participate in River Run or any of the night’s festivities due to midterms on Housing Day. Annie X. Yang ’14 said she has a proposal due on Housing Day, and Samantha S. Wesner ’14 noted that her entire blocking group has midterms.
“Unfortunately, River Run is in the middle of midterm season,” said Grayson, noting that she herself had to finish a response paper prior to going out.
“It seems like it’s mostly about the drinking, and no one in my blocking group is really into that,” Wesner said.
Most House dining halls remained quiet study spaces throughout the night.
Around midnight, the scene began to resemble that on a normal Saturday night, with students gathered outside Quincy, Leverett and DeWolfe—with one notable exception: mascots.
A penguin and a polar bear donning an “I heart PF” logo were seen skipping, hand-in-hand, on DeWolfe Street and into the Quincy House courtyard.
HUPD vehicles were seen around the River until well past midnight, and although students climbed the bridge in groups, the scene was quiet.
—Staff writer Kelly K. W. Lam can be reached at kellylam@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a Harvard Kennedy School alumna, will be the 2011 Commencement speaker, the University announced today.
“Over the course of her nearly 40 years in public service, President Sirleaf has endured death threats, incarceration, and exile, all the while challenging the inequality, corruption, and violence that defined life in Liberia for so long,” University President Drew G. Faust said in a press release. “We are proud to welcome such a respected African leader and active proponent of democracy to speak on Commencement Day.”
Sirleaf, the 24th president of Liberia, was the first women to be elected the leader of an African nation.
“I think she is an inspired selection,” said Kennedy School Professor R. Nicholas Burns. “She is representative of a new generation of African leaders.”
Burns said he believes that Sirleaf’s selection speaks to the University’s commitment to public service and increasing global focus.
“It is indicative of the fact that we live in a time of a highly global 21st century, and we have to be focused on the world beyond Cambridge,” Burns said.
Burns said that the increasing internationalization of the student body also demonstrates this trend.
“As Africa’s first female elected head of state, she stands as an example for a generation of girls in Africa and beyond of the ways in which education opens new frontiers,” Faust said.
As president, Sirleaf has worked to stabilize and unify Liberia, which has been wracked with civil war for the past two decades.
Sirleaf was raised in Monrovia, Liberia and emigrated to the U.S. in 1961. She studied economics and accounting at the University of Wisconsin, Madison and the University of Colorado, Boulder. An Edward S. Mason Fellow, Sirleaf earned her mid-career Masters in Public Administration from the Kennedy School in 1971.
In 1972, Sirleaf returned to Liberia where she served as a government official until a military coup forced her to flee the country.
Two decades later, Sirleaf made an unsuccessful bid for the presidency in 1997. In 2003, Sirleaf assumed a position in the Liberian government and won the nation’s presidential election in 2005.
“President Sirleaf is a prime example of an alumna who has embraced the ethic of public service and improved life for millions through her commitment to serving the public good,” said Robert R. Bowie Jr., president of the Harvard Alumni Association, in the press release.
“Her career is a reminder of the global reach of the graduates of Harvard and the importance of the University’s international engagement.”
1997. In 2003, Sirleaf assumed a position in the Liberian government and won the nation’s presidential election in 2005.
“President Sirleaf is a prime example of an alumna who has embraced the ethic of public service and improved life for millions through her commitment to serving the public good,” said Robert R. Bowie Jr., president of the Harvard Alumni Association, in the press release. “Her career is a reminder of the global reach of the graduates of Harvard and the importance of the University’s international engagement.”
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff Writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last Saturday’s men’s basketball game against Princeton showcased the athletic prowess of sophomore Kyle Casey, the determination of junior Keith Wright, and the ball-handling skills of classmate Oliver McNally and sophomore Brandyn Curry. But there was another standout on Saturday: the Crimson fans.
This week, the Full Court Press REMIX introduces you to sophomore Adam Riegel, a self-described “Superfan” and part of the football cheering core. In addition to his love of being half-naked and cheering on the men’s basketball team, Riegel also enjoys watching Yale and Princeton suffer. Every week, The Full Court Press gives you the sort of personal scoop that you’re not likely to hear at a typical press conference.
Name: Adam Riegel
Year: 2013
Stats: A sophomore from Walpole, Mass. the Adams resident and self-declared food expert is a defensive tackle for the Harvard football team. Riegel is also proud to be the “A” in the football team’s body painted “Harvard.”
Bring it on!
1. Typical meal before cheering at Lavietes pavilion.
Man that's tough. As a Superfan, I like to think of myself as a food aficionado, but to be honest I usually crush a big-time pre-game nap and then I just grab two slices of Noch's seasoned with a hint of "tiger blood" to ensure that extra zest in my cheering.
2. Favorite men's basketball player and why.
This year's senior class is incredible. You don't see them around much, but they are definitely quiet leaders...
3. Favorite Harvard chant.
The first ever "I believe," done by Jonathan Mason at the Cornell game. Unreal.
4. Dance team or cheerleading team?
Student section.
5. Dancer or cheerleader?
Dancer; I do enough cheering myself.
6. Favorite team to cheer against and why.
Yale. They always bring a solid student section so the back-and-forth can be pretty fun. Plus, it’s always a good time beating Yale and letting them know it the entire game.
7. Animal that best represents your style of cheer and why.
Definitely the poison dart frog. It’s interesting, good to look at, and you're always surprised by what comes out of its mouth.
8. Most ridiculous thing you've yelled at a game.
"Get this game under control ref! It's like a jail shower out there!"
9. Best insult you've heard at a game.
To be honest I don't have a clue. Different people come up with creative things every single game. Half of them don't even make sense, but as long as they get the other team's attention then they are good insults. Once one of the students said something while a player was shooting a free throw, and his own teammates started laughing at him. That's when you know you're doing it right.
9. Position you would play in Quidditch.
Superfan in the stands right next to Cedric Diggory and Luna Lovegood. It's what I do.
10. If you could go on a date with any Harvard athlete (past or present), who would it be and where would you take him/her?
The only option for a date would be courtside seats at Harvard's next men's home game. Lively atmosphere, energy flowing, it would definitely set the mood right. Who I would take, well that's a whole different issue.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Senior Marco Iannuzzi is Harvard’s all-time leader in yards per kickoff return, with an average of 26.5. During his final season, he returned two kickoffs for touchdowns, including an 84-yard return during The Game. Now, Ianuzzi is hoping to extend his football career to the next level. The senior wide receiver, a native of Calgary, Alberta,  participated in the Canadian Football League’s Evaluation Camp this past weekend.
Evaluation Camp (known simply as E-Camp) is similar to the NFL Combine. It is an opportunity for athletes to showcase their skills for representatives from the league’s eight teams. Iannuzzi and his fellow CFL prospects competed in six events designed to test their readiness for the intensified play at the professional level.
Iannuzzi had an impressive showing in the 40-yard dash, finishing the sprint in a respectable 4.58 seconds. This time was the third-fastest all weekend, and the second-fastest among prospective wide receivers. Another event in which the senior had success was the vertical jump. Iannuzzi’s leap of 40 inches put him in a tie for fifth-place.
"My understanding is he ran very well," Crimson coach Tim Murphy said. "I know in football shoes he ran a 4.5, which is fast."
In addition to competing in the physical events, E-Camp prospects also have a chance to meet with officials from CFL teams for an interview. Iannuzzi met with a number of teams over the weekend, including the Winnepeg Blue Bombers, who will make the first overall pick in this year’s CFL Draft on May 8th.
"Marco's a guy that I think can have a long career in the CFL," Murphy said. "He's an all-purpose receiver. He's strong and physical enough: a 200 lb. receiver. He's got outstanding speed...He can catch anything."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The five-hour plane ride to California, and ensuing the three-hour time difference did not seem to leave sophomore Danielle Tetreault jet lagged.
In contrast, Tetreault semmed energized as she helped the Harvard women's lacrosse team start the season off with a bang against No. 6 Stanford.
Tetreault sparked the Crimson’s offense, scoring a game- and career-high six goals.  While Harvard was ultimately defeated 18-17, Tetreault’s performance in the game should certainly be a wake up call for Harvard’s future opponents.
“I don’t think anyone is surprised to see how well Danielle is doing this year,” junior tri-captain Melanie Baskind says. “She came on very strong at the end of last spring and worked really hard this offseason to get to where she is now.”
“At the beginning of last year I played attack because I came into the season with mono, so I didn’t have my endurance where it should have been.” Tetreault explains.  “At the end of the season I switched to mid because I got [it] back.”
The midfielder, in addition to tucking six goals past the Cardinal goaltender, released seven shots, recovered two ground balls, went two-for-two on free position shots, and caused a turnover.
The dominant performance earned the sophomore Ivy League Offensive Player of the Week.
The sophomore midfielder’s early success hints that the Crimson will have a powerful offensive threat at midfield this season.
“I think that [through] having a season behind me, I’ve gained more confidence as a player,” Tetreault says.
In addition to her prior playing experience, Tetreault believes she came in healthier and stronger this year, allowing her to make an early impact.
“I worked out with the team all off-season.” Tetreault says. “Over winter break, I was able to work out with some of my teammates right before we came back for the season, which I think helped a lot.”
After the loss last Monday, Tetreault carried her momentum down to Ithaca, N.Y, where Harvard met its second opponent, and first Ivy League challenger of the season, Cornell.  The sophomore midfielder helped lead the team to a 13-12 win, with two crucial goals and an assist.
Displaying her competitive drive, the sophomore netted the game-winner with 7:33 left on the clock.
“I think everyone on my team has helped me improve,” Tetreault says. “We all help each other improve.  We all push each other and when one system gets better, the other system gets better too.”
Tetreault is one half of a dangerous sophomore duo. The other half is attacker Jennifer VanderMeulen, last year’s Ivy League Rookie of the Year.
The two sophomores have scored a combined 14 of the teams 30 goals in the first two contests of the season against Stanford and Cornell.  Tetreault currently leads the team in goals and points with eight goals and one assist.
“Last year Jen had a huge season,” Tetreault says. “[Coach Miller] warned us that teams are going to be stepping up against her, double and triple teaming her this year.  She told us that [sophomore teammate] Miceala [Cyr] and I were going to have to step up and bring more of a threat to the offense.”
Tetreault has definitely proven thus far that she is up for the challenge of being the offensive threat for which her coach, and team, is looking.
The young talent and experienced returners will ensure a competitive season for the Crimson lacrosse team.  The team will face a strong schedule and will look for leaders like Tetreault to keep the team focused.
“[Tetreault] is someone who we can count on to step up in important situations,” Baskind adds. “She has grown so much as a player but also as a leader on this team…With 11 freshmen, the sophomores have really had to step up and help set the tone for the younger girls, and Danielle has certainly risen to the occasion in that regard.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cheering for the team. Keeping the bench warm. Learning the college game.
These are the roles played by freshmen on most college sports teams, but not for the five rookies on the Harvard men’s volleyball team.
All five athletes have found a way to gain playing time and make a significant impact early on in their college careers.
Last year, the team finished 5-16 overall and 3-5 in the EIVA Hay division, but the 2011 team has already eclipsed last year’s win total thanks in large part to the performances of its freshmen: middle blockers Will Chambers, Nick Madden, and Kyle Rehkemper and outside hitters Chris Gibbons and Michael Owen.
“We’ve never been this young on the court,” Crimson coach Brian Baise says. “That always presents some challenges, but it also presents opportunities.”
Four of the team’s rookies, Madden, Rehkemper, Gibbons, and Owen, have earned spots in the starting lineup for this team on the rise. Chambers started in some of the team’s early games.
“On the court, they’ve added a great deal of size and athleticism. They are an extremely competitive bunch, and they play with a lot of poise,” Baise says. “Off the court, they fit right in with the team.”
Owen, Madden, and Rehkemper are Harvard’s tallest players. Each stand an imposing 6’5”.
Their size and athleticism have helped the Crimson rank second in blocks in the EIVA Hay division. Madden and Rehkemper rank in the top ten individually.
Gibbons, Rehkemper, Owen, and Madden also rank second through fifth, respectively, on the team in kills-per-set. Junior co-captain Matt Jones paces the squad in that category with 3.80.
“They’ve been a great freshman class and had a great attitude from day one,” Jones says. “Their work ethic is great, and they’ve come in and played strong.”
Adjusting to the college game has not proven too difficult for the group as they have gotten used to the tougher competition and the added time dedicated to the sport.
Having the whole fall season to train and getting to know each other for a whole semester helped the team develop a strong sense of camaraderie and team-spirit even with five new faces.
“The upperclassmen have been really good about making sure there’s a good transition for the freshmen,” Gibbons says. “They are definitely a great group of guys.”
But despite the time commitment, the rookies are able to find time outside of practice and games to have fun as a group.
The freshmen often grab meals together and have movie nights where they watch the Bourne series. The time on and off the court has solidified the friendship of the class, and four of them are blocking together and will be discovering their houses today.
“We see each other a lot in the gym playing volleyball, but we hang out a lot outside of class, too.” Gibbons says. “We definitely formed a bond.”
That bond has helped Harvard connect on the court too.
“Everyone wants to compete at the highest level possible,” Gibbons says. “Every time we step on the court at the MAC, it’s business time.”
Looking toward the future, the Crimson can foresee a strong men’s volleyball program for the next four years with this talented group of freshman.
Watching the players develop in the coming seasons will be intriguing as Harvard continues to build its men’s volleyball program.
“I have had high expectations for these guys, and they’ve met all of them,” Baise says. “There is a lot of optimism around the program, and the next four years will be fun seeing them grow and improve.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three years ago today, a group of nine girls sat in a common room in Wigglesworth waiting for the most important letter we would receive since the one telling us we had gotten into Harvard.
House after house passed by Wigg that morning, eliciting screams of joy or silences of resignation from our entrywaymates. Texts began to come in from friends around the Yard. We began to wonder if we had forgotten to submit our blocking form online.
Finally, the knock on the door came. We flung it open to find a group of oddly-dressed upperclassmen screaming at us. We began jumping and screaming too, until finally one of my blockmates asked the question we all couldn’t answer.
“Which house are you?”
The jumping stopped, the giant flag stood steady, and we were finally able to reconcile the formalwear with our future home—Adams House.
The upperclassmen left, and my blockmates, linkmates, and I celebrated our excellent fortune on winning the lottery (because no matter what the haters say, Adams is the best house on campus, and my linkmates’ home of Quincy isn’t half bad either). Then one of my blockmates pulled out her cell phone to text the absent member of our octet, and two of my linkmates ran out to the field hockey field.
Because on that defining morning of our Harvard career, five girls out of our group of 14 weren’t there. They were off at morning practice and on a flight to Texas for a team spring break trip.
There’s no doubt that blocking and linking with varsity athletes has been a defining part of my Harvard career, just as living in Adams has been. But for many of my blockmates, Adams is more of a dorm than the home I’ve come to know.
It’s true that my soccer-playing blockmates have a built-in community through their team that I, as a non-athlete, lacked during my freshman year. In that way, it makes sense that I’ve embraced Adams more, because it gives me that community they already had.
But does it really have to be that way?
Housing Day marks the one major social event every year that doesn’t revolve around a game of some sort. We saw last weekend how the school can unite behind a team in pursuit of history—and whenever a UC-sponsored tailgate for a night game pops up, undergrads come out in force.
We’ve also seen that athletes are some of the most spirited members of our community, as evidenced by the rows of football players who turned out to the Penn and Princeton basketball games last weekend, using their whiteboard to educate the less-educated fans on how best to mock the losing team.
But on Housing Day—which is, in my opinion, as great an excuse for school spirit and day drinking as Harvard/Yale—many of these athletes are automatically excluded because of lift, practice, or team trips.
That’s not to say that all athletes are removed from their house communities—far from it. My own house boasts a varsity athlete as a HoCo co-chair, IM crew teams across campus are coached by varsity rowers, and men’s basketball junior co-captain Keith Wright recently lent his rap talents to the Leverett Housing Day video. But when you can’t even be there to share in the excitement of Housing Morning, it’s a little bit harder to get psyched up about house life.
So maybe, just this once, we can cancel pre-dawn practice and let our student-athletes be students for a morning.
Many of us put our school work on hold for an afternoon or evening to come support our classmates on the field, so it seems only fair that athletes have the option to put practice on hold for a few hours once a year to support their houses. And for the freshmen who would otherwise learn of their housing assignment from texts received on a plane or from the screams of their blockmates over a practice-field fence, they’d get to partake in one of the quintessential experiences of being a Harvard undergrad.
Freshmen, good luck this morning. I hope you all get to be there for the moment when you win the lottery (if you get in Adams, that is. Eliot sucks).
Now if we could only convince professors that midterms on Housing Day are morally reprehensible...but that’s a whole other story.
—Staff writer Kate Leist can be reached at kleist@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After co-captaining the Harvard men’s basketball team to its first Ivy League Championship, junior Keith Wright has a new title to add to his resumé–Ivy League Player of the Year.
The center beat out two other big men–Yale’s Greg Mangano and Princeton’s Kareem Maddox–for the award. Wright was also voted unanimously to the All-Ivy First Team.
During the regular season, Wright finished third in the Ancient Eight in scoring at 14.9 points per game and second with 8.5 rebounds and 1.8 blocks per contest. The junior also led the conference with a 58.8 shooting percentage.
“It’s a team award,” a humbled Wright said. “It’s not just mine. I couldn’t have done it without my teammates.”
Wright was joined on All-Ivy squads by the sophomore trio of forward Kyle Casey and guards Brandyn Curry and Christian Webster. Casey and Curry were named to the All-Ivy Second Team, while Webster was named All-Ivy Honorable Mention.
Casey–last season’s Ivy Rookie of the Year–finished an oft-injured sophomore campaign ranked seventh in the league with 6.0 rebounds per game and fourth with a 51.1 percent field goal percentage. He also averaged 10.8 points, including 24 last Saturday night in Harvard's championship-clinching win over the Tigers.
Curry ended the regular season as the conference leader in assists with 5.9 per contest and ranked fourth with 1.4 steals per game, while also averaging 9.5 points. Webster finished tenth in the Ancient Eight with 13.3 points per game and tenth nationally in free throw percentage at 90.6 percent.
But it was Wright who carried the team time and time again, blossoming into the centerpiece of the offense after the departure of Jeremy Lin '10. He finished with 12 double-doubles, won Ivy League Player of the Week honors three times, and raised his production to 15.4 points and 8.9 rebound in Ivy contests.
After missing five conference games to injury in 2009-10, Wright's  improvement was one of the key reasons why this year's Crimson squad was able  to set the franchise record for wins in a season despite losing  Lin to the NBA.
The Suffolk, Va. native was joined on the All-Ivy First Team by Maddox, Mangano, Columbia guard Noruwa Agho, and Penn guard Zack Rosen.
He becomes just the second player in Harvard basketball history to win Player of the Year, following in the footsteps of Joe Carrabino ’85.
The co-captain will have to come up big on Saturday, when the Crimson takes on Maddox’s Princeton squad for the right to go to the NCAA tournament.
“It is an honor to have won this award,” Wright tweeted Wednesday night. “But I would take an Ivy League championship over individual awards any day of the week.”
—SCOTT A. SHERMAN
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few days. Click here to read more about the series.
Adams House, first and foremost because of its convenient location, consistently ranks among the favorite Houses at Harvard. Katy Perry herself has said that "nothing comes close to the Golden Coast," and this year, we agree. Although no House is perfect in every way, Adams is as good as it gets. Once you're an upperclassman, you'll care more than anything about location, location, location.
Dining Hall: In this Gold Coast House, the dining hall is merely a bronze medalist. The food isn't the worst, but it's not great either. Even though strict dining restrictions aim to keep out freshmen and residents of far-away Houses who hope to grab a meal between classes, many slip through, so the dining hall tends to be crowded. The beautiful woodwork and Old Harvard feel make up for the cramped quarters and mediocre food.
Facilities: With rooms such as the Diaspora Room, the Lower Common Room, and the Upper Common Room, Adams House has great common spaces, but their proximity to the Yard puts these gilt-edged rooms in high demand. Other smaller study spots (like the one-man study room in G entryway) offer good places for working alone or in groups, as does the beautiful—but somewhat dimly lit—Adams House library.
Rooms: Most sophomores live in n housing, but it only gets better from there. Rooms in Adams are known for their aesthetic appeal—even the smaller rooms tend to be gorgeous. Freshmen placed in Adams should look forward to dark-wood fireplaces and other Old Harvard perks. Each year, four lucky Adams seniors get to live in the luxurious Adams Senior House—a fully-furnished three-story house next to Claverly Hall. But beware: some Adams residents have complained of critters such as mice and cockroaches invading their rooms, so be prepared to fight off some uninvited guests.
House Spirit: Adams residents believe themselves to be an elite bunch, and they're not afraid to show it. They boast about their House's obvious advantages—like their proximity to the Yard, golden walls, and restrictive dining hall. They also brag vaguely about traditions like their annual black tie reading of "Winnie the Pooh," but don't expect to hear too much about these posh events. If you're not part of the chosen few who live in Adams, they assume you just wouldn't understand. This exclusive attitude means that Adamsians might not display their House spirit as publicly as some, but don't worry: once you're in, you'll definitely feel like part of a proud community.
Location: It doesn't get any more convenient than this. Just a short walk from the Yard, Adams is the only upperclassman House which affords its residents the luxury of being able to wake up at 9:55 a.m. and still be on time for a 10:00 a.m. class.
Quirks: Adams' basement tunnels are covered in beautiful, creative murals, and the House is know for it's eccentric social events, including Drag Night (even the House Masters participate!). New Adamsian can look forward to fairly frequent Masters' Teas.
Our rankings:
1. Adams
2. Lowell
3. Kirkland
4. Eliot
5. Pforzheimer
6. Quincy
7. Dunster
8. Leverett
9. Currier
10. Mather
11. Winthrop
12. Cabot
Sections
Al's Harvard Square Café will be offering subs and salads at half price today from 10:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. in celebration of its grand opening. Stop by the café across from Oggi's in the Holyoke Center for a quick pick-me-up on Housing Day.
Sections
Keeping with tradition, the Class of 2014 spent their Housing Day Eve hanging out in Annenberg Hall, visiting upperclassman Houses with their blocking groups, and praying to the River gods.
Photos by Emily C. Lowe, Delphine Rodrik, Juan P. Munoz, and Cynthia Wu/The Harvard Crimson
