News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A judge has denied Brittany J. Smith’s motion to dismiss charges for her involvement in the May 2009 shooting in Kirkland House of Cambridge resident Justin Cosby.
The former Harvard student pleaded not guilty to six counts of accessory to murder, possession of a firearm, and intimidating a witness. She appeared in court on March 18 for a motion to dismiss the charges, but Associate Justice Diane M. Kottmyer ruled today that the prosecution will continue with the case, according to the District Attorney’s Office and the Middlesex Superior Court Clerk’s Office.
Smith signed a non-prosecution agreement in July 2009, but prosecutors claim that she has lied to investigators, which violates the agreement they made in exchange for her cooperation against the three other defendants in the case.
Smith, a former resident of Lowell House, was two weeks away from graduating when her boyfriend Jabrai Jordan Copney, an aspiring songwriter from New York City, and two accomplices Jason F. Aquino and Blayn Jiggetts shot Cosby in Kirkland's J entryway after a failed drug rip. Cosby died from a gunshot wound to his abdomen.
Smith allegedly helped the three men escape to New York after the shooting by calling a cab and hiding the murder weapon under her blockmate's bed. She then lied to police about the incident, prosecutors allege.
Copney was found guilty of felony murder of the first degree and sentenced to life in prison without parole after his trial ended in April.
Jiggetts and Aquino pleaded guilty to manslaughter and received lesser sentences in exchange for their cooperation in the prosecution of Copney.
Smith, along with Chanequa N. Campbell—the other former Harvard student implicated in the case—were denied their Harvard diplomas in 2009. Campbell was never charged.
A trial date for Smith has been set for Oct. 17.
—Check TheCrimson.com for updates.
—Julie Zauzmer contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A  former Mather sophomore is on the fast track towards joining the  growing list of Harvard drop outs who made it big after leaving Harvard.
Peter A. Thiel—co-founder of PayPal and one of the first investors in  Facebook—is paying 20 undergraduates from colleges across the country  100,000 dollars to drop out of school and start their own companies.
Among  Thiel's prodigies is Sujay Tyle—17 years old and formerly a member of  the class of 2013—who is researching ways to create cheap biofuels out  of cellulose.
Tyle could not be reached for comment.
Tyle is no stranger to success—he interned at Dupont as a teenager and began working in a lab at age 11.
With his brother, he runs a non-profit organization that helps the visually impaired.
"Tyle's probably going to make it big whether he's a Thiel fellow or not," Liz Dwyer wrote for GOOD.
Thiel's philosophy is that to be successful, people do not need to pay big bucks for an elite education.
He  hopes that the students, dubbed the "20 under 20," will use the money  to pursue projects in areas ranging from energy to, ironically,  education, showing that college is not always a necessity.
And if his company fails, Tyle can always come back to Harvard.
