Sections
There's a two-way street between Harvard and the Obama Administration.
Ever since President Obama's election in 2008, droves of Harvard professors and graduates have left New England for the White House. But this fall, a myriad of junior-level White House staffers are migrating to Cambridge to pursue degrees across the University.
Formerly Obama's personal assistant, Katie Johnson—whose farewell party featured a cake that read "Duchess of Cambridge"—is among 15 other departing staffers that will attend the Law School. Others are pursuing business degrees or doctorates.
The departing staff will join a growing community of former Obama aides and advisers in Cambridge. Among them are Lawrence H. Summers, former University president and director of the White House National Economic Council under Obama, and Laurence H. Tribe '62, who worked as a senior counselor at the Justice Department.
Obama encouraged his aides to apply to Harvard and checked in with them during the application and admission process, according to Politico.
"Throughout the entire process, he’s been very supportive of all of us," Lesser told Politico. "He's definitely an inspiration to me. He is someone who has lived by the idea of 'You do what's meaningful,' and I'd like to follow his example. He … understands the value of education."
Sections
The wait is over—Harry and the Potters will be returning to 'Hogwart' Square.
To celebrate the release of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2"—the final installment of the Harry Potter movie series based on the popular book series by J.K. Rowling—the Harvard Square Business Association is throwing "The Best Harry Potter Party EVER, Part 2: Smackdown in Hogwart Square."
In a rock battle between Harry and the Potters and Draco and the Malfoys—two bands that play wizard-themed songs—Harvard Square will once again be transformed into a world of wizarding magic as the free concert takes over Brattle Street on July 29 at 7 p.m.
Four years ago, 40,000 Harry Potter fans from the Boston area packed Harvard Yard's Tercentenary Theatre to count down the release of the seventh Harry Potter book "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows." During what the Harvard Square Business Association called the "Best Harry Potter Party EVER," The Hungarian Horntails, Draco and the Malfoys, and Harry and the Potters rocked the steps of Memorial Church.
"It was magical," said Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, hoping for a repeat of their success in this year's Part 2.
