News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Mar. 4, President Faust signed an agreement allowing the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps back on campus. The ROTC debate on campus continues to revolve around a very important issue, LGBTQ rights, but what continues to surprise and shock me is why nobody at Harvard opposes the presence of the military on principle. Why is there no debate over what the military represents to an institution like Harvard? Are students too busy to care about why America is fighting abroad and the human cost of American military adventurism?
At the signing ceremony, President Faust described the military career as “an honorable and admirable calling.” There is some truth in this statement. The military establishment has allowed America to grow as a country, and the American military can be said to protect core American values like liberty, freedom, and democracy. Nonetheless, these arguments should not be exaggerated. We need to reexamine our respect for the military, and one way of doing so is by looking back at what Harvard went through in the 60s and 70s. During the Vietnam Era, antimilitary and pacifist movements at Harvard erupted into action, resulting in ROTC’s removal from Harvard's campus. The leaders of these movements came from diverse parts of society; they included professors, politicians, and professionals. In other words, they were not a marginal group. The arguments of pacifism and antimilitarism are worth revisiting today because they help us understand why we take war for granted today, and they shed new light on the ROTC debate.
Pacifism, which is distinct from antimilitarism, is opposed to violence on moral grounds, claiming that non-violent resistance is more powerful than military coercion. It is a multifaceted movement, but one of its most powerful arguments is that violence can never convince, only force. Pacifism is strong because it recognizes the fundamental human aversion to coercion. No one enjoys being forced to act in a certain way, but when we understand that act, we have fewer problems with it. Pacifism sheds light on the potential tension between the military, which forces, and an institution like Harvard, which convinces (or tries to at least).
Antimilitarism, on the other hand, is not opposed to violence in itself, but to the state control of violence. It thinks that warfare creates a new set of unrelated interests and problems requiring more war. Today, antimilitarism provides a powerful counter-argument to those who claim the military protects American values. Any look at the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan calls into question how much values are motivating the conflict, rather than special interests, nationalism, and ignorance. How often have wars lost track of their original goals? And how often are these goals actually rooted in reality?
Whether we are talking about pacifism, antimilitarism, or any other theory of violence, the difference between today and the Vietnam Era is that today we no longer criticize war as an act in itself.
So what happened to Harvard’s antimilitary and pacifist movement, to marches, boycotts, and protests, to actually standing up for our values? There is no single answer. Some say we were all brainwashed by corporate and special influences; others point to apathy. All I can say is that I don’t consider joining Facebook groups or signing online petitions genuine support for or disapproval of a war.
One of the reasons why the Vietnam War aroused so much protest amongst American youth lies in the fact that draft threatened to personally involve them in warr—and they didn’t like it. Today, however, war is far, far away for most Americans, not just because it is centered on the other side of the globe, but also because the internet and media have given us the impression that we’re part of a war when, in fact, we’re glaring at a computer or TV screen.
Maybe that’s the problem. We take war too casually, and delegate the responsibilities of war away from us and to our army. Part of what Harvard represents is the need to reevaluate the assumptions we make, and the military is no exception. I would like to express my anger at the University’s decision, not only of entirely excluding student opinion, but also of failing to meets its standards of intellectual integrity in the present debate over ROTC.
Felix de Rosen ’13, a social studies concentrator, lives in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the heart of almost every bustling metropolis is a vibrant core of public utilities and services. These may include subway systems, libraries, and post offices, all of which are crucial to the functionality of a city. But in the 21st century, cities need to conceive of their public utilities more broadly; online and electronic services, like internet access are also, to some degree, the responsibility of localities. However, as of now, most cities have failed to think of public utilities in this way. Perhaps this is because many cities across the country face immense debt. Nevertheless, there is one individual in the private sector who is singlehandedly pursuing a fascinating online vision of utilities, and with great success: Jack Dorsey, father of Twitter.
In a recent interview, Dorsey described his goal as being able "to show everything that’s happening in the world in real time and get us to that data immediately, so we can change our lives even faster, with better knowledge." Given the speed with which Twitter enables change, Dorsey seems to be realizing his goal. True, the mere existence of a website doesn't cause revolutions—but Thomas Jefferson would delight at the ease with which political activists have used the website to further their attempts to refresh the "tree of liberty."
Moreover, the ease of posting to Twitter has helped make it a central forum for communicating easily and clearly in vital situations such as earthquakes. Dorsey has moved on from Twitter, though, to a venture that is perhaps even more exciting for Americans, given our current economic state. Square is a way for people to conduct credit card transactions, without the costly bank fees and investment in proprietary card readers. The service unleashes an individual’s commercial potential and eliminates much of the overhead associated with business transactions. Using Square to conduct transactions necessitates only an iPod touch, a 2.75 percent fee on transactions and a free plug-in card reader. In contrast, one popular Verifone credit card terminal requires a $900 investment by a small business. In a disruptive instance of brilliant minimization, Dorsey has reduced start-up costs for small businesses drastically.
When asked about his inspiration behind creating Square, Dorsey said “Payment is another form of communication, but it’s never been treated as such. It’s never been designed." Perceiving our interactions with one another as the most basic building block of civilization is crucial to having a proper focus on the future direction of society—and increasingly, those interactions happen online and electronically. Unfortunately, our leaders in city government have largely abandoned the enormous promise that lies in designing a more efficient and universally accessible virtual community. In this void, Dorsey has stepped in to create an invisible and vibrant infrastructure all around us that plays counterpoint to the aging and decrepit one we inhabit, and hopefully our elected officials will follow his example.
Nikhil R. Mulani ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Pennypacker Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On April 1-2, the Harvard Extension Service and Learning Society will host a conference in Northwest Labs entitled Social Transformation by the Power of God. Although the title of the conference certainly does not shy away from the religious thrust of the event, what still escapes us is the link between a group that calls itself a Service and Leadership Society and the expectation of an “existential encounter that will renew and revive your passion to be agents of change.” We seriously question the “existential encounter” that might be brought about by speakers such as one Dr. Lance Wallnau, who has had the following to say about why Social Transformation is necessary: “So you've got your homosexual activity, your abortion activity here, Islam coming in, you've got a financial collapse—all of this, to those of us who are Christians, is an apocalyptic confirmation that when you remove God from public discourse, when you don't line up your thinking with kingdom principles, you inevitably hit an iceberg like the Titanic and you go down.” Especially on a campus that exemplifies diversity and tolerance in so many ways, egregiously anti-pluralist views such as those espoused by Wallnau and some of other speakers in the conference lineup tow an uncomfortable line between the exercise of free speech and an uncomfortable acceptance of hate speech.
While nearly anyone is welcome to speak on campus, context is key. Of course, we do not dispute the value of the First Amendment and believe that Harvard can and should invite to campus any speaker it wishes. In the case of speakers who are known widely for intolerant or strongly offensive views, however, they should not be put on a pedestal—quite literally—and be allowed to take advantage of speaking under a Harvard banner and the legitimacy that banner affords naturally affords them. For speakers with intolerant and offensive views, the University should construct any public event in which those speakers will play a prominent role as a challenge of their views rather than a celebration of them.
When Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to Columbia, for instance, he said famously horrible things, such as that Iran simply does not have “the phenomenon of homosexuality.” That “opinion”, while repulsive, was nevertheless expressed in a context that allowed it to be challenged and publicly dismissed. As John Stuart Mill said, “complete liberty of contradicting and disproving our opinion is the very condition which justifies us in assuming its truth for purposes of action.”
Unfortunately, this is not the case with the upcoming Extension School conference. By hosting a panel discussion whose participants will merely voice their opinions without being called upon to justify their past incendiary remarks, the event seems to accept incredibly offensive opinions without providing any internal challenge. In a sense, the intellectual integrity of the entire Harvard community is consequently on trial with this coming conference. Regardless of their subject matter, conferences must nevertheless be held to basic standards of intellectual honesty and accountability, and we simply cannot imagine what value the Social Transformation Conference will bring to our community.
Also, it is nothing less than dishonest to present this particular line of speakers merely as “leading voices for the faith-based social transformation of culture,” as the conference describes. Their model of social transformation is, in fact, highly controversial for a variety of reasons, including some of the speakers' homophobic and Islamophobic views. Besides Wallanu, Os Hillman, another speaker, has endorsed one of the strongest Ugandan proponents of that country’s 2009 anti-homosexuality bill, Julius Oyet. Hillman has even written himself of homosexuality: “Even kids were not immune to the new onslaught of the gay agenda when in October of 2007 the major character in the Harry Potter books and movies, Albus Dumbledore, master wizard and Headmaster of Hogwarts was revealed that he was gay. This is how the frog in the kettle gets hotter and hotter until we wake up one day and realize we have totally lost the culture and we have become a nation like Sodom and Gomorrah in which God had to destroy the entire city.” These important facts are not presented in a straightforward manner by the conference organizers, who present misleading official biographies of Wallanu and Hillman and seem to focus on marketing, rather than engaging and challenging, their speakers. (Keep in mind that in between every panel, conference attendees will have an opportunity to buy books from panel participants.)
The conference website guarantees that attendees will get to “Explore and discern your life-calling and purpose, and understand the connection between your faith and your vocation.” Leaving aside the fact that the conference is explicitly centered on a Judeo-Christian worldview (the conference will explain how, “faith-based social transformation efforts are changing our society using the time-tested principles of the Judeo- Christian worldview which has profoundly influenced the founding of this country as well as western civilization itself”), we question why this particular Extension School club is holding this conference, which seems to needlessly depart from its nominally secular mission.
More disturbingly, an official statement released by the organizers of the conference states that “We have been assured by our speakers that they have not supported any hatred directed towards any group, and that allegations to the contrary are untrue and/or misinterpreted.” These assurances should be strongly questioned—if Wallnau and Hillman’s expressions do not seem like hatred, we are hard pressed to understand what does. There appears to be a link missing between a Service and Leadership Society that hosts events like the 2009 Negotiation and Leadership Conference, and a Society which feels that the morals espoused at Harvard have degraded so far that we must open our gates to speakers with such disparaging views.
Appearing at Harvard legitimizes a speaker and his or her opinions; therefore, while people with many views are welcome to speak at Harvard, we find it morally dubious to allow speakers to proselytize, especially discriminatory views, and remain unchallenged. Especially in the wake of the return to ROTC to campus, Harvard must do everything in its power to show its compassion for and extend its eternal welcome to the LGBT community that forms such a vibrant part of campus life. Somehow, a conference so clearly informed by the Seven Mountains of Culture movement and that markets itself as an initiative to “reclaim the Education Mountain” for Jesus Christ does not bode well for any attempt the University might have considered in combating discrimination on campus grounds.
While we cannot anticipate the nature of the talks and discussions that will come to pass on April 1 and 2, we urge members of the campus community who are concerned by this supposedly imminent Social Transformation to attend the conference and embrace free speech as much as the conference organizers have in bringing this pointed agenda into an environment that strives for pluralism and tolerance.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the goal of a “people’s government” should be one that all countries strive to achieve, in previously colonized countries, this ideal is often very hard and complicated to realize.  Though it hasn’t recently had an uprising like those seen in Libya or Egypt, Zimbabwe has been under the rule of the highly criticized and oppressive Robert Mugabe since 1980. Under Mugabe, the economy has plummeted and inflation has skyrocketed, violence and coercion have been used to seize nearly 4,000 white farms, and unfair “democratic” elections are the norm for the current ruling party to remain in power. Dalumuzi H. Mhlanga ‘13, a Zimbabwean and sophomore at the college, hopes to help train and encourage a new generation of leaders for Zimbabwe so perhaps one day, he hopes, the people can take responsibility for the development of their own communities. He is doing this through the organization he founded in 2010: Lead Us Today.
A few decades ago, Zimbabwe was called the “hope of Africa” and today it is a fragmented state with unemployment rates of nearly 95 percent and many of its people fleeing to find opportunities in neighboring countries such as South Africa, Botswana, and Namibia. In fact, between 1990 and 2005, half a million people (though unofficial estimates predict a few million) have emigrated from Zimbabwe. The government has been known to oppress freedom of speech and banish journalists from the country who write unfavorable things about government dealings and President Mugabe.  It has recently been under scrutiny by the international community for violations of human rights in its diamond mines. Perhaps the high unemployment, poor education, and poor infrastructure, Mhlanga tells me, is why young Zimbabweans feel little patriotism and little hope for opportunity in their country.  “Growing up, many of us don’t feel indebted to the country for making us who we are.” In spite of this feeling of disconnect, by founding Lead Us Today, Mhlanga hopes to help “shift” the mentality of Zimbabwean youth by showing them that rather than fleeing from the country and its problems, they should instead seek education in leadership, so they can take their future into their own hands. “There is nothing wrong with leaving the country,” Mhlanga says. “But make sure to come back and contribute. This [national] identity you have will be with you forever and ever.”
Lead Us Today seeks to shift the way of thinking for students in Zimbabwe by providing leadership workshops in schools, teaching kids about social responsibility and helping them design community service projects, and pairing select students with mentors and internships in their field of interest. It also hosts workshops, like that of “Education USA,” which informs students about education opportunities in America. Its board consists of a diverse group of individuals that represent the different groups in Zimbabwean society. It also has reached out to the Ministry of Education for support and collaboration.
Though founded less than a year ago, the organization is having noticeable success. A handful of the students in the Lead Us Today program are already planning on studying abroad, and there’s a wide variety of projects from cleaning to planting community vegetable gardens and orchards, to helping school drop-outs start small businesses. Others have even replicated the leadership program with students in primary schools. There are now a total of 16 service projects involving over 240 students. While these are small steps in shifting the overall mentality of Zimbabweans, Mhlanga has to start somewhere.
The biggest problem, Mhlanga says, is getting Zimbabweans (and other Africans as well) to shift their thinking from the short term to the long term, and to get the people of the country to take governance into their own hands. This mentality stems from the past. “First came aristocracy. Then colonialism. Then after independence, constitutions were drafted by leaders of political parties,” Mhlanga asserts. “How can people be expected to embrace democratic ideals if they don’t get a say—if they have never had a say?”
A great example of passive democracy is the 2008 Presidential elections in Zimbabwe, Mhlanga notes. Not only did initial election results take over a month to be released, but ZANU PF—the party in power—also used questionable tactics to get people to vote in the run off elections, and is widely believed to have tampered with results to ensure the incumbent Mugabe remained in power. “Why didn’t the people of Zimbabwe do anything?” Mhlanga asks. “Because democracy is a foreign concept to them. They are used to the government or some external agency making all the decisions for them.”
Mhlanga hopes that Lead Us Today and programs like it will help young Zimbabweans realize they have the power—and it is their responsibility—to help shape the course of their country. “I have always said that if I graduate from Harvard on a Thursday,” Mhlanga notes, “I will be back in Zimbabwe by Sunday.” Hopefully this sense of duty and desire to help slowly and steadily build positive values among Zimbabweans so that they take responsibility for their own development is a trend that catches on not just with young Zimbabweans but with all young people who will determine the fate of new democracies in their countries.
 
Meredith C. Baker ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Currier house. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
By Lauren D. Kiel
Last year in HAA 172w: “American Art and Modernity,” I learned about Robert Rauschenberg’s “combines,” the hybrids between painting and sculpture that the artist produced during the 1950s.  Particularly intriguing was “Odalisk,” in which a stuffed rooster is mounted atop a box plastered with images of female nudes.
I considered it the second best poultry art I’d ever seen.
The first is in my hometown of Gainesville, Ga. On a small patch of grass next to the IHOP rests Gainesville’s chicken statue. The statue, constructed in the late 1970s, consists of a thin, white marble obelisk rising out of a three-pronged base. Perched atop the obelisk is a life-size bronze rooster. It stoically peers down upon the center of my small town and stands perfectly straight, with nary a feather out of place.
Gainesville’s statue celebrates the town’s likely self-imposed title as “Poultry Capital of the World,” a moniker gleaned from the prevalence of chicken processing facilities in town. Fittingly, the statue is located on Jesse Jewell Parkway, named for a revolutionary in the struggle to bring white meat to middle class Americans. Jewell, a Gainesville native, streamlined the poultry processing method and helped transform my hometown into the poultry hub it is today.
In addition to honoring Gainesville’s claim to fame, the chicken statue also provides a wealth of information about the significance of our feathered friends. Copper plates attached to the faces of its base educate visitors on such important topics as “The Importance of Poultry to You.” One of the plates reads, “Poultry ranks at the top of the food list in taste, elegance, digestibility, and versatility … Wherever you live, poultry is more important to you than you may realize.”
This is particularly true if you live in Gainesville, where we take our fowl reputation seriously. For instance, within town limits it is illegal to eat chicken with a fork. Though I’m hesitant to admit in print to breaking the law, I can’t say that I eat Chick-fil-A chicken salads with my fingers. Thankfully, I’ve never really seen the law prosecuted.
It is a double-edged sword hailing from a town that is surprisingly good at processing poultry. Telling people you come from the “Poultry Capital of the World” always excites an interesting reaction. There’s a certain pride in coming from a place with character.
In 1997, a great scandal arose over the chicken statue. Overnight, as if by an act of God, the docile rooster that had spent decades faithfully manning its perch was gone. In its place appeared a supersized stainless-steel bird aggressively flapping its wings.
The public backlash was overwhelming. The local paper was filled with condemnations of the new chicken, and the city government flooded with calls. It was instantly clear that the new rooster was not going to fly in Gainesville. This was certainly not because we aren’t bold and brash like the new statue. If anything, the new version was a better representative of the strong personalities of my town’s inhabitants.
The problem was that Southerners are not much for change. In a small town like mine, tradition is valued, even when the tradition itself is not that old. Processing chicken might not be the most glamorous specialty, but we’re proud of it nonetheless.
The uproar didn’t last long—two months after it first disappeared, the faithful old chicken returned to its roost.
— Lauren D. Kiel  ’11,  a history and literature concentrator in Adams House, is a former associate managing editor for The Harvard Crimson. She still dies a little on the inside every time she eats chicken with a fork.
Sections
The sanctuary of the Macedonia Church of God In Christ on King St. in Springfield, Mass. shows a diligent wear: one reason for the congregation’s decision to build a new church on a different site. The King St. church’s light green walls, not quite dull but still not bright, are broken by a number of dusty windows where stained glass may once have cast multi-colored rays. The lights hang down in clear glass globes. Many pews are missing their bibles. Having lost its physical luster long ago, Macedonia’s faith shines through its congregation, its spirit evident in their songs.
Though services don’t start until quarter to noon, the choir and band arrive well before. Children, having just finished their bible study, slowly begin to rejoin their parents in the brown wooden pews, and a single voice rises above the morning greetings. (“How you doing today, miss? We’ve missed you here these past couple Sundays.” “Oh I’m fine thank you, just fine.”) Soon afterwards, a bass guitarist and drummer have joined in. By the second verse, the organ reflects the melody and, before the chorus has a chance to repeat itself (“Thank you Lord for being so good”), most are on their feet, dancing. From this point forward, it becomes apparent that this is a congregation that is hard to keep down.
–––
Less than five miles away stands the construction site of the new Macedonian church, many years in the making. Leaning forward on his dusty metal folding chair within the newly primed sanctuary walls, Bishop Bryant Robinson Jr. can barely be heard over the misplaced rock music that blares around him. For the hundredth time, he recounts the church’s story.
On the night of Nov. 5 2010, Bishop Robinson called his brother to ask for a 6 a.m. wake-up call. He wanted to be sure he would arrive at his 7 a.m. car mechanic appointment on time—no, no there was no need to call again if he didn’t answer, the noise would wake him up.
When the phone rang, it was still dark out.
True to his word, Bishop Robinson awoke and rose out of bed without picking up. When the phone rang again, it was his brother’s voice on the other end of the line.
“They are burning our church to the ground.”
It was the night that Barack Obama became president-elect. The Macedonia Church of God in Christ is a mostly-black church.
Bishop Robinson drove to the construction site. On ground that had seen the almost completed structure now lay ashes, rubble, and twisted steel—ruins of what was once to be. All Bishop Robinson could do was secure a blanket and a chair and watch as his church became engulfed in flames.
It wasn’t until later that he realized it was only 3 a.m.
“A multitude came against us in the form of three young men in the early hours of the morning. They slipped through the woods behind our property and into our church. They struck a match and then they walked away,” he says.
At 8 a.m. the parishioners began arriving, providing comfort for the bishop and for each other. Some began to fear, began to question whether or not their work truly was in the will of God. How could they have come so far with such vision for this? Despite these fears, however, the congregation was determined to face the multitude.
“We began to turn inward into our faith, into the Word that we had studied, the messages that we had heard down through our ears and had allowed to consume our hearts,” Robinson says, “words we didn’t need then but had stored up and now could turn to in our time of need. The Scripture became our bedrock.”
The community held onto the Word of the Bible. Its members had to believe that God had intervened with a purpose. They responded with perseverance and determination, faithful to the notion that, whatever God’s reasons, they were for the best.
–––
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 has been leading the Alternate Spring Break Church Rebuilding Trip at Harvard since he instituted it on campus ten years ago. Each year, the National Coalition for Burned Churches (NCBC) provides a name of a church in need and McCarthy’s student volunteers drive to the site and provide whatever aid necessary, from priming walls to putting in windows.
This year, the group was expecting to drive to either South Carolina or Alabama to work. Two weeks before their scheduled departure, however, NCBC called and said that the churches were not yet ready for volunteers and McCarthy’s group would instead be staying much closer to campus: Springfield, Mass.
“Racism is racism and that’s important to recognize. There are those of us who come to think of ourselves, perhaps wrongly, as liberal and enlightened people and somehow racism is some other person’s problem that exists somewhere else in the world,” says McCarthy. “That’s a dangerous way to think. Things like this, opportunities like this, give us the chance to see that these things are interconnected and that we can’t escape it no matter where we live or what we believe, or how we live in the world.”
Despite the fact that McCarthy leads a church rebuilding trip, however, students in the group stress that the undertaking is not a religious one. “This isn’t a mission trip, which isn’t always clear to people on the outside,” says Alex A. Morelli ’13. “We’re here helping a community in need, and community is one of the most important aspects of the church.”
Laura S. Hinton ’13 was on her second ASB trip with the group. “Most churches, when they’re burned down, lose their congregation. Last year, our volunteers doubled the church’s size. With this church it’s different, they still have their old church to worship in. They lost a lot in the fire but they didn’t lose their community,” she says. The faded old church remained serviceable for the time it had taken the new construction to start over.
Though Hinton noted that the previous year, some members of her trip had felt uncomfortable building a space for a group of people with different beliefs, she said that a similar discussion had not come up this year.
In a bright green room down the hall, Sarah B. Rosenberg-Wohl ’12 pauses to step back and appraise her painting before gently re-rolling a final coat. Rosenberg-Wohl echoes the sentiments of Hinton and Morelli.
“I’m Jewish but I enjoy going to other religious services—at Harvard I go to the morning prayer service frequently. I like gaining a better sense of how religion builds community for people of different faiths,” she says. “That’s one of the reasons why I wanted to come on this trip; I understand to what extent synagogues are a center of community and I know that churches are the same.”
Such visions of the new church have carried through into its design. With prayer rooms, offices, a fellowship hall, and even a women’s lounge, the larger space will have the capability to serve as not only a center of religion for its parishioners, but as a center of community for them as well. The hopes of the Macedonian congregation are reflected in every newly-painted pink, purple, blue, and green room, hopes that have been only strengthened throughout the past three years.
–––
Within the aging brown church on King Street, Bishop Robinson is finishing his sermon. “Two and a half months, Macedonians,” he repeats, “two and a half months.” Nearly 100 volunteers have passed through the church’s newly-constructed walls, hundreds more have made donations; the hot rubble and twisted steel that had once been all that remained of a nearly-realized dream has been built again. Completion is within their grasp once more. The church is now 90 percent constructed (“Two and a half months, Macedonians”), the sanctuary will have its final coat of paint by the end of the week, the carpets will soon be laid down, and the trial of the final suspect began on Monday. Two and a half months.
Bishop Robinson is at the pulpit repeating the scripture which has become their foundation: And we know that in all things God works for the good—the congregation rises to its feet once more—of those who love God—the choir stands at the front—who have been called according to His purpose—and they sing. Not a single Macedonian is left sitting in her seat.
Sections
Bob Slate, Stationer, a business beloved for supplying stationary, art supplies, and other paper goods in the Square, died this month after suffering from health complications for the past year and a half. He was 78 years old.
Slate’s death was due to a self-described loss of energy, “declining sales,” and “advancing age.” Competition with rivals in the area exacerbated his already weakened condition and led to the further deterioration of his health.
Slate had hoped to overcome his illness with an injection of capital from an outside buyer. After the most recent donor for a potential transplant backed out last month, however, he realized he had exhausted all options.
The business was born in Cambridge in 1933, originally residing on Holyoke St. but later moving to Mass. Ave., Church St., and Porter Square. Slate remained true to Cambridge all his life.
Slate’s popularity among his peers was made evident by his constant presence. Grateful for his authenticity and dedication to his work, Slate’s friends were extremely loyal. They kept by his side even when Staples’ move into town threatened the business.
An integral and well-known resident of the city, Slate was respected for his accommodating manner, reliability, and unique personality. Cambridge will mourn the loss of a friend who always kept his doors open to the crowds of craftspeople in need.
Sections
Just as professional sports teams attempt to woo the best draft picks of the season (read: million dollar salary) so too do colleges engage in the elaborate courtship of promising high school recruits (read: Winter Wonderland Brunch). Here are some of the select reasons Harvard provided on GoCrimson.com.
—“It’s way less nerdy than your safety school.”
—“Your resume will say Harvard on it.”
—“Four burrito places, one square.”
—“Getting to drop the ‘H-bomb’ to all your friends at home.”
—“Free Wu-Tang Clan concert right outside your door.”
—“Your professor probably wrote the textbook used in your class (and your friends’ classes at other schools).”
—“Companies want to hire YOU.”
—“Dollar bills—twenty-six billion of them.”
Sections
Judith S. “Judy” Palfrey ’67 and John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67 are the Adams House Masters. Judy is a professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School and the president of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Sean is a clinical professor of pediatrics at the Boston University School of Medicine. FM talked with the two of them and heard each side of their story (the interview has been edited for concision).
Sean:
“Judy was born in Texas and she quotes that when it’s convenient. She lived there for about six weeks. Part of her family was from New Orleans and she quotes that too when it’s convenient. She grew up in Baltimore and always wanted to be a doctor.
Then she came here, decided to concentrate in American history and literature, and had a wonderful time doing that.
She had a number of gorgeous roommates, and I was going out with one of them. And when, one night, she couldn’t go out with me to a Dylan Thomas play called “Under Milkwood,” I asked her if any of her roommates would like to go to the play. Judy said yes, so we went out, and that was the start of it.
The first class we took together was Physics. I liked to sit up at the front, and she never got to class on time. It was a mark of her commitment to me that she would walk all the way down the long stairs of the amphitheater-type classroom to sit in the front row.
The summer after we graduated, in 1967, I was with the Harvard Glee Club and the Radcliffe Choral Society touring the world and giving concerts. So Judy and my mother came to meet us. I think Judy had a little bit of shell shock from traveling with my mother, who was an enormous character.
But we survived all our various trials and tribulations and got married two days after I came back from the world tour. Two days later, she started medical school and I started graduate school, so it was a whirlwind.
Judy was one of 20 US citizens who were invited to Canada to run with the Olympic torch. She ran up the roads and people were cheering—it was really fun. You don’t have to run: you could be in a wheelchair, some people swam, some people dog sledded, some people ran backwards. She kind of half-ran, half-danced, half-walked and just sort of had a good time.
She loves to dance. She is also very good at playing the kazoo. In the 75th anniversary festival that we had for Adams House four or five years ago, she was right there in the front of the parade with the Harvard band and with all sorts of flags and stuff. And there Judy was, playing whatever they were playing on the kazoo.
We try to get to as many events and particular activities as we can here, but sometimes that means we don’t go together to them. We function almost completely in an overlapping way as House Masters. Like so many other things in our lives, it just works that we’re partners in everything we do.”
Judy:
“You know, it’s funny: he used to walk around Cambridge with just a light sweater and a scarf on and I remember thinking he was very handsome and good looking, and that he was a guy who could be out in the cold with just a little scarf on. I remember that image.
He also had a lovely way of walking, which he still does, and I remember just being struck by how he holds himself, how he moves.
In my family, we weren’t particularly tuned in to music. I think most of my family is sort of tone-deaf, and I remember him opening up a whole world that I’d never known before. That’s the kind of thing he does: he’s so engaged with art and music and light and color, and he’s always pointing out the beautiful things.
One of his favorite things he always says is: ‘Walk on the sunny side of the street.’ And if you get yourself down, you’re not looking around, but then you think, ‘Huh, Sean says to walk on the sunny side of the street.’ You cross the street and all of a sudden things are sort of bright, beautiful, and lovely.
Traveling with Sean’s mother—we had a funny experience on that trip. It was August 15, a very busy day. People were traveling; there were billions of people on the trains. Her suitcase got lost from us and she was anxious, and so she didn’t mind pulling the emergency brake. She stopped the train! And they made us walk off.
Fortunately, our host was the Minister of Travel for France, so we didn’t get thrown in jail—but as we walked down this long, long, long train, all the people were leaning out of the train and they went: ‘Imbéciles! Imbéciles!’ You fools, you fools!
But I loved him and I loved her so we went ahead and got married.
We have some lovely friends called the Forbeses; they live on an island. And so one time we were with the Forbes family, singing Gilbert and Sullivan songs and having an enormously good time, then all of a sudden my son—I think he was five—was just laughing so much that he fell off the back of a chair and broke his arm.
We were trying to get him off this island and to a hospital but it was night and there was this pea-soup fog, and we actually couldn’t get through until the next morning because the fog was so thick. So Sean splinted it and got Tylenol and took complete care and everything was just fine. He was a wonderful daddy and a wonderful doctor and very calm during something of a harrowing evening.
How do people have a marriage of 44 years? What we’ve discovered is we continue to fall in love, keep finding those little connections that are special. And something we’ll often say is maybe just going to do an errand, just going to CVS, just going to pick something up at the Star Market—just being together and doing that is more fun than practically anything.”
Sections
Ever wonder what exactly English concentrators do after they graduate? John T. Drake ’06 ended up working for Harmonix Sound Systems—the Cambridge-based company located one floor above Walgreens in Central Square, which made the music video games Rock Band, Rock Band 2, and Beatles Rock Band. After working on publicity and marketing for Beatles Rock Band, he eventually got a chance to meet some of the real Beatles at the annual E3 Video Game Expo.
“They were both really nice guys, and it was great to just hang out with them and their families. We ended up taking a few pictures together where I was between Ringo and Paul—they sent me the one where they look great and I look Photoshopped in,” says Drake modestly.
Sitting in the same booth beside Drake in the Andala Coffee Shop in Central Square are fellow Harmonix employees Jon H. Carter ’06-’07, a fellow English concentrator, and Matt C. Boch ’06-’07, a VES concentrator; all three are also members of the Somerville-based indie-pop band the Main Drag. Carter and Boch, dressed in hoodies and graphic t-shirts, and Drake in jeans and a t-shirt, look the part of musicians off the gig. They reflect on their beginnings as the post-punk band The Blanks, its evolution into the Main Drag, and the future as they know it.
FROM THE ADVOCATE TO THE MIDDLE EAST
Even before the first day of the Freshman Arts Pre-Orientation Program, Drake, Boch, and Carter had begun to talk about music online over a Yahoo! group. By the time the Freshman Talent Show rolled around, the first incarnation of the Blanks had formed, performing Prince’s “When Doves Fly” on the steps of Memorial Church. Highlights of freshman year included a Valentine’s Day show at the Advocate (“We played songs with ‘love’ in the title for an hour and a half—it was great,” says Drake) and a show at the Spee, opening for what would be one of the last gigs of the Exploding Hearts, whose members died in a tragic bus accident a week later.
“We wanted to grow and develop in a different direction, and also realized after the first two years that we had to try to play off-campus more,” says Drake.
“If you’ve got the same 60 friends going to all your gigs, eventually your market base is going to just graduate and disappear,” says Boch.
The band soon found work playing in venues around Cambridge such as T.T. the Bear’s Place and the Middle East. Over time, another musical group began to emerge out of these three core members—the Main Drag.
As they continued to write music and play gigs, the members of the Main Drag eventually recorded several albums, including “Yours as Fast as Mine” and “You Are Underwater.”
“We record everything by ourselves using our own equipment, and we send out the material to get mastered by professionals,” says Carter.
The Main Drag even began touring, although Drake was hesitant to call these trips across the East Coast tours.
“They were more like sprints, you know, going from venue to venue in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, etc.,” he says.
But on a recent tour that included cities across Canada, the members of the Main Drag found their music more widely recognized than ever. Having full albums available on their website and as downloadable, playable songs in the Rock Band games helped spread the word for the Main Drag.
Drake recalls a memorable show in Calgary.
“Everyone seemed to know the words to our songs, and when I talked to people after the show, they said they had heard about us from Rock Band,” says Drake.
But how exactly did two English concentrators and one VES concentrator from Harvard go from playing weekend gigs at the Advocate to working on a best-selling video game franchise?
HAND-WRITTEN TO VIRTUAL SET-LISTS
As they see it, Boch led the Main Drag into the business of developing music video games. Boch worked as a video jockey around Boston and met a Harmonix employee at work. Based on his VES background, he was recruited after graduation to work on developing the hardware for Rock Band, including the physical guitars and drum sets used to control the in-game instruments. At the time, Harmonix had fewer than 100 employees.
“As Harmonix grew, I just tried to get all the friends in I could,” says Boch.
Soon Carter was hired to work in project management and production work, while Drake was hired to work in marketing and public relations. The work wasn’t easy. Early on, they spent anywhere from 60 to 100 hours making sure the newest Rock Band games were on schedule in development.
“I wasn’t prepared for the day-to-day life; working at Harmonix is very different from playing with the Main Drag, because the Main Drag wasn’t a daily grind,” says Carter.
There were other major differences between Harvard undergrad life and professional life.
“After college, it’s no longer like ‘I’ll see you in French section once a week, then I don’t have to think about French for a week, maybe drink Thursday night, etc.,’” says Drake.
“We had to deal with each other less in college. When you’re not in class, school is pretty much a social atmosphere, but it’s completely different out of school,” says Boch.
CENTER STAGE IN CENTRAL SQUARE
Did a Harvard education play into their success as a band and as full-time Harmonix employees?
“I have to say that being in section was great prep for being persuasive in meetings,” says Carter.
“Three things I learned in section: being prepared, being respectful, being persuasive. I also learned not to take things too seriously studying English ... it’s not like heart surgery,” says Drake.
It seems that these Harvard grads have very few regrets about where they ended up.
“We picked well to be involved in one industry which is totally dying, but another that is totally booming,” says Boch. Drake and Carter nod thoughtfully in agreement.
“Now that it’s the 21st century—to sound grandiose about it—we can see in real time the new ways that people are engaging in music. It’s pretty awesome,” says Carter.
“It’s pretty amazing how things have turned out. I can play a video game of a song I wrote in my dorm room in 2004 on my iPhone, which didn’t even exist then. It makes me feel old,” says Drake.
As we parted ways, I asked if anything was to be said about the growing media attention for the Main Drag and the members who made it happen.
“We’re just some kids from Harvard who work in video games,” says Drake, smiling.
Sections
For seniors lucky enough to have turned in their theses, spring has started early. To ring in two months of debauchery, many celebrated their accomplishments by abandoning Widener sweats attire and rejoicing in dapper style at events hosted by their concentrations.
Enticed with the promise of ample food and drink, FM journeyed to the Barker Center in the hopes of sharing post-thesis excitement at one such event: the English Department’s semi-formal soiree. Amidst the overflowing platters of hors d’oeuvres and flutes of champagne set up in the center of the crowded hall, guests sampled the theses projected overhead. For every 100-page-plus behemoth displayed across the screen, there stood a dignified senior reluctant to make use ever again of the English language.
In fact, the distinguished gathering was just as much a collective of future Alcoholics Anonymous attendees as a representative sampling of 2015’s New York Times bestseller list. Those who hadn’t succumbed to sleep deprivation-—or been driven mad by hours spent staring at thoughts conveniently underlined in red and green on their computer screens—planned intoxicating celebratory feasts. When asked about thrilling post-thesis prospects, the elated Amber A. James ’11 summarized the prevailing mood. Caprese appetizer in hand, James laughed as she declared: “I’m going to be drinking, putting the pieces of my life together that had gradually fallen apart as the page counts increased.”
Here’s to hoping that waves of blissful relief continue to invigorate Harvard seniors, perhaps even jarring loose the stereotype of the inebriated, troubled writer in the process.
Sections
Andrew R. Paterson ’13, who lives in Cabot House, sees Quad life a little differently from most students—his family lives only a few streets away. He went to elementary school at Graham and Parks School and laughs as he recalls throwing water balloons at the undergrads who played football too close to the Cambridge public school’s turf.
For many Harvard students, spring break is an opportunity to leave life in “the Square” and journey back home to a refuge of comfort and familiarity. The distance from home reinforces the notion of two distinct identities in a college student’s life—one of childhood and familial relationships and the other of collegiate exploits.
But for Cantabrigian students, these two unique spaces are contained within each other, divided by blocks rather than miles—and this proximity complicates the way these students contemplate their Harvard experience.
DUAL CITIZENSHIP
“Harvard Square felt like Cambridge, and Harvard Yard felt like the school, and it didn’t feel like our realm,” says Victoria R.C. Palange ’12, a local who attended high school near Porter Square, close to the Quad. In high school she and some friends worked some of the concession stands during The Game in order to raise money for their high school. She tended not to root for the home team and instead cheered for Yale. Though the resident of Eliot House now cheers for the Crimson when they play across the River, she is aware that she skirts an awkward line.
While many in the broader world picture Harvard as a haven of prestige and innovation, many in Cambridge view the University as a cesspool of elitism, gentrification, and rebellious partygoers. Attending classes at Harvard, and rooting for the Harvard football team, while coming from the community side school-city tensions, means that even the slightest discussions of the University needs to be done with an ounce of caution.
“The big H is always looming over what I’m saying,” Palange says of how she relates to her friends from home and others in the Cambridge community. “I don’t go overboard with the Harvard talk.”
She adds, “Some people after a certain point are just like, ‘Alright, congratu-friggin-lations.’”
David Kosslyn ’11, who attended high school along the River at Buckingham Browne and Nichols (which, he jokes, sounds like a law firm), also mentions that he is sensitive about “dropping the H-Bomb,” by which he means informing a non-Harvard affiliate of his Ivy League affiliation.
Even in casual interactions with friends, the “Big H” tends to rear its head. “I’m kind of in that entitled environment, but I’m also from the area,” says another local student, Benjamin J. Likis ’13. “[My friends] tease me and put me in these weird situations, but it’s all in good fun.”
The awkwardness of the H-bomb is not unique to Cambridge locals, but the severity of the blast is greater, locals say.
This is in part because for many locals, Harvard has been a part of their lives even in high school, with programs including dual enrollment at the Harvard Extension School, funding for sports teams, and demonstrations at the Science Center. Alan A. Ibrahim ’11, who grew up in Cambridge, and Likis both participated in an after-school program known as the Breakthrough Collaborative that connected students with college tutors and mentors, many of them Harvard students. “Some of my most prominent mentors, and most influential figures were Harvard students,” says Likis, who volunteered with the group after high school.
But a general consensus among the students was that the influence of Harvard on their high school experiences was limited. Joseph P. Carebello, Director of Guidance at Matignon High School, emphasizes his school’s desire to have a greater partnership with the University. “We would love to have the students know we are here,” he says.
INDEPENDENCE
Whether it is managing interactions with parents, avoiding the temptation of going home to do laundry, or simply trying out new activities in a familiar environment, Cambridge residents have the added challenge of establishing independence when going to school in their hometown. On top of that, they have to reimagine a familiar place as something novel—something which students from farther away do not have to deal with.
“Many [high school] students go right through the Harvard campus every day,” Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 says of local high schoolers who matriculate. In the admissions process, “One thing we have
to convince them is that their experience would be different enough,” Fitzsimmons says.
A Computer Science concentrator in Eliot House, Kosslyn has some familiarity with Harvard’s resources. His high school’s Advanced Placement Computer Science class shared Harvard’s facilities, and he processed data for a University astrophysics lab over a summer. But Kosslyn, who is regularly within a mile of his parents, jokes that he acts as if his parents live in a different city. “I didn’t want to fall into that trap,” he says, referring to other locals he knew who stayed within the local community that they knew instead of making many friends at college.
Others, though, have been surprised at how new the old space seemed once they walked on campus as an enrolled student. Paterson, who had only ever been in the Science Center, said that he feels like Harvard is on a different plane than what he is used to, especially with regards to the social scene. “It feels like even though I literally grew up in this exact neighborhood, it feels like a different neighborhood because I’m living a completely different lifestyle,” he says.
Likis also felt new to campus in many ways. “I still didn’t know where the buildings were or [where] my classes were,” he says, reflecting on his freshman year. He notes that going into shopping period, he had the same feelings of anonymity and confusion as his non-local classmates.
Sometimes Likis does “feel a little bit stagnant, or isolated” having been in the same place for so long, he says. But to counter this, and to get adjusted to the new University lifestyle, Likis went out of his way to try activities that were new to him. “I’m trying to get the most out of my life in college, and as much as I can have a new experience in college.”
GRADUATING TO THE BACK(YARD)
Many Harvard students from Cambridge seriously considered attending college elsewhere, and many said that they did not have any preconceptions about remaining in the Square. Palange recalls “feeling rebellious” in resisting the pressure to apply to Harvard. But eventually, at the urging of her parents and guidance counselors, she did. “Fine I’ll apply to Harvard,” Palange recalls saying, “but my heart is with Georgetown.”
“[It was] not a serious consideration in my mind,” she adds of her plans at the time. “My thought was that I wanted to get out of Cambridge.”
However, after making no real connections with prospective students in the nation’s capital, Palange gave Harvard another try. “It was actually a funny turn of events, but I signed up for four more years of Cambridge,” she says, sitting in her House’s dining hall, with a smile.
Likis and Paterson also initially considered leaving Cambridge and expressed interest in colleges on the West Coast. But they later decided that the perks of the East Coast were more advantageous than the mild winters of California. To Paterson, the academics ultimately made the choice to attend Harvard a “no brainer.”
UN-COMMON APPLICATION
Other locals, however, have long-harbored dreams of attending Harvard. “Since I’ve been a little kid I’ve always wanted to go to Harvard,” says Ibrahim, an economics concentrator in Kirkland House who attended Cambridge Rindge and Latin. To Ibrahim, Harvard’s proximity was a constant reminder of this goal.
This is the type of enthusiasm Fitzsimmons says he hopes the University will inspire in local high school students. Fitzsimmons, who also serves as chair of the admissions office’s Greater
Boston subcommittee that looks at the applications of Cambridge residents, says he is proud of the outreach the University has been doing. “We had the best year in modern history with students admitted from Cambridge Rindge and Latin School,” says Fitzsimmons.
“It’s important for us that we’re a part of this community and we make this community better in any way we can. One way we can do that is by educating local students,” he explains.
And when Paterson says that “it seems that Harvard really likes Cambridge kids,” he is on to something. “We give a tip for Boston and Cambridge residents, and we say this very publicly,” Fitzsimmons says. “It’s one of those little tiebreakers. All other factors being equal, we will tip into the class someone [from Cambridge or Boston].”
Yet a Cambridge birth certificate is far from instant swipe access to the University. Some of the Cambridge residents interviewed for this story were initially wait-listed. Many qualified students from Matignon High School were rejected, adds Graves.
Indeed, Harvard’s outreach to local schools is not even. Nadira A. Hairston, the only college counselor at the Community Charter School of Cambridge, says she has never had a student accepted to Harvard. And in the six years of the school’s operation, Hairston says that not a single Harvard recruiter has visited the institution. “If we had admissions reps to come in and explain that, that would help,” says Hairston, describing how many of the immigrant families that attend the schools are unaware of the academic requirements and the application process in general.
UNOFFICIAL AMBASSADORS
Palange recalled hearing from a Cambridge police officer about how the police force is somewhat resentful of Harvard students, especially of those who use mommy and daddy to get them out of trouble when the local officers lay down the law.
“As Cambridge residents it’s obviously the thing that’s taking over,” Palange says as she reflects on her initial impressions of the University. Since attending Harvard, however, she says her opinion has taken a complete 180, and hopes that more and more Cambridge residents will realize that most people at the University do not match the stereotype.
Paterson, however, has a less stark view of Harvard’s relations with its surrounding population. He says that many of his friends have come to realize that most people at Harvard are “really down to earth” and maintains that there is a positive relationship developing between Harvard and the surrounding neighborhood. Students, however, expressed the overall sentiment that while Harvard is doing its part there is much more work to be done to improve their relationship with the community.
“PBHA is doing its part,” says Ibrahim, referring to the Phillips Brooks House Association, a service organization, “but I think that it’s not enough. Not enough people do PBHA programs.” Ibrahim shares the view of other Cambridge students that not enough people at Harvard take the time to fully immerse themselves in the community, confining themselves solely to Harvard Square and neglecting to see the diversity and challenges in the larger area.
“I want to change the world at some point, and I want to start in Cambridge/Boston and spread out,” says Ibrahim.
“[We] should be able to realize that there is more to our college life than these things that only deal with ourselves,” says Ibrahim. “We have this obligation to the community, just to give back.”
And Cantabrigian students often find themselves acting as unofficial ambassadors, conveying to members of the community at large that not all Harvard students are cut-throat, uppity  bookworms. But this role becomes difficult at times when encountering instances of elitism; despite the progress in relationship-building, some students still see the persistence of elitism and the “Harvard douchebag” who purposely does not want to get to know the city.
“They just have tunnel vision, they don’t understand that there is so much more Cambridge,” says Palange of the stereotypical student. “Nochs” and “The Kong,” she says, are terms purely invented by undergrads. Most Cambridge residents refer to the restaurants by their full names. And Harvard students’ tendency to refer to Harvard Square as “the Square” is often grating to locals, for whom the other five squares within Cambridge all have equal claim to the article “the.”
“Taking the time to explore all different parts of Cambridge is completely worth their while,” says Palange. “Each little pocket is almost like its own city, which is really, really, cool.”
Likis describes the Cambridge most Harvard students experience as only a “snapshot” of the city, with most people assuming that as a Cambridge resident his parents had to be University affiliates. “I hope that people realize that there is a city outside of Harvard,” he says.
“Whenever I’m out with my friends and we are not in Harvard Square, they always ask me if we are still in Cambridge,” says Ibrahim. “[Even in] Kendall Square, and I’ll be like no we’re in Cambridge, like, Jesus,” he says.
Having the dual “insider-outsider” perspective on College-community relations means that many Cantabridgian students see Harvard as an extension, rather than a replacement of their Cambridge identity.
“It is awkward sometimes for me,” says Likis. “This is my home and just because I go to Harvard I don’t lose the right to call Cambridge my home. I would just hope that people would do their best to actually engage in the community, and not just see Cambridge as a place of residence for the time being.”
—Julie M. Zauzmer contributed to the reporting of this story.
Sections
Affixed to Matthews Hall hangs an often unnoticed slate plaque, inscribed: “Here American Indian and English students lived and worked in accordance with the 1650 Charter calling for the education of the English and Indian youth of this country.” The plaque itself is straightforward, but what is less obvious is the unique history behind it, the history of Harvard’s complex relationship with the Native American community.
In its 1650 charter, Harvard made a promise to extend its resources to the Native American community, a promise that it has started to fulfill only in the past few years. The plaque is part of Harvard’s renewed effort to promote the study of Native American affairs through initiatives like the current excavation of Harvard Yard, emphasizing the importance of addressing Native American issues within the University.
The affairs of Harvard and of the Indian community were bound inextricably from the start. Diana Loren, associate curator at the Peabody Museum and co-instructor for Anthropology 1130, explains this relationship. “Harvard was going bankrupt in about 1646,” she says. “So they went to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in New England, looking for funds.” 
The Society decided to grant these funds with one condition: that they be used at least in part for the spiritual and educational advancement of local Native American students. In its precarious financial state, Harvard was only too willing to fulfill this prerequisite. So in 1655, near where Matthews Hall now stands, the Harvard Indian College was built to further Harvard’s new Charter, educating both Indian and English students “in knowledge and godliness.”
“Native American students went to lecture, they dined with the English students,” says Loren. Yet they were at Harvard for an express purpose—to absorb the Puritan teachings and, upon graduation, transmit this knowledge to their tribes. In this vein, the Indian College became home to a printing press that published the first Bible in the United States, the “Eliot Bible,” published in Algonquian by the missionary John Eliot.
The Indian College was only ever home to five native students, only one of whom graduated: Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck, a Wampanoag, in 1665. By the late 17th century the building had fallen into disrepair, and was torn down in 1698 (its bricks were reused in the construction of the original Stoughton Hall). To mollify its original funders, Harvard was to provide Stoughton housing rent-free to any Native American students in the College—but this proved an empty promise, as not a single Native American student would return to graduate until three centuries later.
Finding Living History 
Today, the first floor of the Peabody Museum is home to Digging Veritas, a student-produced exhibit revealing archaeological findings relating to the Harvard Indian College. The project began in 2005, part of an initiative by the Harvard University Native American Program (HUNAP) to celebrate the 350th anniversary of the Indian College.
Founded in 1970 as the American Indian Program, HUNAP has played a vital role in reviving Harvard’s interest in and responsibility to the Native American community. “Part of HUNAP’s mission is to bring together Indigenous students and other interested individuals to advance the well-being of Indigenous peoples,” writes Executive Director Shelly C. Lowe. She continues, “HUNAP continues to look to the 1650 Charter as part of our foundation.” 
It was HUNAP that organized the unveiling of the commemorative plaque on Matthews in 1997 and who invited tribal leaders to speak at the ceremony. 
In 2005, the students of Anthropology 1130, “The Archaeology of Harvard Yard,” took on HUNAP’s initiative as a part of their coursework, combining fieldwork with archive research in order to explore the relationship between Harvard and the Native American community. “[HUNAP] wanted to bring different academic programs into the work,” says Professor of Central American and Mexican Archaeology and Ethnology William L. Fash, who also co-teaches Anthropology 1130. “We thought that it would be very appropriate to celebrate by doing more work in Harvard Yard, by looking at this Indian College. It was integral to the University—it was part of the charter.”
Fash emphasizes the contemporary implications of digging up Harvard Yard in search of the Indian College. “We want to make the Indian College part of the living history, the living fabric of the University,” he says. “What better way than to actually find it?”
Cultivating Connections 
Fash, who is also director of the Peabody Museum, emphasizes the central role of students in this archaeological project. “The students themselves were picking up the deposits,” says Fash. “They themselves were realizing, ‘Hey, we’re really onto something here.’” 
Part of the course involves visiting the Harvard University Archives, whose documents bear witness to the connection between Harvard and the Indian community.
“It’s been a wonderful use of our collections in a very immediate way,” says the library’s Public Services Archivist Barbara Meloni, poring over a 17th-century list of Harvard graduates inscribed in meticulous cursive. “The thing that was so exciting for the ‘Archaeology of Harvard Yard’ students was to find Cheeshahteamuck’s name written among the students,” under the 1665 heading.
Tiffany L. Smalley ’11, the first Wampanoag member to graduate since Cheeshahteaumuck in 1665, says she took the course in 2007 because of personal links to the Indian College.
“As a Wampanoag tribal member it was so exciting to find even just the smallest piece that’s a sign of the culture of these people,” says Smalley. Her group uncovered pieces of printing type used in the printing press housed at the Indian College. 
These small findings suggested they were on the right track—a guess that would be corroborated with the uncovering of the Indian College’s foundation in 2009. “We found this striking soil change that indicated that we were into some sort of primary deposit,” says Fash. Further analysis proved that the group had found 17th-century material, making it a reasonable assumption that they had discovered the foundations of the College. This summer and fall, they plan to flesh out this discovery, mapping the limits of the foundation to continue digging for artifacts within the walls.
Reclaiming Responsibility
Despite existing documentation, it took Harvard until the establishment of HUNAP to remember its original promise to the Native American community. In part, according to Meloni, this is due to the shear volume of Harvard’s archival collection, making documents easy to lose. But changing national attitudes towards Native Americans have also played a role, with Native American activist movements in the 1970s serving as a catalyst for change within Harvard.
In considering Harvard’s relationship to the local Native American community, Loren states, “I think it’s been rehabilitated through the Harvard University Native American Program.” When it was formed in the 1970s, she says, “It reminded the University of its guiding charter; they forced the University to remember and so this project helps in that endeavor.”
Smalley recognizes the complexity of Harvard’s changing relationship to the Native American community. While the original purpose of housing Indian students was to “Christianize” them, she says, “The Bible printed at Harvard was used and is [now] being used to revitalize our language.”
She agrees that the archaeology project, along with HUNAP and a renewed interest in the Archives, is part of a broader endeavor on behalf of the University to reclaim its responsibility to the Indian Community inherent in its charter. “It’s a really collaborative effort,” she says, “to commemorate these students and remember these students.”
Fash emphasizes the social role of the Archaeology of Harvard Yard course and its findings. “It’s made [the University] begin to live up to its historical responsibility,” he says, “enhancing the legacy of its Charter.”
Sections
1. Mike Tyson has switched to featherweight, focusing his energies on pigeon racing. The former champion is also a vegan—according to a New York Times Magazine article. He’s practically your average suburban dad.
2. The Harvard Business Review announced the demise of Twitter as “the next Big Thing.” HBR then tweeted a link to the story.
3. Shania Twain is “Still the One.” And she’s making a comeback—with her own reality television show, slated to premier in May.
4. Speaking of reality television, what do programs like Twain’s say about our nation’s understanding of reality? Plan your response and explain your views on this issue. Support your position with personal observations or knowledge of subjects such as history, literature, and science. Aren’t you sad you can’t take the SATs again?
5. What is it with all the restaurant by-day, club-by-night venues in Harvard Square? Fire and Ice is now the home of Club Revival, at least on Wednesday nights.
6. On a more serious notes, Republicans are making sweeping changes in the House. Recently, they’ve eliminated the compostable utensils in the dining halls. Guess green isn’t the new red-white-and-blue.
7. Come on, don’t cry—a study suggests that  men are less sexually aroused when confronted with female tears. Keep reading FM for more love advice.
8. A fourth Starbucks will be opening in Harvard Square by the end of the semester. According to the Craigslist advertisement for baristas, this branch promises to be “innovative.”
9. As leaders around the world struggle over what to do in response to the crisis in Libya, journalists struggle over how to spell Colonel Qadafi’s name. ABC.com lists 112 varieties.
10. “Tomorrow is [Friday] /And [Saturday] comes after … wards”—and Rebecca Black continues to clog our newsfeeds.
Sections
Warning: This might get a little bit graphic. Maybe that’s why I don’t like birthing imagery.
To begin: the “Born This Way” video. Ovaries flash. An explosion of fluid fabric radiates from The Lady as a hideously unidentifiable object of vaguely human resemblance emerges from the sappy mucous clinging to a kaleidoscopic cavity.
“Birth.” What a miracle. Love! Creation! But for every beautiful process, there exists a traumatizing YouTube search.
And for every social taboo there exists a pop culture attempt to push ... push ... push the gestating prudishness from the womb of civil society. This trend isn’t an entirely recent one. Venus smiling from her oyster predates our era, when the right to “bear” arms means that AK-47s emanate from Gaga’s Grendl-bearing grumble. Adam begot three sons and one daughter long before the desert birth of “21st Century Girl” Willow Smith. But it was a bible without beavers and, when it comes to today’s birthing trend, Renaissance is all too literal. Where Botticelli drew Venus’ sweet horizontal smile, Lindsay’s showing us her sticky one. And don’t go telling me it’s a miracle. Puh-lease. The romance dissipates shortly after the water breaks. I’m all for miracles ... we gave Pope John Paul one! But childbirth? That’s one I’ll gladly pass up, 150 million times a year. Because, Lady, I don’t want a sneak peak at your hot pocket. I don’t want access, Hollywood, to Kidman’s wonder down under.
“Adam begat a son in his own likeness,” says the bible. “Fear begets fear,” says Larry Summers. I begot machine guns, says Lady Gaga.
We be getting some ugly-ass images up in hurr, say I.
Sections
So it’s Sunday morning again. Your pants are missing, you’re in a strange location, and your memories are as cloudy as your killer hangover is clear. What do you do? FM’s here to pick you up off the ground­—or at least to advise you what to drink post-drink (drunk).
1. The Bloody Mary
Directions:
Some see this as a tried and true hangover cure; the less diplomatic call it an alcoholic continuation of the night before. However you like to think of it, this zesty cocktail has enough bite to kickstart your day.
•  3 oz tomato juice
•  1 1/2 oz vodka
•  1/2 oz lemon juice
•  1 dash of Worcestershire sauce
•  salt
•  ground pepper
•  hot pepper sauce to taste
•  garnish: celery stalk/pickle spear/lemon or lime
2. The Hair of the Dog
Directions:
Not mentally or physically coordinated enough to make a Bloody Mary? Never fear: this head-clearing drink sounds ferocious and—more importantly—it’s easier to mix.
•  6 oz Bulldog Gin
•  1/2 oz fresh lemon juice
•  2-3 dashes of Tabasco sauce
•  slice of chili pepper to garnish
3. The Virgin Mary
Directions:
OK, so some people might suggest that alcohol post-alcohol is a bad idea. Our first reaction is “pffft.” Our second is to provide you with a non-alcoholic version of the Bloody Mary.
•  3 oz tomato juice
•  1/2 oz lemon juice
•  1 dash of Worcestershire sauce
•  celery salt
•  ground pepper
•  hot pepper or Tabasco sauce
•  celery stalk for garnish
•  pickle garnish for garnish
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council recently launched an effort to enhance social spaces for students, both on- and off-campus, through the creation of a program that will fund large-scale events.
The Large Venue Grant Pilot Program, an initiative with $10,000 to spend for the semester, will grant student groups funds following an application and interview process with the UC Finance Committee. The chair of the committee said that the program will allow for student groups to collaborate and throw big events that otherwise would be exclusive or nonexistent.
“An event of this magnitude is best accomplished when several student groups join forces,” said Finance Committee Chair Ivet A. Bell. “Not only does collaboration allow for greater success, but it breaks the ‘club-members only’ barriers that sometimes leave people without options on a Friday night.”
The Finance Committee placed an emphasis on innovation and collaboration when evaluating applications and deciding which groups to reward with funding, according to Bell.
The previous cap for grants—which was $200—could not fund an off-campus venue like the Sheraton Commander without requiring additional sources of funding, such as charging students for admission. Changing the cap was one of the primary motivations for the Finance Committee’s creation of the program.
“There was never anything free,” Pratyusha Yalamanchi ’13, a Dunster House representative on the Finance Committee, said. “A large complaint last year was that there were parties funded by student groups but you were always charged for a ticket.”
Student groups have already started receiving funds from the program, whose application deadline was March 5. Out of 13 applications, the Finance Committee chose eight for its first round of funding.
The Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association received funding for two separate events, the first of which will be a concert this Saturday, according to Jean J. Shiao ’13, the organization’s treasurer. The second event, called “Crash,” will be a “collaborative social event with Asian organizations,” she said.
The Latino Men’s Collective, which received a grant, will be collaborating with five other student groups to throw a  party at the Sheraton Commander called “All of the Lights.”
“We are trying to throw the party of the year,” J. Andre Mauri ’13, treasurer of the Latino Men’s Collective, said. “Thanks to the UC, we are able to fund it.”
Other groups that have received funding for off-campus functions include the United World Club at Harvard and the Woodbridge International Society, which are collaborating to host an event at the Sheraton Commander in April.
The event, which they have called “80 Minutes Around the World,” will highlight a variety of ethnic foods, dances, and performances, followed by a dance party featuring a mix of international music, according to Gili Vidan ’13, co-president of the United World Club.
“We are trying to create a big event because we are hoping to attract more American students to intermingle with international students,” Vidan said. “This grant is so great because it is an opportunity to have such an event completely free at the Sheraton Commander.”
Bell also said that the large-venue grants do not only reflect the UC’s mission to enhance social life, but they also reflect a cultural and directional change within the Finance Committee.
“We are focusing even more on being welcoming and open to student innovation,” Bell said.
Yalamanchi, the Finance Committee member, agreed.
“In the past, FiCom has always tried to stick to policy,” she said. “The large-venue grants is just one example of how we are trying to fix our policy so that it caters to student life and creativity.”
—Staff writer Rachael E. Apfel can be reached at rachaelapfel@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust has been named the 2011 Jefferson Lecturer in the Humanities by the National Endowment for the Humanities, according to a press release published Monday.
The nomination is the most prestigious honor the federal government awards for distinguished intellectual achievement in the humanities, according to NEH.
“I’m honored by this opportunity,” Faust said in a statement released by the University. “I care deeply about the vital role the humanities play not only in the academy but in the larger civic life of our nation and culture.”
Before being appointed Harvard’s 28th president in 2007, Faust was a preeminent scholar of the Civil War and the American South, focusing her research on the human consequences of the Civil War and its effect on antebellum Southern society.
Her most recent book “This Republic of Suffering: Death and the American Civil War” describes the impact of the Civil War’s tremendous death toll on 19th-century American life and culture. The book won the Bancroft Prize in 2009, was a finalist for a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award, and The New York Times named it one of the “10 Best Books of 2008.”
“It is a rare individual who can break new ground from both the library archives and the president’s podium,” NEH Chairman Jim Leach said in the press release. “Drew Gilpin Faust is a pathfinder, as a scholar and a leader in higher education. This distinguished historian has revealed for us the lives and minds of those confronted by the turbulent social changes of the Civil War era, and then proceeded to apply extraordinary administrative skills to leadership of one of the world’s premiere academic institutions.”
Established in 1972, the Jefferson Lecture recognizes an individual who has made exceptional academic contributions in the humanities and who has the skill to draw widespread interest to the knowledge and philosophy of the humanities. Past Jefferson Lecturers have included Jonathan Spence, John Updike, Henry Louis Gates Jr., Bernard Bailyn, Toni Morrison, Arthur Miller, James McPherson, Barbara Tuchman, and Robert Penn Warren.
Faust will deliver her lecture, titled “Telling War Stories: Reflections of a Civil War Historian,” at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts on May 2, in Washington, D.C.
“I’m particularly pleased to speak this year,” Faust said. “As we reflect on the Civil War and the meanings it continues to hold for how we define ourselves as a nation and how we understand the experience of war, death, and the impact of catastrophic events on all those who live through them.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It started in Mather House five years ago with an idea—take public records and put them online.
Now, Inflection—a technology startup that owns and operates two websites that enable users to find information about other people—is headquartered in Silicon Valley, with its co-founder, Brian Monahan, still playing a leadership role as chief strategy officer.
Monahan, who was a member of the class of 2009, founded Inflection as a sophomore at the College and achieved early success, earning over $50,000 in revenue within the first year.
“I’d always been entrepreneurial, and when I was in college, I looked for opportunities to start a small business,” he said.
When the company began taking off after his sophomore year, Monahan dropped out of school and moved in with his brother and co-founder, Matthew Monahan, in Palo Alto, Calif.
Today, Inflection employs nearly 100 people and is funded by a $30 million venture capital investment.
Inflection maintains two websites: Archives.com, a family history site that collects data on births, deaths, marriages, and divorces, and Peoplesmart.com, an online directory of people with contact information and links to social networking profiles.
The name of the company refers to the inflection point on a curve, reflecting a business model that focuses on using technology and the Internet as a means for rapid growth.
“We see the compounding of technology all around us,” Monahan said. “Twitter just started a revolution.”
Six employees at the company have attended Harvard, including Matthew L. Sundquist ’09, who shared a bathroom with Monahan when they lived in Mather.
“Brian is a remarkable, extraordinary guy,” Sundquist said. “His ability to translate his vision into the reality we have now is inspiring.”
Sundquist also noted how elements of the Harvard community have carried over into the work environment at Inflection. “Harvard encourages you to be independent and self-driven. Here, there’s very little hierarchy, and if an idea is good, it will be examined on its merit.”
Monahan says that success for today’s college graduates is dependent upon the who they surround themselves with and their ability to have fun.
“It is a great lesson to spend some time being self-aware and reflecting on what you want from your life,” said Monahan. “If you like what you do, everything you do will be a lot more powerful.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Professors and scholars from various fields convened yesterday in the crowded Tsai Auditorium to discuss the economic and social recovery prospects for Japan.
The event, titled “Crisis in Japan: the Way Forward,” focused on long-term reconstruction strategies in response to the earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan about two weeks ago.
“Japan is moving out of the initial phase of emergency response,” said Harvard School of Public Health Professor Michael R. Reich, pointing out that coverage of the disaster is “no longer on the front page of The Times.”
Reich addressed possible social risks of the disaster, which could include Japanese citizenry losing trust in their government.
Kotaro Tamura, former Japanese Parliamentary Secretary for Fiscal and Economic Policy and for Financial Affairs offered solutions to concerns about the impact of the disaster on the Japanese economy, including the potentially damaging effect of reduced electric power and potential decreases in overall Japanese spending.
The goal of the event was to move beyond “sensationalist” news coverage and instead focus on an objective analysis of the disaster’s long-term impact, said event organizer Shinju Fujihira, associate director of the US-Japan Relations Program at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs.
William M. Nehring, program coordinator for the program on US-Japan Relations, said that “a wide variety of voices and experiences were represented” at the event.
Doctoral student Naoko Miake, who has attended recent events at Harvard and MIT about the disaster in Japan, said she was impressed by the “interesting combination of experts” present in the panel, noting that it was good to hear from panelists “with hands-on knowledge of issues.”
But event attendee and Brandeis University student Ryo Morimoto said that he had expected more from the panelists.
“A lot was nothing new,” Morimoto said. “I was hoping for more inside information but at the same time I thought it was an interesting discussion.”
“The panel was incredibly informative,” said Midori Takasaki ’14, who was collecting donations for the student group Harvard for Japan following the event.
“It was interesting hearing [the perspectives of] both American and Japanese representatives,” he said.
Panelists also included Takeshi Hikihara, Boston Consul General for Japan, and Yoji Koda, Senior Fellow at the Harvard University Asia Center.
The event was part of the Harvard for Japan week, a week-long series of fundraising and informational events regarding the Japanese disaster.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though many Allston residents welcomed the addition of an all-you-can-eat sushi restaurant to Western Ave., others expressed concern that Harvard’s recent leases have not replaced the neighborhood’s loss of retail businesses at an Allston Civic Association meeting last night.
“I don’t have a problem with that particular restaurant,” local resident Sal Pinchera said. “But I think it’s going to be used by people from outside the community. I think [residents] use Kmart more than they use a sushi restaurant.”
Though the sushi buffet slated to open this summer did not require formal approval, Maki Maki presented its business plan and architectural design to the ACA last night as a courtesy to residents.
Maki Maki is one of the 11 Allston properties Harvard has leased over the past year, as outlined in the University’s three part plan to reinvigorate Western Ave. Many Harvard-owned properties there have been left vacant since the University halted construction on the Allston Science Complex in Dec. 2009 due to financial constraints.
The buffet will occupy a vacant commercial property in the Brighton Mills Shopping Center on Western Ave.
Maki Maki owner Li Jiang and his associate Paul Wang said they aim to integrate the restaurant into the community and hope to attract local university students with its budget prices.
Maki Maki will not serve alcohol, which garnered the approval of several residents.
At a previous meeting, ACA members voted against Stone Hearth Pizza Co.—a local family-style restaurant chain that recently leased a Harvard-owned property in Allston—because of its plan to serve beer and wine.
Maki Maki will offer seating for 180 people and will be open seven days a week for lunch and dinner. Wang added that the new business will create around 30 new jobs.
However, some Allston residents worried that the restaurant’s operations—such as the smell from its dumpsters and food deliveries—will disturb the residences abutting the property.
“Even if [residents] enjoy going to the restaurant, they may not enjoy living near it,” Pinchera said.
Allston resident Tom Puglia said that he believes Maki Maki will bring variety to the community, which does not currently offer sushi.
“[Maki Maki] is different,” Puglia said. “There are pizza joints up the street, but there’s nothing like it in this area. The closest place to get sushi is probably across the [Charles] River.”
However, he emphasized that he does not want Western Ave. to become only a restaurant hot spot and instead desires more businesses that cater to the everyday needs of residents.
University spokesperson Lauren Marshall highlighted the activity and liveliness the restaurant will add to Western Ave.
“This new business will bring great cuisine, new jobs, and invigorate this corner of Brighton Mills Shopping Center,” Marshall wrote in an email.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the wake of a recent push from Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds to enforce the College’s alcohol policy more uniformly, Pforzheimer House Committee canceled this weekend’s biannual “Pfoho Golf.”
The event violates the College’s alcohol policy—which Hammonds reiterated to House masters recently—according to Pforzheimer House Committee Co-Chair Graham M. Frankel ’12.
During Pfoho Golf, groups of students traveled to designated rooms throughout the House, each of which had its own themed “hole” and offered unique alcoholic drinks or nonalcoholic events like “Oreo Pong.”
The golf event did not meet the College’s requirement that College officials, like tutors, or a designated Student Event Services team check IDs for House sponsored events, according to the Pforzheimer House Masters.
Since the committee was not made aware of the policy until shortly before the event’s scheduled Saturday date, it was unable to ensure that Pfoho Golf met the requirements outlined in the College’s alcohol policy, Frankel said.
The news of the event’s cancellation set off a flurry of messages on the House’s open list last night.
In an email sent to the entire Pforzheimer House community, House Masters Nicholas A. Christakis and Erika L. Christakis ’86 wrote that an event like “Pfoho Golf” requires that no hard alcohol be served and necessitates the presence of a SES team—people responsible for checking IDs, mixing drinks, and supervising the distribution of alcohol. SES is the new term for what was previously referred to as a BAT team.
In their email, the Christakises expressed support for a “different sort of party” from Pfoho Golf.
Matthew S. Chuchul ’13, HoCo social chair, said that HoCo is “definitely looking into” an alternative type of party.
Many residents expressed dissatisfaction with the cancellation of the event.
“I think it’s an event that brings the House together,” said Chuchul, who is also an inactive Crimson editorial board editor.
Many residents of Pforzheimer said they were upset that the event had been canceled, saying that the main purpose of the event was not to drink, but rather to unite the House and allow them to meet other students.
According to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal, no changes have been made “to the long-standing College alcohol policy” and Hammonds’ reminder to House Masters was motivated by a desire to ensure that all College policies—not just those related to alcohol—be implemented uniformly throughout all 12 Houses.
Hammonds believes that the lack of consistency in enforcing College policies “only serves to undermine our commitment to provide the best environment for all students in the College,” wrote Neal.
Despite the cancellation of the Pforzheimer event, it remains to be seen how other Houses will react to this push to enforce the consistent application of College policy among Harvard’s often disjointed Houses.
Some Houses already have SES teams in place at their events and therefore will likely not have to make drastic changes to their Houses’ policies for major events that serve alcohol.
Mather House Committee Co-Chair Andrew F. Iannone ’12 said that having an SES force regulating alcohol would hurt the House’s happy hours.
“I think having that kind of outside force that’s mandated by the College feels like an intrusion,” he said.
—Stephanie B. Garlock contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Monika L.S. Robbins can be reached at mrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Marking the second time in a row that three artists will perform at Yardfest, Far East Movement, The White Panda, and Sam Adams will play at the spring College-wide concert on April 17, the College Events Board and the Harvard College Concert Commission announced last night.
Far East Movement, a four-man hip-hop group, is best known for 2010’s “Like a G6,” which has topped the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.  White Panda, the mashup team of Tom Evans and Dan Griffith, has previously toured with last year’s Yardfest artist Wale and 2011’s third artist Sam Adams. Adams, a 21-year-old Massachusetts native who has opened for the Ying Yang Twins, is a rapper known for his mixing of hip-hop and electronica.
“It will be a really exciting and energetic show that the student body will really enjoy,” said CEB vice-chair Randa S. Dreznick ’12.  While in past years the concert has been held in Tercentenary Theatre, Dreznick said that this year’s location has not been confirmed yet.
Organizers anticipate higher attendance at this year’s concert because April 17 overlaps with “Visitas”—the visiting weekend for high school students who have been offered admission to the College.  This, however, was not intentional. According to CEB chair Crystal Y. Coser ’12, the date of Yardfest is dependent on what date works best for the artists that would be most satisfying for the student body.
And the excitement surrounding visiting students can be an “added bonus,” Yardfest co-chair Spenser R. Goodman ’14 said. “It’s going to pump up the atmosphere because there will be more people here,” he added.
The artists for the sixth annual concert were chosen, in part, based on a survey about potential genres for Yardfest artists sent to undergraduates this fall. According to Goodman, the results indicated an overwhelming demand for Top 40 and hip-hop music.
“The three artists really complement each other in terms of their genre,” Dreznick said.
They were chosen by a subcommittee of the two sponsoring organizations, according to Fellow for Student Life Andrés Castro Samayoa ’10, who serves as the adviser to the CEB and the subcommittee. Organizers began discussing the concert in November and narrowed down the artists in December, according to Goodman. They entered the contract phase about a month ago and finished signing contracts yesterday.
Coser said that she thinks the CEB did particularly well in choosing headliners given the budgetary and scheduling constraints of Yardfest.
Far East Movement spent two weeks touring with Rihanna earlier this month. This spring, The White Panda will also play at Virginia Tech, Lafayette College, and the University of Alabama.
—Staff writer Stephanie B. Garlock can be reached at sgarlock@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Monika L. S. Robbins can be reached at mrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Led by chants of “Let Joya Speak,” a crowd of about 25 protesters attended a rally yesterday in Harvard Square to protest the U.S. government’s decision to deny a travel visa to an Afghani activist.
The activist, Malalai Joya, was supposed to speak Friday alongside Professor Noam Chomsky at an event called “The Case for Withdrawal from Afghanistan.”
Ralph Lopez, a protester, said that he came out for the rally because he believes that Joya has an important perspective on the U.S. presence in Afghanistan.
“It’s important that people hear Malalai’s point of view and her opinions about what’s really going on in Afghanistan because the American media doesn’t tell us,” said Lopez.
“She believes that American troops are doing more harm than good and she’s calling for a withdrawal of American troops and that’s not something the Obama administration wants American people to hear.”
Nancy Murray, director of education at the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, said that the Obama administration has not abandoned the practice of excluding those critical of its actions.
Murray, who attended the rally, said that if public pressure is not able to reverse the visa decision, the ACLU would consider bringing the case to court.
There is precedent for similar cases. The ACLU won court decisions that ultimately granted Tariq Ramadan and Adam Habib visas despite initial visa denials.
“In those cases, the courts agreed that excluding these people was a violation of our first amendment right to hear and interact with these people, and the same is now happening again,” said Murray.
However, Murray said that because the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad has not released official documentation about why Joya’s visa was denied, she could not yet definitively call the visa denial an act of ideological exclusion, although organizers of the rally, said that his main goal was to raise awareness in the community both about Joya’s visa denial and about ways that people can voice their opinions and change the decision.
“We wanted to let all of the people interested in the event know not only that she has been denied a visa, but that we can do something about it,” said Petersen-Smith.
He added that those involved in the rally wanted to send a message to the government that its actions to exclude activists like Joya will not go unnoticed.
“People are not going to stand for it,” said Petersen-Smith.
Visa or no visa, Neil Peterman, a member of the International Socialist Organization and student at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, said that Joya will speak at Friday’s event either by telephone or in a video conference.
—Staff writer Monica M. Dodge can be reached at mdodge@college.harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This week University president Drew G. Faust will explore Harvard’s involvement in Latin America though a week of travel in Chile and Brazil.
The trip is part of Faust’s effort to emphasize global education and is one of a series of international voyages that she has embarked on since becoming president. In 2009, Faust was the second Harvard president to visit the continent of Africa.
Faust—who traveled from Chile to Brazil yesterday—met with government and academic leaders, visited a childhood education program, and participated in a symposium on Chile’s earthquake reconstruction.
“The timing is also poignant because an important element of the visit involves looking for ways in which Harvard faculty and students can learn from and participate in reconstruction efforts in Chile following last February’s terrible earthquake and tsunami,” wrote Harvard Kennedy School Dean David T. Ellwood ’75, who is also on the trip, on the Harvard Gazette’s blog.
On Monday, Faust met with President of Chile Sebastián Piñera, who received his master’s degree and Ph.D. from Harvard.
Piñera mentioned the “Harvard boys” in his cabinet, including the finance minister, the planning and cooperation minister, and the minister of justice—all Harvard alumni.
Faust and Piñera committed to promoting an increase in the number of Chilean students enrolling in Harvard through a proposed partnership between Harvard and the program Becas Chile.
That evening, at a State dinner held in honor of President Obama—who was also in Chile at the time—Piñera said in Spanish, “Forty years ago, Mr. President, I had the privilege of studying for a doctoral degree in the same University where you and your wife studied law, Harvard University, whose president, Drew Faust, is with us today.”
Faust spoke about the challenges and opportunities facing research universities in an increasingly global context with the presidents of Chile’s leading universities.
“Given the influence that Chile and Brazil have had in the economic and political arena in the past decade, I think it is very important that Harvard is taking an interest in this region,” said Giselle M. Huerta ’12, who grew up in Chile.
Jorge I. Dominguez, vice provost for international affairs, discussed the benefits of international partnerships in the sciences and advocated for strengthened relations between the Harvard Graduate School of Education and Harvard Medical School with foundations and government in Chile.
Garcia said she would like to see more partnerships between Harvard and universities in Chile. Harvard could bring a multi-disciplinary and liberal arts approach and fresh perspective to Chile’s more specialized educational system, she said.
On Tuesday, Faust participated in a symposium with government leaders, representatives from NGOs, and Harvard faculty on the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami that devastated Chile in February of 2010.
“I feel fortunate to be here today to help introduce the next stage of what had already been a strong and mutually beneficial partnership between Harvard and Chile,” Faust said at the symposium, according to the Harvard Gazette.
Ellwood also attended the symposium and spoke abut the need for disaster preparation and partnership in recovery.
“If you see a problem and want to make a difference before and after, you have to make it vivid,” Ellwood said.
Faust also attended a ceremony on Monday honoring the partnership between Harvard, the Municipality of Estación Central in Santiago, a number of universities, the Fundación Oportunidad, and the ministries of education, health and planning.
The ceremony took place in a kindergarten classroom of the Estación Central School, which was repainted in honor of Faust’s visit.
Faust was welcomed by the mayor of Estación Central, who discussed the importance of Un Buen Comienzo—a childhood education program modeled on Head Start.
Faculty at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and the Harvard Medical School are currently working with the Chilean UBS team to evaluate lesson plans and teaching.
Garcia said that if she were in Chile, she would show President Faust the coast to explore the heritage and local food.
“She would have to have a marisco empanada,” Garcia said of the famed seafood dish.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
CORRECTION: MAR. 28, 2011
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
The Mar. 24 article "Faust Visits Chile, Brazil" incorrectly stated that University President Drew G. Faust was the first Harvard president to visit the African continent. In fact, former University President Derek C. Bok first visited Africa on a trip in 1975.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jason Aquino, one of the three men charged in the May 2009 killing in Kirkland House, pleaded guilty yesterday to manslaughter, armed robbery, and misleading a grand jury.
Aquino, 21, was previously charged with first-degree murder in the slaying of the 21-year-old Cambridge resident Justin Cosby but negotiated an agreement with the prosecution to plead to the lesser charge of manslaughter.
According to Matthew A. Kamholtz, Aquino’s attorney, the defense and prosecution have agreed on 18 to 20 years as a recommended sentence—the high end of the possible prison time for a manslaughter conviction in Massachusetts.
According to court documents, Aquino made a plea agreement in Sept. 2009 in which he would have pleaded guilty only to accessory after the fact to an armed robbery and possession of a firearm and been sentenced to no more than five years in jail. But the state ended this agreement in March 2010 and indicted Aquino for murder, armed robbery, and intimidation of a juror.
Prosecutors said in court documents that they nullified that agreement with Aquino because he lied about his involvement in the Kirkland crime—including stating that he was in the courtyard in front of the Kirkland annex during the shooting, rather than inside the building as the testimony of three eyewitnesses established.
“Jason Aquino’s version of events was meant to drastically minimize his involvement in Cosby’s murder,” prosecutors wrote.
Under his new guilty plea yesterday, Aquino has not agreed to testify at the trial of Jabrai Jordan Copney—the defendant who is accused of firing the shot that killed Cosby.
“The case is over as far as [Aquino’s] concerned,” Kamholtz told The Crimson.
Aquino’s sentence will be determined in court on May 2—after 22-year-old Copney’s trial, which is set to begin on April 4.
Blayn Jiggetts, 21, the third defendant indicted for Cosby’s murder, has also agreed to plead guilty to the lesser count of manslaughter, the Boston Globe reported last week.
Two attorneys involved in the case confirmed that Jiggetts will testify at Copney’s trial as a condition of his plea bargain.
James D. Cormier, a criminal defense lawyer and a former Middlesex assistant district attorney, said that Jiggetts’ guilty plea may not come until after the conclusion of Copney’s trial since Jiggetts, unlike Aquino, must serve as a truthful witness at Copney’s trial as part of his plea agreement.
“They may choose to essentially hold off the plea until after he testifies to make sure he testifies to what they expect him to testify,” Cormier said. “They might delay the entire sentencing and plea process until after the testimony is given so that they can ensure he lives up to his part of the deal.”
Prosecutors say that Aquino, Copney, and Jiggetts entered the basement of Kirkland’s J-entryway on May 18, 2009, with the intention of stealing drugs from Cosby, a Cambridge resident who they claim sold marijuana to Harvard students.
According to Jiggetts’ testimony in court documents, Jiggetts asked Aquino if he could use a gun owned by Aquino for the “drug rip” that he and Copney were planning at Harvard. Aquino said he needed at least $500 to pay his rent and asked to join in on the robbery, the documents say.
Aquino allegedly showed Jiggetts two guns but said that he could not use one because it had “four or five bodies on it.”
Brittany J. Smith, the fourth defendant charged in connection to the shooting, was a senior in Lowell House and Copney’s girlfriend at the time of the shooting. Prosecutors allege that she hid the murder weapon after the crime was committed and helped the three men flee to New York City, among other crimes.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard senior running back Gino Gordon was named to the American Youth Football Alumni Ring of Honor this week after a storied career on the field as a member of the Crimson football team. The AYF recognizes players who are “focused on promoting good sportsmanship, teamwork, high moral and physical standards and the importance of scholarship and academic achievement.”
On the gridiron, Gordon was named Ivy League Rookie of the Week twice in 2007. He was on the All-Ivy second team as a sophomore and earned a first-team nod in both his junior and senior years. At the end of this past season, Gordon was a co-recipient of the Asa S. Bushnell Cup following his 1,059 rushing yards and 10 touchdowns.
Gordon was one of six football players inducted into the Ring of Honor this year, including Jets wide receiver Santonio Holmes and Rams defensive end Chris Long. Check out the full release here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
November 9, 2007.
The Harvard men’s basketball team is in Palo Alto to play Stanford in the first game of Tommy Amaker’s tenure as head coach. A sophomore guard named Jeremy Lin struggles to zero points while Cardinal center Robin Lopez—his brother Brook recently deemed academically ineligible—torches Harvard inside. The Crimson is blown out, 111-56. It would finish 8-22 on the season, 3-11 in conference play.
February 5, 2011.
Same coach, different roster. Harvard is at home this time, where it was a perfect 14-0 on the season. Along with the Lopez twins, Lin has moved on to the NBA. The Crimson now features an abundance of young talent highlighted by Keith Wright, the Ivy League Player of the Year, and his frontcourt mate Kyle Casey, 2009’s best rookie. Behind the latter’s 24 points, Harvard topples Princeton, 79-67, to clinch a share of the Ivy League title for the first time in the program’s hundred-year history. It finishes the regular season 23-5, 12-2 in the Ancient Eight.
Before the season, I wrote a column entitled “Harvard Basketball Poised for Greatness.” But nobody expected that greatness would come this quickly. Though the start of the Amaker era was not pretty, what has happened in the three-and-a-half years since has been nothing short of remarkable.
In a conference in which recruiting is limited by academic restrictions, Amaker has been able to transform a program with a history of woefulness into one that was top 40 in the country this season. He has quickly turned the Crimson into a place that nationally elite recruits strongly consider attending over the top basketball schools in the country.
Sure, “greatness” here must be taken in context. Harvard is not Duke, or Kentucky, or Kansas. And before the Crimson wins at least two NCAA tournament games, it’s not even Cornell. But considering Harvard’s history and comparing what its basketball was to what it is now, the word “great” certainly seems to be an appropriate adjective.
And the success is only just beginning. Of course, the buzzer-beater loss to the Tigers in the Ivy League playoff was nothing short of heartbreaking. It’s a sickening feeling that 2.8 seconds can change the entire perception of a team’s season. But in that time, Harvard was transformed from the team whose student body had stormed the court in celebration one weekend—the one the national media, even the great Bill Simmons, had taken a strong interest in—into the team that had fallen for a pump-fake off an inbounds play against the same team the next. All that interest, all the success, gone in a whirlwind of ESPN replays and NCAA tournament brackets.
The national media may have forgotten; the NCAA and NIT selection committees may not have taken notice (I won’t get into how the University of Alabama “Zero Quality Wins” Birmingham got offered a spot in the Dance, or how it was subsequentally decided to make the Cinderella story with the highest RPI left out of the tournament into a NIT six-seed and send it to the middle of Oklahoma to play on zero days of rest).
But one group that didn’t forget was the student body, which united around its team this season in a way normally only reserved for the Harvard-Yale football game. Single-handedly, a coach turned a squad of inherited misfits into one of BCS-level talent, and in so doing transformed a group of astrophysicists, economists, and historians into passionate basketball fans. He turned a school of skeptics into literal believers. That is what is truly important about what Amaker has done.
Yes, the Crimson fell short of its March Madness goal this season. The expression “there’s always next year” is a common one in sports, but is more often applied to professional teams than collegiate ones that lose players to graduation and drafts.
But the saying is appropriate here. With the entire team returning and an exceptionally strong recruiting class coming in, Harvard has the potential to be something special. If the players improve as they would be expected to—if Wright perfects his short jumper, if Casey gets stronger, and if Christian Webster and Laurent Rivard become more consistent shooters—it’s easy to foresee the Crimson in the same position as mid-majors like Richmond and VCU at this time next year.
Amaker has transformed the student body. Now he has the means to turn his team into something truly great—not just Harvard great, not just Ivy great, but nationally Top-25 great.
And that is something none of the computer geniuses could have predicted in Palo Alto three-and-a-half years ago.
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard men’s lightweight crew kicks off its spring season this weekend on the Charles River against Delaware. The Crimson wrapped up its fall season in style, showing off both its depth and speed at the Head of the Charles, where both the A and B boat finished in the top four.
“Based purely on the enthusiasm in the team and the degree of improvement we’ve seen since the fall season I’d say we have a pretty good team,” Harvard coach Charley Butt said. “But we’re just going into the season and it’s always difficult [to predict]. Sometimes problems come up that you just can’t predict. But I feel like our senior class and captain Will Newell have done a great job.”
Last year the Crimson swept the regular season, beating out top-ranked Princeton in the final weeks of competition to go into EARC Sprints with a 10-0 record. But the Tigers bounced back to reclaim their first-place team title, edging out Harvard by five points. Princeton continued on to win the IRA National Championships where the Crimson placed third behind the Tigers and Navy.
Over the summer Harvard also found success overseas, winning races against Yale, Oxford and Cambridge in Xinjin, China. The Crimson also got a chance to beat their ancient rivals in Beijing on the same course used for the 2008 Olympics.
This year Harvard is once again looking to be a contender on the national scene, especially with the addition of a strong sophomore class that went undefeated in last year’s duel season.
“Going undefeated in the regular season is pretty special,” freshman coach Linda Muri said. “It is very rare at the freshman level to be able to do that.  How that translates at the varsity level is up to them through the hard work that they’re willing to put in to make a difference.”
“[The sophomores] asserted themselves last fall, and they have continued to do a great job,” Butt added. “One great thing about the senior class is how well they’ve welcomed the sophomores for their talent and ability to work hard. Our captain Will Newell has really been a big part of the team dynamics and helping everyone come together.”
Strong team dynamics will be crucial this year. Every race is essential to the team’s record, with so few weekends of competition lying between them and Eastern Sprints in Worcester, Mass., on May 15.
“The team’s coming together like it has all of the four years I’ve been here,” Newell said. “We have a great team dynamic and we’re working hard. We’re as strong as we’ve ever been, we’re as fast as we’ve ever been and we’re about to go out there and do what it takes to put us in the mix as a national team.”
This year’s league is looking faster than ever.
“We don’t want to overlook the entire league [focusing on Princeton],” Butt said. “Cornell has had some of the fastest ergometer times in the league and then Princeton as back-to-back champions obviously looks very formidable.”
The Crimson will be facing Cornell and Penn on April 9 on the Schuylkill River and will welcome the Tigers and the Bulldogs to home water on April 30 in its the last race before Sprints. April 23 will be another big weekend on Harvard water as the team faces off against the Midshipmen, last year’s IRA silver medalist.
Meanwhile the freshman team has also been hard at work preparing for the spring season and will try to fill the shoes of last year’s freshman and their undefeated record.
“We’ve been preparing for the racing season like everyone else,” Muri said. “[We have been] working hard indoors on the erg and taking advantage of two-a-days during spring break. We want to do the best we can every weekend.”
The team will need all of its boats to succeed.
“We have two goals this season,” Newel said. “The first is to win the national championships, which is something we’ve been looking at for a while. The second is to win the Jope Cup at the Sprints, a trophy which goes to the team with the most points. That’s something that’s indicative of the strength of our team as a whole, while the national championships will be indicative of the strength of our fastest boat.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the tender age of 14, Temi Fagbenle swapped her tennis racket for basketball shoes in order to increase her chances of gaining admission to a top university. So, she relocated for the fourth time—having previously moved to London from Baltimore and Nigeria—to Blairstown, New Jersey to attend Blair Academy and focus on her on-court game.
Almost four years later, the current high school senior’s sacrifices paid off: Fagbenle has attracted her fair share of Division I offers from the likes of Duke, Boston College and Georgetown, but settled on Harvard with ease.
"Well it's Harvard," she said during her athlete of the week interview for SportsIllustrated.com. "There really wasn't much competition."
The 6’4” forward averages 16.6 points and 9.3 rebounds, and is known to be defensive threat too. Along with her current SportsIllustrated.com Athlete of the week honor, Fagbenle earned a variety of other accolades including the New Jersey Gatorade Player of the Year, McDonald's All-American honors, and an invitation to train with England for the European Championships.
Now that she’s committed to Harvard, Fagbenle looks forward to maintaining solid grades—like her 3.4 GPA in high school—, and a close relationship with her 11 siblings, but also looks forward to the opportunity to help the women’s basketball team to their first Ivy League title since 2007.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a spring break road trip to the Golden State in which it suffered a trio of losses, the Harvard men’s volleyball team (7-9, 0-4 EIVA) looked to rebound last night against Springfield College (12-11, 7-7). Instead of bouncing back from its West Coast defeats, the Crimson was swept by the Pride in Baker Arena by scores of 25-18, 25-21, 25-14, respectively.
Springfield seemed to handle this match from the get-go, as at no point during the match did Harvard hold a lead. On the first point of the opening set, Pride sophomore setter Mike Becker assisted opposite side hitter senior Alberto Bravo for a kill. From that point on, Bravo never looked back and converted on a match-high 16 kills. The senior finished with an attack percentage of .565.
“[Bravo] had a hell of a game,” said freshman outside hitter Kyle Rehkemper.
On the other side of the net, outside hitter junior Matt Jones led Harvard in kills, finishing with nine of the team’s 20. In spite of his team-high, the junior was not happy with the Harvard’s performance against Springfield.
“We played what might have been our sloppiest match of the year,” Jones said. “We didn’t play strongly in any aspect of the game.”
Aside from Jones, Harvard’s typical contributors were quiet in the match. The young tandem of Rehkemper and fellow freshmen Chris Gibbons and Michael Owen scored four, four, and 4.5 points, respectively.
Midway through the first set, the Crimson was not far behind the Pride. In spite of a few early errors, Harvard faced a three-point deficit with the score at 14-11. Three kills and a block by Springfield blew the first set open, giving the Pride an 18-11 lead. The Crimson never came within five points of Springfield after the streak, and eventually fell by seven points.
Harvard was able to make the second set more competitive. Though it never led, the Crimson knotted the score at 11 apiece with a service ace by Owen. Harvard errors and the Pride’s middle hitter senior Cal Palumbo allowed Springfield to take a 2-0 match lead. Palumbo was a key part of the Pride’s 15-9 kill advantage in the second game.
When the two teams met earlier this season the Crimson won, 3-1. Members of the Harvard squad recognized the improved play of their opponents, but felt that their own poor performance was more prevalent.
“They served better than the last time we played them,” Jones said. “They didn’t hurt themselves with errors as much, but it wasn’t anything that we haven’t seen before. We just didn’t handle it tonight.”
The Crimson’s shortcomings were most apparent in the final set of last night’s match, as it fell to Springfield by a score of 25-14. Though it was only in a two-point hole early in the set at 7-5, Harvard committed three errors, and the Pride converted a service ace and a kill to go ahead by seven and seal the deal. A ten-point cushion prompted Springfield to bring in its reserves for the final points of the game. Harvard only managed to tally four kills in the final set.
“We didn’t show up tonight,” Rehkemper said. “We came out flat in the beginning, and we just didn’t pick up a spark.”
The Crimson’s early woes may be attributable to the team’s recent spring break trip.
“I don’t know if it was spring break or just rust,” Jones said, “We didn’t bring any intensity or focus into this game at all.”
Last night’s match was a part of Harvard’s late-season stretch of league play. The Crimson finishes the regular season with a span of seven Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association matches.
“We’ve got a lot of things that we need to improve upon,” Jones said. “We just need to have a great practice tomorrow and get ready for Friday against NYU. That’s going to be a big league match for us.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite the Harvard baseball team’s 1-13 start to the season, not all is lost with the Crimson able to ride the strong play of senior pitcher Max Perlman.
The 6-foot-7, 230-pound right-hander heads into the weekend with a 1.40 ERA and 19 strikeouts in just over 19 innings.
Perlman pointed out his offseason dedication as the key for his impressive start.
“[I] worked very hard in the offseason and had a good experience this past summer when I got to play with some guys that were very good and will definitely play professional baseball,” Perlman said. “I definitely learned from them.”
Perlman’s dedication and competiveness allow him to go out and turn in solid performances for Harvard.
“Most of the games I pitched have been pretty close, and at that point your competitive nature takes over,” Perlman said. “I think that’s what has driven me to do well so far this spring—just the desire to compete.”
Despite the season's early struggles, Perlman believes there is still time for the team to turn things around.
“We have had a tough start, and we are just tying to take it step by step and one weekend at a time,” Perlman said. “Our goal is to try to win the Ivy League Championship this season. And we are trying to break up the large goal into smaller goals that we can achieve everyday we go out there.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
CRIMSON TEAMS SPRING INTO ACTION
10: Number of teams featured in the Magic of Numbers countdown.
9: Number of groundballs and goals junior midfielder Melanie Baskind has picked up this season. She leads the women’s lacrosse team in groundballs.
8: Number of victories sophomore Thomas Kolasa racked up in the men's sabre competition for Harvard during the first day of the NCAA fencing championship. He led the squad and is currently in ninth place overall.
7: Number of positions Harvard held in the top-15 at NCAA Northeast Region Championship. Freshman Alexandra Kiefer took the top spot in foil while, junior Noam took the title in epee.
6: Number of seniors on lightweight women’s crew.
5: Number of victories men’s lacrosse has attained so far this season.
4: Number of females on the men’s heavyweight crew team: Crimson Staff Writer Alex Sopko, Colby Wilkason, Tian Feng, and Catherine Caputo lower the astronomical testosterone levels while steering the team to victory.
3: The place freshman springer Nicole Silva earned in the Shirley Crowe Multi Meet in Houston, Texas over spring break. She finished with 4,433 points.
2: Number of homeruns the men’s baseball team has hit this year. Juniors Jeff Reynolds and Marcus Way have one apiece.
1: The place freshman Bonnie Hu tied for in the women’s golf spring opener over spring break in California.
0: Number of seniors on the men’s golf roster. With four freshman, one sophomore, and three juniors, the team has youthful feel this season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
At a school that knows how to keep its secrets, Sherlock HUHDS is still trying to find the answers to life's persistent dining questions.
As the piles of snow in the yard melt away, so does one of students' favorite HUHDS dishes: the Korean BBQ station. Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services transitioned to its spring menu on Monday, eliminating Korean BBQ, a staple in the winter menu that was offered every Tuesday.
"With each season menu, we also change the make-your-own stations to feature something new or different," said Crista Martin, the director of marketing and communication for HUHDS.
Because Korean BBQ is one of the most popular menus among students with "very passionate and devoted fans," Martin said HUHDS will continue to cook it, but in two new recipes: Spicy Bulgogi Steak Quesadilla and Korean BBQ Beef Quesadilla.
"[The spring menu] includes old favorites, recipes which have been refined to be more authentic, and all-new items," Martin said.
Other additions to the spring menu include the new Chicken Shawarma station starting April 9, as well as Chicken Dumpling Soup, Mahi Mahi with Mango Salsa, St. Louis Style BBQ Ribs, and Peppermint Fudge Cake.
Sections
Caught up in the frenzy of March Madness and hoping to shoot some hoops yourself? You can play basketball to benefit a great cause this Saturday at the MAC.
The Harvard Cancer Society has joined with the Black Men's Forum and An Evening with Champions to bring you Hoops Against Cancer, a three-on-three benefit basketball tournament. Play will start off round robin-style, and teams will then be seeded into a tournament bracket, according to Christopher J. Guenard '12, one of the event organizers.
Teams can register in advance by signing up outside the Science Center or online. Preregistration costs $20 per team. Teams can also sign up on the day of the tournament for $25.
Proceeds will benefit The Jimmy Fund, an organization which supports cancer research and treatment at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute.
"Having family that received treatment at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute, I wanted to find a way to give to this charity," Guenard wrote in an email.
All teams will win the satisfaction of knowing that they have contributed to a worthy cause. The last team standing will also take home the grand prize of three iPods.
Guenard wrote that the event, held from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., is free to spectators and will feature free pizza and other refreshments. Players and spectators alike will be invited to participate in a half-court shooting contest and other activities. Jimmy Fund merchandise and some other surprises will be handed out to the lucky winners.
Sections
Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank '61 will discuss ethics and human rights among other topics at Pforzheimer House tonight at 7:15 p.m.
 The lecture, co-sponsored by the Pforzheimer House Pforum and the Atherton Lecture, will be in Pforzheimer's Holmes Living Room.
The event is free and open to the public. Pforzheimer has set up 125 chairs for the event, but make sure to arrive early to secure a seat.
Sections
Playtime? At Harvard? Yes, that's right. As of last night, the days of playing with Play-Doh and LEGOs at school are not over.
A new space known as The HappyNest, located on the third floor of the Student Organization Center at Hilles, held its grand opening last night. Sponsored by the Harvard Wellness Center, the Undergraduate Council, and the SOCH, The HappyNest is filled with a plethora of games and activities.
The LEGO station has more plastic bricks than any eight-year-old could dream of. Elsewhere, students can find mini golf, remote-controlled cars, video games, and art supplies. For opening night, The HappyNest distributed green silly putty, offered massages from StressBusters, and hosted a competition to win "VERI HAPPY" T-shirts.
"We're thrilled with the turnout," HappyNest staff member Richard M. Maopolski '13 said. "We were shooting for 50 people, and there's more than 200 here."
Given the intense workload that many Harvard students face, The HappyNest is meant to be a place where students can take a break from work for a little while.
"You can do things actively to make yourself less stressed," said Leslie R. Rith-Najarian '12, who founded The Happiness Project, a student initiative which led to The HappyNest's creation."It's just a matter of asking the question in the morning of, 'How do I get things done but at the same time keep myself happy?'"
The HappyNest seems to have done its job last night: dozens of students were laughing and enjoying themselves while participating in their favorite childhood activities. The overall atmosphere was carefree and vivacious.
"I do feel like, when I go back to my room and have to read, that I will be more prepared for it because I'll be nice and relaxed to do it," Anastasia M. Walhovd '13 said while making figures out of Play-Doh.
Sections
Many questions swirled in the minds of anxious freshmen on Housing Day eve. Will I get lost in the world of Quinception? Will the Quad be able to handle me right now? Will I get Lev, and will it feel so good?
This year's Housing Day, full of the usual half-dressed upperclassman and shell-shocked freshmen, was prefaced by some truly spectacular YouTube videos. The folks at Satire V thought it was about time the Harvard community acknowledge the hard work of the House Committees that produced these films. To do so, they created the first annual Housie Awards.
"We want to prolong the Housing Day spirit" rather than abandon the videos to the archives of YouTube, said Jeremy Patashnik '12, an editor-in-chief of Satire V.
"We want to recognize the outstanding effort the HoCos put into making these videos," Patashnik added.
Students can cast their votes for the best video achievement in several categories on the Housie website. Only videos released in 2011 are eligible for this year's Housie Awards.
A week after polls close on April 1, Satire V will film a short ceremony honoring the winners and post that video online, Patashnik said. The winning individuals and House Committees will receive gold-painted vuvuzelas.
