News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Placebos may have beneficial effects even if the patient is completely aware of the medicine’s inert nature, according to a recent Harvard-affiliated report.
The study explored the importance of a familiar routine in health care beyond the direct medicinal effects, including positive doctor-patient relations and regimented medicinal care.
Conducted by scientists at Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, the study found that regularly taking prescribed medicine and receiving warm, friendly advice from physicians may have inherent benefits.
“The long term goal is to elevate and harness the self-healing capacity of the ritual of medicine, the patient-physician relationship, and the power of imagination, will, and belief,” said  Ted J. Kaptchuk, associate professor of medicine at BIDMC who led the study and plans to start a new center for the study of placebos at BIDMC in July.
In the study, the scientists divided a group of 80 people suffering from irritable bowel syndrome into two groups.
One group received no drugs, while the other group was told to take a placebo twice a day.
After three weeks, 59 percent of those taking the dummy pill said they experienced “adequate relief” of their symptoms even though they knew the pill was a placebo. Only 35 percent of the control subjects reported the same response.
Across three other standard outcome measures for IBS, those taking the placebo had results about twice as positive as the control group.
According to John M. Kelley, a researcher on the study and an instructor in psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital, placebos have been shown to have up to 80 percent of the effect of some medicines.
He said that the subjects for this study were not required to believe that placebos are effective, but they were told to keep an open mind about the use of placebos and their possible significant positive effects.
“It’s basically a sales job, to sell the placebo as an effective treatment,” said Anthony J. Lembo, associate professor of medicine at BIDMC who also worked on the study.
The researchers said the trial—published Dec. 22 in PLoS One—was preliminary, and that the broader implications of the findings remained unclear. They hope to conduct a larger study soon to confirm the results and to eventually run studies incorporating other illnesses.
“The study highlights the effect of the mind on the body,” Lembo said. “None of us believe this will cure cancer.”
—Staff Writer Benjamin M. Scuderi can be reached at bscuderi@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The housing day videos released thus far have been fairly tame in the sense that they haven't singled out their rival Houses for ridicule. Currier and Pforzheimer, however, are stepping up their campaigns with new videos that not only claim they are the best, but that other Houses are the worst.
Currier has joined the fray with a teaser trailer for a video based on "Inception." Wait, didn't Quincy already do this? They did, but apparently Currierites think Quincyites suffer from "Quineptitude." Currier also has a tumblr featuring the teaser trailer and housing day videos from years past.
Last year, we saw Hitler rant about being put in Adams. This year, Pfoho shows us the allied side of the story by dubbing footage from "The King's Speech." In this year's video, King George VI is assigned to Leverett and displays a rather incoherent reaction.
Now that housing day is getting personal, it's only a matter of time before the other Houses attempt to assert their superiority.
Sections
Snow  may still be falling, but the Registrar's Office is looking ahead to  the warmer days of exam week. If you want to buy plane tickets or are  eager to count down the days to your first day of post-exam freedom,  check out the final exam schedule here.
Sections
We noticed that HUHDS' electronic kiosks across campus have been updated with the following text: "Severe winter temperatures in tomato-growing regions have adversely affected product quality and availability. The small supply of tomatoes at an acceptable quality is cost prohibitive. As a result, HUHDS has determined to remove fresh tomatoes from our menus until such time as the quality improves."
For more information, check out "HUHDS Removes Tomatoes."
Sections
Want to exercise without freezing in the cold or get trampled by law school students at Hemenway? Take a climb on the wild side and try bouldering. Located underneath Lowell A entryway, the Lowell wall just added new routes for the season. First visit is free, so get climbing today!
