News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The yield for Harvard College’s class of 2015 increased to nearly 77 percent, up slightly from 75.5 percent last year, the University announced Thursday. Harvard’s yield, which measures what percentage of accepted students choose to attend, is typically among the highest in the nation.
In the same announcement, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said that he anticipates his office will admit approximately 10 to 15 students off the waitlist this year, with some decisions potentially coming as early as Tuesday. This number is far lower than the 50 to 125 Fitzsimmons has said his office generally hopes to admit each year.
“We try to create a class that will educate each other in dorms, in dining halls, in classrooms, and in extracurricular activities. [In this sense,] this class has the potential to be the greatest class in the history of Harvard,” he said, pointing to the ethnic, economic, and geographic diversity of the class of 2015.
The new class is currently 9.8 percent African American, 18.9 percent Asian American, 10.3 percent Latino, and 1.6 percent Native American.
Nearly 12 percent of the incoming students are citizens of other countries, making it the most international class in the history of the College. At over 90 percent, the yield for these international students was especially high this year, according to Fitzsimmons.
He also said that his office has beenespecially diligent about recruiting international students, writing personal notes to each of them this year.
Overall, Fitzsimmons attributes the high yield to a number of factors including the attention students and faculty members gave accepted students, financial aid, and a successful Visitas, the visiting program for admitted students.
“It was really a team effort,” he said.
Every waitlisted application will get a second look, according to Fitzsimmons. The admissions committee, he said, began meetings earlier this week to reevaluate applications.
“We’ll admit some, we’ll hold on some, and, for anyone who doesn’t have a chance at this point, we’ll let them go,” Fitzsimmons said of his office’s handling of the waitlist at this juncture.
With nearly 35,000 applicants, this March the College accepted a record low 6.2 percent of first-year applicants for the class of 2015.
More than 60 percent of the students in the class of 2015 have been offered need based financial aid. The average scholarship totals more than $40,000.
Peer institutions have not yet released their yield numbers. In past years, Harvard has had the highest yield of its Ivy League peers.
—Staff writer Justin Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Still have lots of BoardPlus left? Looking for ways to binge before it expires at 11:59 p.m. on May 21? We've got you covered with tips on how to blaze through your BoardPlus before time runs out.
Give Back: Through the end of exam period, you can use your BoardPlus to purchase food for the homeless men and women who stay at the St. James Summer Shelter. Stop by one of your favorite BoardPlus locations and buy items like energy bars, granola bars, cookies, and bottled water. Then drop off your donations in the designated boxes at PBHA or Harvard Hillel to make a difference with your leftover bucks.
 
Try a Little-Known Location: If you're not in the mood for another HUHDS meal, wander off to one of the more exotic spots that take BoardPlus, like Rock Café at the Divinity School, Chauhaus in the Graduate School of Design, or the Cronkhite Dining Room on Brattle Street. All three offer a way to spend your extra cash and experience a change of atmosphere.
 
Catch Your Last Chance at an Old Favorite: Lamont Library Café closes for the summer at 8 p.m. on May 13. As you're cramming for that last final, stop by the café to grab your last taste of that coffee and sushi you've been eating all year.
Sections
As the Class of 2011 prepares to enter the real world, many of them are hoping that their Harvard degrees will land them the perfect job. According to an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal, graduating from California prison academy is more likely to secure you a lucrative career than graduating from Harvard.
 
While the sticker price of an undergraduate education at Harvard is upwards of $200,000, cadets at the prison academy stand to earn around $3,000 per month. Four years a long time to stay in college? Prison guard training takes four months.
 
The Wall Street Journal goes on to note that prison guards' starting salary, bonuses, vacation time, benefits, and pensions are comparable to or better than the average Harvard grad's career.
 
Plenty of people seem to be aware of this alluring option. Snagging a spot as a California prison guard is even more competitive than getting into Harvard. The correctional officer academy accepts less than 1 percent of its applicants, making Harvard’s 6.2 percent seem like easy odds.
 
Before you abandon your Harvard education, a quick search for "correctional officers" on the Bureau of Labor Statistics website shows some of the downsides to the job. One of the first things mentioned about the job is that correctional officers have one of the highest rates of non-fatal on-the-job injuries. As far as we know, investment bankers and consultants never have to deal with prison riots.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient Eight (and other schools too).
Northwestern University canceled a human sexuality class that sparked controversy earlier this year after its professor approved an optional live demonstration that involved a half-naked woman being penetrated with a mechanized sex toy in front of about 100 students. According to a statement from the university, J. Michael Bailey—the class's professor—"will have other teaching assignments in the coming year." The university's investigation of the incident—launched in March—is still ongoing.
Faculty at Stanford University and Yale University separately approved measures that would help bring the Reserve Officers' Training Corps back to both schools. Yale College faculty voted to discard a series of resolutions that led to ROTC's initial departure, replacing them with new rules that remove many of the barriers keeping the program off-campus. The Stanford Faculty voted to approve a proposal that invites the ROTC program back to its campus.
"We will begin conversations with the U.S. military aobut the process for reestablishing ROTC at Stanford," Stanford President John Hennessy said in a statement.
Four students from Cornell University were charged in connection with the death of their SAE fraternity brother—Geoge Desdunes. The Cornell Daily Sun reported that Desdunes' death may have been related to alcohol consumption—the Cornell sophomore had been participating in a mock kidnapping at the time of death and was given shots of alcoholic drinks as part of the exercise. The former SAE pledges who are no longer enrolled in the University were charged with first-degree hazing and first-degree unlawfully dealing with a child. The charges for the fourth student—who is under the age of 19—were not released.
Members of the College Council of Pitzer College—a liberal arts school in Southern California—voted unanimously to create a new department of secular studies for the upcoming fall semester. With courses like "God, Darwin and Design in America" and "Bible as Literature." Barry A. Kosmin—the director of the Institute for the Study of Secularism, Society, and Culture—told the New York Times that the major would be the first of its kind.
"It's not about arguing 'Is there a God or not?'" Phil Zuckerman, the sociologist of religion who proposed the department, told the New York Times. "There are hundreds of millions of people who are nonreligious. I want to know who they are, what they believe, why they are nonreligious."
Conan O'Brien ’85 will deliver the commencement address to Dartmouth College's Class of 2011 this June. He will also receive an honorary degree from the college.
"I was honored to be asked to give the commencement address to Dartmouth's graduating class of 2011, until I found out their first choice was Pauly D.," O'Brien said in the announcement.
USA Today reported that although O'Brien has turned down numerous requests to speak at commencements in the past, he agreed to Dartmouth after Dartmouth President Jim Kim called O'Brien, having gotten his number from Conan O'Brien's father Thomas O'Brien—an infectious-disease professor at Harvard who taught Kim in the past.
