News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As any Prefrosh can tell you, Harvard’s 41 varsity teams are the most of any school in the nation. Despite that, Harvard had the second-lowest athletic budget of any other school in the Ancient Eight last year, with expenditures coming in around $18 million.
Only Brown spent less than the Crimson. Despite having the third-most teams in the Ivy League, the Bears doled out just $15 million between July 1, 2009, and June 30, 2010. Needless to say, Brown had funding issues, with head coaches receiving an average salary of just $63,618, a full 22 percent, or $18,170, less than the Ancient Eight average.
To ensure “more sustainable support for varsity teams,”  Brown’s Athletics Review Committee has suggested a series of changes, including increasing the overall athletic budget increase and cutting four varsity teams: men’s wrestling, men’s and women’s fencing, and women’s skiing.
The committee’s report gave reasons for specific reasons for cutting each of these teams. For fencing, the costs of remaking the program into a competitive entity are prohibitive. The school cannot provide adequate practice grounds for the skiing team, the report contends. Finally, wrestling is quite expensive and isn’t a sport offered at all of the Ivies.
But to remain gender equity as demanded by Title IX, the Athletics Department would have to promote one women’s team from club status to the varsity level.
The committee hopes that a combination of raising the total athletic budget and cutting three teams will increase the budgets by 10 percent for the 34 teams left.
The Committee’s other recommendations include reducing the number of recruited athletes by 13% and updating athletic facilities and creating new ones.
If passed by Brown President Ruth Simmons, these changes could kick in as early as next fall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In this installment of Dining Delights, we bring you three clever ways to incorporate this spring's top dining hall fruits into tasty concoctions. 
 
Banana Bread Pudding
Ingredients: 
1 slice whole wheat bread or other bread of your choosing
 2 tablespoons peanut butter
1 banana, sliced
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 tablespoon raisins
½ cup milk
 
Crumble bread and place pieces in bowl. Top bread with peanut butter, then banana slices, brown sugar, and raisins. Pour milk into bowl and allow mixture to soak for about one minute. Microwave for 40 seconds or until sugar glaze appears on bananas. 
 
Apple-Cheddar Quesadilla  
Ingredients:
2 slices cheddar cheese
2 slices American cheese
1 tortilla
2 small apples or 1 large apple, thinly sliced
Salt and pepper, to taste
 
Arrange cheese slices in a row on one half of tortilla. Place apple slices on top of cheese slices, leaving some room in the middle for folding. Fold tortilla in half, then fold again into quarters. Place in panini press for approximately two minutes or until tortilla is golden brown and cheese has melted. Cut in half and garnish with salt and pepper. 
 
Orange Julius
Ingredients:
½ cup vanilla frozen yogurt
⅓ cup orange juice
5 orange slices
1 tablespoon honey
¼ cup whipped cream
 
Put frozen yogurt in a glass, then add orange juice. Mix well. Squeeze juice from orange slices into cup, or cut slices into small pieces and stir into mixture. Add honey and garnish with whipped cream.
Sections
EventPlease hopes to centralize event publicity on Harvard's campus to make event planning easier for Harvard students as well as promote environmental sustainability.
Michael B. Wong '12 proposed EventPlease in September to three close friends and co-creators, Alisha D. Ramos '12, Spencer D. Chan '12, and Stefan K. Muller '12. The site now hosts over 75 organizations' events and recently received an endorsement from the UC.
"Our ultimate goal is that the site will replace all other forms of event tracking like Facebook. No one would have to poster. No one would have to spam their house list," Muller said. "We're also hopeful that other college campuses will use our model."
On EventPlease, Users post events happening around Harvard and other users can choose to track these events. There are several different feeds: one for popular events, one for new events, and a "recommended" feed that predicts what events a user would attend based on previous behavior.
"For now we're focusing on Harvard. We are in the pilot stage, we definitely want to hear about how we can make it better," Ramos said. "We want a more connected, more social and more inclusive Harvard. It can give you a wonderful sense of how diverse we are."
Sections
Jabrai  Jordan Copney—who was recently convicted of first-degree murder in the  May 2009 Kirkland House shooting—was an aspring songwriter  while growing up in New York City. He attended the Dr. Susan S. McKinney Secondary School of the Arts and chose not to go  to college in order to pursue a career in music, according to his trial  attorney John A. Amabile.
Before  the 22-year-old took part in the "drug rip" that resulted in the  killing of Cambridge resident Justin Cosby in Kirkland's J-entryway (and  received a sentence of life in prison without parole for it), he wrote  for New Edition—a Boston-based R&B group that was popular in the  1980s.  Their 2004 album "One Love" featured the song "Feelin' It," which Copney helped write.
