Sections
If you've always wanted to bike everywhere instead of relying on Harvard shuttles or worse, the MBTA, now is the time.  The city of Cambridge recently installed three bike maintenance stands, which are available for use, free of charge.  You can now ride your bike around without worrying about getting stuck because of a loose chain.
The bike stands, which provide tools such as pumps, wrenches and tire gauges for cyclists to fix minor problems, are located outside the Cambridge Public Library, by the clock tower at Fresh Pond, and in the parking lot underneath the Harvard Square Hotel in the Square.
According to Cambridge Transportation Program Manager, Cara B. Seiderman '81, each station cost over $1,000 to install.
The change was inspired by MIT, which has a network of five bicycle "fix-it stations" located throughout its campus.
Quad Bikes, a bike repair shop located in the basement of Cabot House, has had several customers who have come into the shop have commented on the stations, according to manager David T. Tucker. He thinks that the stations will come in handy for people hoping to make minor repairs on the road.
"These aren't the places to do a complete overhaul of your bike," Tucker said.
So Harvard, grab your bikes and go for a spin now that the weather is finally warmer. There's no need to worry about getting a flat tire from a pothole left over from winter, thanks to Cambridge's newly installed bike stands.
Sections
Have some time on a lazy day and want to do an art project? Now's your chance to contribute to the arts at Harvard by participating in a new project called Lazy Day Pocket Cards.
The project, conceived by Sarah S. Zhang '11, who is also a Crimson arts editor, and Christine S. An '11, an arts comper, was partially based on the community arts model of popular website and books PostSecret.
Right now, An and Zhang are circulating index cards with thought-provoking prompts like "Write your own eulogy" and "Draw what your child would look like if you married Elvis." Students can suggest prompts and request cards to fill out on the project's website.
Once the completed cards have been collected, An and Zhang plan to redistribute them in packs of ten during Arts First.
"We want to engage people who wouldn't normally consider themselves to be artists." Zhang said.
An added, "Art shouldn’t be so intimidating."
