Sections
Like clockwork, every April my mom calls me with the same advice that we both know I’ll ignore. “Start packing up now,” she’ll say, “and do a little bit every day, and you’ll be done before you know it!” Thanks, Mom, but it really doesn’t take two months to throw my crap in boxes and lug it down to the basement. And the two days in May when I do empty out my room are always so awful I would never want to ruin all of spring with that feeling. Just like writing a paper, it’s best to leave it to the last minute in order to minimize the pain of actually doing it.
The one fun thing about packing to go home is finding the stuff at the bottom of my drawer that I haven’t seen since I unpacked and moved in during the fall. Why exactly did I think I needed this framed photograph of my T-ball team? Couldn’t I have left one of my many plush lamb toys at home? What did I plan to do with a bike helmet without a bike? Buried under all that junk is one of my favorite things that I only think about a few times a year: my checkbook.
The only times I write a check now are to pay for  obscure bills like library fines and parking tickets or to pay back debts to friends because I know they’ll forget to cash it. (Thanks for those tickets, Charles!) But when I was younger, a checkbook was, in my eyes, the ultimate symbol of adulthood. Bizarre as it may sound, and lame as my older sister told me it was, writing checks was the thing I looked forward to most about being a grown-up. More fun than driving, sexier than alcohol, more mysterious than late-night television—I thought checks were the coolest toy I would get to play with one day.
From the time I could count to 100 until I was 12, at church every Sunday I slipped out during the pastor’s sermon to help count that week’s offering; it was always my job to separate the checks out from the cash. Cash was boring. Every bill is the exact same wrinkled old piece of green paper with the same tired photograph of an old white man. But a check! Each one is a unique work of art.
You can tell a lot about a person from the style of checks they choose: the cheesy floral prints (mom with bigger things to worry about), the all-business blue or maroon (just plain boring), the Garfield comics (not as funny as he thinks he is). One otherwise normal old lady used checks with Aaliyah’s face on them. Then there’s the handwriting, and, of course, the most important part: the signature. That personalized sequence of squiggles and loops is the authority on which the entire promise of the check rests.
It was fascinating to think that one day my name would be important enough to be accepted in exchange for goods and services. Finally, in high school, the time came for me to get my first Student No-Fee Checking Account. I got the checks one day—geometric shapes, by the way—and a short while and three overdrafts later, I didn’t feel nearly as powerful as I thought I would. Somewhere between age eight and age 17 the debit card had taken over, and I never got more than a handful of opportunities to write any personal checks.
Right around the time the magic of writing checks wore off, the magic of being an adult wore off too. I finally realized what everyone else already knew: checks are stupid. They’re for birthday cards from grandma. (Still waiting on 18-21 actually, Gran.) They’re for paying bills or taxes or rent. And the closer I get to having to do those things on a regular basis, the farther I get from looking at each check I write or receive as a symbol of anything but an annoying trip to the bank.
I outgrew my affinity for checks the last time I let myself take any pleasure in writing one. As part of my duties as publisher of The Harvard Advocate, I was sitting in an office next to Dana, at that time the president of the magazine. We had just finished dealing with a minor plumbing emergency, and as I looked down to pay the bill, I noticed I was writing on check number 666.
“Oh! This is a spooooooky check!” I said wafting the piece of paper in front of the plumber’s face.
“Just give him the stupid thing!” Dana said sharply to me. (She probably didn’t say “stupid.”)
Yeah, it was pretty dumb. But for just one instant, I was a little kid again, pretending to be responsible like a grown-up. And really what’s more grown-up than calling a plumber?
“Packing up your room sooner than the day before you come home would be very responsible and grown-up!” says Mom.
Thanks, Mom, but now I’m thinking that not having to listen to my mother is probably the new coolest symbol of adulthood.
—Charleton A. Lamb '11, a former Crimson Magazine Editor, is a Literature concentrator in Kirkland House.  Babies love him.
Sections
Behind a buzzer-protected door in Pusey, steeped in that distinctive smell that attends all things old (part mothball, part mildew), lies the Harvard University Archives. Spit out your gum and submit to the security camera, and salacious tales of ritual sacrifice and tailored tweed await. Or something along those lines.
The actual documents—administrative records, financial statements, and reports from defunct commissions—prove more tepid than titillating. The 1950 Courses of Instruction reveal, for example, that Harvard men of yore read lots of Virgil, studied applied air power and epic novels, and endured the still lamented Ec10, then called Ec1. There was no talk of sex in the classroom, and there certainly were no women. Females featured only in the glossy spreads of the Radcliffe brochure, which promised four carefree years of green lawns, smiling peers, and quiet subordination.
Search HOLLIS today, and sex abounds. The abbreviated “porn” yields over 300 books, 30 films, and eight sound recordings; “erotic stories” commands its own subject heading; and a complete catalog of Playboys past can be culled from the Depository—no questions asked. Then there’s the legendary “smut stacks,” where Harvard libraries purportedly hide their kinkiest of kink from only the most entrepreneurial of undergraduates.
Kinky, yes. Hidden, no. Even those materials in the Fine Arts Library’s “X-Cage”—which as, Amanda Bowen, Head of Collections, is quick to clarify, “does not mean X-rated”—are readily accessible: all you have to do is ask. A mélange of controversial texts—some erotic, some violent, and some simply expensive—rests under lock and key, mainly to keep them from being stolen, vandalized, or catching patrons unawares. Harvard’s librarians, Bowen stresses, want students to access as much risqué material as they desire. Just don’t expect to snag any photos for your personal collection.
WOMEN BREAK THE SILENCE
When it comes to sex in scholarship, Women’s Studies made the first foray at Harvard, officially debuting in 1978 under the auspices of an eponymous committee. Susan R. Suleiman, veteran Professor of French and Comparative Literature, arrived three years later—the same year that Yale inaugurated its own Women’s Studies major. Appointed chair of Harvard’s still-nascent committee in 1983, Suleiman knew that the University had fallen behind the curve. Far from a directed curriculum, Women’s Studies amounted to a loose confederation of cross-listed classes, with no power to confer degrees come May. Run from a seldom-visited corner of the University Hall basement, the Committee lacked even its own phone number: the surest route to excommunication in a pre-email era.
Suleiman’s first initiative as chair? “A listing in the phonebook,” she quips. Next came collaboration with a dedicated group of female faculty, including Alice Jardine, Marjorie Garber, and the late Barbara Johnson. Their goal matched that of Harvard’s New Haven peer: establish Women’s Studies as a concentration unto itself, complete with sophomore tutorials and a thesis track. Heated strategy sessions and painstaking intellectual debates ensued—sometimes, Suleiman recalls, over such semantic minutia as the use of “an” or “the” in a sentence.
This attention to detail proved imperative to the Committee’s success. In the mid-1980s, “the women question” remained fraught at Harvard. Radcliffe, so long the locus for women’s issues on campus, had ceded day-to-day control over its female students in 1971. It now stood as an amorphous and increasingly ceremonial institution, variously analogized to a lame duck and a Potemkin village. Women had claimed the right to Lamont’s prefab cubicles in 1967, to graduation ceremonies in Tercentenary Theatre in 1970, and to Yard and River dorms in 1972. Yet, as Harvard’s experiment in co-education entered its fifth decade, women comprised less than 7 percent of the tenured faculty and gender quotas persisted: for every 2.5 males, only one female could gain admission. “Tense” and “troubled” were euphemisms when applied to the Harvard-Radcliffe tête-à-tête, which historians Morton and Phyllis Keller equated to “the mating dance of two exotic, undersexed birds.” Interpret that as you will.
Aware of these internal politics, Suleiman and her colleagues were careful to separate Women’s Studies from the uncertainties of Radcliffe—“this,” Suleiman emphasized, “was a Harvard proposal.” Modeled after the extant Committees on Degrees in History and Literature and Social Studies, Women’s Studies strove to stake its rightful place within Harvard’s institutional structure.
In the fall of 1986, the soon-to-be concentration faced its final hurdle: approval by the Faculty at their November meeting. “From September to late October, our office was like a campaign headquarters. We were asking ourselves ‘How do we get the vote out?’” Suleiman remembers. Personally addressed letters to each member of the Faculty did the trick. The packed room voted unanimously in favor of the new concentration, with one dissenter: Harvey C. Mansfield, Professor of Government and conservative extraordinaire.
In 1987, alphabetically relegated to the course catalog’s final pages, the Committee of Degrees in Women’s Studies made its inaugural appearance. Two introductory survey courses—“The Roots of Feminism” and “Current Problems in Feminist Theory”—preceded seminar offerings and over 60 cross-listed classes. Psychology 1810 probed the subconscious dimensions of marriage and motherhood, while French 136 promised to make sense of modern French feminism’s notoriously Delphic pronouncements. Belatedly, feminism had found secure footing at Harvard.
HARVARD TALKS SEX
"Women’s Studies" as such has since fallen out of academic vogue. Now more or less an intellectual anachronism, its feminist-specific curriculum has been resorbed by broader scholarly concerns: a shift that the Committee’s 2003 recoining as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (WGS) reflects. Diffused by the ostensible success of the second-wave, the energy of 1970s feminist scholarship has funneled into queer theory. Sexuality, it seems, has displaced feminism as a foremost frame of critical inquiry for up-and-coming academics.
In the lecture hall, gender often now seems more taken-for-granted than avant-garde. “Twenty years ago, discussing gender in the classroom was seen as a transgressive act. Now, in this millennium, we’ve reached a critical turning point where it seems strange if a course in the humanities or social sciences fails to address these issues,” Caroline Light, Director of Studies at WGS, explained. Speaking of the department’s recent name change, Light comments, “Students sometimes ask me what the ‘W’ is still doing there.” This, despite the integral presence of women as writers, theorists, and subjects of inquiry within the WGS curriculum.
Gender’s widespread diffusion within the academy has undoubtedly changed scholarship for the better. The side effect of its embrace, however, is a certain complacency. “There’s been a way in which everyone is okay with hearing the basic ideas of feminism. Like, ‘we get it already, gender is a construct,’” Julie Orlemanski, a fellow at the Humanities Center, observed. “The risk is that gender becomes an issue merely of academic interest, that it becomes wholly depoliticized.” It’s the age-old question of the relation between theory and practice: what meanings do musings about gender have if confined to students’ psyches? What use are ideas like “feminism” and “sexual liberation” if they are purely pedantic—if they fail to affect real change in some real person’s life?
Less theoretically perplexing, but no less pressing, is the scant enrollment of men in courses that betray anything to do with W, G, or S. “Put gender and sexuality in the title, and you’ll get 90 percent women,” Orlemanski laments. “Most men still don’t feel it incumbent upon themselves to explore these issues in the classroom.”
Whether of the academic or activist sort, feminism’s mission is far from moot. On this, University Professor Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, a veritable feminist icon, agrees. Her 2004 compilation of essays, “Yards and Gates,” came as an attempt to counter what she perceived as the pervasive invisibility of women at Harvard—in its dominant narratives, its popular mythologies, even its portrait collection. “Students sometimes think that there is history and then there is women’s history,” Ulrich disclosed. “But if the history is all about men, they think of it as history. And if there is history that is 50 percent about women, it is seen as something special and separate.”
“It’s not feminist just to talk about women,” Sarah S. Richardson, Assistant Professor of WGS and the History of Science, added. “You can’t just say to a professor, ‘Include gender.’ There needs to be an acquaintance with the feminist intellectual tradition, with feminism as an alternative way of approaching knowledge.” Confining women to a single day on a syllabus, she insists, is not a solution.
A MAN, A PLAN, A SEX TOY
To insiders and “Social Network” skeptics, Harvard seems more ascetic than sexually indulgent. Here, the hypothetical orgies of Sorkin lore give way to social awkwardness, sexual tension, and aleatory outbursts of nudity. Any witness to Primal Scream can attest that sprinters in the nude are distinctly unarousing. Yet, as would be expected for a group of 6,000-odd 20-somethings, how much (or how little) sex happens on-campus remains a topic of perpetual interest. For Charlie Sheen sympathizers, the data is unpromising: in its spring 2010 survey, OSAPR pegged the percentage of students who entertained zero sexual partners in the past year at 42 percent.
Such statistics, however, fail to tell the whole story. For some undergraduates, sex is not simply a tally of thwarted hookups, as it likely has been for all of time; now it is also a topic ripe for intellectual inquiry.
Take the most recent crop of students in VES50, a yearlong course in the fundamentals of filmmaking. During the spring semester, the class, capped at eight students per section, collectively shoots and edits a 20-minute documentary. The topic of choice for one such section? Nudism in the greater Boston area. So far, footage includes the all-male, au natural yoga practice of studio in Central Square; a man-on-man erotic massage; and the stand-up routine of a nudist comedian who performs, predictably, sans clothing.
As Daniel M. Claridge ’13, who had to disrobe himself to capture some of the shots, admits, “of course it was awkward. But, after a while, you become desensitized to the fact that you are nude. It would have almost been stranger to have been clothed in that environment.” While the film does not explicitly interrogate issues of sexual identity, the line between nudism and sexuality was often blurred. Still, in Claridge’s opinion, “the most powerful moments in the film are those where these nudists are clothed. It really makes you realize the power that clothing has.” All in all, Claridge notes, “it’s been a fascinating journey. Now in class we watch an hour or two of penis footage, and it doesn’t really faze anyone.”
The film’s provocative subject matter is not without precedent: several years ago, the class’ final project, titled “Play,” documented S&M culture in Cambridge. Its climax involved several permutations of a man, a maid outfit, and a dildo. As Ruth S. Lingford, Director of Undergraduate Studies at VES, explains, “Students often make work about their own preoccupations, areas of obsession or obsessional interest, so often sex and gender are up there.”
Here, as in the University at large, censorship is a virtual non-entity. The only student project that VES has refused to fund, in Lingford’s memory? “We had a student once who proposed making a porno film for his thesis. We declined for a number reasons, one of which was that he seemed to be interested in shocking Harvard and not in looking critically at the pornography industry.” But, Lingford continued, “You have to push us quite hard to make us say no.”
Sections
Sixteen trailers sat in two rows among the fruit trees of a Logan, Utah orchard. It was 1936, 75 years ago. Wheels removed, the trailers sat on concrete blocks to make room for small cellars that sheltered vegetables and coal. The orchard trees provided food in the summer and shelter from strong winds in the winter. Pipelines extended from each unit toward the city proper to supply water and sewage services. Each trailer had electric lights and a coal-burning stove. Logan was the site of Utah’s State Agricultural College. Forty-four residents of this colony were students, and six were babies, some born right in the trailer town; many residents were married couples. The trailer residents rented the orchard communally for $20 a year, with the pipelines costing each family eight to $10 per month.
Julian Thomas, the "mayor" of Logan’s trailer town, came up with the idea. It was the Great Depression, after all. As dormitory rent escalated, students sought an alternative. According to Julian, they could purchase a trailer, or even build their own. Unlike a dormitory or apartment, the portable home could follow them all four years of school, and into postgraduate life. The State Agricultural College’s original trailer colony rested on the parking lot of the school library, but the community quickly grew, necessitating the move to the orchard. The college trailer trend had also caught on elsewhere, often in inventive forms.
It was the summer of 1936, and Emory Bobo needed a place to live. He was a student at the University of Georgia, and money was tight. Before fall term started, he hand-built a trailer, filled it with homemade furniture, and parked it on a vacant lot near campus. The trailer, christened the "Silver Queen," had a kitchenette, so Emory could cook his own food. Across campus, a pair of students crafted a different kind of trailer: Proctor Allen and his friend F.H. Cadle paid $15 for a hot-dog stand that a carnival had scrapped. They parked it near the eastern edge of campus and lived there together.
The magazine Fortune estimated in 1936 that anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 Americans lived permanently in trailers. But a decade before, the American trailer home didn’t yet exist. As bacteriologist Arthur Sherman packed for a vacation to northern Michigan in 1929, he thought about the trip that lay ahead. He worried about his family’s prospective lodging options. Increases in automobile ownership during the Roaring Twenties provided Americans with greater travel freedom, but touring motorists were often greeted by inadequate accommodations at new destinations. Vacationers resorted to camping out in canvas tents. Sherman decided this would not do—not for his family at least. So the disgruntled scientist built a wooden box on an axle and pair of wheels, outfitting it with windows, bunk beds, and a coal-burning stove. Sherman named it the "Covered Wagon." It was so successful that soon, dozens of competitors produced similar recreational units. The American trailer home was born.
Seventy-five years ago, the residential experience at Harvard College was also distinct. Cab Calloway and his Cotton Club orchestra played in Kirkland House’s Junior Common Room for their spring dance in 1936. Irving Aaronson and his Studebaker Commanders—a 15-piece broadcasting orchestra from New York—also played in the dining hall, from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. That same year, Leverett House finally solved the dilemma of what to do with the flat roof over their dining hall: build a private tennis court adjacent to the House Master’s quarters. Dunster House announced a plan to showcase paintings from New York’s Museum of Modern Art in its common rooms. The Harvard House system had begun in the fall of 1930 when Dunster opened. These Houses had expansive suites, numerous common rooms, individual dining halls, and often squash courts. In light of the Depression, Harvard reduced the cost of room and board for students. To accomplish this, the University cut the wages of groundskeepers, waitresses and porters. The dances, tennis matches, and art exhibitions could go on.
Renowned economist Roger W. Babson made a famous prediction in the Los Angeles Times in 1935: "Within twenty years, more than half the population of the United States will be living in automobile trailers!" He was wrong. But the trailer still meant something to many students. Back at the University of Georgia, dozens of students sent in applications to be Emory Bobo’s roommate, to cook in the tin home’s kitchenette and rest on its homemade furniture. Emory selected Charles Colwell. Bobo’s "Silver Queen" had become a campus icon.
Sections
Charlie Sheen’s most recent sober drink of choice is chocolate milk with instant coffee crystals stirred in. With a tall stack of posters in front of him, he sits comfortably on a couch in the ground-floor lounge of Agganis Arena, talking to me as he sips his drink and signs images of himself. Surrounded by his entourage after his show in Boston, Sheen is in his element. He is cool, calm, and collected.
The brightly colored posters show Sheen as a superhero in cartoon form: his enlarged hands are in flames and his lips hold a lit cigarette. In real life, Sheen’s hands move with purpose as he efficiently scribbles “Charlie Sheen” and “win” in the same place on each poster, one after another. He takes a break from the signing and asks for his friend to pass him the ashtray. He’s been smoking all night.
After the show, he is a different man from the one who claimed to be immortal after ripping off his shirt and throwing it into the crowd only a few hours earlier. He’s also a different man from the one who broke down on the “Today Show” in late February. On stage he brags about the “tiger blood” that keeps him “winning” on “a drug called Charlie Sheen.” He asks the audience to judge the “goddess” potential of more than a dozen scantily clad women who come on stage hoping to become his third girlfriend. But away from the crowd, he tells me he’s happy with the two 24-year-old girlfriends he calls his “goddesses,” Rachel Oberlin and Natalie Kenly. He responds to my questions without hesitation and trades self-aggrandizement for self-deprecation, saying that he’s not “the brightest guy in the room.”
. . .
“So tell me more about that burger,” Sheen says. Earlier in the night he had briefly asked me about the Charlie Sheen burger that comes with a 20 ounce Coke at Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage. “Does it fucking bite you back, when you bite it?” he had wanted to know. I’m in the chair to his left, the center of attention in a small room with his inner circle. He talks frankly about his addiction, his determination to move forward, and his frustration with the media’s fixation on his day-to-day-life. But beyond the prying eye of the public, Steve Han, a former paparazzo who has been hired to document the tour, films our conversation. I show my Harvard ID to prove my identity to the camera. Meanwhile, Sheen makes two chocolate milks with instant coffee, one for each of us.
“How do you like the drink?” he wants to know. We go back and forth. He asks me about how I like school and what I want to do with my life. The goddesses interrupt to say goodbye before leaving for the night. Sheen, who plans to stay in and work, tells them to “be safe” and “have fun.” We go back to talking. At some point I have to remind myself that I am with one of America’s hottest celebrities. He seems more like the father of a friend.
According to Sheen, the tour isn’t a publicity stunt, but it isn’t performance art either. The actor-turned-“unemployed winner” sees it as an opportunity to interact with his fans. In his words, the tour “is sort of an interview on steroids.” After the first show, which was in Detroit, flopped, Sheen ditched the teleprompter and switched to an interview-based format that relies heavily on audience participation. “Detroit—just a fucking train wreck man. Just bodies everywhere. Both fucking conductors totally drunk and guilty.”
His show is a hybrid between improv-comedy and a town hall meeting, and every show since the disaster in Detroit has been a little different from the previous one. “I think you’ve got to find a nice balance,” Sheen says about the trade-off between interacting with the crowd and relying on his own material. “Something happens out there. Believe it or not, it’s strangely organic,” he explains. “It’s sort of a natural ramping up of the brain scope—not the mouth wash.”
Sheen’s Twitter account says he’s unemployed, but the high school dropout still seems to work hard. He stayed up all night after the tour’s first show to completely revamp it. “It was all on me,” Sheen says. He tells me that he’s going to multitask while talking sports on 98.5 WBZ-FM later in the night, because he has work to do for a video messaging service company. He easily maintains our conversation while making drinks and signing posters. Sheen doesn’t sit still well—it’s no wonder the actor wants his job back.
Sheen says that he hopes to return to his role on the hit-show “Two and a Half Men” after his tour, which ends shortly before the show’s mid-May deadline for major casting decisions. When he discusses his plans to return—on stage and in the lounge—he adopts an unusually serious tone. “There’s been some progress, let me just say that,” Sheen says. “I don’t call the shots, but we’re making fucking progress.” If he’s not brought back, the tour may go overseas.
. . .
Following a media blitz after being fired by CBS as the star of “Two and a Half Men,” Sheen switched from interviews with high-profile journalists to the more direct medium of a live tour in order to remove the filter between him and his fans. As of now, after unflattering headlines and regrettable comments, Sheen has decided to stop talking with the mainstream media altogether; he even denies paid interview requests. But at the eighth stop on his “My Violent Torpedo of Truth/Defeat is Not an Option Show” tour, in America’s biggest college town, Sheen grants The Crimson’s Magazine exclusive access to one night of his superstar life: a big fuck you to the mainstream press.
“That’s how I roll,” Sheen says.
I had planned on spending the night studying for a Spanish midterm the next morning. But when Sheen’s publicist Larry Solters sent me a promising email 12 minutes before Sheen was set to take the stage, I grabbed a notebook from my desk drawer and rushed out the door to hail a cab. I soon learn that this is how the tour operates: plans are made last minute, according to Sheen’s wishes. I eventually meet his entire Boston team: the production and road managers, the media managers, the Jersey Shore star Pauly D, the former lightweight championship boxer Vinny Paz and both of Sheen’s goddesses. I stay until after the highest paying ticket holders shake hands with the man-of-the-hour, who heads to a radio station when we part ways.
“None of this is planned. I know it looks like it, but it fucking isn’t,” Sheen tells the crowd when he agrees, mid-show, to go on 98.5 WBZ-FM afterwards.
Solters, standing next to me beside the stage, confirms his client’s statement. He’s been tapping frantically on his smart phone for most of the show.
“We have no fucking idea what this is all about,” Solters says.
Sheen’s unorthodox behavior isn’t limited to his preference for a college newspaper over the mainstream press. The very fundamentals of the tour, including the timing of his schedule and the content of his performances, change constantly. He does what he wants. In the past that meant drug-fueled orgies with prostitutes, trashed hotel rooms, and run-ins with the police. But he says that’s all behind him. Now he gets his high on stage, where he changes his show based on how he’s feeling.
After the show, while I wait for Sheen to emerge from the shower, I chat with his goddesses. Oberlin, a  porn star, had been to Boston before “to study hard” with a boyfriend. When Sheen responds to an audience member’s question about his favorite sex position—missionary—the goddesses' eyes meet as they laugh knowingly. When he judges the goddess potential of the women vying to become his girlfriend, their attention shifts from the stage to their cell phones. I don’t sense any of the tension I expect from the two women who share one man.
. . .
Solters spends all night reminding me that his client is a really good guy—that most of his celebrity clients wouldn’t have given me the time of day. The fact that he keeps saying it seems antithetical to his claim—is this just more P.R. or a surprising reality? But it does seem like—at least for one side of Sheen—his celebrity has begun to weigh on him. “I don’t get to ask so many questions going out. I just answer them. It’s like, um, ‘What do you do?’ You start to appreciate the quieter moments,” he says. “I don’t need to pick up girls. I have got that handled.” “And I’m not going to get drunk,” he adds, “because of that whole custody thing. Plus I don’t want to.”
The first time I see Sheen he’s pacing back and forth in the rear of the arena. As he prepares himself for the night, intensity rises like steam off his body. He’s in good shape, and his behavior lives up to his public persona. In that moment, he’s an erratic larger-than-life personality with an ego fueled by a cult-like following.
As Sheen’s friends help him boost his confidence in his final moments backstage, I hear clips from “Apocalypse Now” playing for the waiting crowd. They had paid anywhere from $50 to $750 to be there. As Sheen rushes out onto the arena floor flanked by bodyguards, I follow him into the wide-open. The crowd goes wild. They scream his name and reach for high-fives over the aisles.
Sections
Visitas has been and gone, and as hordes of happy prefrosh take their jollies to the highway, spare a thought for the losers of the weekend: those veteran singles of Harvard who spurned the home advantage and failed to capitalize on the fresh meat of ’15. But don’t give up, desperados; another chance for exploitative lovin’ lies just around the corner—and when it does, you can be better prepared with this appropriately themed mixtape.
Jackson Five:   "Sugar Daddy"
They say that free-market exchange has been around as long as human society, and money for honey is among the most well-worn of these transactions. It’s a dangerous road, however, to ply your beloved with Pinkberry to get to their, umm, pink berry. Heed the harrowing tale of the Jacksons: “While I’m givin’ you the candy / He’s gettin’ all your love.”
Willie Nelson and Norah Jones:
"Baby, it's Cold Outside"
This song is sketchy to start with—"Say, what’s in this drink / No cabs to be had out there"—but when Willie Nelson’s graveyard growl meets Norah Jones’ dulcet croon, it’s a recipe for gross. The silver lining to Boston’s April clouds: climate-induced coupling.
Serge Gainsbourg: "Lemon Incest"
After butchering the French national anthem and tricking a teen star into a song about oral sex, Gainsbourg capped off a wonderfully strange career with this provocative video clip. His 12-year-old daughter Charlotte lounges on her topless father while they sing about "the love that we will never make together." Umm, hope not. Bloody weirdos.
Usher: "Hey Daddy (Daddy's Home)"
A good one to sing when you come home sozzled and stumble over the adolescent stranger on your futon. (For more on the sexiness of father figures, see Gainsbourg above.) Also rumored to be the secret pass-code for exclusive Mt. Auburn St. parties, but only if sung impromptu in convincing falsetto.
Queen: "Fat-Bottomed Girls"
Fuck gender normativity; the fairer sex, too, has the right to be predatory. Hats off to "big fat Fanny" ("she was such a naughty nanny") for teaching wee Freddie to appreciate that, when it comes to ladies, more really is more. Licentious women in important supervisory roles make the rockin’ world go round.
Sections
No great poets find their voices alone. Even they discover their rhymes in the verses of others, their words in the lines that influence both their writing and their lives.
FM spoke with two such influential poets and thinkers of our time: Billy Collins, former U.S. Poet Laureate and author of the newly-released collection “Horoscopes for the Dead,” and English Professor Stephen Burt, esteemed literary critic and author of the Warren-Brooks Award-winning novel “Randall Jarrell and His Age.” Here’s what they had to say about two particular poems that stuck with them through the years, poems which affected how they developed as poets and as individuals:
Billy Collins on "Elvis Presley" by Thom Gunn:
“The first time I read ‘Elvis Presley’ was when I was your age—I was in my late teens; I was in high school, let’s put it at that. Before I read the poem, I didn’t know that it was permitted for a poet to write on Elvis, or about pop culture for that matter. I was aware of the notion of ‘decorum’—the idea that every age has its own unwritten code about what topics were okay for poets to write on and which were not.
“Reading Gunn’s poem opened up a whole field of possibilities for me; before I read the poem, I thought that poetry had to be about ‘serious’ things—I wasn’t serious at the time, but the topics that I wrote about were. I was, you know, decrying the ills of society, writing on my own personal anxieties, all of this in language that wasn’t very real. After reading the poem, I realized it was okay to write about, you know, Fats Domino or whomever—that it was okay to break decorum sometimes.”
Stephen Burt on "The Player Piano" by Randall Jarrell:
“The poem I most wish I had written, because it speaks to my sense of how we all live (not just how I have lived) the most, is ‘The Player Piano’ by Randall Jarrell.
“The poem, with its gradually settling repetitions, its silting out of memory from mere fact, implies that whatever life you end up leading, even the best life you could have, will be a life full of things you missed, a life that seems at least partly involuntary, played out, rather than played with feeling to the end.
“It’s also a great poem about childhood that’s also a great poem about being an adult, about having and about missing a family, about Americanness and about what we speakers of American languages have in common with the old, translatable world.”
Sections
Daffodils have bloomed, trees are budding, the chairs are back in the yard, and brightly patterned dresses abound. That’s right, it’s time to break out your picnic blanket and venture off campus for a leisurely afternoon of lounging in the grass and basking in the sun. Here’s FM’s recipe for a fabulous spring picnic:
Picnic Basket
Whether you’re out for a romantic meal or hitting the grass with a group of friends, a cute wicker basket is a must for any authentic picnic. Before heading off in search of scrumptious accoutrements, wander down Mass. Ave. to Crate & Barrel to take your pick of classy carriers.
1045 Mass. Ave., Cambridge. Mon.-Fri.: 10 a.m. to 7 p.m; Sat.: 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sun.: 12 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Supreme Sandwiches (and a dash of dessert, of course)
After all, what is a picnic without a few taste bud tickling sandwiches? Wander off the beaten path and check out Petsi Pies, a few minutes past Mather. Try the mouth-wateringly delicious Turkey Cheddar Avocado sandwich, or perhaps the Tomato Pesto Mozzarella press. But definitely don’t leave without snagging a few slices of the café’s signature: pie.
31 Putnam Ave., Cambridge. Mon.-Fri.: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m; Sat.-Sun.: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Elementary School Throwback
Been too long since you sat with friends nibbling at string cheese and sipping from a juice box? Take a stroll a mile down the Charles to Whole Foods and pick up these childhood favorites. They will no doubt add whimsy to an already wonderful feast.
340 River St., Cambridge. Daily 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Seaside Dining
The Charles is beautiful indeed, but sometimes it’s worth it to get away for a bit. With your delicious purchases in hand, take the T to Park Street, transfer to the Green Line, and get off at Haymarket. Check out the open-air fruit and vegetable stands for some last minute additions, before making your way towards the Boston Harbor Waterfront. Explore the wharf for a nice place to lay down your things and enjoy the splendors of your spread.
Haymarket Square, Boston. Fri.-Sat.: Dawn to dusk.
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Greenough Hall/Winthrop House.
CONCENTRATION: Potentially an A.B. in Engineering Sciences and a citation in French
HOMETOWN: Tyre, Lebanon
IDEAL DATE: Fresh, from Saudi Arabian date palm trees, not too ripe 
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: Originality 
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Somewhere, sipping wine and eating cheese with friends 
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: Kiss me if I’m wrong, but is your name ... 
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I’m King of Lebanon. 
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: A physics joke about sex and quantum physicists, but I did that last week in section and my TF wasn’t impressed. 
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Spending hours on the beach ... when I wasn’t
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: Smile, but that wears off after a while. 
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Rare weeks of sun. 
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: People constantly mistaking me for being British. 
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Of profound depth 
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Still thinking whether close to the speed of light, a pencil goes through the hoop or the hoop goes through the pencil! 
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Questioning where to go with engineering and law.
Sections
Beneath the arches of the colosseum, a mass of swaying blue stood in anticipation. When the Haitian National Anthem started playing out of the speakers, the crowd, dotted with crimson, grew silent out of respect. It was one of the first clear Sundays of spring: when Haiti came to Harvard.
Everywhere, the colors were red and blue. There was a live concert, pre-game barbecue, and free t-shirts. Vendors sold Haitian flags.
All this was part of Haiti Lève, or Haiti Stand Up, a fundraiser to help rebuild Haiti, still recovering from the 7.0-magnitude earthquake that crippled the country last year. The proceeds from the tickets, which cost $10 for everyone but Harvard students, plus donations and sales from food covered the expenses of the team’s transportation. The remaining profit went to Partners In Health, which is working to rehabilitate Haiti.
For the men’s soccer team, playing international teams is nothing out of the ordinary. The NCAA and Ivy League limit the number of games that college teams can play in the off-season, but international games don’t count toward this tally. After hearing that the Haitian national team had already toured in other parts of the country, Head Coach Carl L. Junot invited them to Boston. “This year in planning, we thought we’d do something special,” he says. “There’s a huge potential to play an exciting event with a large draw.”
For Junot, playing Haiti was important: “We had the opportunity to play a higher level match while also fulfill[ing] the responsibility of social responsibility and community service,” he says.
SHIFTING THE GOALPOSTS 
“It all started with a phone call,” Junot explains. He called the Football Federation of Haiti (FHF), and was directed to call Robert Jean-Bart, the Federation president’s son, who lives in Boston and works as FHF’s marketing coordinator.
 “We thought [the fundraiser] would be a good way for us to use the power of soccer to work to help Haiti,” Jean-Bart says. Together, he and Junot made the game happen.
Before the match, Robert J. Millock ’11, last season’s co-captain of the Harvard team, said, “Winning would be great, but it’s important to separate the event from the actual game.” Raising funds, he said, is what matters. 
COMe TOGETHER 
Carole E. Bergin, a preceptor in French and adviser to the Harvard-Haitian Alliance who is also heavily involved in the Haitian community in Dorchester, thinks the game was not just an important fundraising opportunity but also a good way to connect the Harvard and Haitian communities.
“I want the kids from Dorchester to see through HHA that there are models, that there are Haitian students at Harvard,” she says. Bergin even picked up some of the Haitian children before Sunday’s soccer game so they could attend.
“I feel like a lot of what people think about Haiti is negative. People are ignorant about its history and people,” says Natalie E. McBride ’13, who is half-Haitian and a co-president of the HHA. “I think they will benefit from seeing a very positive side of the country, by going to an event that is celebratory and unifying.”
The game on Sunday ended with a 4-1 win on penalty kicks for Haiti, after the game had ended scoreless. Even after the final shot, a goal by Haiti’s Jean Baptiste, the 11,513 fans in the stands continued playing music and waving their Haitian flags.
Children raced each other across the stands in excitement, indifferent to the score as they explored the stadium. Eventually they returned to their parents and the crowd meandered out. “Our paths will cross again,” Junot said. “We’ll be able to support each other again. Maybe one day [Haiti] will host us there.”
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Canaday Hall/Quincy House
CONCENTRATION: VES, depending on what it winds up standing for 
HOMETOWN: Long Beach, California 
IDEAL DATE: Honestly, I’ll settle for a real one at this point. 
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: A pulse. I’ve learned my lesson. Last time was so awkward. 
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Promoting Three Letter Acronym (TLA), Harvard’s new Improv Troupe. Saturday is plug-my-own-activities day. 
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I usually just read off the dictionary and let them choose what they want to hear. It’s safer that way. 
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: "It’s okay. Everybody’s human." 
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: I plead the 5th. 
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Reminiscing about the good current days 
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My functioning neural synapses 
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Easily his bequeathment of half his estate to Harvard College in 1638 
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Dying childless at the age of 30 from tuberculosis in 1638. He had such a bright future. Now we’re all stuck with one instead.
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Numerically disinclined and 
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Existentially, at least
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: 34 and a half, hopefully
Sections
Soon after the release of his book “The Social Animal,” New York Times columnist, David Brooks, appeared at the Graduate School of Design to speak  with Harvard faculty on the topic of “Politics,  the Brain, and Human Nature.” Fifteen Minutes caught up with him for a few questions on his work as a columnist, his vision for the country, and his alleged “bromance” with the President.
1.  Fifteen Minutes: How did you get yourself into a position of such influence in the country and in the White House? What it your abilities as a social animal?
David Brooks: First, I don’t think columnists have influence. When politicians read me they don’t say, “Oh, what can I learn from David?” They say, “Is that column on my side, or against me?” So they just want to know if I’m going to be helpful to their propaganda machine or against it. So I don’t believe I have influence the way maybe Walter Lippmann did years ago. If I have any influence it’s maybe just helping people who don’t have time to do what I do, which is interview and read, just to clarify how they see the world. But I never really think I influence people in government.
2. FM: There’s been some talk abut your “bromance” with President Obama. Can you tell us a little about it? Where did you meet? How’s it going?
DB: I think we’re in therapy now. [laughs] I think it’s over-done. I don’t think he gives a rat’s ass what I think. If I didn’t work at the Times, no one would care. Times columnists have readers so they care. The only thing I would say from my side is that he’s seven days older than me, we’ve lived in the same neighborhoods of Chicago, I’ve had a lot of similar experiences and, while obviously he has many skills I don’t have, I feel some simpatica with him and I sort of admire the way he basically handles himself.
3. FM: Do you have a best Obama story?
DB: The one story that’s out in public that he’s told is that when he was a senator I would criticize the Republicans for spending too much money back when they were in the majority the first time and then I would throw in a few sentences attacking the Democrats, just to make myself feel good. And so, one morning I get an email from him and he says, “David, if you want to attack us, fine, but you’re only throwing in those few sentences to make yourself feel good.” And I thought it was incredibly perceptive of him to see that, so I was deeply impressed.
4. FM: You said in the lecture that the most important thing you can do in college is figure out who you’re going to marry. What advice can you offer to the career-driven ambitious Harvard undergrad community?
DB: Read a lot of Jane Austen. And the other thing is, read a story by Tolstoy called “Family Happiness” which is not only about the first blush of love, but about sustained love for adults. And then read Helen Fisher who writes about how we fall in love. And so those are some books that will help inform you about what’s going on. The second thing is, take your time in your thirties to make this decision. As in all decisions, your parents will go slowly crazy as you delay, but take your time.
5. FM: If there’s one thing you could change about the country right now, what would it be?
DB: Huh. The state of the New York Mets, Bruce Springsteen’s unwillingness to call me every week. I mentioned the budget. I guess the issue I care most about is early childhood education, so I would give us a much better system of early childhood education.
Sections
When Mark J. Chiusano '12 first asked me to riff for 600 to 800 words on “metempsychosis,” I first had to restrain myself from asking what “metempsychosis” meant, or if it was even a real word. Mark is an English concentrator, and he loves to rub it in your face whenever he can. So I just smiled and nodded, because I refuse to give that prick the satisfaction of knowing something that I don’t. My second reaction was to think: what the hell kind of hoity-toity nonsense is this? An entire essay on one word? This was not the Fifteen Minutes that I used to write for. One of our editors last year would scuttle story ideas with a term borrowed from the movie industry—“too high concept.” It was a good distillation of the difference between us and, say, the rest of The Crimson. God forbid we looked like we were actually trying.
I looked the word up on Dictionary.com and found that “metempsychosis” is just a fancy word for reincarnation. Well, I remember when Mark and Elyssa A.L. Spitzer ’12 first presented this notion of metempsychosisifying FM from a tabloid into a slick, full-color glossy magazine printed in China, of all places. I laughed, mostly at the thought of some mouth-breathing Crimson business comper telling our press operators that a part of their jobs had been shipped overseas. I also worried about the size of the task—they were proposing a comprehensive makeover. And yet here you are, reading this piece on a glossy page, assuming that the Chinese government hasn’t decided to ban all written words between submission and press time. 
I’ve often heard the complaint that too many student publications forget that they are, at the end of the day, still student publications. And I’m tempted to agree every time I read an editorial on the Libya situation or flip through four pages of black-and-white photographs of a VES concentrator’s feet. But these complaints seem to be part of a larger uneasiness surrounding self-importance and ambition. Delusions of grandeur are a cardinal sin at Harvard. The old FM was able to dodge those questions by being so explicitly and shamelessly undergrad. The tab format, the paper version FM had used, offered a large degree of freedom, and we thought nothing of running long pieces on thought-provoking cover stories right next to photos of people sloppily making out at the Spee.
So it makes sense that when I heard the magazine was going glossy, my excitement had a heavy lining of indignation. It’s inevitable when you make someone, at the ripe old age of 22, feel utterly irrelevant, which is how I felt when they said that they were no longer doing it our way. The mistaken assumption is that we own any of this—our dorm rooms, the chairs in the Yard, the student life magazines that take up large chunks of our time each week and even larger chunks of our GPAs. That assumption is behind some big mistakes. I should stop painting a mural on my bedroom wall and throwing chocolate milk at the foreign tourists who insist on sitting in those chairs, and I really shouldn’t have a knee-jerk reaction when the current crop of Crimson leaders decides to take our beloved rag and make it somewhat respectable.
According to my sources, this latest reincarnation of the magazine will place a heavier emphasis on long-form content accompanied by crisper, more innovative design and photography. Things will change—things have to change—because we’re in college and we’re young and this is just how it works. And in a month, I will graduate, and I will fully accept that I’ve only been passing through here all along.
Sections
 
DORM/HOUSE: Stoughton Hall/Cabot House 
CONCENTRATION: Social Anthropology/VES 
HOMETOWN: New York City, New York 
IDEAL DATE: Good food and lots of laughs 
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: For him to be exactly like the guy in the Old Spice swan dive commercial ... able to do everything. 
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Anywhere, but definitely on the dance floor.
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I don’t use them, but maybe I should start.
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: Sorry I got a new phone, who is this?
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: This one time, at band camp ... 
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Building forts with blankets 
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My eyes 
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Annenberg
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The Harvard X
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Outgoing, Awkward, Fun 
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: On Tumblr 
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Making babies
Sections
Bar de Roberto, Buenos Aires (2002)
What I love about this photograph is that it takes you to a different time. When I was doing research about the Tango, one of the things that I really wanted to do was  show the roots of the tango, and how it came to be. Tango was born in the brothels of Buenos Aires in the beginning of the 20th century, and basically what you have is a bunch of men flirting with women—who were mainly prostitutes—but that is not the case in this picture. This is a modern bar in 2002 in Argentina, but it gives you the feeling of this kind of place that is a little marginally off, and it’s precisely how tango started. The people who danced tango, the people who sang tango, were poor immigrants that arrived over from Europe. They had nothing. All they had were their old music traditions and their nostalgia. I like that you see the boy in his cart, which throws you a little off, and the attitude of the woman, which you cannot see: her stockings, the way she flirts, the way their hands mirror each other.

Chiquipata, Bolivia (2002)

Chiquipata, Bolivia (2002)
Chiquipata, Bolivia (2002)
I love seeing the little slices of life. For me there are only two different subjects, love and death. Love: the way we connect together, the way we relate to each other. Death: the separation and distance between human beings. I love the grandmother holding the baby, and I love how they’re gossiping. You can see and know that they’re gossiping just by looking at their faces; they’re so into it and not paying attention to anything else. I spent a lot of time there, about an hour, and they never paid attention to me, not once—they were so focused on their conversation. If you are respectful and let them know what it is you are doing, people forget you quickly and just go on with what they’re doing. In my opinion, the camera can be used as a wall or as a bridge. You can bring people closer to you if you explain yourself, if you are respectful, and if you pay attention to the dignity of the subjects you are photographing. If you don’t pay attention to them, and you just pay attention to yourself and your own work, I think it becomes a wall. A camera can separate you from everything.
Sections
FM reflects on its past.
Sections
In Anticipation of Next Year
Upperclassman: (House?)
Freshman: (Quad. House?)
Upperclassman: (QUAD!)
Freshman: (... Quad?)
Upperclassman: (Spirit!)
Freshman: (...)
Upperclassman: (House life!)
Freshman: (...)
Upperclassman: (Singles!)
Freshman: (Singles. Hang next year?)
Upperclassman: (...)
Freshman: (?)
Upperclassman: (Transferring.)
On the Party Shuttle
Drunken Student: (Drunkkkk?)
Sober Student: (No.)
Drunken Student: (PARTY?!)
Sober Student: (No.)
Drunken Student: (Fly later?)
Sober Student: (No.)
Drunken Student: (My room later?)
Sober Student: (Gets off.)
Reading Period
Senior 1: (GRADUATION!)
Senior 2: (GRADUATION!)
Senior 1: (... Graduation?)
Senior 2: (Graduation ...)
Senior 1: (...)
Cooler Than I Am at J.P. Licks
Customer: (Two scoops. Comment on outfit.)
Cashier: (Flavor?)
Customer: (Strawberry. Compliment on piercing.)
Cashier: (Closing soon. Cup or cone?)
Customer: (Waffle. Really into music.)
Cashier: (Didn’t pick it.)
Customer: (...)
Cashier: (Amount due.)
Customer: (Joke about capitalism.)
Cashier: (Takes money. Hands ice cream.)
Bikini Season in the Dhall
Girl 1: (Dinner?)
Girl 2: (Salad. Full. Dinner?)
Girl 1: (Grilled chicken. Full.)
Girl 2: (Brain break cheesecake!)
Girl 1: (OMG cheescake!!!!)
Girl 2: (... Gym later?)
Girl 1: (Gym later.)
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Weld Hall/Mather House
CONCENTRATION: Engineering Sciences (a social life? what’s that?)
HOMETOWN: From Memphis, Tennessee, born in Blacksburg, Virginia
IDEAL DATE: Feed me!
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: Dimples, and lots of confidence
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: At a Harvard party, wishing I was at a state school.  
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: "Come onnnn, LOVE ME!"
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I don’t lie.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: What are you doing with your life? You should be
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Drinking out of juice boxes
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My lips
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The Yard when it’s sunny and beautiful. That one magical day of the year ...
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The endless winter. And the snow. And the cold. And the wind. Did I mention the winter?
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Qdoba’s best
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Probably late to something ... oops.
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Finally living in a place where the temperature never goes below 65!
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Lionel Hall/Winthrop House
CONCENTRATION: Social Studies, possibly a secondary in Environmental Science and Public Policy and a citation in French
HOMETOWN: Helsinki, Finland
IDEAL DATE: Biking from Havana to Santiago de Cuba
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GUY: Not looking anymore
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: In an ocean, sea, lake or river
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: "What’s your favorite Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle?"
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: This sentence is not true.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: In times of universal deceit, telling the truth becomes a revolutionary act.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Getting lost in the forest and thinking I was a wolf cub
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: Lighting bolt scar
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Squirrels and Professors
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Swedish Oliver
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Earth Wind & Fire
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: At Omar Barghouti’s talk
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Making revolution. Dancing.
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Greenough Hall/Lowell House
CONCENTRATION: Thinking about Social Studies
HOMETOWN: Leeds, England
IDEAL DATE: Study opposite me in Lamont tonight? Who knows, I may smile at you while you eat sushi. I may even ask you what you’re studying, to which you’ll reply "expos." It’ll be awesome.
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL: A great outlook.
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Desperately seeking validation on ISawYouHarvard.
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: Do you want to see something swell?
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I really don’t care about being one of the 15 hottest freshmen.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Despite being at Harvard, my all-time favourite book is still "The Very Hungry Caterpillar."
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Being the cool kid because I knew all the words to the "Fresh Prince" rap.
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: Someone once told me "you have cute shoulders." I took that as a compliment.
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The Pusey Library
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: "So, what dorm are you in?"
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: I’m good at math.
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Not even halfway to the Quad
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Still casually bringing up my 15 hottest freshman photo in conversation. No big deal. 
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Lionel Hall/Lowell House
CONCENTRATION: Undecided
HOMETOWN: NYC
IDEAL DATE: Anything involving chocolate and whipped cream
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: Someone who’s fun, funny, and sweet
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Out and about
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I wish I were DNA helicase so I could unzip your genes!
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I’m a really bad liar ...
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Polar bears are left-handed
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Making inedible brownies with my Easy-Bake Oven
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: Of mine? Or other people? ;)
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The Yard
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: It’s only four years.
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Loves to laugh
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Going to Pinkberry
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Living it up
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Stoughton Hall/Winthrop House
CONCENTRATION: Not great
HOMETOWN: Canandaigua, New York
IDEAL DATE: December 25
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: A cute mom (I’m very forward thinking.)
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Crying and sitting alone
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: "Of course I read for section."
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: I believe you, O.J.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Eating dirt
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My tolerance for lactose
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The student body’s engagement with and commitment to academic excellence
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The student body’s engagement with and commitment to academic excellence
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: I’m-bi-winning.
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Drinking alone and watching my own second grade Macbeth play tape, thinking about my glory days
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: President
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Grays Hall/Pforzheimer House
CONCENTRATION: History of Art and Architecture
HOMETOWN: London, U.K.
IDEAL DATE: Have some chicken, maybe some sex ... you know, see
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: A supple, perky, voluptuous, well-rounded personality
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Cabot D-41
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: Does this rag smell like chloroform to you?
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: It’s bigger than it looks.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Greg Edwards has a fabulous nose. 
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Being dressed up in ladies underwear by my sisters
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: The mullet I am growing
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: You can be whoever you want to be.
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Four hours of sleep a night
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Awkward, very awkward ...
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Regretting answering these questions so quickly
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: 34
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Canaday Hall/Quincy House
CONCENTRATION: VES (Film)
HOMETOWN: Lahore, Pakistan
IDEAL DATE: April 29
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GUY: High SAT Score
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Noch’s
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: Does this rag smell like chloroform to you?
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I understand jokes at Harvard. Laughing before the punch line usually gives me away though.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Pakistan is beautiful.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Bathroom dancing. (Broke a bone while I was at it)
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: The second toe on my left foot
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: My friends
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The weather
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Lazy, social, dumb brunette
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Late for class
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Winning an Oscar
Sections
The road to Maine has no rest stops and I need to pee. I’ve been downing juice boxes in the backseat because every time Dad starts yelling at the OnStar lady for shoddy directions, I need a shot of something.
“Mommy, Lena’s drinking all of my juice boxes.”
Sadie is a huge tattletale.
“Lena, those aren’t for you.” Mom flips through the atlas. She thinks we’re lost.
“Well, if Dad hadn’t forgotten to pack water ....”
“Hey now. Listen to your mother.”
Sadie drums her feet against the booster seat—‘hehe haha.’ I open another juice box and mouth the words ‘last one.’ Sadie starts to fake cry.
Mom snaps around and rolls up the atlas like a bat. I flinch and quietly hand the juice box to Sadie who insists that I also put the straw in her mouth. Mom shoots me the glare and snaps back around. I am older, about a decade older, but who said I had to know better? Sure, Sadie’s six but she’s more than her frilly shoes let on. And who sanctioned this family vacation anyway? The last one had an approval rating of 25 percent and that was only because Sadie got her pick of the souvenirs.
“You can exit at 34B.” Mom points to a spot on her atlas and looks at Dad.
“I should have just taken I-95 up.”
“You just passed 33A.”
“I bet there’s none of this traffic crap on I-95.”
“34B is two miles ahead.”
“I-95 would have been faster. We would have made our reservation.”
Mom slams the atlas shut and chucks it to the backseat. It brushes past my braids and lands between me and Sadie in a mess of pages.
“Well you didn’t take I-95. So stop complaining about it.”
Dad turns to Mom. “What’s the problem?”
“Just drive.”
“No really. What’s the problem?” Dad is looking at Mom, not the road, but he keeps a steady hand.
Mom has her arms crossed. Her chest goes up down, up down, like a bike pump. “You’re always complaining. Something’s always better.”
“I-95 is better!”
Sadie drops her juice box. It rolls under Mom’s seat. Mom looks out the window. Dad turns back to the wheel and licks his lips before starting.
“I see. You’re still mad about the job. You’re always mad about the job.”
“I’m not mad about the job.”
“And you’re always saying you’re not mad about the job.”
“I’m saying you didn’t have to quit your job.”
“It was a shitty job!”
“You don’t like your new job.”
Dad’s quiet.
“If you didn’t quit, we wouldn’t have had to move here.”
“What’s wrong with here? You said you liked it.” Dad is facing Mom again, his jaw pushed out, his eyes small.
“Just drive.”
“No tell me. What’s wrong with here?”
“Just drive!” And Mom pushes his face away with one hand.
“Fine,” Dad grips the wheel and the leather squeaks under his thick fingers. “No problem. I’ll drive.”
He steps on the accelerator. He doesn’t stop. The car careens forth and Sadie hits her head on the back of her car seat. She whimpers and I move to the middle seat to hold her hand.
Mom looks unimpressed—“Kill us all. See if I care.”— and so Dad swerves into the fast lane and floors it. The car machines into the triple digits and Sadie won’t stop squeezing my hand.
“Dad.” I sound like an echo, “I need to pee.”
“Hold it.”
“Dad.” I put a free hand on his shoulder. “I need to pee.”
He sees the hand from the rearview mirror and the car starts to slow. He moves out of the fast lane and we stop at a bank where the trees are dense enough that you can’t see the other side of the highway. Dad gets out and kicks the front tires. Mom stays inside, arms crossed, chest going up down. I take Sadie with me. We run into the trees until we can’t see the car anymore. I find a bush to do my business and Sadie chases after me.
“Hey, that’s my bush.”
And I let her have it.
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Straus Hall/Cabot House
CONCENTRATION: Government or Psychology
HOMETOWN: Providence, R.I.
IDEAL DATE: Staying in the house, ordering pizza, and watching a movie
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: Confidence and a positive attitude
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Watching a game in a common room with my friends
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: "Girl, I just noticed you, noticing me, so I just want to put you on notice, that I noticed you too"—"Fresh Prince of Bel Air"
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I dunked on Kobe.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: I’ve always wanted to be an R&B singer.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Hanging out with my brothers and sister
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My hands
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The people
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: How they lock the gates to the Yard at night
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Humble, confident, and motivated
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Working to improve at something
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Remembered
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Apley Court/Currier House
CONCENTRATION: Social Studies
HOMETOWN: Peekskill, N.Y.
IDEAL DATE: I would love to sail (or motorboat) across a small ocean over the course of a weekend-long rendezvous.
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: My ideal girl has a big heart and great smile and is thoughtful. I’d also hope that her priorities extend beyond academics.
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Pole-dancing at Amherst College. Seriously.
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I’ve never had any success with pick-up lines.
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: Worst lie: I can dance.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: If you ever say something that condescending to me again, I’m going to punch you.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Reading "Ender’s Game" by Orson Scott Card and the "Wheel of Time" by Robert Jordan!
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My smile
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: I love the culture, or at least the one that I try most to be part of. That culture is best definable by its members’ insatiable curiosity and desire to explore and improve the world.
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: No roofed bike shelters!
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Genuine. Thoughtful. Reserved.
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Checking up on the Manchester Reds’ latest match
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Sitting in one of the comfy leather seats at the side of the pitch at Old Trafford and working in Sub-Saharan Africa
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Wigglesworth Hall/Lowell House!
CONCENTRATION: OEB
HOMETOWN: San Francisco, Calif. (aka paradise)
IDEAL DATE: Near-death experiences with Catherine Ressijac—I wouldn’t trade them for the world.
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: “Faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive, and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound.”
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Anywhere, as long as I am with Alaina Murphy, Natalia Paine, Kristina Funahashi, or Lauren Dinicola
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I’m a freshman at BU.
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU EVER TOLD: “I’ll be there in five minutes.”
SOMETHING YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE:  I have a prescription for my Bieber fever.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Swindling lunch money on the playground
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My toned achilles tendons
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: The people
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Winter in April
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: More to love
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Running late to practice
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Running late to work
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Pennypacker Hall/Lowell House
CONCENTRATION: Economics
HOMETOWN: Henley-on-Thames, U.K.
IDEAL DATE: Watching the Royal Wedding with a box of Dunkin Donuts
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: Nice hair, fun personality, in line to the throne
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: The 24-hour deli, eventually
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: Stand back! I know CPR!
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: Stand back! I know CPR!
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Most people have a few worm-like mites which live in the pores of their face or the hair follicles on their eyelashes.
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Playing with Lego(s)
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: My McDonald’s-sculpted body
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: I forgot to bring my Lego(s) with me.
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: 100% British Beef
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Eating a doughnut
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Seeking medical help for my doughnut addiction
Sections
DORM/HOUSE: Mower Hall/Gryffindor
CONCENTRATION: Not much
HOMETOWN: Fullerton, Calif.
IDEAL DATE: Meet me at Brain break around eh … 1 a.m.?
WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A GIRL/GUY: A HOT mess like myself
WHERE TO FIND YOU ON A SATURDAY NIGHT: Some combination of Noch’s, the Delphic Basement, and a bathroom floor. Oh wait! I thought you said Monday night.
YOUR BEST PICK-UP LINE: I know where Mower is.
BEST OR WORST LIE YOU’VE EVER TOLD: I know where Mower is.
SOMETHING YOU’VE ALWAYS WANTED TO TELL SOMEONE: Excuse me I don’t mean to be rude but tonight I’m—
FAVORITE CHILDHOOD ACTIVITY: Whippin’ my hair back and forth
SEXIEST PHYSICAL TRAIT: Something special like Tiger Blood
BEST PART ABOUT HARVARD: THIS LIST
WORST PART ABOUT HARVARD: No 15 hottest libraries list
DESCRIBE YOURSELF IN THREE WORDS: Sparkly Gold Toms
IN 15 MINUTES YOU ARE: Passed out at Lamont
IN 15 YEARS YOU ARE: Still trying to sneak into Annenberg after lunchtime
Sections
New hot format, classic hot feature. In the 12th annual 15 Hottest Freshmen, FM brings you the freshest picks of the freshman class. You'll be missing them all summer long.
Caspar W. Jopling
Hania S. Chima
Matt S. Brown
Alex J. Velez-Green
Morgan E. Kelly
Guy D. Pawson
Michelle E. Matsuba
Rina A. Kuusipalo
Jonny K.S. Tan
Sabrina L. Hahn
Will A. Brophy
Dany Jradi
Eric R. Brewster
Nicole R. Delany
Rachel E. Davidson
Sections
11:00 a.m.
Lecturer on the Study of Religion Tamsin Jones juggles three things this morning. Madly clicking away at her computer, she sends a flurry of emails while wielding a pen in one hand, editing a lecture, and looking over a philosophy paper: “Theses are coming in today!”
Jones looks out the door of her office every 10 minutes or so, expectantly awaiting the heavy, black-bound books that contain the culmination of her seniors’ extensive studies.
A colleague enters, jestingly warning Jones that a disaster looms—printer problems are about to happen.
Jones laughs, “I heard that our [theses] are really good ... There’s something there!”
Back to her computer, Jones checks the twitter responses for her Existentialism and Religion class and plays a remix of “Last Walk Around Mirror Lake” by Boom Bip on YouTube that a student with an interest in dance has sent her. Jones watches the video, which films skydivers sweeping through mountain ranges. “I’ve got to do this before I’m 30,” she says.
12:00 p.m.
At a weekly pre-lecture meeting with her teaching fellows, Jones discusses the previous week’s class readings. Reactions in the room range from surprise to curiosity at student reception.
Jones interjects at points in the discussion, joking “any non-angry feminists [among them]?”
Her lecture is less than a half hour away. Chuckling, she threatens to cancel it.
Later, an amused TF begins to speak of Jones’ artistic adolescence. Jones sends a friendly warning glance.
Ending the meeting, Jones offers to take her TFs out for drinks “It would totally break my bank but ...”
1:00 p.m.
In a packed room in Emerson Hall, Jones begins her lecture for Religion 56: Existentialism and Religion.
She frequently pauses to ask questions concerning her students: had they trouble accessing the files? How did they find the reading?
Unlike some of the undergraduate students in her class, Jones herself had a rather “monkish” experience in her own studies at McGill University, living alone and spending lengths of time dwelling on thinkers and ideas.
Her reclusive college years were in part a response to her even more unusual adolescence as a child-actress with long term commitments to a Canadian television series “Northwood” and later the movie “Sleeping with Strangers.”
Jones describes this period of her life as involving “Cameras, money, and a certain degree of fame.”
3:30 p.m.
Theses are beginning to fill Jones’ office. At one point Jones sprints to the corridor to hug one of her seniors handing in a thesis. “It’s done!” She grins.
Shortly after, Jones’ husband and two small children (a three-year-old son and a one-year-old daughter) arrive followed by a visiting graduate student. The office is filled with a flurry of excitement as Jones’ son explores the furniture and Jones explains to him the importance of eating vegetables.
After her family leaves, Jones stays in her office, madly clicking away.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After leading the Harvard women’s golf team in scoring average this past year, freshman Bonnie Hu was recently invited to the NCAA Central Regional, held May 5-7 in South Bend, Ind.
Only one other individual Ivy Leaguer—Kelly Shon of Princeton—received such a distinction.
Hu has already exceeded the expectations coming into her rookie campaign. Her season average of 75.55 was a full two strokes better than anyone else on the team, and she holds a share of the low round of the season for Harvard with captain Mia Kabasakalis.
Twice this year, she has shot under par. At the Princeton Women’s Invitational back in September, Hu, a Crimson business editor, scored a two-under 70 in the second round on her way to a fourth-place finish.
This year, over spring break, she shot a one-under round of 71 in a match against Cal in Pleasanton, Calif.
The Harvard squad lost out on a berth in the regional tournament after falling to Yale by four strokes in the Ivy League Women’s Championship last weekend. Hu finished that tournament with a 73 in the final round, but Kabasakalis was the overall team leader, finishing in second in the field. Hu placed 12th overall.
The Ancient Eight will be spread out for next week’s regional championships. Yale, along with Shon, will be travelling to Daytona Beach, Fla., but Hu will head to South Bend for the Central Regional.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each Thursday, The Crimson will compile a series of unique statistics about Harvard's sports scene. Welcome to the Magic of Numbers—without the problem sets. We'll do the math for you.
ROW ROW ROW YOUR BOAT
38: Number of wins by Harvard men’s lightweight crew over Navy in the 45-year history of the Haines Cup.
3: Consecutive years that men’s lightweight crew has beat Navy.
1.2: Number of seconds by which men’s lightweight crew beat Navy last Saturday.
I’M SAILING AWAY
5: Finish for the Harvard women's sailing team at the Women's New England Championship.
2: Finish by the Crimson women’s sailing team at the Admiral's Cup hosted by Kings Point.
DIFF’RENT STROKES
6: Finish for the Harvard men’s golf team at last weekend’s Ivy League Championship.
11: Finish in individual standings for junior Mark Pollak at the Ivy League Championship.
RE-LAX
5: Goals scored by sophomore attacker Jennifer VanderMeulen in the 15-9 victory over Columbia.
42: number of goals scored by VanderMeulen—the team’s leading goal scorer—so far this season.
167: Goals scored by Crimson women’s lacrosse team as a whole this year.
HIT ME BABY, ONE MORE TIME
2: Times co-captain Ellen Macadam of the Harvard softball team has been named Ivy League Player of the Week.
45: Runs scored this season by Macadam, a Harvard record.
4: Hits Macadam needs to break the school record of 67 in a single season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When it comes to women’s tennis, the latest trend, besides whatever outfits a certain Williams sister is wearing, is simple: the best are getting better—hardware, at least, at Harvard.
Harvard women’s tennis earned its share of Ivy League awards across the spectrum today.
Last year, junior Holly Cao was selected to the All-Ivy League singles first-team after going 15-4 on the season in dual matches. This year? Cao coasted to a cool 15-1 record, going 6-1 in the Ancient Eight, and only lost to recently crowned Ivy League Player and Rookie of the Year Connie Hsu of Penn.
After the third season of her Crimson career, Cao boasts a 61-16 record in singles play, 37-7 in dual matches, and now, a unanimous selection to the All-Ivy League team under her belt.
Other selections to the first-team include sophomores Kristin Norton and Hideko Tachibana, who amassed a 10-4 record as a doubles pair. Another unanimous first team All-Ivy League pair, Hsu and Alexa Ely, from Penn, handed the Harvard duo its only in-conference loss of the season.
Tachibana was also honored for her 11-6 overall record and 5-2 conference mark with a spot on the Second Team All-Ivy squad for singles. Interestingly enough, both of her losses also came against second-team selections Rachael Saiontz of Princeton and Elizabeth Epstein of Yale.
Coincidence? We think not.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As each semester draws to a close, crowds descend on Lamont Library. Students camp out at wooden tables and in armchairs, slowly transforming into the bleary-eyed and smelly beast known as the Lamonster.
Lore about such things is rampant, but how many students actually suffer this terrible fate? Statistics provided by Beth S. Brainard, Harvard College Library spokesperson, hold the answer.
During the fall semester's reading and exam periods—from Dec. 3 to Dec. 21—there were 36,989 unique visits to the library (meaning that students who returned more than once in one day were not counted multiple times). Even accounting for the small number of non-undergraduates included in that total, that still represents roughly 1,800 students per day—about a quarter of the school.
The Thursday at the end of reading period had the most visitors last semester. In that 24-hour window, 2,884 people swiped into Lamont. No wonder you  couldn't find a seat!
Plenty of people were doing their studying and writing outside the library as well. At peak, 9,911 books were checked out of Lamont on a single day at the end of last semester.
