News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School Professor Elizabeth Warren will not serve as the director of the agency she has been credited with proposing. Instead, the White House announced Sunday that Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will be headed by one of her deputies, former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray, after it became clear that Warren would not be confirmed by the Senate.
Warren—a controversial figure in Washington and rumored contender for a seat in the U.S. Senate—has been described in media reports as wanting the job, but Congressional Republicans have made her the focal point of criticism that the CFPB represents an example of government overreach.
Cordray is currently head of enforcement for the agency and was reportedly not Warren’s top choice to lead the CFPB. According to media reports, Warren had favored tapping Raj Date, a former banker, to lead the bureau.
“Rich has always had my strong support because he is tough and he is smart-and that’s exactly the combination this new agency needs,” she said in a statement to the Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch, which first reported the news. “He was one of the first senior leaders I recruited for the agency, and his work and commitment have made it clear that he will make a stellar director.”
Warren, who has a reputation for being a blunt and tenacious advocate for consumers, is one of the nation’s leading experts on bankruptcy. In 2010, President Obama chose her to oversee the development of the bureau, which Congress created in the wake of the financial crisis to better oversee products like credit cards and mortgages.
The bureau will begin full operation this Thursday.
Warren is a polarizing figure in Washington. While Congressional Republicans reportedly have distain for the Oklahoma native, support for Warren from the left has been widespread.
This June, 89 Congressional Democrats sent a letter to President Obama urging him to appoint Warren as director; last summer, a group called Main Street Brigade wrote and produced a rap video supporting her candidacy, saying “Sheriff Warren is what we need, y’all.”
In a statement, President Obama praised the hard-charging professor.
“This agency was Elizabeth’s idea, and through sheer force of will, intelligence, and a bottomless well of energy, she has made, and will continue to make, a profound and positive difference for our country,” Obama said.
In recent weeks, as opposition against her leading the bureau has coalesced, some within the Democratic party have mounted an effort to recruit her to run against Senator Scott Brown, according to media reports.
Democratic Party chairman John Walsh said he would love to have Warren in the race, and Senator Harry Reid is reported to have spoken to Warren about running.
—Staff writer Caroline M. McKay can be reached at carolinemckay@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: June 17, 2011
An earlier version of the June 17 article "Warren Passed Over as Director of Regulatory Agency" incorrectly referred to the Ohio newspaper Columbus Dispatch as the Columbia Dispatch.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The incestuous relationship between Harvard and the Obama White House continues with the announcement that two legal experts will leave the administration to teach or research at the University.
Vivek Kundra, the U.S. chief information officer, has accepted a joint fellowship at the Law and Kennedy schools. Susan Davies, currently the deputy counsel to President Obama, will join the Law School faculty as a lecturer.
“I am delighted to be joining the Harvard community and very grateful for the opportunity to share in its long tradition of excellence in legal education,” Davies said in a statement released by the Law School.
The announcement of Kundra and Davies’ departure for Harvard comes after news that a slew of junior staffers at the White House will descend on the University to attend graduate school. Former administrators, professors, and graduates have dotted the ranks of the White House since Obama’s election in 2008—including former University President Larry H. Summers and Law School professor Laurence H. Tribe ’62.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: July 19, 2011
The July 17 post "The White House to Harvard Exodus Continues" incorrectly spelled the first name of University Professor Laurence H. Tribe '62 as "Lawrence."
