News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three Harvard psychiatrists previously accused by a senator of accepting money from drug companies have been punished for violating conflict of interest polices set forth by the Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital.
Joseph Biederman, Thomas J. Spencer, and Timothy E. Wilens issued a letter of apology to their colleagues on Friday, stating that the two institutions had concluded a review of the professors’ practices and found that they had violated conflict of interest policies. Those policies require affiliates to report industry-sponsored activities to the University.
Though the doctors, the Medical School, and Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General Hospital did not identify the specific breaches of policy, in June 2008, Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said that according to his investigation, the three doctors did not disclose the full amount they had earned from drug companies over the previous seven years.
Biederman, Spencer, and Wilens will be required to refrain from all paid industry-sponsored outside activies for one year and comply with a two-year monitoring period afterward, during which they must obtain approval from the Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital before engaging in any paid activities. They also face a “delay of consideration for promotion or advancement,” they wrote in the letter.
The letter sent from the three psychiatrists states that they had believed they were complying in good faith and that they had made “honest” mistakes.
“We now recognize that we should have devoted more time and attention to the detailed requirement of these policies and to their underlying objectives,” the letter stated.
Both Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital were reserved in their comments, each saying in statements that their investigation is complete and that actions have been taken as a result of it.
The conclusion of the two institutions’ investigation is the latest development in a three-year saga that brought intense scrutiny on the Medical School, as well as ties between academia and industry. Following Grassley’s investigation, legislation was proposed both in the State House and in Congress that would increase disclosure requirements for industry-sponosored gifts.
After Grassley issued his report, the Medical School said that it would be reviewing the doctors’ cases as well as reexamining its current regulations and improving implementation.
At Harvard, a review established the first University-wide set of guidelines pertaining to conflict of interest policies last summer. As of this past January, new conflict of interest guidelines at the Harvard Medical School include changes such as a prohibition on faculty from accepting personal gifts and tighter limits on faculty compensation from outside companies.
—Naveen N. Srivatsa contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Over the past month, HUPD has stayed busy protecting campus from heat-born acts of crime. A frustrated laundry-doer, dangerous dumpster truck, and a Civil War-era rifle have made this summer anything but quiet in Cambridge. As part of our Securitas series, we've combed through recent HUPD log entries and published some of the more colorful entries below. 
Reports of "unwanted guest[s]": 27
Reports of "suspicious activity": 36
Noise complaints: 17
Reports of "suspicious odor/smoke": 3
Total value of stolen Apple products: $16,700
Total value of stolen bicycles: $11,990
June 1, 2011
Assist State Police (5:31 pm)
Weld Boathouse, 971 Memorial Dr., Cambridge
Officer assisted the Massachusetts State Police with attempting to locate a boat that had floated away from another school.
June 2, 2011
Suspicious Activity (2:54 p.m.)
Holyoke Center, 1350 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of an unknown individual who has been staring at and attempting to engage a person in an unwanted conversation.
June 5, 2011
Trespass Warning (5:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m.)
Peabody Terrace 10, 900 Memorial Dr., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of an individual who had their laundry taken out of the dryer and strewn around the room.
June 8, 2011
Hazardous Condition (1:52 p.m.)
Paine Hall, 1875 Cambridge St., Cambridge
Officer observed a hazardous condition in the area. Officer reports a dumpster truck in the area backing up and individuals having to run out of the way so as not to get struck. The officer assisted the driver backing into the area.
June 9, 2011
Vandalism (12:57 p.m.)
Stadium, 79 North Harvard St., Allston
Officer reports unknown individuals(s) toilet papered the stands on the west side of the Stadium. The officer also reported the toilet paper dispenser in the rooftop bathroom was damaged.
June 10, 2011
Suspicious Activity (5:14 p.m.)
Lamont Library, 11 Quincy St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of a male in the woman's restroom. Officers report the individual was unaware the restroom they were in was the women's room.
June 11, 2011
Suspicious odor/smoke (12:01 a.m.)
NRB New Research Building, 77 Ave. Louis Pasteur, Boston
Officers dispatched to a report of a suspicious odor coming from boxes in the hallway. EH&S arrived and determined the smell was most likely from cleaning supplies that had been spilled on the boxes. The boxes were disposed of and officers report management was notified of the incident.
June 17, 2011
Suspicious Activity (8:30 a.m. – 7:30 p.m.)
Dudley Cooperative House, 1705 Mass. Ave., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of suspicious activity. Upon arrival, the individual informed the officer they left a window open and on their return two kittens were missing.
June 21, 2011
Suspicious Activity (6:57 a.m.)
Science Center, 1 Oxford St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual in a bathing suit jumping in and out of the fountain and harassing passerby. Officers report the individual was gone on arrival.
June 28, 2011
Field Interview (3:39 p.m.)
John Harvard Statue, 1 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual standing by the statue asking individuals for money to take pictures with them. The individual was also in possession of a musket cap rifle. Officers arrived, located the individual and conducted a field interview. The individual was advised they could not charge people money to take pictures. Officers report the musket was not a live projectile firearm. The individual was sent on their way.
Sections
Harvard, who prides itself as one of the top universities in the world,  can now add another first place to its trophy case. On Wednesday, the Harvard University Facebook page reached 500,000 fans—the most number of fans for any university's  Facebook page, according to All Facebook's leaderboards under "Education" and "University."
In response to the milestone, the University posted a comment on its wall that varied from its usual news posts:
"Over  half a million of you 'Like' this page! We'd like to thank all of you  who have been following us here on Facebook for updates on teaching,  research, life & learning at Harvard in Cambridge and around the  world."
The page, which was launched in June 2009, was part of a number of  steps the University took in making Harvard accessible on the social  media front. Since then, Harvard has become a partner of YouTube EDU and  iTunes U as well as developed a presence on Twitter and Foursquare. In the fall of 2010, the University launched the Harvard mobile  application under the direction of Perry S. Hewitt '87-'88, director of digital  communications and communications services.
"Accessibility to Harvard is something that President Faust  frequently talks about—and one of the most effective ways to increase  accessibility is developing a content strategy that makes best use of  digital, social and mobile approaches," Hewitt wrote in an email.
