Sections
The past five weeks at Harvard have seen 78 thefts, flooded dorms, and smoking mulch. Through it all, HUPD has been around to keep campus safe. As part of our Securitas series, we've combed through recent HUPD log entries and published some of the more colorful entries below.
BY THE NUMBERS
Reports of “unwanted guest[s]”: 21
Reports of “suspicious activity”: 55
Noise complaints: 22
Total value of stolen bicycles: $15,290
Total value of stolen Apple products: $13,369
Total value of stolen copper down spouts: $600
Marijuana confiscations: 3
Incidents of public urinations: 4
July 2, 2011
 
Suspicious Activity (2:23 p.m.)
LISE, 15 Oxford St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual behind the building who had their ankles and wrists tied. Officers report the individuals were filming in the area and everything was in order.
July 4, 2011
 
Suspicious Activity (8:32 a.m.)
 
1 Western Ave., Allston
Officer dispatched to a report of graffiti done to the street sign in the area. Officer reports unknown person(s) wrote “I love you” in chalk. Officer reports the writing was wiped off the sign.
July 16, 2011
 
Unwanted Guest
 
JFK Park, 986 Memorial Dr., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of an individual laying down in the bushes. Officer arrived and sent the individual on their way.
 
July 22, 2011
 
Suspicious Odor/Smoke
Brighton Mills Shopping Center, 400 Western Ave., Boston
Officers dispatched to a report of mulch in the area smoking. Officer spoke with the reporting individual who stated they kicked out the smokey patch of mulch but the mulch was still hot to the touch. BFD arrived and sprayed water on the mulch.
July 23, 2011
 
Vandalism
Lowell House Q, 10 Holyoke Pl., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of a fire alarm. Upon arrival, the officers were informed a sprinkler head and water pipe were tampered with. Both the first and second floors of entry G were flooded as well as the basement of Q entry. Officer reports management was aware of the incident. Officers report CFD deemed the building safe for re-entry.
July 24, 2011
 
Theft Report
64 Cambridge St., Allston
Officers dispatched to a report of a suspicious individual throwing bicycles over the fence. Officers searched the area for the individual with negative results. Officers spoke with the reporting individual who stated they observed an individual throwing bicycles over a fence. The reporting individual asked the individual if the individual owned the bicycles and the individual fled the area. Officers recovered five bicycles behind the fence and are holding the bicycles for safekeeping until the owners can be identified.
July 26, 2011
Suspicious Activity
 
Lavietes Pavilion, 79 N. Harvard St., Allston
Officer dispatched to take a report of suspicious activity. Upon arrival the officer was informed that they basketball court was being resurfaced and was blocked off so no one could utilize the court. Officer was informed there were sneaker prints and basketball scratched on the resurfaced floor. Officer reports managements was aware of the incident and damaged had been rectified.
July 31, 2011
 
Suspicious Activity
 
1 Western Ave, Allston
Officers dispatched to a report of an individual at the front entrance of the building with no pants on. Officers searched the area for the individual with negative results.
August 1, 2011
 
Suspicious Activity
 
Lamont Library, 11 Quincy St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to take a report on an individual attempting to photograph another individual while they were in a bathroom stall. Officers report the individual was gone on arrival.
August 1, 2011
 
Vandalism
 
Memorial Hall, 18 Kirkland St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of a broken window. Officer spoke with the reporting party who stated they heard the sound of glass breaking and then observed an unidentified individual hurriedly walking away from the building. When questioned about the broken window by the reporting party the individual stated “Leave me alone. I’m having a bad day.” Officers searched for the individual but they were gone on arrival.
August 5, 2011
 
Suspicious Activity
 
Harvard Yard, 1 Peabody St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report of suspicious activity. Upon arrival, the individual informed the officer while filming in the area an unknown individual approached them and lifted their elbow at them. The reporting individual stated they moved out of the way and the individual asked if they got that on camera. The individual left the area.
