Sections
 
While the death of Osama Bin Laden earlier this month prompted an  outpouring of enthusiasm from students in the Yard, it had  unexpected ramifications elsewhere at  Harvard. The day after the celebration, a Yugoslavian oral history  project titled "Transition: Transposition" that was located in a Science  Center elevator was confused for a radical and dangerous response to  the terrorist leader's death.
The project, which played audio recordings of Yugoslavian oral histories on a loop, was part of a class taught by University Professor Peter Galison and Romance Language and Literature Professor Jeffery Schnapp. The class challenged students to use new experimental approaches to exhibit objects, media, and sounds, according to Sebastian Schmidt a Massachusetts Institute of Technology student in the class.
 
Schmidt said that an uniformed man heard the langauge and was concerned when he mistakenly took it for Arabic.
 
"It was installed it on Monday and on Monday night we had the first email that said somebody had wondered whether the language in the elevators was Arabic and whether it was safe to use them," Schmidt said of the week it was installed.
 
While acknowledging the humorous aspect of the situation, Schmidt said that the complaint raises larger questions.
 
"Even if it is Arabic, what is the connection between the Arabic and safety?" he asked.
The  recording was eventually removed amidst a number of complaints  including that of a senior faculty member in the math department who was  bothered by it. It is now located in the a freight elevator in the  Graduate School of Design, where it will remain at least through the end  of the month.
Sections
Will the next Yo-Yo Ma '76 be in the Class of 2011? Will you be at the public debut of the next Lady Gaga? Find out Wednesday at the the Senior Talent Show, which will feature a variety of music and dance acts along with a bit of stand up comedy.
"The Senior Talent Show is a Senior Week tradition," said Tobias S. Stein '11, one of the show's producers. "It's a bookend to the talent show that happens freshman week ... Some of the favorites from their freshman talent show are going to be back."
Senior members of performance groups including Ghungroo, the Asian American Dance Troupe, and Holden Choirs will be performing alongside other new and well-known acts. The winners of Last Senior Standing, the students who attended nearly all Senior Bar events, will also be announced at the show.
Seniors can get up to two free tickets from the Harvard Box Office. Non-seniors cannot obtain tickets from the Box Office, but can attend with a senior's ticket. The show begins at 8 p.m. in Sanders Theatre.
