News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It has been a good few weeks for Harvard lacrosse.
Both women’s and men’s lacrosse teams earned the third seed in the Ivy League tournament for this weekend, and this week, nine Crimson players were recognized with All-Ivy honors.
The league’s head coaches met to decide who would earn first-, second-, and honorable mention accolades. The men’s team earned four selections, while the women’s squad boasted five picks.
For the men, senior attacker Dean Gibbons and junior midfielder Kevin Vaughan were named to the All-Ivy League first team. Harvard men’s lacrosse hadn’t received first-team All-Ivy nods since 2008.
Gibbons and Vaughan, co-captains of this year’s team, combined for a total of 88 points this season.  Gibbons was named to the first team unanimously by the coaches, and with 3.79 points per contest, he ranks second in the league and seventh in the nation in that category.
For the women, junior midfielder Melanie Baskind and sophomore attacker Jennifer VanderMeulen were selected for the All-Ivy first team. Baskind, who also starts on the women’s soccer team, collected her fifth All-Ivy honor overall and her second for lacrosse. Baskind ranks fourth in the league for ground balls, having tallied 25 goals so far in the season.
VanderMeulen was named first-team All-Ivy for the second year in a row. This season, she led the Ancient Eight in scoring.
Danielle Tetrault and Ellen Gleason were selected for the All-Ivy second-team for their contributions to the Crimson from midfield and defense, respectively.
Three Harvard lacrosse players received honorable mentions this year—junior Jess Halpern for the women and junior Paul Pate and freshman Daniel Eipp for the men.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On the night of Osama bin Laden's death, hundreds of students gathered in front of the John Harvard Statue to celebrate, singing patriotic songs and chanting "U-S-A."
After the heat of the moment passed, we sent our Roving Reporter around Harvard Yard to ask, "Is it okay to celebrate the death of Osama bin Laden?" Check out this video to find out what people had to say.
Sections
You may have received harried text messages over the past few days which say something like, "Studying any more today will literally kill me." We would usually take issue with the seemingly poor use of the word "literally" here, but precedent shows that it actually is possible to die from studying too much.
 
In 1900, Harvard Law School student William T. Parker Jr. went crazy—as in "waving his hands wildly, [he] cried out a number of unintelligible sentences"—during an exam. He was promptly sent to a hospital, where he died several days later of "an abscess on the brain caused by overstudy," according to the New York Times.
 
To avoid the unfortunate fate of death by studying, keep these simple tips in mind:
1. Remember that this is just school. Yes, your GPA is semi-important for being admitted to that top graduate school or getting recruited by that consulting firm. But that's a very small part of the flourishing, colorful, and joyful life you will lead after school, and if you die from studying you'll miss out on all that anyway.
2. Be with people. Sit with a few friends while you're studying or writing that paper. Everyone has schoolwork to do at this time of the year, so there's no fear of people distracting you. Being around other people makes us feel good, even if there's little conversation. It's science! If you don't have friends, email this Flyby correspondent. We can be friends!
 3. Know your food options. It's all well and good to say that you should sleep and eat regularly even during finals, but we all know that sometimes that's just not going to happen. It's a rough world out there when your sleeping schedule is so out of whack that you miss all the dining hall hours. One can only subsist on brain break food for so many nights. Places like Au Bon Pain and Café Pamplona stay open late, and they take Crimson Cash. Market on the Square is also an excellent late-night choice. You can hit up the Quad Grille or the Quincy Grille; they might not stock the healthiest food, but they take Board Plus—and is there anything more life-affirming than warm, melty, comforting mozzarella sticks at 2 a.m.?
4. Use the resources that are available to you. This can vary from demanding study guides from a friend who took that Gen Ed class last year to checking out UHS or the Bureau of Study Counsel. Those offices can help you come up with a doable timeline for your work or can just patiently listen while you whine about how stressed out you are. Don't forget about your Resident Dean, either: if you're actually in a crisis, your Dean can help you get extensions.
Sections
Although Osama bin Laden has died, his name lives on in the newest creation at Mr. Bartley's Gourmet Burgers.
The new turkey burger named for the departed terrorist leader comes with blue cheese, French fries, and "hot as hell hot sauce." General Manager Billy Bartley said that the burger will be free for the first 100 Navy SEALs who order it. For everyone else, it's $10.15.
Bartley—who said that he lies awake at night trying to come up with new burger ideas—said that this idea was challenging for him.
"Someone died," Bartley said. "It's not easy to come up with something funny about that."
The sign advertising the new burger asks the inevitable question: "Too soon?"
Sections
In light of Pinkberry's recent opening in the Square, we decided to conduct a blind taste test to see if students preferred Pinkberry or Berryline. Watch the video to find out the results!
