News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A team of researchers from Harvard University is collaborating with Google and a humanitarian group led by George Clooney to implement a monitoring system that will watch for violence in southern Sudan.
The Satellite Sentinel Project—a joint effort by the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, the Enough Project, the U.N.’s Operational Satellite Applications Programme, Google, and Trellon—will analyze satellite images of areas of southern Sudan in the hopes of preventing human rights violations, such as potential genocide attacks, before they escalate.
“This early warning system has a profound implication for monitoring and responding to emerging crisis,” said Jonathan J. Hutson, director of communications for the Enough Project.
Funded by Not On Our Watch, a humanitarian organization founded by Clooney, the project is the first sustained, public effort to observe happenings in Sudan in near real time.
“We are the antigenocide paparazzi,” Clooney said in an interview with Time Magazine. "We want them to enjoy the level of celebrity attention that I usually get. If you know your actions are going to be covered, you tend to behave much differently than when you operate in a vacuum.”
Sudan has been riddled with violence since 2003 when a conflict broke out in the Darfur region of the country. That conflict has been widely described as genocide, and the international community has been roundly criticized for its sluggishness to intervene.
While the conflict in Darfur has since quieted, violence threatens to erupt again in southern Sudan, the focus of the new project. Voters in that region will go to the polls Sunday to determine whether the region will secede from northern Sudan.
Observers are concerned that secession may reignite a decades long civil war that ended with the signing of peace accords in 2005. The monitoring system being put in place by the University and human rights activists aims to prevent such a recurrence.
According to Harvard Kennedy School Professor David H. Yanagizawa-Drott, the University’s role in the project is two-fold: research and evaluation of the system’s effectiveness and human rights documentation.
As the director of system wide research and evaluation, Yanagizawa-Drott will interpret the images and assess ways in which technological development can help prevent potential political problems in Sudan.
Among other things, the satellite images will monitor troop movement in Sudan. The images are analyzed and viewable to the public on the group’s website, which went live on Dec. 29, 2010.
“It’s the first open source platform to stop the war before it happens,” Hutson said. “A better, faster analysis of images makes for a stronger, faster responses.”
Charlie Clements, Executive Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, will lead the project’s human rights documentation to contextualize the data collected from the satellite images.
“We may see 30 trucks, but have no way to know whether they are army trucks or food program trucks,” he said. “We will analyze verbal reports to contextualize the information so that our sources are reliable.”
“We hope that by letting the perpetrators know that the world is  watching, the harm they inflict will be minimized or prevented,”  Clements added.
The tool also has many practical applications in the environmental arena and in the field of global health. Hutson said the satellites not only spotlight emerging crisis in Sudan, but also track climate changes, famine, and outbreaks of diseases.
In addition to gathering field reports and policy analysis, Hutson said the project aims to get the public involved by pressuring policy makers to respond quickly to human rights atrocities.
“The main goal of the project is to send out a message to the public,” Yanagizawa-Drott added.
The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative is a University-wide center that provides expertise in public health, medicine, social science, management, and other fields to promote humanitarian assistance. According to its website, the center aims “to relieve human suffering in war and disaster by advancing the science and practice of humanitarian response worldwide.”
—Staff writer Jane Seo can be reached at janeseo@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former University President Lawrence H. Summers will resume teaching and research at the Kennedy School this month after serving as a top economic adviser at the White House for two years.
Summers will also serve as the director of the Sharmin and Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government at the Kennedy School. The center focuses on  global policy issues that involve both the public and private sectors.
Summers said in a statement that he is looking forward to teaching public policy in a stimulating academic setting now that the economy has stabilized.
"I am especially excited by the prospect of working with some of the most able students in the world at such a critical time," he said.
Summers’ teaching at the Kennedy School will focus on how public policy is influenced by current shifts in global economy.
It remains unclear whether Summers will also teach courses through the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, though Dean of the Kennedy School David T. Ellwood said that Summers “will certainly be participating in courses outside of the Kennedy School.”
In the past, Summers taught economics classes both through the Kennedy School and the FAS.
"[Summers] has been at the center of the best economic times and also the most challenging economic times," Kennedy School Dean David T. Ellwood said. "He has such an exceptional combination of experience and insight."
Summers was appointed Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the White House National Economic Council in November 2008. He announced last fall his intention to return to Harvard at the end of 2010 in part to avoid losing his tenured position at the University.
At the White House, Summers served as a key economic counselor to Obama during the economic crisis, advising him on the stimulus package as well as running the Oval Office’s daily economic briefings.
"We will miss him here at the White House, but I look forward to soliciting his continued advice and his counsel on an informal basis," said President Obama in a statement last fall.
—Staff writer Ariane Litalien can be reached at alitalien@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Whether due to the lack of students on campus or an abundance of holiday spirit, HUPD has responded to extraordinarily few incidents over the last few weeks. With four consecutive days of “no incidents to report” and no reports of stolen bikes or computers, Harvard appears to be a rather quiet place in the absence the majority of its undergraduates. As part of our Securitas series, we’ve combed through HUPD log entries from the last few weeks and published some of the more colorful entries below.
 BY THE NUMBERS
 Days with "no incidents to report": 4
Reports of "vandalism": 5
Reports of "suspicious activity": 6
Reports of "unwanted guest[s]": 5
Noise complaints: 2
Dec. 22, 2010
Trespass Warning (6:19 p.m.)
CGIS Knafel Building, 1737 Cambridge St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of an individual viewing a pornographic website on a computer. Officer arrived, located the individual and conducted a field interview. The individual was checked for wants/warrants with negative results. The individual was issued a trespass warning for all Harvard University property and sent on their way.
Dec. 28, 2010
Suspicious Activity (7:23 p.m.)
Lamont Gate, 60 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of a suspicious individual in the area with a shovel. Officer reports the individual was shoveling snow.
Dec. 29, 2010
Field Interview (1:28 p.m.)
Brighton Hills Shopping Center, 400 Western Ave., Boston
Officer observed a vehicle parked in the area, running. Officer approached the vehicle and observed an individual slumped over the center arm rest. Officer attempted to wake the individual several times, with no response. When the individual awoke they were unaware of where they were. The individual was transported to a medical facility. Officers contacted the owner of the vehicle who stated they knew the individual but did not give them permission to operate their vehicle. The owner stated they would not press charges and came to retrieve the vehicle.
Dec. 30, 2010
Theft Report (9:00 a.m.)
Fairchild Biochem Building, 7 Divinity Ave., Cambridge
Officer was informed of an unknown amount of copper stolen during an unknown time frame.
Unwanted Guest (3:01 p.m.)
Lamont Gate, 60 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of an unwanted guest attempting to construct a ramp out of snow to drive off of. Officer sent the individual on their way.
Dec. 31, 2010
Remove Group (8:55 p.m.)
7 Bryant St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to remove a group of individuals setting of fireworks in the area. Officer reports the individuals were gone on arrival.
Jan. 1, 2011
Suspicious Activity (12:08 a.m.)
Malkin Athletic Center, 39 Holyoke St., Cambridge
Officers dispatched to a report of a silent call from the elevator. Officers checked the elevator with negative results.
Jan. 3, 2011
Suspicious Package (5:12 p.m.)
Oxford Street Garage, 52 Oxford St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of a suspicious package. Officer reports the package was an empty lunch container. The container was disposed of.
