News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Among the myriad recruiting advantages held by Harvard basketball coach Tommy Amaker, perhaps the most enticing has been the long-standing opportunity for his players to rewrite history.
Since the Ivy League’s inception in 1954, the Crimson had been the only team in the Ancient Eight to never have won a conference title—until Saturday night.
In Amaker’s fourth year at the helm, he and his young squad finally earned their spot in the record books, clinching at least a share of the league crown with a 79-67 defeat of rival Princeton (23-6, 11-2 Ivy) at Lavietes Pavilion.
A sold-out crowd of 2,195–including former Harvard star and current Golden State Warrior Jeremy Lin ’10 and University President Drew Faust—witnessed the Crimson (23-5, 12-2) establish a program record for most victories in a season and, in the process, erase 99 years of men’s basketball futility.
“This was something that has never been done,” sophomore forward Kyle Casey said. “A lot of people have tried, come close, and put in a lot of work and determination to try to do what we’ve done this season so far. It was beyond just our team and our players and our coaching staff; it was for everyone that’s been through this program.”
The dream season has not quite yet been completed, as the Tigers will close out their regular season against Penn Tuesday night. If Princeton wins in Philadelphia, it will share the Ivy title with Harvard and enter a one-game playoff for the league's automatic berth in the NCAA tournament.
For the time being, Harvard can only savor the fact that it brought its best effort in a nationally televised Ivy heavyweight bout, a game many viewed as the biggest in school history.
The atmosphere certainly felt like one for the ages. After junior co-captain Oliver McNally grabbed the last rebound of the night, a raucous student section of 400 strong swarmed him and his teammates on the court, where Harvard had shot a blistering 60 percent from the field for the game, including 4-of-8 from beyond the arc.
But the biggest baskets of the evening came inside the paint, as the Crimson was powered by the big man Casey’s season-high 24 points.
The reigning Ivy Rookie of the Year was instrumental in facilitating a turnaround from the teams’ previous conference matchup. One month ago in New Jersey, the Tigers used a 19-2 run between the end of the first half and the start of the second to establish a commanding 11-point lead that all but doomed Harvard to a crushing road loss.
This time, it was the Crimson that came out of halftime on a tear. After conceding a layup to Princeton sophomore Ian Hummer in the frame’s first minute, Harvard jumped out on a 14-6 run to turn a one-point deficit into a seven-point advantage.
It was the first extended spurt by either team in a contest that featured 18 lead changes in the first half, during which both squads shot over 50 percent.
As the visitors’ shooting touch both inside and out grew cold—the Tigers hit 38.7 percent in the second half—Harvard’s star sophomores turned it on, determined to fulfill their pledge made two years ago: to bring a championship to Cambridge.
With under 17 minutes to play in the second half and his team up by two, Casey received the ball in the right corner, where he pump faked his defender into the air and drove baseline before finishing with a one-handed dunk, his crowd-pleasing three-point play propelling Harvard to a 47-42 lead.
“It gave us incredible momentum,” guard Brandyn Curry said of the slam. “I saw him set up for a three, and I thought, ‘This is going to be ugly.’ But then he went in for a ‘SportsCenter’ dunk. I think that changed the game.”
The next offensive possession, Casey again kept it himself, driving hard down the lane to draw a foul, with his pair of free throws maintaining the lead at five.
At that point it became time for Casey’s classmate Curry to shine. The league’s assist leader stole the ball from Princeton powerhouse Kareem Maddox, then delivered a nifty behind-the-back flip on the fast break to a streaking McNally, who was fouled and hit both free throws to build Harvard's lead up to 51-44.
Curry, who had 10 points and a game-high 10 assists on the evening, went on to find rookie Matt Brown on the left wing for a three with the shot clock winding down, extending the home advantage to nine two and a half minutes later.
Maddox drove straight at his defender on the next play, drawing Casey’s third personal foul. After the Tiger made 1-of-2 from the line, Curry went coast to coast and sneaked in a left-handed layup to make it 58-48, giving Harvard its largest lead up to that point.
Both teams traded baskets for several minutes until a Casey pull-up jumper off a screen on the right side pushed Harvard up to 64-52 at the under-10 minute mark.
Princeton proceeded to tighten up defensively, forcing turnovers on the Crimson’s next four offensive possessions. Yet it had trouble taking advantage until senior guard Dan Mavraides, who had a masterful 18-point performance in the first half and finished with 25, sank his fourth three of the night at the six-minute mark. A free throw by Hummer cut the lead to 64-59 with five minutes to play.
But Curry relied on his dribble penetration to subdue any comeback hopes, getting into the lane and hitting an acrobatic layup while being fouled. Curry’s basket and ensuing free throw, followed by a layup by junior co-captain Keith Wright, had the lead back to 10 at 4:22 to go.
Harvard, the second-ranked free throw shooting team in the country, went on to drain the requisite attempts from the charity stripe and bring to rest a long chapter of Harvard basketball history—and, perhaps, start a fresh one.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard Men's Basketball drew a sold-out crowd Saturday night. Students packed the stands and cheered on their team in their victory over the Princeton Tigers. Watch this video to get a perspective of the game from the stands from our Fan Cam.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and  rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few  days. Click here to read more about the series.
Cabot is the only Quad House that offers the traditional "Old Harvard" feel. Though it's frequently panned for its inconvenient location and decentralized buildings, Cabot boasts some of Harvard's most spacious rooms and a close-knit community. Its suburban setting offers a peaceful escape from the hustle and bustle of Harvard Square.
Dining Hall: While the semi-subterranean positioning of Cabot's dining hall might not be so appealing, the cozy atmosphere and lack of overcrowding make it a comfortable spot for a meal. Large windows give House residents a panoramic view of Cabot's red brick residence halls that outline the Quad. If you miss a meal, don't worry: the drinks, cereal, and desserts are available outside of the servery at any time of the day.
Facilities: Each of Cabot's six buildings has its own living room adorned with beautiful portraits. The enormous Junior Common Room has a movie projection room right next door. The library, though small, is currently being redecorated by first-year House Masters Rakesh and Stephanie Khurana. When finished, the library's walls will feature quotations from famous House alumni such as Helen Keller, Radcliffe Class of 1904. A well-maintained gym offers convenient access to free weights, benches, stair masters, a stationary bike, rowing machines, and an elliptical trainer.
Rooms: Cabot is made up of six residence halls. Four of these are connected by a system of tunnels, which means you may not have to brave New England's icy temperatures to get to the dining hall in the morning. Two of these buildings boast large singles off of hallways, and the others offer a variety of suites, mostly for four residents. Sophomores who chose suites will probably end up with n housing, but juniors and seniors have their pick of much more spacious suites. If you request a single instead, you'll almost definitely get one.
House Spirit: Though Cabot's House spirit may have been lacking in the past, residents say that the community feeling has improved a great deal in the past few years. Residents are treated to a few special annual events, including Festivus, a holiday dinner catered by several Boston-area restaurants, and a Dutch Auction at which House residents sell everything from T-shirts to dates.    The annual musical—this year's performance is "Annie Get Your Gun"—is a great opportunity for House bounding.
Location: Yes, the Quad is at least a ten-minute walk from the Yard, but the shuttle runs frequently enough that you won't have to run if you plan accordingly. If you want to explore outside your House, fear not: Currier and Pforzheimer House are right next door. Quad life will also expose you to places that most River House residents never see, including a variety of interesting restaurants on Mass Ave and in Porter Square.
Quirks: A Business School professor and an entrepreneur, the Khuranas often host notable businessmen and women at Senior Common Room dinners. Recently, the founder of Samuel Adams brewery stopped by for a meal with Cabotites.
Rating: Due to its distance from the Yard and decentralized buildings, Cabot House is ranked twelfth out of 12.
Our rankings so far:
12. Cabot
Sections
Check out this footage of forward Kyle D. Casey '13's dunk of the night.
Sections
As part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few days. Click here to read more about the series.
If you're a freshman, you may have seen Winthrop House when you first toured campus, but it's possible that you haven't passed the House since. Winthrop is easy to miss and is often overshadowed by the more prominent towers of neighboring Eliot, Lowell, and Leverett, but is flying under the radar such a bad thing?
Dining Hall: The Winthrop dining hall is a bit unassuming, but it's actually nicer than you would expect. Despite the fact that it's mostly underground, the lighting is still much better than that of other Houses (Adams, for example). If you're into exclusivity, freshman congestion hardly ever becomes a problem, and the dining hall has some of the toughest restrictions. In terms of interior attractiveness, Winthrop's dining hall is above average—it has a classic look to it, but the lack of large and open windows detracts from the overall aesthetic appeal.
Facilities: The common rooms in Winthrop are on the whole excellent. The Waka Commons was recently refurbished with a ping pong table and a huge flat screen, making it a destination for late-night procrastination. There are other large common room spaces, like the Junior Common Room and the Tonkens Room, both of which are used on a regular basis.
Rooms: The buildings that make up Winthrop used to be separate freshman dorms before they were combined to become a House in the 1930s. As such, Winthrop suffers the inevitable downsides of being comprised of old buildings, and mouse and roach sightings are not unusual.
Unlike other Houses, where singles are practically guaranteed, Winthrop lags behind. Few sophomores enjoy the luxuries of a single, but by the time senior year rolls around, you're almost definitely the king of your own bedroom. Although most housing is subprime, the senior seven-man suite is a sweet piece of river real estate. Additionally, everyone living in the House proper has at least some view of the river. Like most river Houses, DeWolfe is also a solid option for housing, boasting air conditioning and cable television.
House spirit: Winthrop's community is among the strongest around, and House spirit is arguably the best part of Winthrop's House life. Only Dunster and Mather could compete in terms of spirit among the river Houses, and Winthrop still might take the cake. Winthropians are quick to brag that they are the three-time defending IM champs. Even Throptalk, the house listserv, is a little bit more personal than other House lists, but it still consists mostly of event spam.
Location: Location is completely dependent on what you do. If you're a regular at the Eliot Grille, an athlete, or a Noch's aficionado, you're definitely in the right neighborhood. You'll never have to walk too far to satisfy late-night (food) cravings, making the house a haven for both the hungry and those averse to cold. Nestled along the once-polluted banks of the Charles, the House also has some of the best river views on campus.
On the flip side, it takes at least 10 minutes to make it to the Science Center, possibly longer depending on the weather. Making matters worse is Lowell's tantalizing but exclusive back gate, and its restriction means another minute and a half on your way to classes. So while Winthrop's location is not the best, it's also not the worst.
Quirks: Strangely, despite the fact that tunnels connect Gore and Standish Halls, they are only open sporadically and infrequently, so Winthropians may or may not have to battle cold to get around the House on any given day. The House has problems with its underground world in general—the basement-level dining hall has been known to flood from time to time.
Winthrop might enjoy dining hall exclusivity, but it's more open in other ways. Neighbors Lowell and Eliot restrict their back gates to residents only, but Winthrop's back gate is open to anyone (when it's open at all, that is), making it a nice but underutilized path for house residents and other Harvard students alike coming back from Allston.
Rating: Despite excellent house spirit, it looks like flying under the radar has its issues. This year, Winthrop House is rated eleventh out of 12.
Our rankings so far:
11. Winthrop
12. Cabot
Sections
As Housing Day quickly approaches, one question is bubbling up all around Harvard—which of Harvard's 12 upperclassman Houses is the best? Freshmen debate this question within their blocking groups to determine which Houses they will or will not sacrifice to the River Gods. Upperclassmen aren't immune to this excitement and will become prone to fits of rage at the slightest suggestion of their House's inadequacy.
This question is one that we've attempted to answer in the past (our 2010 and 2009 rankings are available for comparison), but with the passing of each year, these rankings naturally change.
This year we had 12 Crimson editors consult with residents of each House for information on the following categories: dining halls, facilities, rooms, House spirit, location, and quirks. Members of the Crimson staff assembled to debate and vote on the rankings until late into the night.
Over the next week, we will release our reviews in reverse rank order. You'll find out which House made the top of our list just before the Housing Gods show their benevolence (or fury) this Thursday.
Harvard’s House system has often been called the crown jewel of the College, and we agree that each House has its own advantages and disadvantages. This doesn't mean, however, that we can't have a little fun ranking them, so let the countdown begin!
Sections
The sound of laughter and the clatter of mahjong tiles emanated from the Mather House Junior Common Room last night. A small gathering of students made the trek to Mather in order to take part in Mahjong Night, an annual event organized by the Harvard Hong Kong Society (HHKS) and the Harvard Taiwanese Cultural Society (TCS). While most attendees were members of the two groups, the event did draw in some non-members as well.
Mahjong Night wasn't just for mahjong experts. Every skill level was welcome, and experienced players were willing to teach beginners. Sweet treats such as mochi, egg tarts, and panda crackers graced the tables, and other traditional Chinese games, such as Big Two and Chinese chess, were also played.
Last night was more about the atmosphere than the games. Shelun Tsai '13 and Allen F. Shih '13, co-presidents of TCS, worked with Melody Wu '13 and Anissa Y. Mak '13, co-presidents of HHKS to put the event together. The co-presidents intended to use the event to cultivate a sense of community and encourage bonding.
"We wanted to foster interaction between Asian groups on campus," Wu said. "Mahjong is very important in Chinese culture."
"It's good to play a non-Western style board game," Shih said. "We like to focus on family-oriented events."
There will be plenty of other opportunities to join HHKS and TCS at future events, including a shaved ice study break.
Unfamiliar faces are particularly encouraged to join because both societies are hoping to start expanding and gain new members.
"We just know each other really well. We're like brothers and sisters," said Pin-Wen Wang '14, secretary of TCS. "It's just having that community. You don't even have to be Taiwanese to join."
Sections
Housing Day videos have traditionally drawn from popular culture to entertain freshmen, but recent videos seem to have begun a trend to look toward more eclectic sources for inspiration.
Mather has released its first housing video: "Mather Shore." That's right, Mather is using a "Jersey Shore" theme to convince freshmen that the infamous cement House is where they want to end up. On the other hand, who doesn't like hours of partying and GTL?
Eliot also parodies an MTV program in their latest video, which is based on the dating show "Next." Of course, the main character "Eliot" proves to be the classiest guy in the end.
Cabot's newest video "Cabot Singles" advertises the House's abundance of singles. In fact, the House is so confident in its "made by America" singles that unsatisfied residents can file a complaint to the House. However, while they may pay attention to that complaint, other pressing forms like transfer requests are often ignored.
Currier attempts to fight the negativity associated with Housing Day videos in "Free Currier." Instead of telling freshmen that all other Houses are losers, the video explains why each House is a winner via backhanded compliments. The video concludes with a poor adaptation of "Free Bird," perhaps done to mock the over-the-top and elaborate housing videos that many Houses produce.
Dunster has finally released a full length video: "The Dunster Network." The video parodies—you guessed it—"The Social Network," comparing getting Dunster House to the founding of Facebook. It's not blocking drama until your best friend sues you for millions of dollars.
