News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In Nov. 2010, days before the Republicans’ midterm triumph, at the crest of the Tea Party wave, The Guardian’s Gary Lounge wrote that the movement “…does not exist. It has no members, leaders, office bearers, headquarters, policies, participatory structures, budget or representatives.”
One year later, the Tea Party’ fortunes have ebbed somewhat, and it has been largely supplanted by Occupy Wall Street as the epicenter of American populism. And yet, Lounge’s words are perhaps even more pertinent now than they were then, as they also aptly encapsulate the gravest deficiencies of this latest protest movement. Like its rightwing predecessor, Occupy Wall Street has been criticized—by The Crimson, no less—for its permeating incoherence and debilitating disorganization.
Enter “Occupy the Facts,” a new, Harvard-grown student group dedicated to providing an intellectual foundation and policy platform for the headless movement. “Occupy the Facts” appears to be a direct response to these allegations of incoherence; its goal, according to co-founder Peter D. Davis ’12, “is calling those peoples’ bluffs.” His colleague, Talia B. Lavin ’12, likewise said that “I’ve noticed this persistent criticism that the demands of the movement aren’t specific enough. The goal is to reach out to people who have heard a lot about Occupy but aren’t sure what Occupy is trying to achieve.”
Our democracy is ill-served by blind, amorphous rage, and so we are heartened to see some effort to channel this populist energy into constructive issue advocacy. We are living today with the consequences of the Tea Party’s failure to provide intelligible solutions to our most pressing national problems, and the effort to better inform and orient this new upsurge of populist agitation gives us hope that the same mistake will not be repeated. Furthermore, students who are passionate about public policy and civic engagement can only be a positive force in our society and for our political discourse.
Nevertheless, we fear that “Occupy the Facts” is ultimately solving only half of the problem, while the other half is one that is in dire need of addressing. It turns out that while Lounge was spot-on in his critique of the Tea Party movement’s lack of policy proposals, he was misdirected in his criticism of its lack of political infrastructure. As a political organ of the Republican Party, the Tea Party was an unqualified success, sweeping into office a nearly unprecedented number of archconservative activists at every level of government. For all of its intellectual failings, it did rekindle a spirit of political activism across a wide spectrum of the country. Occupy Wall Street, unfortunately, has thus far demonstrated no intention of replicating this achievement.
“Occupy the Facts” may help Occupy Wall Street overcome its ideological incoherence, but unless the movement can overcome its aversion to engaging within our existing political system, its odds for political success will remain long. Remember, the Tea Party has yet to develop its own version of “Occupy the Facts,” and while it would surely benefit from such an outfit, it has somehow managed to change the trajectory of American politics without one. The Tea Party managed to succeed politically in spite of its incoherence, and until the Occupiers start spending less time forming puppetry guilds and more time mobilizing grassroots support for politicians sympathetic to its goals, it has little hope of, in Davis’s words, “making the kind of change that a lot of people in our generation have been dreaming of.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The afternoon of Oct. 20 was not too different than any other Friday in my admittedly juvenile Harvard career. I woke up rather late, checked the news, learned of the death of Muammar Gaddafi, went to class, and then settled down in the Canaday common room until crew practice. During the interim between class and practice, however,  I realized that one of the events in my day had had a significant impact on someone I interact with on a daily basis.
It is not particularly difficult to guess that the death of the Libyan autocrat was the salient event. The MSNBC broadcast in the common room evoked the most emotion from the man who takes care of my entryway’s maintenance—a man who is not from Libya, but from Haiti.
Americans are generally pleased with the ousting of Gaddafi from his brutal rule on the Barbary Coast. Granted, there are those who question the potential human rights abuse if Gaddafi was indeed executed. There are also those who question the legality and the rationality of investing time and money into a civil war in Libya—without Congressional approval—that yields few ostensible benefits for citizens of the United States.
This is one of the tragedies of a world inhabited by seven billion people.  We tend to feel dissociated by events that do not affect us.  Watching the video of the Libyan ruler’s death is like watching a film:  Of course we connect with the plot, which is meant to evoke strong opinions or emotions. Most of us have walked out of the cinema with critiques of the character’s actions and opinions on what would have been the optimal course to take.
My Haitian friend proves that life does not always have to be this way.  He compared the plight of Libyans under Gaddafi to life for him, his family, and his friends in Latin America under the dictatorship of Duvalier. He related stories of how his friends would make anti-government statements and disappear the next day.  In America, such a situation is impossible to imagine.  Think about all of those who disagree with Obama’s policies or those who were critical of Bush before that.  Under the situation previously described, the country’s population would soon be cut in half.
It is easy for Americans to be happy for the Libyan people.  We value democracy while we abhor dictatorships and the absence of civil liberties.  However, we cannot actually relate to the Libyan people. We cannot understand their buildup of emotion.  The Haitian maintenance worker elatedly explained to me how he wished he could be in Misrata, rejoicing alongside his Libyan brothers.  From his viewpoint, Libyans and Haitians are one and the same.  A free Libya can now reach the same heights achieved by a free Haiti after escaping the Baby Doc brutality into the friendly confines of the United States.
Much remains to be seen about the ultimate outcome of the Libyan experience.  Al-Qaeda planted its flag on the Benghazi courthouse, and it will be difficult for the West to accept that an Islamist-led Libya will ultimately be preferable to a Libya run by a patrimonial dictator.  We can certainly believe that the Gaddafi regime was preferable to the interests of the American people than a regime helmed by the ideology of radical Islam.  The West spent the last several decades taming Libya’s “Brotherly leader.”  Gaddafi relinquished his nuclear weapons and atoned for the Lockerbie bombing.  To some extent, he became an ally of the Bush administration in the War on Terror.  One would be remiss if one were not at least slightly skeptical as to the future of the government.  The West may have performed an act inherently detrimental to its own interests.
Our gut reactions and analyses have foundations in what we have been taught. However, we actually cannot know. We cannot relate. No matter how many tweets we read that end in #libya, we cannot tangibly understand the thoughts of Libyan citizens. We can merely infer, just as we try to determine the motives of characters or predict a story’s conclusion. While some American citizens are experts on or are more aware of the conditions in the Middle East, the rest of us—the majority of us—have to guess.
Following international relations is an enjoyable pastime.  Pundits make their living by relating the happenings abroad to opportunities back home.  However, after making a new friend last Friday, I now understand that no amount of research will expose me to the colossus that just occurred. The only solution is to live life to the fullest and hopefully accumulate as many experiences as possible. The more we do, the more with which we can relate. Such a lifestyle would make the world easier to understand.
John F. M. Kocsis ’15, a Crimson editorial comper, lives in Canaday Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two student groups will be travelling to Africa this J-term, not only to re-heat from the bitter Boston winter, but also to implement projects they have been working on all semester. As J-term is becoming more established with each year, it is accompanied by an increasing number of opportunities to do service work abroad.
Dalumuzi Happy Mhlanga ’13, founded the organization Lead Us Today in 2010, which provides Zimbabwean youth with a leadership-training program, support to create sustainable community development projects, and an internship program. Since Mhlanga founded Lead Us Today in 2010, the organization has provided leadership training to 118 students from eight high schools in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. So far, the students have implemented 16 community development projects such as a fruit and vegetable garden benefiting HIV/AIDS patients with nutritional needs and sanitation campaigns orchestrated in partnership with corporations that have provided rubbish bins.
Though going back to Zimbabwe to work on Lead Us Today is like going home for Mhlanga, he was able to recruit a group of other dedicated Harvard students to travel with him and work with the organization this January. The group has been working on new projects to implement since the start of school.  One of the team members, Daniel M. Lobo ’14, plans on making a documentary on the organization’s work during his time there. Jayshlyn D. Acevedo ’14 has also been working on developing leadership curricula with professors from Harvard and will be implementing these new teaching techniques in an intensive three day leadership training course the group will be carrying out once in Zimbabwe. “I don’t want Lead Us Today to be another student group run by Harvard students,” notes Acevedo. “I want Lead Us Today to be an organization run by the students that are directly benefitting from it. We are simply a means to their success.” Mhlanga believes the J-term trip will be beneficial to both his fellow Harvard classmates and the Zimbabwean youth involved in Lead Us Today. “I definitely see this trip as a unique opportunity for the learning and growth of both Lead Us Today and Harvard students,” Mhlanga says. “It’s a great privilege to connect the next generation of socially responsible citizens of Zimbabwe to the one of the greatest places of education and innovation in the world, Harvard University.”
While Lead Us Today deals with providing promising Zimbabwean youth the leadership skills they will need to lead and contribute successfully to their country, Harvard’s Global Hunger Initiative is focused on providing healthcare in Uganda to impoverished areas that need it most. The Global Hunger Initiative has been sending students to Nyakibale Hospital since 2009. During the J-term trip in 2011, the students who went were able to do outreach to health centers in and around the district, agriculture initiatives, review and utilize the financial viability of the hospital canteens (small stores which fund the malnutrition ward), train the nursing staff on malnutrition protocol, and educate mothers on prevention and treatment methods for their children.
This coming trip, the group hopes to create and train a network of Village Health teams to visit, treat, and educate at health centers that extend beyond the district and on a more regular basis. It also hopes to continue agricultural efforts through the community gardens and maternal food baskets, for which they would work with a nutritionist here at Harvard to help develop before they leave. They will do an analysis of financial viability and how best to use the funds created by the canteen. They also plan to shift the focus of education to pre-natal and antenatal care to serve as more effective prevention tools for mothers. Four undergraduates make up the Board of Directors for the program: Christopher M. Goldstein ’13, Kristina L. Tester ’14, B. Marjorie Gullick ’13, and Katherine Lim ’13.
When asked why she decided to go to Uganda over J-term, Gullick admits “there may be little appeal in taking three weeks of your J-term to travel to a rural village in Uganda that has little to no access to running water and internet, when mosquito nets and beans and rice are a staple of your everyday life, but for me, it’s the first and greatest opportunity to put my education to use.” J-term is a great opportunity to use the time away from Harvard to utilize the skills one has acquired here and share them with people elsewhere, as Gullick elucidates: “The passion and skills that I cultivate in the classroom can come to fruition at Nyakibale Hospital, where it really is about giving back what you can and paying forward what you have been provided.”
Meredith C. Baker ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
FM sat down with Professor Sean D. Kelly, Chair of the Department of Philosophy, to discuss his book “All Things Shining: Reading the Western Classics to Find Meaning in a Secular Age” and his thoughts on life at Harvard.
1. Fifteen Minutes: You recently wrote a book with Hubert Dreyfus entitled “All Things Shining.” What was it like to work with Dreyfus?
Sean D. Kelly: Oh it was terrific. He was my advisor in graduate school many years ago, and we maintained a close connection. It’s unusual for philosophers, and in general unusual for people in the humanities, to co-author books. I mean I haven’t done much of it, but working with Bert was terrific. I did a lot of the writing, and he would do a lot of the revising, and that was our collaborative mechanism. It was terrific to do it that way.
2. FM: What is it like teaching a General Education course?
SDK: It’s the second time I’ve taught the course. I taught it once before I wrote the book, and now I’m teaching it after I wrote the book. It’s called Culture and Belief 14: Human Being and the Sacred in the History of the West, and it’s a lot different this time than the previous time because now I’m teaching it having worked through the issues in the way you have to in order to write a book .... The issues sort of grow and develop every time you think about them.
3. FM: Do you think your students are helping to expand your thoughts?
SDK: Absolutely. The students often have really great challenges to the position that I hold. Sometimes they force me to rethink the position that I hold. Often, they have examples that I never could have thought of because they are examples from their lives and the things that they confront. That’s what’s exciting about teaching.
4. FM: How do you think we can take those ideas from the ancient texts and translate them into today’s world?
SDK: In short, I can say one of the things that people say characterizes our existence has to do with the threat that we feel that people in earlier epochs apparently didn’t feel. That’s what gets called the threat of nihilism. I think some students and some people in our culture do feel that as a threat, and I think that a lot of 20th century literature and philosophy is devoted to articulating what it is like to live in the midst of a threat like that.
5. FM: What do you think is the fundamental reason why we’ve lost what’s sacred to us?
SDK: I think it has to do with the promotion, in both senses of the word, of human beings into the place that is traditionally held by God, which is a place called the ground of existence, the ground of everything that is. I think that in my own view, it is very hard, maybe even impossible, to say that there is an entity that serves that role as the ground of all existence. But because I think that, I think it’s also wrong to think that human beings serve that role. I think that there is something that serves that role and that’s what allows us to resist the threat of nihilism, but to think clearly about what is capable of serving that role is very difficult, and it requires a different metaphysics, a different understanding of ourselves.
6. FM: You had the chance to be on “The Colbert Report.” What was it like to banter with Colbert?
SDK: Turns out I’m a fan of Colbert now too .... I think he’s a very smart guy. It was fascinating to have this conversation with him, and he said to me afterwards (well maybe he says this to everyone), “Boy, I wish I didn’t have to be pretending I was so dumb when we were having that conversation. I really wanted to dig in.” It was terrific, and I hope I’ll have more conversations with him and other people like him.
7. FM: Do you have a favorite moment from being on the Colbert Report?
SDK: Something that got cut out, I think. I was trying to explain the fact that it is no longer socially acceptable, as it was in the Middle Ages, to think when we meet someone who has different religious views that because they have different religious views they are therefore less than human. I was saying this as “that’s a kind of progress we’ve made, and that’s a nice step.” His immediate reaction was to say, “Yeah we threw the baby out with the bath water on that one.”
8. FM: If you could go on another talk show, whom would you pick to interview you?
SDK: When I was there I watched his little interaction with Jon Stewart. I admire him as an interviewer also, and I think he would be a great person. I also used to listen to Terry Gross on NPR, and I think she’s a great interviewer, but I’m sure there are lots of great interviewers, and I would be delighted to talk with any of them.
9. FM: You’ve mentioned many great Western Classics. Which book would you say is the most important one to read?
SDK: The one that I love most: “Moby Dick.”  I think that Melville’s “Moby Dick” is one of the great, and maybe even the great novel, in the history of the West. Certainly one I think we’ve got a lot to learn from.
10. FM: There was some media attention over Gary Wills’ criticism about your book. How did you face this criticism and what advice would you give to students when it comes to facing criticism?
SDK: It is really character building to face scathing criticism of that sort. Obviously, I think the criticism was misplaced, and I’m not at all convinced that he read the book. But still, it’s criticism in a public venue by a well-known person. The best advice I got was to read a lot of Marcus Aurelius, and I did.
11. FM: Harvard students are looking to find their passion. What’s one thing that really gets you excited?
SDK: I’m fascinated by pedagogical issues as they relate to children nowadays. We have a two-year-old and a seven-year-old and I’m totally fascinated by people who are able to reach children of those ages, and to help them cultivate in themselves the skills you need to have in order to see things as meaningful or important.
12. FM: What’s it like to co-teach a course?
SDK: It’s like co-writing—it’s different in every case. We spent time together over the summer preparing the course and even in the spring last year, and now we meet weekly for a few hours to prepare together what we’ve already each individually prepared .... So I would say it’s more work than teaching by yourself, but it’s also in a certain way if you’ve got the right chemistry, more fulfilling.
13. FM: Who do you think is the greatest philosopher?
SDK: I’ll say different things in different moods. I am very influenced by Aristotle. I think Aristotle was one of the really important great philosophers.
14. FM: Which philosopher would you read when you are feeling down in the dumps?
SDK: Lately, I’ve been reading Pascal. He thinks that it’s an essential feature of human beings that we are down in the dumps sometimes, and that’s what he calls our wretchedness, but he thinks that it is counterbalanced with our greatness.
15. FM: If you could take one class at Harvard which one would you take?
SDK: Chris Korsgaard’s course on Kant’s Ethical Theory.
Sections
With a metal spoon and the steady hands of a surgeon, Jaime Vanschyndel, general manager of Barismo, gently pushes aside the coffee grounds that have floated to the surface of the cup. He leans in close, his nose mere inches from the surface, and inhales. The verdict? Smoke, like “an ash tray that doesn’t get cleaned out,” he says. All we saw was mud.
At Hi Rise coffee house and bakery, one of many Cambridge area cafés supplied by Barismo, “a wholesale roastery with a kiosk in the front,” Vanschnydel is walking us through the subtle art of coffee cupping.
It doesn’t take much coffee savvy to grasp the process. By brewing identical quantities of beans in exactly the same way, anyone can begin to distinguish the subtle differences in aroma, sweetness, body, mid-tone and acidity that Vanschnydel describes in such evocative terms as “musty,” “acrid,” “toasty,” and “green apple jolly rancher.”
The process is this:
1. Brew eight grams of coffee and about five ounces of water, and let it sit for four minutes.
2. With the back of a spoon, break through the thin layer of coffee grounds floating on the surface—the crust—and smell the aroma.
3. After letting the coffee cool until it reaches room temperature, taste. The defects in the beans begin to appear as the cup cools.
The coffee bean haul for our taste test included an eclectic assortment of seven different bean varieties served around the Square.
The Clover coffee, otherwise known as “Sample A,” had the effect of a punch to the back of the throat, which Vanschnydel translated as a “bittery chocolated” taste. The second sample, from Crema Café, struck us as somewhat stale. The third, Illy, which is brewed in many locations around the Square including Finale, was by our definition bitter, and by Vanschnydel’s “chocolatey.” The fourth coffee sample was more complex; Vanschnydel used the words “berry,” “dark chocolate,” and “tangerine citrus” to describe it, and was able to correctly recognize this blend as his own, despite the double-blind nature of the taste test.
The Starbucks brew was rather bland—in cupping language, “it lacked body” and “was not developed.” Peet’s house blend evoked a similar response, which Vanschnydel described as “inoffensive.” By the final cup of coffee, the French Press house blend from Algiers, we did not need any help from our guide. The roast was so dark that it felt like arsenic.
Vanschnydel’s blind guesses at the origins of each sample were remarkably accurate. From the first whiff, he could already begin to distinguish between the samples that were blends of beans from different regions, as opposed to those of a single location.
Vanschnydel is a fervent proponent of the truly local, direct trade coffee. By ignoring the identity of the actual coffee farmers, typical house blends obscure the consumer from understanding unique regional aromas, which in turn leads to a cycle of coffee-ignorance. “Assuming customers don’t care [where their coffee comes from],” Vanschnydel points out, “you get customers that don’t care.”
In our case, it may be less a case of apathy then of coffee illiteracy. After all, when you’re drinking coffee as an excuse for frothy milk and flavored syrups, you don’t often look for a coffee bean that tastes like citrus or jolly rancher.
Sections
Some people eat pickled herring on New Year’s Eve, driven by a belief in luck or a taste for salty fish. But there’s something else, too, a compulsion to repeat, the comfort of a familiar act. I don’t eat herring, but when a tradition is begun with me, there is no way to break it.
There are also the corollaries, the Positions—not traditions, but decisions I made long ago and cannot break. Some are justified, at least in part: the No McDonald’s Position, for example, after reading Fast Food Nation. Some are not.
Ostensibly, Chipperloaf is just a bread. It’s a pumpkin confection with chocolate chips and a drizzle of glaze on top. Delicious, yes. It’s good enough to be sold in a bakery, but only the kind where they make everything fresh in the morning and the regulars come in with their own traditions to fulfill. It’s a breakfast food with about as much sugar as a piece of cake, but ... Pumpkin!—vegetable! (Fruit?)
In my house, Chipperloaf is something as powerful as a tween girl’s love of Twilight (Breaking Dawn Nov. 20!!!) and as satisfying as manna in the desert (I beg you, mix those images). It is the most sacred of traditions. Most traditions are linked to other, normal things like Christmas cookies and back to school shopping. Chipperloaf is one that stands alone.
A few facts. The name: Chipperloaf, fondly known as Chippie, chip for the chocolate inside, chipper for the feeling, loaf because it is one. The season: Columbus Day weekend through New Year’s Day. It can be consumed after this date, but not baked. If you needed some help with the earlier terminology, Chipperloaf is a Tradition, the precise dates, a Position.
Some aspects of the tradition can be changed. Post-trans fat research, the margarine in the original recipe was replaced with butter. Allergies of friends and family meant that the chopped walnuts were nixed. (I wasn’t a fan of the texture anyway. SPU 27: Science and Cooking has taught me that this says something about my preference for “mouthfeel,” a technical term).
But the opening of Chipperloaf season is sacred. It is my beginning of fall, my favorite season, the date when, even at nearly 21 years old I continue to hum “Oh, the Fall is a Nice Time of Year,” a song entirely composed by my childhood stuffed animal of choice, Francine the Puffalump. The song’s third verse is devoted entirely to the mythical pumpkin bread.
This past July, my parents moved to Oxford. England, that is. Google Maps doesn’t even pithily tell you to cross the ocean when you try to get directions, just says “Cannot be calculated.” I did learn that it should take 23 minutes to walk from my home in Adams House to my real home near Porter Square, a time I beat easily this afternoon. Despite tremendous excitement about the move in general (could I finally obtain a British accent?!), I was nervous about my traditions. I was given inspirational speeches about Forming New Traditions, told to be a Big Girl. But Chipperloaf was something I couldn’t compromise on. A work trip to Boston was carefully scheduled, so that when the opening of Chippie season rolled around, I walked home to Frost Street, opened the door and smelled the familiar scent of fall, and nutmeg, the kind of smell that somehow pulls back the corners of your lips and crinkles the corners of your eyes.
The routine begins once the Chipperloaf comes out of the oven. It’s not a recipe where you lick the pan. The loaf goes upside down on wire racks, and once it cools it goes onto a pink or blue plastic plate, not a ceramic one. Sometimes a tiny crumb will fall off, and it’s always worth it for the teaser. Then comes the glaze. This was the first step I was allowed to participate in, an easy drizzle over the top of the loaf that crisscrosses over and over each other so it winds up looking like a rectangular snowflake. Once it dries a little bit, it’s back to the wire racks, and then the best part. Back on the pink plate—it’s not quite empty—the pools of glaze gathered around where the edges of the bread used to be are just beginning to harden, forming a thin shell of milk and powdered sugar and cinnamon. This is why we use the plastic plate: the scrape of the spoon requires the most durable of materials.
I have a particular method for this, scooping up the puddles starting with the smallest one, so they’re all at just the right state between liquid and solid. It’s a sickeningly sweet appetizer, one I’ve had before breakfast on more than one occasion. You’re supposed to let the finished masterpiece cool for six hours or it will crumble, but you can guess how that goes.
If you couldn’t tell already, I’m an only child, and I’ve never been good at sharing. When I was in New York a few summers ago taking advantage of every student ticket in existence, I realized I liked going alone best. I liked not having to look over my shoulder to see if a friend was laughing right. I was particularly grateful no one was there to see me blubbering through the entire second act of Jason Robert Brown’s heartbreaking “Next to Normal.” Chipperloaf is sort of like that. I always get apprehensive as I cut a slice for a pumpkin-bread-virgin. I sometimes say jokingly that we can’t be friends anymore if they don’t like it. I’m not really joking. Both of my roommates have shown an entirely appropriate level of euphoria for the confection. I credit the success of our roommateship entirely to this event. But I suppose that now, I’m sharing it with all of you. So I guess my Position on this is: you better like it.
—Nora A. Tufano ’13 is a history and literature concentrator in Adams House. She gives a fuck about an Oxford Comma.
Sections
It was mid-afternoon already but Jill E. Abramson ’76 was just grabbing lunch. She entered the elevator clutching her clear plastic take-out container of no-frills salad from the sun-yellow New York Times cafeteria. A woman entered the elevator and offered Abramson congratulations on her promotion of two months ago, asking how the new job was going. Abramson thanked her and replied with a grin, “I don’t know? You tell me.” The elevator was silent for the rest of the ride to the newsroom.
Situated just off the main newsroom, Abramson’s office offers a reprieve from the sleek contemporary look of the rest of the building. While space-age red plastic chairs and primary colors abound outside the glass walls of her office, Abramson has opted for a much more homey feel inside the private office she keeps in addition to her station in the heart of the newsroom. Her office desk is filled with knick-knacks, from a bobble head to a souvenir baseball and an homage to a great uncle in the form of a miniature concession stand. A single orchid plant sits on the round table along with a copy of the latest Newsweek and the upcoming Sunday Style Magazine.
With Abramson at the top of the masthead for just over 60 issues of the daily paper (not to mention the myriad other sections under The New York Times umbrella), as various news outlets deliver their respective profiles and insights on the lady of the Grey Lady, a theme has emerged—Abramson is smart, competent, and sometimes critical to the point of abrasiveness as executive editor. Sitting comfortably in one of the cushioned chairs in her office, sporting a small, slightly visible scratch on her nose from the latest play session with her dog Scout, Abramson finds the notion a bit curious.
“I haven’t ever described myself as tough,” Abramson says. Although she admits, “I’m aware that going back to when I was younger, and not in such a high position, that people could find me hard-charged.”
At times, Abramson can be hard to read. Her speech is slow and deliberate, elongating the final word of a phrase or sentence. Her responses, peppered with “you knows” as she chooses her next statement, can run the risk of sounding uninterested. But her excitement is apparent when she talks about the future of The New York Times, her love of writing on anything from her puppy to what is going on Pakistan, or even as she contemplates who does the best impersonation of her. Her favorite thing, she says, is “talking to journalists about what they are working on and what they are excited about. I schedule myself at least one hour every day of just walking the newsroom.”
Considering her current position, her reputation for natural (perhaps some might say aggressive) curiosity, and her oft-cited family worship of The New York Times as she grew up, it would seem that Abramson’s path towards a career in journalism would have been clear-cut. Abramson, however, explains that even during her freshman year at Harvard she didn’t exactly foresee becoming a journalist.
“I did a lot of extracurricular activities. I even took a tai chi class,” Abramson says. “I knew I loved to write and I wanted to give it a try. The idea of writing about the arts appealed to me.”
So Jill joined the ranks of The Harvard Independent, which she felt was more geared towards arts, culture, and weekend activities than The Harvard Crimson. She speaks fondly of her days at Harvard, from meeting her husband, Henry Little Griggs III ’76 (who, himself, wrote for The Crimson), to writing her history and literature thesis on British unemployment during the Great Depression.
“At Harvard, in a variety of courses, I learned how to be a much more perceptive reader and that has served me incredibly well in my professional life,” she says. “Critical, penetrating thinking about what you’re reading is the basic building block of what Harvard inculcates.”
It wasn’t until listening to the Watergate coverage during finals period her sophomore year that the journalism bug bit her.
“I was so aware of the impact of great investigative reporting by Bob U. Woodward and Carl Bernstein,” she says. “The idea that journalism could make such a difference in history was something that had my attention.”
Shortly thereafter Abramson was offered the opportunity to work as one of two Harvard campus stringers for Time Magazine.
Now, almost 40 years later, Abramson is arguably the most powerful woman in the journalistic world and has been introduced to a whole new level of scrutiny, whether concerning The New York Times’ coverage of Occupy Wall Street or her distinctive voice.
As the executive editor, Abramson’s day begins in true digital media fashion—with her iPad—catching up on the top stories and the news that developed overnight in preparation to head her newsroom. “You need only look at how the people around you are reading to know that the digital transition’s moving much more quickly in society broadly,” she says.
Just eight years ago, as the Chief of the Washington Bureau, Abramson could sometimes take her staff to the movies on Friday afternoons, before the days of online updates and weekend editions. Those days are long gone, especially at The New York Times, where online content is emphasized as emphatically as print.
Even the newsroom is strikingly quiet, a symbol of the changing times of reporting. The set of “All the President’s Men” this newsroom is not, as editors communicate almost exclusively via their computers rather than in a rowdy, smoke-filled room of tangled phone cords and frantic reporters trying to meet deadline.
While Abramson might head out of the office around 7:30 p.m. during the week, she views her activities outside the building as an extension of her duties as executive editor, whether it’s taking in the city’s vibrant theater scene, rooting for the Yankees, or keeping up on her fiction reading.
“I am a vacuum cleaner when it comes to culture,” Abramson says. “Being exposed to the most interesting parts of our culture is part of what will make me a good and broad editor.”
Abramson posits that it might be this curiosity and desire to get as much information as possible, whether on culture or the latest political news, which might be at the root of her “tough” rap.
“I think that I am full of curiosity, and I can press people hard to explain things to me,” Abramson says. “Sometimes I don’t mean asking questions as criticism but it can be heard as being too critical.”
“Is that always what is going to be said about a woman in power? I just don’t know,” she muses.
Abramson’s curiosity is certainly not one-sided, though, as she recently turned the tables and invited her staff to ask her questions in a “Grill Jill” session in the Times auditorium, a tradition she says will continue even as she settles into her position.
Unfortunately, women in power are no strangers to stereotypes about their leadership styles—University President Drew G. Faust even reached out over lunch and told Abramson she was always free for tea, advice, and sympathy if necessary, a gesture for which Abramson was extremely grateful.
Abramson, of course, is not a stranger to being a woman in a man’s world.
Abramson was a part of the first class at Harvard-Radcliffe that could choose to live in co-ed dorms. Upon opting to live in the yard in an all-female entryway of Grays, Abramson entered a sphere that was still very much dominated by male culture.
“I think some of us, and I, felt a little bit like we were pioneers,” she says. “At that point there was definitely an impression that women hadn’t lived there before; and some of the silly customs, like screaming out the window ‘Weld Sucks!’ in these big booming voices, those were male customs that carried over.”
Despite the changing times, Abramson says they were well received. “The men seemed to enjoy having us there,” she says. “I didn’t feel any hostility.”
While some journalists have been cautious to broach the subject of her sex, Abramson takes care to pay tribute to the women who surround her and came before her.
“I’ve been very conscious of the fact that I have this job and have benefited because of the women who came before me,” Abramson says. She cites her first female boss at Time Magazine, Sandra J. Burton,  and former New York Times reporter and Pulitzer Prize winner Nan C. Robinson, along with contemporaries such as Maureen B. Dowd and New York Times Company CEO Janet L. Robinson as those who have helped build the groundwork. After the suggestion is made that she occupies a role similar to these female predecessors, she seems surprised. “I feel if what you say is true, and I am a role model, that’s so flattering and it’s something to embrace and put energy into.”
Rather than dwell on her role in the journalistic world, Abramson turns the conversation towards a different form of mentorship within her family. “It’s not like I set out to be a role model, but I was co-leader of my daughter’s Girl Scout troop for some years, and at a point when she stopped going on the overnights I still went because I was the camping mom. I just always loved talking to the girls on those trips and learning from them.”
As the way in which news is consumed rapidly changes, due in large part to technology-hungry youth, Abramson, at 57, also acknowledges the power of the youth to help her with her job. Abramson has held a variety of teaching jobs as recently as last year, at Yale University.
“I learned more from my students, I feel, than they learned from me,” Abramson says. “I think a lot of what I learned about the changing landscape of how people get information and news came from talking to them and hearing them talk about what they read and how they read it.”
While Abramson has taken a break from teaching for the time being, she certainly has not forgotten about her Harvard roots, expressing a desire to return at some point, schedule providing. Indeed, she was on campus last year for a dinner during which she also spoke.
Curious about how she was percieved, she asked with a laugh, “Did they say I was abrasive?”
Sections
Last week, mankind took a beating at the hands of its longtime rival, machinery, when the supercomputer Watson defeated the vanguard of humanity: Business School students. Even though our technological frenemies may have won the battle, they have not won the war. FM casts an impartial gaze over the epic narrative of history to find who really has the upper hand—or other gripping apparatus.
Fourth Millennium B.C. Invention of the wheel: the battle begins. +9 for humans.
1811 English artisans protest the Industrial Revolution by destroying mechanized looms during the Luddite Revolt. +83 for humans. (“Luddite” eventually becomes an insult. +100 for machines.)
1909 Whiffenpoofs at Yale start collegiate a capella.  A capella groups continue to rock out, sans electric guitar.  +200 for humans.
1949 Daytime television begins to turn man’s minds to mush, or at least so FM has learned from the Discovery Channel. +1,400 for machines.
1997 Microsoft Office introduces Clippy, a pokey little paper clip who doesn’t understand passive voice or artistic use of fragments. -47 for machines.
2009 Belgian artist Wim Delvoye develops Cloaca the Poop Machine, an intricate machine that turns biodegradable material into what is essentially human feces. +149 for the versatility of machines. -400 for the state of contemporary art. +$200,000 for toilet paper companies.
2010 Pre-term planning. -62 for humans. Pre-term planning website. -1,874 for machines.
2011 Watson the “Jeopardy!” robot beats teams from HBS and MIT Sloan School. +111 for machines.
Timeless Snuggling. +1,234,567.89 points for humans. What now, machines?
Sections
Big Ry, what’s up man?!
Ah damn it, I think he hung up. Let’s call again.
Hey Ryan, it’s Cam-man and Ty.
Cameron and Tyler.
The Winklevi.
The Winklevoss twins ... “The Social Network” ... We went to Harvard together ...
Nothing?
Yeah, yeah ... Those Winklevoss twins.
Come on. “Douchey” is a strong word. But, yes, we did row. Wanna see our medals?
Okay, no worries—that’s cool. So how you been, dude? How’s playing for the Buffalo Bulls?
Bills? Oh yeah, that’s what I meant. You’re really throwing a lot of home runs this year huh?
Yeah, those too. I have to admit we don’t know a lot about football—our parents always said it wasn’t a gentleman’s sport. But obviously we’ve been cheering for our buddy Fitzy this year.
Are you sure nobody calls you that? I think I remember that from hanging with the boys back in the day in Cambridge.
We were never boys? Haha. Oh, stop it. We knew several of the same people.
What we’re calling about? Oh nothing man—just calling to catch up with you. Us famous Crimson athletes have to stick together.
Of course it’s not about your new contract! Why would you say that?
Well, that is true ... hair gel does not pay for itself. But $59 million isn’t even that much, man. We spent that on suits and sunglasses alone last year.
Um, that was just a lucky guess. Is that actually the size of your contract extension? No kidding. Just heard about it from you.
Of course we haven’t spent all our money yet! I mean, sure, we would have more if Suckerberg didn’t steal our idea ... But still, we’re fine.
Well, yeah, that last lawsuit didn’t go as planned—but we totally got screwed by the judge on that one. Plus, we’re suing Aaron Sorkin for libel because we are easily 6’6,” 230 lbs.
I mean, yeah, we have to go interview on “SportsCenter” soon too, but we just wanted to ask if you wanted to make a donation to the Twinklevi Foundation. It’s for kids who get stuff stolen from them.
No, we are so over that website thing. I forget what it’s even called.
Pssh, of course we aren’t going to just keep the money for ourselves. Lots of kids get stuff stolen from them.
Oh yeah, okay—bye FitzDawg. Hit us up if you’re in Cambridge sometime and want to check out the Bike Room!
I think he hung up. Damn.
Sections
It’s Nov. 10, and you know what that means: T-minus four days until those concentration declarations have to go out. Sophomores, you ready? If not, FM’s got your back. For those over-achieving freshmen out there, this one’s for you too. Time to figure our lives out.
1) Do you enjoy college?
a. Eh. It’s alright.
b. I prefer to call it a “place of learning.”
c. Where else can I shoot up heroin without being frowned upon?
d. Enjoy it? I LOVE it. Room 13 can’t get enough of me.
e. I am above such mundane things. I’m also scared of social interaction. Please don’t hurt me.
2) What goes down when you fail a midterm?
a. There’s a curve, isn’t there?
b. I don’t have midterms, only long-winded, “analytical” essays that are perfect for pushing a political agenda.
c. I haven’t taken a midterm since eighth grade.
d. I hate VES concentrators.
e. Fail? Ha! I step on those who fail. Seriously though, I’m pretty non-violent.
3) Craziest thing you can see yourself doing?
a. Bungee jumping into a 500 meter gorge
b. Meeting Carrie Bradshaw (Haha, you wish)
c. Covering up my tattoos, pulling out my piercings, and walking around in a suit
d. Time traveling to the Pleistocene epoch and kicking some woolly mammoth ass
e. Solving the mathematical proof explaining the meaning of life. Suck on that, Math Olympiad judges! You didn’t know I’d be famous one day, did you? Take my Noble Peace Prize and give me second place now, bitches!
4) Do you drink?
a. Yes.
b. From time to time, but only when papers are due
c. Ever since my father told me I was adopted
d. Milk and orange juice! Water is supposed to be nice too.
e. I get extremely, extremely crunk on weekends. I’ll get back to you when I figure out what exactly that means.
5) Favorite weather?
a. Sunny and 82 degrees
b. Sunny weather’s decent, I guess.
c. Dark and stormy. Like my soul.
d. I don’t really go out much.
e. Last summer, I invented a tool that can change the weath-
er. Commence Operation Destroy Earth.
6) Source of inspiration?
a. Theodore Roosevelt
b. Margaret Thatcher
c. The Winkelvii. Though I disagree with almost everything they stand for, they’re just so ruggedly handsome, I forget.
d. My mind
e. Sometimes I watch Barney late at night, and I think about how I too used to be that young.
7) How often do you bathe?
a. Once a day
b. Once a week
c. When my mother reminds me
d. When they close Brain Break early because of the smell
e. Bathing is a relative term.
8) What color are your socks?
a. White
b. What color are yours?
c. Any color you want them to be ;) No, really, I can make them any color you want them to be.
d. Grey. Preferably a dark grey, so sweat stains don’t show through.
e. A muddy, brownish color
9) Where do you go when you want
to be alone?
a. Science Center!
b. The restricted section of Widener. What, you didn’t know about that?
c. Lamont. Love me some baristas.
d. The Charles. Sometimes, at night, I like to walk around with my iPad. On good nights, I don’t even get mugged.
e. I just stay in my room on Saturday nights. I stopped going out after I realized the square root of four wasn’t two. Help me.
10) What is an ideal first date?
a. Dinner and a movie
b. Museum tour, then a picnic
c. Me drawing you in the nude. Come on, you know you want to.
d. I would love to have a first date.
e. Did someone just say “nude”?
11) What’s your favorite meal?
a. Breakfast. Most important meal of the day!
b. Lunch. (Please be Red Spice Chicken, please be Red Spice Chicken.)
c. Dinner. There’s always pasta, I guess.
d. Brunch. Veritaffles for everyone!
e. Fourth Meal. Everything’s always more delicious between the hours of midnight and 4am.
12) How do you react to paper assignments?
a. Aww man, I hate papers. They always take so much work, and I’ve got like one of them every year.
b. I love papers! How many do you think I can write in a week?
c. The written form is too constricting for me. I prefer a more expressive medium.
d. *Shudder*
e. Papers? Don’t you mean problem sets?
13) What does your dream workplace look like?
a. I need a lot of space, preferably with floor-to-ceiling windows.
b. An old house by the Cape, with ancient books lining the shelves and a little rocky beach over which I can watch the sun set with my dog at my side
c. I’ll honestly do anything for money.
d. What part of my being pre-med don’t you understand. There’s only one place for me to go from here: Harvard. Medical. School.
e. Anywhere with an outlet, an internet connection, and a fridge full of Mountain Dew
14) What kind of phone do you use?
a. iPhone all the way. I’ve never used the 3G, and I don’t have any apps, but I still tell people it’s the best phone out there.
b. Android for life! I think of myself as a well-informed consumer, and I know what things like 802.11 b/g/n Wifi connection means.
c. Blackberry. The most professional phone on the market. Sometimes, I take it out of my pocket and pretend to be talking to someone just to look important.
d. I haven’t bought a new phone since 8th grade. So long as I can text and call, that’s all I need.
e. I gave my four friends a tin can each, and connected a string from my home to each of theirs.
Score!
Points Awarded:
a - 1
b - 2
c - 3
d - 4
e - 5
If you scored between 15 and 26 points, you should be a Social Sciences concentrator! The world is your oyster. If you’re an economics concentrator, go out and make lots of money. Otherwise, best of luck.
If you scored between 27 and 38 points, you are a Humanities concentrator! You’re doing what you love, and that’s great. Just make sure you remember that on the days when ramen noodles start seeming too expensive.
If you scored between 38 and 49 points, you are a VES concentrator! To be honest, we’re not quite sure what you do. But whatever it is, keep doing it. You’re destined for greatness. Or prison. Again, we’re not too sure what you do in your studio.
If you scored between 50 and 62 points, you are a Life/Physical Sciences concentrator! Congrats! Join the 9,000 other students who also wish to become doctors but will instead end up as dentists. Not that there’s anything wrong with that, of course.
If you scored between 63 and 75 points, you are a Mathematics/Engineering concentrator! You’ve probably known this for a while, since you’ve been fulfilling the requirements since day one, but it’s good to have a reminder. Try to stay away from sharp objects and other people. Other than that, continue solving global warming.
Sections
CORRECTION BELOW
“I was like, dang, that’s an honor to perform at Harvard. I like Harvard,” said Moufy, who will be performing at Tommy Doyle's Pub for the Alpha Epsilon Pi Fall Charity Party in December.
Upcoming rapper Jeffrey (“Do you have a middle name?” “Na.”) Fortunato, also known as Moufy, sat in an upstairs corner of the two-story Harvard Square Starbucks, the Chateau Marmont, some say, of the 02138.
A celebrity by nature, Fortunato arrived 45 minutes late to the interview, accompanied by three groupies—including his older brother—decked out in matching Moufy apparel.
From the streets to JFK Street, Fortunato spent his adolescence traveling between the inner-city and outer-suburbs. During high school, Fortunato lived at home with his single mother while making the commute to Cambridge private school Buckingham Browne & Nichols (BB&N). After leaving BB&N and making a quick educational detour to New Hampshire, Fortunato found his way back to his native home—Boston. With songs like “Boston Lights,” Fortunato said he sees himself as “a city boy at heart.”
The “city boy” humbly called himself and his following “just kids reaching for the stars”—a phrase which inspired his nickname for his fans, the “Star Gang,” and their accompanying line of memorabilia.
“Me and my organization are lucky enough to have the greatest fans in the world ... no competition,” said Fortunato. Move over, Little Monsters.
Another arena in which Moufy has no competition: his website’s domain name. The name “Moufy,” pronounced like “mouthy” but with an “f,” evolved from Fortunato’s nickname, “Mouf.” (A man of few words but many raps, Fortunato did not describe how “Mouf” developed from “Jeffrey Fortunato.”)
With an opening performance for rapper Mac Miller and three Boston Music Awards nominations under his belt, maybe Jay-Z and Kanye should watch their throne. Until then, Moufy will soak in the Boston lights—“617 engraved in my soul/ Ain’t that so spiritual?”
Correction:
The Nov. 10 article, "Moufy: It's Massachusets 'til I Die," incorrectly stated the location of Moufy's December performance. The location is Tommy Doyle's Pub in Harvard Square, not the Alpha Epsilon Pi house.
Sections
It’s the mother of insults, one might say. But what is it about the combination of these words that gives them such power? Is it the commanding assonance—mu-ther fu-cker—that lends such clout to the expletive, or is it indeed the accusation that the object of the insult is a fucker of mothers? And not just any mother: within most contexts, the term refers to one’s own female parent.
The paper trail of such insults reaches back to the eighth century, at least, when satirists Bashshar ibn Burd and Hammad Ajrad took the “yo mama” battle to their Persian verse. Burd, who was known throughout Iraq for his acid tongue, said of his rival, “Ajrad jumps on his mother: a sow giving suck to a sucker.” Ajrad shot back, “You are called Burd’s son, but you are another’s. But even if you were Burd’s son (may you fuck your mother!), who is Burd?”
In his 1951 writings about humor within the culture of Kenya’s Gusii people, anthropologist Philip Mayer noted that a common kiss-off was “Go eat your mother’s anus!”
The spectrum of incest-based insults is even wider than your mom. In China, “Cao ni zu zong shi ba dai,” or “Fuck your ancestors of 18 generations,” is considered to be the most egregious of insults. And popular in several South Asian languages is the expletive “sister-fucker.” “Bhenchod,” a Punjabi term used at least as early as the 19th century, has spread throughout the Indian subcontinent as an insult of choice.
So what is it about incest-based insults that just makes them so, well, insulting? For Nicholas H. Harkness, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, the terms that we use for our family members are laden with ideas about how we should behave toward kin.
“In contrast to kin terms that invoke a cultural model of legitimate and appropriate social behavior, lexicalized or fixed-phrase insults that make reference to incest point to the cultural proscription of social behavior,” he said.
But as most middle schoolers can attest, a greeting of “Hey, motherfucker!” is not necessarily an indictment. Harkness explained that the meaning of an insult can be inverted within an “in-group.”
“Just as taboo speech can be transformed into a sign of covert prestige among members of an ‘in-group,’ insults of all sorts can also be used as a sign of intimacy, especially through joking,” he said. “At the extreme, the meanest insult you can give in one context can actually produce intimacy in another.”
Sections
Justin Newton, 31, can talk politics, economics, and popular culture, but he prefers to talk about gaming. Before he was homeless, he played Xbox 360 Fable II, but it is too risky to have a laptop on the street and near impossible to maintain the battery life on his Android. “That’s one of those things you don’t think about until you’re out here,” he says. So now he relies on tabletop role-playing games, in which players describe their characters’ actions out loud to satisfy their interests: “Imagine World of Warcraft without a computer.”
It has been four weeks since Justin became homeless. He had hoped to be off the streets before the weather turned cold, but the days have begun to blend together—something “they don’t tend to prepare you for”—and now he’s preparing for the long haul. He’s keeping his warmest articles of clothing in reserve so that they’ll seem warmer in January or February, when he really needs them, but he still hopes to find housing before then. If all else fails, he will think about moving into a shelter, although he prefers the limited freedom he has on the street to a life in a rule-ridden institution. For now, he has started to ask around for a car battery to power a portable heater, just in case.
A few weeks ago, on one warm Saturday afternoon, Justin sat with his friend Ralph Beck, 21, in their “living room and dining room and bedroom all in one,” on the corner of the Cambridge Trust Company next to the Holyoke Center. It is conveniently located near Au Bon Pain’s semi-public bathroom and it is a “good spot to pee at night, around the corner where nobody can really see you.” They’re setting up their sign and change-box for the day; Saturday afternoons tend to be very lucrative times to spange (“the portmanteau of spare change,” Justin explains).
But a visiting spanger from Boston sits on a milk crate less than five yards away—“Homeless people never sit on milk crates,” Ralph says—and the street musician Ramblin’ Dan moves into Justin and Ralph’s usual space.
It is bad form to spange within a half-block of someone else. Ralph considers confronting them, but he decides against it and reluctantly starts to pack his things. If spangers coordinate their locations and spread out, they all benefit from more donations. Unfortunately, the ethic of cooperation does not always pan out, so Justin and Ralph relocate to a less profitable corner near Cambridge Common for the afternoon. The sun is shining, and they don’t seem to mind.
*         *          *
When I first meet Justin, he is debating the perennial issue of Columbus Day with his friend Ralph: should the United States continue to observe the imperialist holiday? (It was the same conversation I overheard in the Quincy dining hall half an hour earlier.) Justin, wearing an Oscar the Grouch shirt and combat boots, strokes his long beard as he listens to Ralph speak. “I don’t celebrate the American holidays. I celebrate Pagan holidays,” Ralph says. He’s wearing ripped jeans and a tattered black and white camouflage jacket. Later he explains the evolution of his fashion identity: “When I was 10, I was gothic. When I was 12, I was emo. When I was 16, I was gangster. Now I don’t have any style: I’m homeless.”
Justin ended up on the street after being kicked out of his ex-girlfriend-turned-roommate’s apartment. He says he considered moving in with family members until he dropped some of his “stupid habits.” Next he thought about camping near Fresh Pond—which is not permitted but can apparently be done by hiding a tent in the forest—while he put his life back in order. But when a friend put him in touch with Ralph, a fellow gamer who offered to teach him how to live on the street, Justin chose to move to Cambridge.
Ralph has lived in Harvard Square for the last year and on the street for the past six. He decided to move onto the street after growing tired of moving in and out of foster homes. He says Harvard is a good place to be, since there are so many other homeless people in the area: “Life out here is easier together.” So Justin and Ralph have stuck together, sleeping near one another, keeping each other company, and watching out for each other’s belongings, for most of the last month. Justin waits up for Ralph to return from hanging out with friends before he goes to sleep, and Ralph gives Justin tips that he wishes someone had told him when he first became homeless.
If their belongings are hidden from view—underneath tarps and inside their bags, for example—they can sleep until 7:40 a.m. Otherwise police officers wake them earlier, a not-so-subtle hint to straighten up before aesthetically conscious tourists and businessmen arrive in large numbers. During the day they can spread out, but mostly they confine themselves to the area in front of three large windows.
It’s hard to keep organized: at one point I notice Ralph’s crumpled birth certificate lying between an empty strawberry container and a lighter. It usually takes a few minutes to find what they need. Justin doesn’t have quite as much to keep straight, since he still keeps some clothes and valuables at his ex-girlfriend’s apartment in Somerville.
Over the course of the next month, I make an effort to spend time on the sidewalk with Justin and Ralph at least every other day. Initially they ask me for cash, food, and materials, but after a few weeks we develop an easier relationship. I watch their things while Justin buys a morning coffee at Dunkin’ Donuts and he offers me a taste of a $3-dollar-a-bottle Russian craft beer when they celebrate the arrival of a check from Ralph’s father.
*         *          *
Justin and Ralph have to stay alert during the day, but it’s not dangerous until it’s dark. Theft sometimes takes a toll on their emotional states. When Justin’s beloved Android phone mysteriously goes missing, he’s a wreck. Another time, incensed, he says that someone stole his expensive cane and 20-year-old box-cutter the night before. “And if I find out who it was, I’m going to fucking stomp their head in,” he says. “I think all the fucking junkies should get their heads stomped in, ’cause I’m tired of getting my shit jacked.”
Ralph recently went to sleep with his fake diamond earring on and woke up without it. A woman who Justin and Ralph call “the psycho bitch” has a habit of stealing their food and throwing it at them every few days. Justin vents his anger with harsh language, but assures me that he’s a pacifist at heart. “I’m fucking Switzerland,” Justin tells me. “As long as you don’t fuck over me and mine, you’re cool with me. I ain’t lookin’ for trouble. I’m just trying to survive.”
Justin and Ralph are expert multitaskers, and are almost always willing to engage in conversation while spanging. Ralph has a habit of stopping mid-sentence to politely ask passersby, “How are you? Can you help out the homeless today?” in a notably higher pitched voice than his normal tone. This time the target only drops a few pennies and a nickel. He says thank you anyway, as he always does when someone makes a donation.
On self-described “emo” days when they “fly signs” that say things like “Spare some change so I can make a more interesting sign,” they do not expect to make more than $50 collectively. But if they want to make more money, they try to start conversations with approaching pedestrians while they are still a few strides away, giving them more time to establish eye contact.
Humor works better than pity. One time a regular put a dollar in the cup and asks Justin for a joke. “A clean one or a dirty one?” he replies, eager to please, before rattling off a six-minute-long joke about a prince’s three sons and a hooker. The timing and speed are everything for the punch-line, he explains after the stranger has walked off laughing.
Ralph used an old umbrella pole to pull their change box closer to him mid-joke in order to retrieve the dollar bill, since people tend to give more money when they see only change in the box. On a good day they collect more than $100. Some types of people give more than others; tour groups and male students wearing clothes from Urban Outfitters and American Apparel are especially stingy, Justin says. “That’s not true. A hipster dropped a dime once,” Ralph says, correcting him sarcastically.
Justin puts some of the money he makes into a savings account, which he only withdraws from sparingly. “A lot of the money that we make goes to food and other things to keep us sane,” he explains. He says he’s saving for his wedding and an apartment for him and his wife-to-be. “Usually we don’t have to worry too much about food,” he says as a grinning Ralph uncovers sandwiches, donuts, and other donated food that they keep hidden under blankets.
A bag of unopened, donated Pabst Blue Ribbon beers have been weighing down a sign asking for money for the last three days. Neither of them drinks alcohol often, but they do enjoy getting high on marijuana, which they frequently do in public view without concern for being caught.
One night, sitting, Justin says, “I want to get laid! ... I just want to get laid,” he repeats more softly. A few days later: “I just need some fucking pussy.” Both Ralph and Justin say that they are holding out for their long distance lovers: Justin’s works as a live-in caretaker for her ailing grandmother in Connecticut, and Ralph’s works in Virginia.
But Justin says that his mother might have gotten it right with her second marriage. “He’s boring, but stable as hell. You know that if he says he’s working late, he’s working late. You don’t have to worry about him going on a drug binge and ruining your car,” Justin says. He has been twirling objects in his hands for the last hour: a yellow star-shaped stress ball in his left hand and a marijuana-packed pipe in his right.
*         *          *
Justin thinks every incoming Harvard student should spend eight months on the streets, without access to bank accounts or other support from family, before enrolling in college. It’s important that the privileged know what it’s like to have nothing. He seems largely indifferent to the work of the student-run Harvard Square Homeless Shelter’s Street Team program. “I get fed and they don’t proselytize,” he says, shrugging.
Street Team volunteers bring food, blankets, clothing and other supplies to Justin, Ralph, and other homeless people in the area every night. “They form relationships with the homeless living on the street as well as providing services to them. They are encouraged to talk and make friends,” according to Administrative Director of the HSHS, Charles A. Hobbs ’13.
The dry shelter lotteries 24 beds that are mostly given to guests for two-week periods at a time. Even when the shelter is full, the volunteer staff helps people find emergency beds on the night they come in whenever possible. “I think that that’s an important connection to the community,” University President Drew G. Faust said of the shelter’s work.
While Justin admires people whose religion leads them to help the poor, being preached at makes him furious. “We live in a secular country!” he announces firmly, and the conversation returns to one of his favorite subjects: American history and contemporary politics. Justin thinks that the deist founding fathers would be outraged by Speaker of the House John Boehner’s “antics” and what he considers the dangerous mixture of religious doctrine and political power.
He used to read the liberal news outlet Media Matters “religiously,” but it’s harder for him to stay informed without regular access to a computer. He uses his smart-phone to periodically check the news. “I try to study the issues behind politics so I can make an informed vote,” he says. It’s appalling to him that so many people vote without understanding the difference between the marginal tax rate and the average tax rate. I learn about the distinction for the first time in Economics 10 a week later. “People consider us disease-ridden creatures,” Ralph says, breaking his silence. “We know a lot more than we look like we know.”
*         *          *
On my way to class one afternoon I stop to ask how Ralph has been doing for the last few days. He’s been spending time at a friend’s house playing video games, and I haven’t seen him for a while. He looks up from his book, “The Lion, the Witch and The Wardrobe” by C.S. Lewis: “Could be better. Could be worse. That’s the way it is out here.”
With his legs extended and his back against the wall, Justin reads instruction books on different systems for hours at a time. In recent weeks he has been developing a Generic Universal Role Playing System (GURPS) campaign of “high fantasy with steam punk and sonic elements, as well as traditional magic and swords and sorcery.”
Once he finishes designing it, he’ll direct adventures and battles as Game Master of his fantasy world. The campaign could last for months. Drawing inspiration from sci-fi novels, he reads whatever he can get his hands on, except “Conquered” Earth and books that focus too much on political intrigue—despite his interest in real-world politics. His favorite stories are about adventures at the edge of space.
Living on the street, he does not have as much freedom as he used to, he says. But in GURPS he calls all the shot and makes all the rules; it’s a drug-free escape from a life where he can’t even choose his own bedtime to a world where he’s in charge of everything.
Until he finds a more permanent solution (he meets with a housing counselor regularly), Justin brainstorms new ways to make his “setup” more comfortable. His latest plan involves using a tarp and rope to construct a shelter that would protect him from the elements while still complying with the tent ban, which prevents him from setting up his tent on the sidewalk. It’s a policy strictly enforced in Harvard Square but ignored at Occupy Boston, where some of Justin and Ralph’s old neighbors have been staying and where they went to visit recently.
Justin says that an activist friend of his who recently passed away would have been on cloud nine in Dewey Square. “Something just changed inside of me. It’s the strangest thing,” he said, tearing up. “It’s so goofy, because I’m not even sad.”
Ralph, the less political of the two, saw power in the number of people there, and also in the growing number of homeless people. “There’s enough of us now. We could take over the fucking White House.” You wouldn’t have to go far to find an even grander symbol of income inequality, Justin thinks out loud. “If there’s an Occupy Cambridge, it will start right here,” he says, pointing to Harvard Yard. Most of the protesters still have homes, Justin says, but they are victims of the same broken system that put him on the street.
At the protest, there are a few useful giveaways for people living on the street, and Justin came back with some freebies from the occupation’s first-aid tent, including an emergency water-proof sleeping bag and thick rope to build his planned shelter for when winter comes, sooner than Justin wants. He’s starting to feel it, he says.
The search for a car battery to power a heater has been fruitless, so increasingly they have been relying on a blend of rum and soda for warmth. “For 20 bucks I can get drunk once or I can get stoned a bunch of times,” Justin explains. “Economically it makes a fuck-ton more sense to get stoned. And pot doesn’t do anything negative to me, other than sucking my motivation. But out here, what kind of motivation do you really need?”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The American government should drastically cut the excessive military budget, argued Barney Frank, the United States Representative for Massachusetts, during an Institute of Politics event at the Kennedy School on Wednesday evening.
“I’m frustrated because I believe we heavily overspend on the military to the detriment of our economy,” Frank said.
Frank said the U.S. devotes a “staggering” $650 billion to the military budget every year.
While European powers spend only 1.7 percent of GDP on the military, the U.S. spends nearly three times that amount.
Frank argued that the copious resources assigned to protecting American interests abroad are no longer necessary.
According to Frank, excessive military spending is a relic of the Cold War, when the serious threat of advancing communism jeopardized American values.
Today, the U.S. still protects European nations against the spread of the now nonexistent Soviet Union—a reflection of the American exceptionalist belief that God created America as an enforcer of order in the world.
If that is true, “I’m entitled to a refund on my bible,” said Frank.
Frank also suggests that Americans are unduly frightened by terrorism.
Although terrorism is often harder to combat than traditional armies, anti-terrorist efforts are generally less expensive than long, drawn-out wars because terrorists do not possess the same, advanced technology. Yet, according to Frank, the military budget has not declined.
“We do have to adopt a long range deficit reduction strategy,” Frank said.
As the country grapples with an overwhelming deficit, Frank argues that legislators will face a choice between military funding and entitlement programs.
Stephanie Wu ’15 was particularly struck by Frank’s description of deficit reduction as a “trade off.”
According to Frank, entitlement programs are not expendable—particularly those that fund education or create a “norm of middle class existence” for the elderly.
Without cuts to the military, “we can’t maintain the quality of life in America,” said Frank.
He suggests a drastic cut in the military budget of $200 billion, saved through decreased acquisition of strategic weapons, reduction in military strength abroad, particularly in Western Europe, and increased efficiency at the Pentagon.
Critics argue that a decline in military spending would erode American preeminence.
But Frank pointed out that Clinton managed to balance the budget, partially through drastic cuts in military spending, while maintaining American prestige abroad.
After all, according to Frank, military intervention is often futile.
“You can stop making people shoot each other, but we can’t make them love each other,” said Frank.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Professor Emeritus of Surgery at the Harvard Medical School John F. Burke, who revolutionized burn patient treatment, died of pancreatic cancer on November 2. He was 89.
Alongside MIT Professor Dr. Ioannis V. Yannas, Burke created Integra, a commercial product that functions as an artificial skin for burn victims. The material, which is devised of two layers of polymers that help facilitate skin-growth, was a defining accomplishment in Burke’s six-decade medical career.
Professor of Surgery at HMS Ronald G. Tompkins, noted that Burke recognized Yannas for his knowledge of polymer engineering, while Yannas relied on Burke for his deep medical expertise.
Tompkins, who succeeded Burke in his position as chief of trauma and burn services at Massachusetts General Hospital, called the late professor “a wonderful mentor.”
“He was easily approachable, but always inquisitive. He was very insightful about people, in terms of predicting what they might do and understanding why they might do it,” Tompkins said.
“He was the opposite of the stereotype of a surgeon,” he added.
In his 31 years working with Burke, Tompkins said that the late professor would often repeat two maxims.
“One, ‘You can’t win if you don’t play,’” Topmkins quoted. “Second, ‘Don’t ever take any wooden nickels.’”
The first, Tompkins said, spoke to Burke’s readiness to rise to new challenges, and the second to Burke’s “healthy skepticism.”
Dennis P. Orgill, an HMS Professor and one of Burke’s former students, remembered the pioneer’s commitment to  his patients and his passion for research as his defining characteristic.
“He could never seem to get enough of [his work],” said Orgill, who is also Vice Chair of Surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “One time, he got a patient with a very large burn. He called up the lab, and all he said was, ‘We need a lot of skin!’ We all stopped what we were doing and worked in shifts to get it done.”
According to Orgill, Burke’s motivation was his patients.
“He was this really respected surgeon, but, ultimately, his focus was his burn patients: he wanted to do the best thing for them,” Orgill said.
In particular, Burke’s daughter, Professor of Biology at Wesleyan University Ann C. Burke, noted one story in which her father abandoned the scalpel for the shovel.
In the northeastern blizzard of 1978, snow had piled up to the point that emergency vehicles could not reach Shriners Hospital for Children, where Burke was on-call. Refusing to wait for more manpower, he enlisted the help of the on-duty nurses and shoveled the entrance himself, so that two badly burned boys could be brought in for treatment.
“That,” the younger Burke wrote in an email, “is a good story.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Panelists discussed the remaining steps that must be taken to end discrimination against LGBT servicemembers at a lunchtime discussion on Wednesday, hosted by Harvard Law School Lambda, the school’s LGBT student organization.
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the policy that banned gays, lesbians, and bisexuals from openly serving in the military, was repealed by Congress in December 2010.
Wednesday’s panelists included Margot R. Thistle, a volunteer for the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, and military veterans Travis Hengen and John N. Affuso, who are both openly gay.
At the event, Hengen and Affuso shared their personal experiences with the policy and discussed the lingering effects of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” on soldiers.
According to Affuso, over 14,000 servicemembers were dismissed under the policy.
One continued problem has been that potential employers often ask dismissed veterans for their discharge papers, which reflect the servicemembers’ sexual orientation.
Additionally, the panelists said that many servicemembers who were dismissed for their sexual orientation do not receive full severance pay and veteran benefits, including medical care.
The treatment of partners of gay soldiers is also a continuing problem, according to the panelists. Hengen said he has decided not to go back into the military because his partner would not receive the same benefits as a heterosexual spouse, including access to military bases.
“They’re saying congratulations on your marriage, but pretty much that’s it,” said Affuso.
The panelists also focused on the continued exclusion of transgender individuals from the military, an issue that has been one of the most contested policies in the months since the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”
“There’s a binary view of gender in the military,” Thistle said. “You are either male or female.”
In an interview following the event, the panelists expressed their approval of the return of ROTC to Harvard, which was announced shortly after the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”
Hengen said that ROTC allows the military to tap into a much-needed pool of highly skilled individuals.
“Many people who wouldn’t necessarily think about joining the military did because of ROTC,” said Thistle.
Yannick A. Grant, co-political chair of Lambda, said the group hosted the event to draw students’ attentions to the limitations of the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.”
“The repeal, though still great, is limited,” said Grant.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Richard M. Daley, the longest serving mayor in Chicago history, will come to Harvard later this month as a visiting fellow at the Institute of Politics, according to an IOP press release.
While at Harvard, Daley will focus on having informal discussions with students about the realities of a career in public policy, IOP Director Trey Grayson ’94 said.
“One of the things we love to do is to bring elected officials to campus,” said Grayson. “Some things worked [during Daley’s tenure as mayor], other things didn’t. We want to hear about both.”
Daley, who served as mayor of Chicago from 1989 to 2011, weathered a 2005 corruption scandal surrounding his administration and presided over city revitalizations like the construction of Millennium Park in downtown Chicago.
Daley did not seek re-election in 2010 and was succeeded by former Obama Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel earlier this year.
As a visiting fellow, Daley will meet with student groups, lead discussion sessions, and participate in public policy classes, according to the press release.
“I have always enjoyed sharing my experiences in public service with others because I believe that collaboration is key to the success of any city,” Daley wrote in an email. “I look forward to the exchange of ideas and a candid discussion.”
Grayson said that the IOP was especially interested in Daley because of its upcoming event “Seminar on Transition and Leadership for Newly-Elected Mayors.” Mayors from around the country will attend the event.
The IOP first contacted Daley about speaking at the conference in the summer.
“I ... look forward to contributing to the ongoing discussion about issues facing cities in the 21st century in any way that I can,” Daley wrote in an email.
In spite of some minor scheduling difficulties, Daley was happy to come to Harvard, Grayson said.
“He was definitely flattered and definitely interested,” he said.
Grayson said he hopes Daley will come back to the IOP after his fellowship this fall, and perhaps even help recruit other visiting fellows for future talks.
“We can call on him when we need him, and vice-a-versa,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rada Roda lightly punches air bubbles into a large piece of dough in the kitchen of an off-campus apartment, as several Harvard graduate students inhale the scents of garlic and paprika and watch her actions intently. She is making laffah, or Israeli pita bread. Her restaurant, Jerusalem Pita and Grill sells about 300 laffah a day.
Last night the Harvard Law School Alliance for Israel and the regional chapter of the World Zionist Organization sponsored an Israeli cooking class, and brought in Roda to help teach the group of graduate students the secrets of making traditional Israeli cuisine.
Roda, who lived in Israel for eight years, brought these culinary traditions with her to Cambridge.
“In Israel, you eat the egg half cooked,” she said.
While the group did not consume raw eggs, they did make hummus, tahini, laffah, and shakshuka—an originally Algerian dish consisting of a spiced tomato mixture with poached eggs inside.
Roda also demonstrated how to prepare more creative Israeli food such as “humshuka”—a mix of shakshuka and hummus.
“I made it up,” Roda said. “I am sure they have it in Israel because there is always something new you can do with hummus and shakshuka. I even make hummus cookies!”
Despite being the Alliance’s first cooking event, Treasurer Daria A. Barkai said it was successful. The Alliance purposely capped the event so that people could talk and get to know each other and also because, as Barkai pointed out, “my apartment is only so large.”
Jhoshua W. Friedman ’08, President of the Alliance, said the event was held as a way for students to get together and have fun.
Law student Eden Schiffmann said he attended because, “it seemed like a good opportunity to engage in Israeli culture on campus.”
Eliane Dreyfuss, regional director for the World Zionist Organization agreed.
“Food is just a way to tell the story of the Jewish journey from Israel to other countries and back to Israel,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Medical School and McLean Hospital researchers recently found that patients addicted to prescription opiate drugs, or painkillers, may be more likely to succeed in treatment with the aid of the medication Suboxone.
Involving 653 treatment-seeking patients from 10 sites nationwide, this study is the first large-scale clinical trial to address the treatment of painkiller abuse.
In addition to standard medical treatment for opioid abuse, each patient in the trial received Suboxone, which consists of a combination of two medications which treat opioid addiction and counter drug dependency.
According to Roger D. Weiss, a professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and chief of the Division of Alcohol and Drug Abuse at McLean Hospital, roughly half of the patients benefited from Suboxone while on the medication.  However, the researchers found that patients would often relapse when taken off the medication.
“What we found was that [almost all of the people] who were tapered off the medication relapsed into opiate use,” said Weiss.
“What stood out was that people did less well than we thought they would,” said Weiss. “We thought they would have better outcomes after being tapered off the medication than they did.”
Other experts in the field did not find the results as surprising.
“We see the same phenomenon with methadone for heroin-addicted patients,” said Keith N. Humphreys, a professor of Psychiatry at Stanford University. “Substitution therapy with Suboxone and methadone often has to last for a year or more, and for some patients must be continued indefinitely.”
According to Weiss, the main limitation of the research is that it was a relatively short-term study. To remedy this, the researchers will conduct a long-term follow-up study of the same population for 3.5 years after study entry.
“I’m hoping that people will see how difficult it is to get off of [prescription opiate drugs] in case they’re thinking of abusing them, and also that people realize that medication can really help with longer term treatment,” said Weiss.
“This is ground breaking research which responds to a crying need,” said Humphreys. “We have an epidemic of painkiller abuse in the U.S. and to know that addiction to these drugs can be treated with Suboxone is a major advance.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Penti, a Turkish hosiery and lingerie company popular in Europe, entered the American market by opening its first store in Harvard Square at 9 JFK St.
Penti was founded in 1950 in Istanbul and has over 130 stores across Europe.
After seeing the high demand and popularity of the brand in Europe, Turkish investors Firat Emiroglu and Haluk Etel decided to bring the company to the United States.
“Our goal in the United States is to pinpoint 30 locations according to our interests and present our brand in the best way deserved,” Emiroglu wrote in an email.
Emiroglu and Etel already have selected five locations, including Boston and New York. They plan to open two more locations in Boston malls in 2012.
The investors chose to open their first U.S. location in Harvard Square due to the high international population in the area.
“What’s appealing about Harvard Square is the variety of people,” Emiroglu wrote. “Harvard being one of the best schools in the world results in attracting people from all over the world.”
The company manufactures and sells hosiery, lingerie, and bikinis in different styles and colors. Stocking prices range from $5.99 to $26.50 and vary from basic, neutral colors to rainbow-colored and patterned products.
Patterned stockings have been popular in Turkish fashion and have been worn on the runaway during Istanbul Fashion Week.
The store changes its product for the different seasons, offering bikinis in the summer and thicker stockings for the winter. The store has also catered its inventory to the community by stocking more medical socks in addition to offering products not found easily in the Square, such as knee-high and thigh-high stockings.
The store sells items for children and women and has a small men’s section with socks.
“We have a wide variety of merchandise suitable for people from any ages and style, which fits perfectly with [Harvard Square’s] diversity and international people,” Emiroglu wrote.
Online sales in the United States will begin in December at pentiusa.com. Emiroglu and Etel decided to open stores before launching the website to let American customers see and feel their products.
Although the new store has had to contend with prolonged construction on JFK St. since its opening, Penti has established a regular customer base, including international students at the College.
“Of course, [I’ll shop there],” said Ece Erdagoz ’14, who has shopped at the store in Turkey. “It’s something familiar just like any brand name.”
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Outside the Dudley Square Station passengers ebb and flow. No city bus idles for long under the metal awning—except for one, with wrap-around blue trim. A woman steps off board.
“Take it easy, Aunty Rai!” she calls. She pockets a small piece of paper, a note of her blood pressure and cholesterol.
She had just paid a visit to The Family Van.
Founded in 1992 by current Medical School Dean for Students Nancy E. Oriol, The Family Van hits the streets of Boston six days a week.
The HMS-affiliated mobile health clinic provides free health screenings for blood pressure, glucose, cholesterol, glaucoma, pregnancy, and HIV counseling for Boston’s most impoverished residents.
From its inception, The Family Van has provided an alternative to the traditional model of health care delivery. Rethinking the doctor-patient relationship by bringing service providers to local communities, The Family Van staff consider their method an important innovation in medicine.
“Aunty Rai”—Manager of Direct Service Rainelle Walker-White—has ridden the van for the past 18 years, providing care in Dorchester, Hyde Park, Mattapan, Roxbury, and East Boston.
“Mobile is beneficial, mobile is keeping people alive,” she says. “What better way to serve your people than where they are?”
Oriol says she was first spurred “to meet people where they are” during her work as an anesthesiologist in 1989.
She says an experience treating a poor, pregnant woman—who ignored headaches for weeks until having a seizure—spurred her to think about barriers to medical care.
“[The woman] told me after her surgery that she ‘hadn’t felt that her headaches were important enough to bother her doctor.’ She did not want to appear stupid,” says Oriol.
Searching for a solution, Oriol ventured into Boston’s forgotten neighborhoods and asked residents about their challenges in accessing a doctor.
Through these conversations, she conceived of a “user-friendly” model of mobile care.
“There is a reticence in every person’s soul when they begin to feel sick—it is human nature,” Oriol says. “Mobile clinics overcome geography, but they also overcome this reticence.”
Oriol adds that communities view The Family Van as a “one of their own—a ‘knowledgeable neighbor.’”
CRUNCHING THE NUMBERS
Many say Oriol’s model of preventive care was ahead of its time. According to Professor of Health Care Policy Richard G. Frank, preventive services were emphasized less as health insurance came to dominate the American health care system.
Frank says that, in his own work for the Department of Health and Human Services from 2009 to 2011, he worked to reinstate the value of preventive care through the Affordable Care Act.
“Now that we have a better understanding about the course of illness and biological mechanisms, we can take a more sophisticated view of prevention,” Frank says. “As the science has evolved, the policy and the insurance are trying to catch up.”
In this vein, The Family Van has turned a critical eye toward the role of mobile medicine in a reformed health care system.
“We are trying to bring evidence of what we know to be true on the street,” Oriol says. “After 20 years of seeing thousands annually, we need to take our stories and turn them into data.”
The barriers to health care for The Family Van’s clients are substantial. In the last fiscal year, 87 percent of the Van’s 4,000 clients were minorities. Thirty-seven percent did not speak English. Thirty-one percent were unemployed.
Over the past six years, Research Program Director Caterina Hill has analyzed data to understand how the Family Van empowers clients to manage their health while controlling costs. The results, she says, “were shockingly good.”­
One in three of the van’s clients discovered for the first time through screening that they had glaucoma or elevated blood pressure, glucose, or cholesterol. More than one in two regular clients who had high blood pressure during their first visit had it under control during their most recent visit.
Accounting for the value of emergency department visits avoided and quality life years saved for clients, Hill says the Family Van is worth over $11,000,000. She adds that the return on investment for the American health care system is $23 saved for every dollar spent on the Van.
The Family Van Executive Director Jennifer L. Bennet says the initiative provides a promising model at a time when controlling health care costs has become increasingly urgent.
“As an organization that relies on community health workers, the van is a cost-effective partner with neighborhood health centers to deliver heath education and monitor chronic disease,” she says.
FILLING IN THE GAPS
After attending the Mobile Health Clinics Annual Forum in 2006, Bennet discovered that The Family Van’s success had been shared by nearly 2,000 mobile clinics nationally and around the world.
She says mobile clinics have been implemented from China to Africa to Central America. In the Amazon, boats are even being used to deliver mobile health services.
The value of mobile clinics, as Oriol adds, is their versatility.
“Mobile fills in the gaps. When you look across the country, mobile clinics are extremely different because we were all designed to fill different gaps,” she says.
The advantages of mobile health delivery have also caught the attention of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The HHS Office of Minority Health announced on October 24 that it would sponsor an initiative to develop a website allowing mobile health clinics to share data online in real-time.
The site is called the Mobile Health Map and will enable researchers to quantify the efficacy of the mobile health model. Oriol and Bennet—alongside leaders of the Mobile Health Clinics Network—are leading this initiative.
With these colleagues, Oriol and Bennet plan to carry out a “return on investment” analysis using the Mobile Health Map—this time for America’s entire mobile health sector.
Many mobile clinics are collecting data on some level “but lack the funding or academic resources to publish papers,” Oriol says.
TRACKING A MOVEMENT
The Mobile Health Map website was built with the guidance of John S. Brownstein, a professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School.
Brownstein—an expert on public health surveillance—is also the creator of HealthMap.org, an internet-based global infectious-disease intelligence system.
“Instead of using John’s internet maps to track infectious disease, we use them to track mobile clinics around the country. We can capture how many vans have shared data and the demographics of their clients in real time on our home page,” Bennet says.
Within two weeks after the Mobile Health Map’s unveiling, 400 mobile clinics began to contribute data.
“It is very exciting to research mobile health clinics right now because it a sector that has only just begun to document itself,” Hill says. “[This] is our opportunity come together and demonstrate our value.”
THE PRE-OP VISIT
From conducting a single health screening to collecting a nation’s data on Mobile Health Map, The Family Van staff and volunteers place their clients at the heart of their learning.
Oriol says that her patients have showed her the complexity of accessing basic care—the “antecedents” to surgery.
“I felt I had to go to the community and learn how to do the ‘pre-pre-op’ visit,” she says.
The “pre-pre-op” visit—and the creative thinking it represents—is also what keeps Frank drawn to the field.
“Everything that can go wrong with markets goes wrong with markets in health care—which makes it fascinating,” Frank says.
“BETTER THAN THEY COME ON”
It is 4:30 p.m. and “Aunty Rai” packs up the van. Pamphlets, boxes of free condoms, and cords of blood pressure monitors spill over her arms as she shouts farewell to the last clients. “They always leave better than they come on,” she says.
She walks under the Dudley Station awning and boards the Number 47 back to her Longwood office as the van driver takes the blue-trimmed bus back to the garage.
They’ll be in Hyde Park Tuesday morning.
—Staff writer Alyssa A. Botelho can be reached at abotelho@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three days into the campaign for the leadership of the Undergraduate Council, presidential candidate Danny P. Bicknell ’13 and his running mate Pratyusha Yalamanchi ’13 have taken the lead in garnering the endorsements of major student groups.
The two tickets from within the UC—Bicknell and Yalamanchi and their main challengers Crystal D. Trejo ’13 and David H.A. LeBoeuf ’13, a former Crimson news writer—have come to dominate the competition for campus-wide support.
Bicknell and Yalamanchi—considered to be the more experienced pair, each having served on the Council since their freshman years—captured seven endorsements in the first three days of campaigning.
Most notable among these was the Harvard College Democrats, who announced their official endorsement Tuesday evening. Having chosen the winning candidate in each of the previous eight elections, the Dems are a traditionally sought-after group and, according to Bicknell, he and Yalamanchi were “ecstatic” to gain their support.
As of Wednesday night, Trejo and LeBoeuf have been notified of three official endorsements—Candela Salsa, the Harvard Latter-day Saint Student Association, and the Harvard Photography Club—but have said that many others are in the works.
“We are running a campaign that is not necessarily the politicized one you usually see and, instead, we are campaigning more on advocacy and accessibility,” LeBoeuf said.
Aside from reaching out to student groups, both tickets have devoted special attention to winning over freshmen voters.
“We are really focusing on freshmen outreach because they have a lot of great ideas about what they would like to see happen and they have a very innovative approach,” Bicknell said. “This is important because our platform is definitely a working document that is open to new ideas and suggestions and we hope to have it that way up to last day of our UC presidency if we win.”
Overall, both tickets expressed optimism when reflecting on the first days of the campaign.
“Many people see us as the ‘newer’ or ‘outside’ ticket because we got into the race later than Danny and Pratyusha, but this has been resonating well,” LeBoeuf said. “It allows people to see our sincerity and that we don’t just want this because of the position but because we care about the issues and accountability.”
Bicknell echoed these positive sentiments, and expressed excitement about the days ahead.
“It has been a positive and clean campaign since launching,” he said. “We are excited to continue to demonstrate to students how passionate we are and how we are the best ticket to generally reflect their needs and carry out on every single thing on our platform.”
Despite the visible presence of their competition in campaigning at student group meetings and outside the Science Center, the UC outsider ticket—consisting of Ryan P. Halprin ’12 and Aneliese K. Palmer ’12—has been largely absent from any campaign activities this week.
—Staff writer Rachael E. Apfel can be reached at rachaelapfel@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For war veterans at Harvard commemorating Veterans Day on Friday, the occasion may hold special significance in a year marked by reconciliation between the University and the armed forces.
Last spring Harvard decided to officially recognize the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps following the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the military policy that banned gays and lesbians from serving openly. Since the recognition, Faust has taken steps to repair Harvard’s relations with the military, including the establishment of an office for Naval ROTC.
Veterans and current members of the military in the Harvard community said that they plan to reflect on their service experience while hoping for improvements in the relationship between Harvard and the military.
“We have to disentangle politics from public service,” said Erik E. Malmstrom, who served in the Army for four years and is a student at the Business and Kennedy Schools. “The decision to put on a uniform is not necessarily a statement in support of the war.”
Malmstrom, who is co-president of Harvard veteran organization Crimson Serves, said that he hopes that University President Drew G. Faust’s efforts to encourage greater acceptance of the military will be continued.
Jacob S. Cusack, a Business School student and Marine Corps officer, said that he hopes that on 11/11/2011, the Harvard community will take a moment to express gratitude for those who have served.
Students should “take this day as a catalyst to do something for those who have sacrificed more than us, and as a reminder that we are still a country at war, despite the life we enjoy in a privileged bubble,” Cusack wrote in an email.
Michael L. Harrison, a student at the Kennedy School and a graduate of West Point, said that an increased military presence is important for the Harvard community. Exposure to military veterans is especially important for those who plan to go into government and may one day be responsible for deploying troops, he said.
Engineering professor and veteran Kevin “Kit” Parker, who chairs the ROTC implementation committee, said he hopes that the U.S. wars will soon come to an end.
“I want no more of America’s talent maimed and dead on the field of battle,” he wrote in an email from Korea.
Harvard has a long and storied history of military service.
Between 150 and 200 current Harvard students are veterans, according to an email from Thomas P, Reardon ’68, president of the Harvard Veterans Alumni Organization.
Harvard graduates have received more Medals of Honor—the highest distinction given by the military—than any school other than service academies.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers at Harvard have pioneered a chemical process that enhances the ability of a radioactive fluorine isotope to bond with organic molecules, paving the way for improved medical imaging and pharmaceutical drug production.
The work began in 2008, when a team of scientists led by Associate Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology Tobias Ritter attempted to improve the tracking of small, complex molecules in the body.
Ritter investigated Positron Emission Tomography (PET), an imaging technique that utilizes tracers injected into the body—such as the fluorine-18 isotope—to create three-dimensional images of internal organs.
Ritter said he set out to address the largest challenge with PET: getting the  isotope fluorine-18 to bond with organic molecules, which are carbon-based.
“What we now have is a general and mild way to make carbon-fluorine bonds with biologically interesting molecules,” said Daniel C. Choi ’08, who worked in Ritter’s lab as an undergraduate. “This will expand the power of PET.”
Ritter’s team also discovered a way to overcome fluorine’s extremely short half-life by introducing the fluorine into the injectable compound late in the compound’s synthesis.
This process allows researchers to maximize the use of fluorine as a PET tracer.
The researchers say these findings hold great pharmaceutical and clinical promise.
“The innovation is in chemistry but the application is in imaging,” Ritter said.
Companies hoping to test the effectiveness of newly developed drugs, for example, can leverage the increased effectiveness of PET to determine whether the drugs can reach their target location.
This type of screening could potentially lead to the more effective use of pharmaceutical development resources.
Though more research needs to be conducted to ensure the reliability of the process, the researchers say they are optimistic about what these findings can do for imaging.
Choi added that he was struck by not only the usefulness of the new chemical process, but also its elegance.
“It’s beautiful in the way that only nature can make it,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jeff Lichtman, a professor of molecular and cellular biology in the Neuroscience Department at Harvard, was recently lauded for his work with cutting-edge brain imaging techniques. The Crimson sat down with him to discuss his work.
The Harvard Crimson: In laymen’s terms, what is the focus of your recent work?
Jeff Lichtman: I’m interested in the relationship between the physical structure of the brain and its function. Unlike most other organ systems where this relationship is understood to a great degree, when it comes to the brain we still have very little information about how its physical structure explains its many complicated functions.
THC: How did you first get into this work?
JL: During my Ph.D., I studied a part of the nervous system that, in development, had a rather profound change in its wiring diagram. The nervous system is made up of nerve cells that are interconnected by these little wires called axons and dendrites. As animals are developing, the wiring diagram simplifies. Nerve cells are interconnected much more in babies than they are in adults. My Ph.D. work stimulated me to try to understand the rules that govern which connections stay and which go and to think about this as an example of how information about the world changes our nervous system, enabling us to adapt to living in new world environments.
THC: What about your work most excites you?
JL: Due to the brain’s extraordinary complexity, the challenge has always been to develop methodologies that would allow you to actually analyze the deep structure of the brain. There’s  a tremendous technological conflict: we have techniques that can see high resolution and we have techniques that can see large areas, but rarely do the two coincide in the same technology. This is like doing a “Google map” of the brain at six-inch resolution, only for the entire earth. And, since the brain isn’t 2D, we’re mapping every layer from the surface to the middle. Every cubic millimeter of this kind of data is about a thousand terabytes.
THC: Where do you see this work moving in the future, in 10 or 20 years?
JL: One hopes eventually to apply these techniques to human brains, and use them to gain some insight into the physical underpinnings of mysterious phenomena like mental illness or learning disorders in children. There are probably connectopathies, diseases where the connections are pathological, but it’s very hard to study them until you have a means of doing so. In the long term it’s our hope that this approach will be amenable to looking at disease.
We also hope to eventually crack the mystery of how the brain stores information. Presumably it’s stored in a circuit, but what does the circuit look like when you drive or when you think of your grandmother?
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Senior Lecturer at the School of Public Health Richard A. Cash received the 2011 Fries Prize for Improving Health for his work in developing Oral Rehydration Therapy, a practical treatment for cholera and other diarrheal diseases.
The World Health Organization estimates that Oral Rehydration Therapy, which was co-developed by Cash in 1968, has saved the lives of at least 60 million children worldwide. Taken orally, the solution of salts and sugars helps to retain water in the body, a key determinant of survival in patients with cholera.
“In terms of number of lives saved, Richard Cash probably takes the record of anyone I know of at Harvard,” said Barry R. Bloom, a professor at the School of Public Health who nominated Cash for the award.
Cash first developed the treatment while working in Bangladesh, where cholera tends to spread rapidly due to a lack of clean water. Diarrhea induced by the disease, which causes severe dehydration, can kill children in as few as four hours, according to Bloom.
At the time, the only existing treatment was expensive intravenous therapy, which was administered exclusively at hospitals.
Working with a colleague, Cash formulated a simple and inexpensive mixture to treat dehydration. In the 1980s, Cash worked with the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee to instruct millions of families in preparing the solution from household ingredients.
The most basic version of the mixture can be made from a pinch of salt, a fistful of sugar, and a jug of boiled water.
Since then, relief organizations such as UNICEF have packaged the formula into packets, and currently distribute 800 million packets each year worldwide, according to Bloom.
“This is a general, inexpensive treatment for acute diarrhea that costs pennies,” Bloom said.
Cash said that he was eager to find other applications for the mixture after his initial discovery.
“Does it work for children as well as adults? Does it work for non-cholera as well as cholera?,” Cash said. “At each step, you’re thinking of how to push this further.”
Oral Rehydration Therapy is now used to treat a wide variety of diarrheal diseases. According to Bloom, it has also been used to keep AIDS patients alive in the U.S.
Before Cash’s discovery, the worldwide fatality rate for severe cholera was 30 percent, according to Bloom. Since then, that number has been reduced to less than 0.5 percent. “It really is an extremely important contribution in health,” Bloom said.
Cash received the $60,000 prize on Tuesday at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention headquarters in Atlanta, Ga. He said he felt honored “to join such an august group.”
Cash currently conducts research and teaches classes and workshops at Harvard.
“He is an absolutely inspiring teacher, and the students adore him,” Bloom said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Classroom 251 is not one of the Science Center’s normal teaching spaces. Visitors are immediately transported into the post-World War II era as they walk into “Cold War In the Classroom,” the History of Science Department’s newest special exhibit, on display until December 16 of this year.
The classroom exhibit is filled with the howl of air raid sirens from a sound installation in the ceiling. Nine old, wooden desks face a teacher’s desk flanked by an American flag. Display cases boast a 1936 A.C. Gilbert Chemistry Set complete with radium and a 1950 world map whose cartographers’ labeled next to the Phillippines: “a suitable place to sink all Communistic ideas.”
The purpose of this classroom is to educate visitors about American science curricula during the Cold War.
“This was a period of intense competition, or believed competition, with the Soviet Union,” Guest Curator and History of Science Lecturer Christopher J. Phillips said.
Phillips and his co-curator Jeremy T. Blatter, a graduate student in the History of Science Department, developed the idea for the exhibit last fall.
“We wanted to remind people how pervasive this sort of curricula ... ended up being in the period,” Phillips said. “It was not just for the best students. It was intended for all students.”
Phillips added that professors at Harvard and MIT developed much of the Cold War science curricula. Gerald Holton, emeritus professor of History of Science and Physics, wrote one of the physics textbooks on display.
“The goal in the period was largely to get the best scientists and mathematicians to be designing the high school and elementary school curricula,” Phillips said.
In addition to its artifact display, the exhibit presents a digital film collection. Resting on one of the desks is an iPad with an application developed by metaLAB (at) Harvard that allows visitors to watch nearly 100 archival films.
In the back of the exhibit, visitors can also watch a 1952 film projected titled “Duck and Cover.” The film stars an alert turtle named Bert who retreats into his shell during nuclear fallout.
“The combination of incredibly stark, dark images of nuclear fear mixed with a remarkably silly soundtrack ... it’s [a] complicated experiment,” Blatter said. “A lot of people who are older have seen this film.”
Older visitors also recognize the exhibit’s artifacts from their own childhoods. Blatter said many identified a toy rocket on display as the model they used to own.
“It’s a VX rocket, a military object with the intention to kill,” Phillips said. “There’s a way in which the mundane was linked with the very scary.”
Blatter said that visitors should sit at both a student and teacher desk to consider the different classroom perspectives and “live a historical thought experiment.”
According to Phillips, pedagogical changes made during the Cold War—such as the emphasis on hands-on learning over rote memorization—persist in modern classrooms.
“In some ways, we’re still experiencing the legacy of the Cold War curricula,” he said.
On December 14 from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m., a panel discussion about the collection will be held in the exhibit space. The Harvard Film Archive will also be sponsoring a screening of an original 16mm science education film that Blatter will select.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With federal health care reform remaining a hot-button issue, Vermont became the first state to establish a single-payer health care system in May that was based on a plan outlined by School of Public Health Economics Professor William C. Hsiao.
Hsiao’s work in Vermont has begun to capture the attention of other states interested in his consultation.
The single-payer health care system—Hsiao’s area of expertise—is designed to provide basic benefits to all citizens through a single publicly-financed insurance fund with uniform coverage and rates.
In the spring of 2010, Hsiao agreed to lead a study for the Vermont legislature to analyze the costs and benefits of alternative health care systems. His analysis provided the framework for the “H202” bill, which marked the first time a state enacted a systemic, single-payer health plan in the United States.
“The research I’m doing is to really apply economic theory and political economy to solve the health care problems in the United States and elsewhere,” said Hsiao.
Earlier this week, Hsiao presented his work on the single-payer system to the Colorado legislature. He has been asked to do the same for the Massachusetts legislature later this year.
“If Vermont shows it can [implement the single-payer plan], and show really good results for Vermonters, other states will follow,” said Hsiao.
However, he added that every state has a different set of political constraints—twelve states have already attempted to implement a single-payer health care system in the past.
“What we did in Vermont cannot be simply replicated for other states,” Hsiao said.
Nor can the Vermont plan be applied directly to national reform, he added. Though the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act passed by Congress in 2010 aims to extend coverage to over 30 million uninsured Americans, Hsiao said it failed to address the rapidly increasing cost of health care—the more systemic problem facing the United States.
Steven Kappel, a Vermont-based analyst who worked with Hsiao, agrees that these soaring costs are tremendously dangerous.
“Vermont is no different than anywhere else; our labor costs are probably going to double in the next few years,” he said.
Unlike most states, Vermont’s efforts at health care reform stretch back almost 20 years. For states whose reforms face an even more contentious landscape, Hsiao says, the challenges will be more complex.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Late last month, researchers unveiled a map that details how proteins in the fruit fly communicate with each other. With nearly 11,000 protein interactions depicted, this is the most extensive attempt to blueprint a network of proteins interactions inside a multicellular organism to date.
This work—published in the October 28 issue of “Cell”—was led by senior author Spyros Artavanis-Tsakonas, professor of cell biology at Harvard Medical School.
The map—the product of a five-year collaboration between the labs of Artavanis-Tsakonas, HMS professor of cell biology Steven P. Gygi, and scientists at UC Berkeley and in India—describes the functions of approximately one-third of fruit fly proteins.
K. G. Guruharsha, a contributing author and postdoctoral fellow in the Artavanis-Tsakonas lab, said that the fruit fly “is a very good model organism for understanding biology,” but its protein communication network remains elusive.
Nonetheless, Guruharsha added that a fruit fly protein interaction map may help scientists learn how evolutionarily related proteins communicate in humans.
“This is important as it may provide some clues as to how our own bodies work,” he said.
Gygi’s group used the technique of mass spectrometry to identify individual proteins in fruit fly cells by their mass.
“Spyros has long been interested in this [protein map],” Gygi said in an emailed statement. “We had the technology in my lab to do it, and he provided the idea and the grant to make it possible.”
Gygi added that the map is a resource for the scientific community.
“It provides a starting place for additional hypothesis about a protein’s function or localization,” he said.
According to Guruharsha, the protein map holds immediate promise for the Artavanis-Tsakonas group as well.
“We are looking at spinal muscular atrophy and the role some proteins may play in regulating a gene implicated in this disease,” he said. “We feel that our protein interaction map can help.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an attempt to explore ways to stabilize rising global temperatures, a team of researchers including Applied Physics Professor David Keith has developed a plan to quantify and model the effects of solar radiation management (SRM)—techniques to reflect sunlight back into space.
Dubbed the “planet hacking” project, SRM aims to combat rising global temperatures by mitigating the “greenhouse effect,” which traps solar radiation near the Earth’s surface. For example, SRM techniques may add aerosols to the upper atmosphere, thereby scattering light and limiting the greenhouse effect.
Keith and his colleagues provide a framework for analyzing the potential benefits of exploring SRM techniques more deeply, concluding that further testing of SRM would be beneficial.
“Our goal was to examine the all-or-nothing assumption common in studies of SRM, by using climate models to find out if a limited test of SRM could be detected in the face of natural climate variability,” Keith said in a SEAS press release.
“Our results suggest that it should be possible to turn SRM on slowly—looking carefully for unexpected side-effects—before committing to full-scale use.”
Though SRM may help combat rising global temperatures, environmentalists worry that such protocols would deter nations from enacting stricter emissions policies.
“There is a taboo when it comes to talking about this because there is an underlying feeling that even talking about technical fixes like this will encourage people not to cut emissions,” Keith said.
Nonetheless, Keith said inaction is more harmful to the environment than the effects of solar radiation management.
According to an opinion article Keith published in the January 2010 issue of Nature, solar radiation management could offset rising temperatures 100 times more cheaply than emission cuts.
Though the project is very economical, Keith said that it may still be a risky proposition.
“This is not a cost-benefit trade-off,” Keith said. “It’s a risk-risk trade-off, so doing this stuff has some risks, including some very serious global risks, but it has some potential large benefits.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dorothy Villarreal ’15 had never seen her name written in Chinese characters before Wednesday night.
Accented by neon lights and the pulse of ethnic music, the inaugural Diversitas event introduced students to a wide variety of food, art, and traditions from around the world outside of the Science Center on Wednesday.
The cultural celebration, organized by the Undergraduate Council and the Harvard Foundation, developed from a campaign proposal of current UC President Senan Ebrahim ’12.
More than 30 student cultural organizations hosted booths and gave performances at the event, which brought together everything from African Maasai jewelry to Scandinavian non-alcoholic wine to Indian samosas.
Students expressed enthusiasm about the free food and giveaways at the event and the opportunity to share aspects of their cultures.
“They had quite a variety of ethnic food. It was great,” Dylan S. Freedman ’15 said, standing near a table laden with churros, meat pies, and empanadas.
The hot food menu was suggested by the student groups and cooked up by Harvard University Dining Services.
According to Social Programming Task Force Chair Crystal D. Trejo ’13—a current UC presidential candidate who ran the event—the UC hired a lighting artist to illuminate the booths and stage.
Roy Wong, a Chinese student attending a conference hosted by the Harvard College Association for U.S.-China Relations, said, “The Chinese performances are genuine and realistic Chinese. This is very fun. Chinese schools don’t have parties like this, never.”
Many student groups offered food and art projects along with informational posters at their booths.
Christopher P. Olsen ’12, president of the Scandinavian Society, said that his group’s display was intended as a “winter wonderland celebration” to reflect his chilly region.
“We had Scandinavian glögg, which is a mulled wine, and fake snow,” Olsen said.
Harvard Dharma, a Hindu student group, painted henna tattoos on attendees’ hands. “We wanted to do something that a lot of people here haven’t done before,” Kriti S. Subramanyam ’15 said.
Not all the booths were ethnic in their focus. At the Queer Students and Allies table, members handed out rainbow pins and taught students to make origami cranes from rainbow-colored paper.
Some said they felt the event was marred by the Occupy Harvard protest occurring simultaneously, which marched through the Diversitas festivities and led police to severely restrict access to Harvard Yard.
“It was insensitive to the cultural organizations who are part of this event,” said Carolina R. Beltran ’13.
“It was rude,” Villarreal agreed.
But Loc V. Truong, assistant director of the Harvard Foundation, was not bothered.
“The Occupy movement didn’t interrupt the event at all. It’s freedom of speech,” he said. “Everyone had a great time here, and that’s what’s most important.”
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard will retain heightened security measures in the Yard for the time being, according to a statement that the University sent out to members of the community on Thursday.
Protesters participating in “Occupy Harvard” demonstrations pitched about 20 tents in front of University Hall Wednesday evening and have since peacefully camped out despite the rain. Dean of Student Life Suzy Nelson met with the protesters yesterday evening and said she will join the “Occupiers” again during their general assembly at 5 p.m.
The statement, co-signed by University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and Executive Vice President Katie N. Lapp, stated that the University respected the rights of community members to engage in a public dialogue, but that the protesters’ actions must be weighed against the concerns of Yard residents and Harvard community affiliates.
Raising concerns over safety, the administrators said access to the Yard will remain restricted to those with Harvard identification.
“The University has a fundamental obligation to be attentive to the safety, security, and well-being of its students, faculty and staff on campus,” the statement read. “The events of last night raised safety concerns: the number of demonstrators was large, many of the demonstrators were not from Harvard, and specific behaviors were troubling.”
Harvard Yard Operations and the Harvard University Police Department could not be contacted for a statement regarding specific security measures.
In an emailed statement signed by the Registrar of the Division of Continuing Education Susan E. McGee, Extension School students—who do not necessarily have Harvard IDs—were told that they would be granted access to the Yard if they presented their fall registration schedules in addition to state identification.
But the administration is developing more concrete plans to address this issue, according to the email.
“Please note that these instructions are for tonight ONLY," McGee wrote. "Plans for the weekend and later are still in progress.”
 
Check www.thecrimson.com for more updates.
–Staff writer Jose A. DelReal can be reached at jdelreal@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Siddhartha Yog, a graduate of the Business School and founder and partner of The Xander Group Inc., has donated $11,000,001 to the University to establish two new professorships and an intellectual entrepreneurship fund, and to support fellowships and financial aid, the University announced Thursday.
The donation is broad in scope, stretching across several schools within the University and supporting a variety of initiatives and disciplines.
“Harvard’s legacy of teaching and learning has long emphasized intellectual exploration and public service,” said University President Drew G. Faust in a statement. “We are grateful to Sid Yog for this generous gift, which will help us to extend that legacy with the support it spreads across three of our Schools and its recognition of emerging areas of scientific research."
The professorships—one at the university level and another at the Graduate School of Education—will be named after The Xander Group.
The Xander University Professorship honors an expert in developing scientific fields. Professor Douglas A. Melton, a stem cell expert, received the professorship in September.
“While the world knows Doug Melton as a scientist who has played a seminal role in the exponential growth of the new field of stem cell science, we at Harvard also know him as an untiring mentor to scientific leaders of tomorrow, and as an academic who is passionate about improving undergraduate education,” Faust said.
The Xander Professor of Education honors someone who has contributed to the study of inequality for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Professor Bridget Terry Long, an expert in issues of higher education access and college preparedness, has been appointed to the position.
The Xander Financial Aid and Fellowship Fund at Harvard Law School will provide funding to support student public service efforts.
“This gift will make a critical difference to our students from around the world who wish to pursue public service, especially during this challenging time,” said Law School Dean Martha L. Minow in a statement.
The extra dollar added to the donation follows an Indian tradition of adding a dollar to monetary contributions as a symbol of good luck.
“This is just my way of wishing good luck to all those who will be associated with this gift in times to come, and expressing my hope that they will add exponential value to the gift itself,” said Yog in a statement.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With a win this Saturday afternoon at Harvard Stadium, the Crimson will accomplish two things it hasn’t been able to since 2008. One, the team will defeat the University of Pennsylvania Quakers, and two, it will clinch at least a share of the Ivy League title.
Having been knocked out of contention by Penn last year, Harvard (7-1, 5-0 Ivy) will look to return the favor to the Quakers (5-3, 4-1), as the Crimson’s league-topping offense faces off against the top-rated Penn defense.
“We know this will be a big challenge, but I think the attitude and the confidence [we have] in each other has been great,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “I think everybody is embracing the situation. Both a chance to win a championship, and a national TV game.”
Last year, the Quakers came into the game against the Crimson needing a win to clinch a share of the league title and came away victorious, utilizing strong performances on both sides of the ball en route to a 34-14 drubbing of Harvard at Franklin Field.
The Crimson has a similar opportunity this year. After beating Brown (7-1, 4-1) earlier in the year, Harvard controls its own destiny, needing only to win the next two games to earn an outright Ivy League Championship.
“The road for Harvard to the Ivy League championship always goes through Penn,” Murphy said. “Part of [this] is [that] they are one of the strongest programs in the league consistently and part of it is where they fall in our schedule.”
The prolific Crimson offense, which has posted 36.5 points per game and 439.2 yard per game in total offense, will look to the crack the stalwart Quaker defense, which has only allowed a league-best 314.2 yards per game.
“They’ve had a great defensive culture in their program for a long time and that hasn’t changed,” Murphy said.
Led by co-captain Erick Rask and his team-leading 71 tackles, Penn will try to stop Collier Winters and the Harvard offensive line, in hopes of earning its 10th straight win against an undefeated Ivy League opponent.
The O-line has been one of the Crimson’s main strengths all year, but last weekend in the first half against Columbia it committed numerous false starts, and Harvard entered the second half tied 14-14 against the last-place Lions.
“It’s not something we’ve done for a long time,” Murphy said. “So it was very much a surprise. But the biggest thing is just reiterating that you have to play with poise, if we’re going to execute, all 11 guys have to play with poise.”
Despite being shut out, 6-0, earlier this year against Brown, the Quakers’ offense has been solid this year as well. The team is led by quarterback Billy Ragone and running back Brandon Colavita.
“Their offense is arguably better than they were a year ago because they’re more multidimensional,” Murphy said.
With a career high 254 yards and three touchdowns in Penn’s 37-9 win against Princeton last weekend, Ragone is in the top-10 in both rushing and passing in the Ivy League, and fourth in total offense.
“They’ve got arguably the best athlete in the league at quarterback in Billy Ragone,” Murphy said. “With his improvisational skills, speed, and just tremendous natural ability to run the football, [Ragone] is a guy you have to account for every snap.”
Last weekend against Columbia was a good tune-up for a matchup with Ragone, as Lions quarterback Sean Brackett is a similar type of athlete, slotting in third in the league in total offense.
“The difference is Ragone has a much better supporting cast around him,” Murphy said.
“We’ve been doing a lot schematically to shut him down, but ultimately in comes down to playing with fundamentals and not making mental mistakes,” captain Alex Gedeon said.
Anchored by Gedeon at linebacker and his team-leading 75 tackles, the Crimson defense will also attempt to neutralize Colavita. The Quaker running back ran for 122 yards and two touchdowns in last year’s matchup.
Overall, Harvard aims to continue its solid play that has led it to an undefeated Ivy League record so far.
“[We have been working on] just doing what we’ve been doing, the things we think most control winning football games,” Murphy said.  “That’s execution, taking care of the football, shutting down the run, creating turnovers on defense, field position with the kicking game, those things just don’t change.”
The contest is a must-win for Penn as well as a possible championship clincher for the Crimson.
“It’s going to be a big game,” Gedeon said. “There’s a lot on the line and both teams know that. We’ve been working all year for this and this our chance and opportunity to go out there and win.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When members of the Harvard women’s soccer team think of this year’s NCAA tournament, their thoughts don’t go straight to March Madness. Instead, they’re focused on this weekend’s cross-river rivalry game against Boston University.
On Saturday afternoon the Crimson (12-4-1, 6-0-1 Ivy) will face the Terriers (18-2-1, 8-0-0 American East) at Nickerson Field in the opening game of this year’s race to the national championship. While Harvard begins NCAA play with the Ivy League crown, BU comes into the tournament ranked 12th in the nation.
The Crimson—which enters into Saturday on a five-game winning streak and a ten-game unbeaten streak—suffered a loss earlier this year at the hands of the Terriers. This loss turned out to be the only one of the season in which Harvard was outscored by more than one goal.
“It was a long time ago,” Harvard coach Ray Leone said. “The good thing is that we’ve been there before and have already played on their field. That’s really the only thing that you can take from that game. We just have to focus on our game and not really on the other team.”
Freshman goalkeeper Bethany Kanten reiterated her coach’s thoughts, concentrating on the benefits of familiarity with the opposing squad.
“I think it’s good for us because we know this team,” Kanten said. “We know what we are up against on Saturday. I think it would be a lot more nerve-wracking if we were up against a team that we had never played before as opposed to a team that we’ve played, and a field that we’ve played on.”
Whereas BU has played in the NCAA tournament the last seven years straight and has been the American East Champion the last five years, the Crimson has only played in the tournament three times in the last decade.
“We’re definitely going to have to play very, very well,” Leone said. “They have had an unreal season. I think they let up three goals in their conference. It’s quite a challenge, because they’ve earned everything that they’ve got. They’re top 15 in the nation for a reason.”
The Terrier offense has dominated throughout the season, outscoring opponents 51-11 in total, largely thanks to senior forward Jessica Luscinski. This year the forward has netted nine shots and assisted seven, earning a team high 25 points and a nomination for the America East Fan Choice Player of the Year. Luscinski has help from sophomore Kylie Storm, who has put in seven goals along with three assists.
For Harvard, co-captain Melanie Baskind has continued to lead her team with eight goals and assists this season. With those numbers, Baskind is only one goal away from tying Joey Yenne ’03 for sixth place in most career goals scored (28) for the Crimson, and one away from matching Karen Gudeman ’98 as well as Yenne’s record for most career assists recorded (26).
Following Baskind’s strong example, the Crimson’s freshmen have more than stepped up to the plate this season. Freshman Meg Casscells-Hamby leads her class with four goals and six assists, while Kanten has made 40 saves in her rookie career after taking over in goal for injured junior Alexandra Millet and sophomore Jessica Wright.
“They are just as good as everyone else,” sophomore Claudia Haeussler said. “They fit in really well. They’ve stepped up to the challenge, and they’re continually proving themselves as they perform so well in the games.”
Due to the magnitude of the game as well as the offensive presence that BU holds, it will be essential for Harvard that Kanten maintain the consistency that she has shown all season in her first ever NCAA appearance.
“I think just in general this week I have to give it 100 percent every day at practice to prepare for the game on Saturday,” Kanten said. “When the game comes, I’m going to leave it all on the field. I’m going to give it everything I can.”
For the Crimson, continuing what has made the team successful during the current win-streak will be a key component heading into Saturday’s game.
“We’re playing really well together right now,” Kanten said. “We had to get through a lot of adversity this last couple of weeks, being down a goal and coming back to win, so I think we’re prepared for whatever BU throws at us this weekend.”
In what could potentially be the last game of the season for the squad, this Saturday is not just about proving that they can compete against the best. Instead, it is about playing together and winning for its seniors.
“We have really, really grown together,” Kanten said. “As the season progressed, we have started to play for each other ... On Saturday, we’re playing for the seniors because we want to keep playing with them, we don’t want it to be our last game with them.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Wrangle the chickens, gather the fish, it is time for the rivalry. The Crimson men’s ice hockey team faces longtime adversary Cornell tomorrow night before taking on No. 18 Colgate on Saturday at Bright Hockey Center.
The Harvard-Cornell rivalry dates back to 1910, but it wasn’t until a century later that foul and fish became a tradition of the heated matchup.
It all started on Jan. 6, 1973, when a Crimson fan launched a dead chicken at the Big Red goaltender to poke fun at Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
In the teams’ next encounter on the ice, Cornell fans struck back by throwing dead fish on the rink to gesture towards the Boston area’s seafood industry.
Despite university officials’ preventative efforts, dead chickens and fish have become a running tradition of the game.
Since the rivals’ first meeting, the overall series record is 70-59-7 in favor of the Big Red.
Harvard and Cornell split their biannual meetings in the 2010-2011 season. The Raiders skidded past the Crimson in the Jan. 28 decision, 2-1, but the in the two teams’ most recent encounter, Harvard beat Cornell, 4-3, at the Big Red’s home rink.
The Crimson upperclassmen are well aware of the meaning this historic matchup holds.
“Anytime you are playing Cornell there is a bit of added incentive there with the rivalry,” junior forward Conor Morrison said. “There is always a great crowd. Whether it is at our rink or Cornell’s, the game is always competitive.”
The underclassmen that will be exposed to the rivalry for the first time Friday can only rely on the advice from their teammates.
“You just tell [the younger players] to enjoy it,” Morrison said. “These games with Cornell are the ones that you really get up for. It is not everyday when you get fans that are into the game like when we are playing Cornell so you just got to tell the [younger players] to just not get too hyped up with the crowd and just play their own game and it will be fun.”
The Big Red squad kicked off conference play last weekend with split results. Cornell downed then-No. 9 Yale, 6-2, before suffering a narrow loss to Brown the following day, 5-4.
The Big Red has had some early success offensively from a variety of players, as six different Cornell players have put in at least one of the Big Red’s 10 goals so far in conference play.
Harvard will also need to be wary of its rival’s notoriously strong defensive game.
“Cornell’s strength is definitely their system,” Morrison said. “They play a really strong defensive system and they are always the same. It’s a left wing lock. They are usually a big and strong team that likes to get physical. They like getting in your face.”
After facing the Big Red, the Crimson will take on Colgate on Saturday.
The Raiders are coming off a loss to No. 13 Yale. Although the Raiders skated away scoreless in the, 2-0, defeat, their outshot the Bulldogs 39-22 and saw a strong performance from goaltender Eric Mikhail who logged 20 saves.
“[The Raiders] brought back a lot of their key guys,” sophomore defenseman Dan Ford said. “They’re hot right now and they play with a lot of confidence.”
One of those key players is forward Austin Smith. The senior has scored 30 or more points in every season for Colgate. In the 2010-2011 season, Smith tallied 10 goals and 21 assists for a combined 31 points over 41 games. Currently, Smith heads the Raider’s offensive effort with nine goals and four assists for a total of 13 points this season.
“Colgate is one of those teams that is very offensively talented,” Morrison said.
Luckily Harvard has seen strong performances in goal from both sophomore Raphael Girard and freshman Steve Michalek. It remains unclear which young netminder will be in goal in this weekend’s games, but the two have demonstrated strong performances early this season with a solid combined .906 save percentage.
The Crimson is in high gear preparing for the contests this weekend.
“[We are] practicing playing fast and playing our game,” Morrison said. “I think our team’s speed is going to give lots of teams trouble this year … Our special teams can do a lot of damage that way, too. “
Harvard believes that if it adheres to its game, it will come away victorious in its upcoming matches.
“We are not too concerned about what Cornell or Colgate is doing that is different from other teams,” Ford said.  “We just want to focus on what we can do and we feel that if we do the things that we try to do as a team that we will be happy with the result.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’ve wasted away countless days of my life watching sports movies. What can I say? There are a lot of good ones out there.
The worse expenditure of time is not just watching these films, but the inevitable debates that follow arguing which is best. Rudy vs. Remember the Titans. Rocky vs. Raging Bull. Caddyshack vs. … well, nothing, Caddyshack stands alone. And take your pick of any one of Kevin Costner’s films.
Always near the top of my lists is Bad News Bears (the original, of course). The movie has its moments, but my favorite scene is at the end. The Bears, after an unexpected, come-from-behind season, fall in the finals to the mighty Yankees. Carrying themselves with the attitude of LeBron—undeserving self-satisfaction, that is—the Yankees offer a half-hearted apology to the losing team for poor treatment all season.
It’s at this point that one of the Bears responds in kind: “Hey Yankees! You can take your apology and your trophy and shove it straight up your…” I don’t think we have to tell you where.
But my favorite line is the one that comes next: “And another thing: just wait ‘til next year!”
It’s a great mantra, not just in sports, but in life as well. For Harvard football, that waiting might be over. This is the weekend when the Crimson can reach the promised land of “next year.”
For the past two seasons, Harvard has come into its second-to-last game of the year with a shot at the Ivy League title. And for two years in a row, Penn has shut the Crimson down and has taken the Ancient Eight Crown along the way.
Entering with an undefeated league record in 2009, the Quakers beat Harvard, 17-7, en route to the title. Last year in Philly, the Crimson lost in a 20-point blowout.
The situation this year is very different. All Harvard has to do is win one of its next two games to clinch at least a share of the title. With a one-game lead over Penn, the game doesn’t have the same do-or-die importance.
But where’s the fun in losing your way to an Ivy League title? For the first time in a while, the Crimson is a clear favorite in this one. On Saturday, we’ll know whether next year has finally arrived.
YALE (4-4, 3-2 Ivy) at PRINCETON (1-7, 1-4)
With a loss last week, Yale is going to need some serious magic to win even a share of the Ivy League title.
Here’s what has to happen. Harvard has to lose to Penn and then again in New Haven next week. The Quakers have to beat the Crimson and then lose to Cornell the next week. Brown has to lose to either Dartmouth or Columbia in its next two games.
And, of course, the Bulldogs have to win out. So I think the odds of a Yale title are about as high as a Schwarzenegger presidential campaign.
Because the team is out of the title hunt, this week’s game against Princeton only means two things. One, it’s a chance for the two schools to reinvigorate their rivalry a little bit before basketball season. Two, it’s warm-up before The Game.
The Tigers’ offense is entirely erratic. In every game this season, the team has either scored fewer than 10 points or more than 20. Against Harvard, Princeton somehow managed to put up 39 points, but the Tigers have scored seven and nine in the two weeks since.
It might just be a tune-up for Yale, but quarterback Patrick Witt will still be there—which is more than we can say about Harvard-Yale. The Rhodes can be such a roadblock sometimes.
Prediction: Yale 35, Princeton 7
DARTMOUTH (3-5, 2-3) at BROWN (7-1, 4-1)
Coming into the season with quarterback Kyle Newhall-Caballero healthy once again, Brown was a team to watch in the Ivy League. But I don’t think anyone could have anticipated that after playing Harvard, Yale, and Penn, the Bears would still be a contender in the league.
After a shaky performance in the second week of the year in Cambridge, Brown has rolled through the Ivy League. Two weeks ago, it handed the Quakers their first Ivy loss since 2008. Last Saturday, the Bears beat the Bulldogs in New Haven to all but end Yale’s shot at an Ivy title.
Despite all this success, Brown still has to win out. If the Bears lose and Harvard wins, the Crimson clinches the Ancient Eight title outright.
Though Dartmouth has struggled all season, it had one of its best games of the year last week. Running back Nick Schwieger ran like he was scared to be too close to his own quarterback, rushing for 257 total yards and breaking the program record.
But the way Brown has played since mid-September, I think that the Bears stay in the Ivy League title hunt for at least one more week.
Prediction: Brown 24, Dartmouth 20
COLUMBIA (0-8, 0-5) at CORNELL (3-5, 1-4)
The matchup between these two schools is commonly known as the Empire State Bowl. But just because it has a cool name doesn’t mean this game matters for much.
Let me give you a list of bowls that mean more than the Empire State Bowl. The Meineke Car Care Bowl of Texas. A bowl of chicken gumbo. Lawn bowling.
With that said, both of these teams are better than their cumulative 1-9 league record would indicate. Columbia, at 0-8, has still been competitive with Penn, Yale, and Harvard this season. Likewise, Cornell’s offense can be a real threat if firing on all spheres, and it demonstrated its ability against the Crimson in early October.
The Big Red might be a better team next year, and it wouldn’t surprise me to see the team contend. As for the Lions, success might be a few more years down the road.
Prediction: Cornell 31, Columbia 17
PENN (5-3, 4-1) at HARVARD (7-1, 5-0)
This is it. If Harvard wins this week, it clinches at least a share of the title. If the Crimson loses, the team will have to wait at least one more week.
Penn was the clear favorite coming into the season, but in all honestly, the Quakers have disappointed so far. The team has suffered near-losses to Dartmouth, Columbia, and Yale before finally losing to Brown. Until Penn played Princeton last week, the team didn’t have a single comfortable win all year.
Despite these struggles, Penn remains very much alive. With a win over Harvard, the two teams will likely share the Ivy League crown, and it would be its third in a row. But let’s be honest: who likes sharing?
The last time Harvard shared a title, the Crimson and Princeton met in New Haven for a one-game basketball playoff. And we all know how that ended: sitting alone, eating Baskin Robbins ice cream in silence for an hour-and-a-half. Well for me, anyway.
The Game may be the most important event for the Harvard community. But from a football standpoint, it comes down to the game (with a lowercase “g”) this week.
Prediction: Harvard 31, Penn 28
RECORD LAST WEEK: 2-2 (To date: 22-8)
—Staff writer E. Benjamin Samuels can be reached at samuels@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Maxwell E. Wessel, a senior researcher at Harvard Business School, did not expect his article for the Harvard Business Review to generate much controversy, but within hours of its publication, it was picked up on Bloomberg Businessweek, and reader comments were being written once every minute for the first three days.
"I did not expect the type of response that it has had," Wessel said.
Such an outcry from Internet users was a response to Wessel's view that Steve Jobs should not be viewed as much of an idol in society as his rival billionaire, Bill Gates. Although Wessel praises Jobs on his accomplishments as a CEO and technical innovator, he asserts that through his philanthropy, Gates should be respected more in society. According to Wessel, Jobs and his innovations only appealed to a wealthier portion or the world population.
The article has created significant controversy with over 733 comments and 1,163 tweets in a week. Wessel said that he believes that the number of negative comments generated by his article was so great because "people who agree feel no need to participate in these types of forums."
However, there are those among the Harvard community who disagree.
"Lots of comments are interesting as buzz, but substance is something else. Sometimes where there's smoke, there's just smoke. Or a theatrical smoke machine, which is what a lot of publications like to put out these days," said David E. Searls, a former Berkman Center fellow. Searls notes that the article as a whole "worked as bait."
"Lots of people took [the bait], and it made a lot of buzz. In the old days we would have said it sold a lot of papers. Now it sells a lot of pixels for ads, most of which nobody notices or cares about, but it pays for the service," Searls said.
Sections
Hats are making a comeback, according to employees at Goorin Brothers Hat Shop, which opened a franchise on Brattle Street this past August. The store's selection includes a popular fedora named Mortimer, a funky line of baseball caps titled Animal Farm, and a $140 hat called Johnny Blue Eyes with fold-down ear flaps. As the shop settles into its new home, The Crimson stopped by to learn about its history, merchandise, and which hats will keep you warm on snowy October nights.
Sections
Harvard shuttles will operate on a weekend schedule tomorrow during Veterans Day holiday. There will be no extended overnight, daytime van, or evening van services.
