News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Tuesday, we argued that Occupy Wall Street movements could achieve  their aims in better ways than through (often illegal) protests. After  Monday night’s Occupy Boston demonstration,  however, which saw 129  arrests in the early hours of Tuesday, much has been said about police  brutality toward the protesters. The arrests, which involved both  Harvard students and alumni, took place in Dewey Square, where the  protesters did not have permission to assemble and after a standoff with  Boston police. Although it is all too easy for observers to condemn the  actions of the police in volatile situations, what may seem like  so-called “brutality” on a camera does not mean we can or should judge  the police’s behavior as wrong.
In many demonstrations where clashes between police and protesters take  place, instances of inappropriate violence by a specific policeman often  occur. However, the barrier between using acceptable force to make a  justified arrest and police brutality is far less rigid than some would  like us to think. And in any case, the potentially disproportionate  actions of a single police officer cannot correspond to a wider  designation of “police brutality” on the part of all officers. No  evidence has been shown and little claims made of systemic beatings or  other types of violence committed by a large portion of the police  force.
In the end, the fact is that the protesters, whether they were young  students or the anti-war Veterans for Peace group, refused to comply  with fairly legitimate demands by city authorities and formed a human  chain to stop officers breaking up the protest. Police using force never  makes for pleasant viewing, especially when some of the protesters were  older, but “police brutality” comes nowhere near to describing what  might by most accounts actually characterized the Dewey Square arrests.  Mentions of police brutality inevitably, and perhaps deliberately,  allude to infamous cases such as the March 3, 1990 beating of Rodney  King in Los Angeles, or responses to civil rights demonstrations in the  1960s. Clearly, nothing of this nature occurred Tuesday morning: Police  used no tear gas, no pepper spray, and no dogs.
Unlike in reports of previous mass arrests over the past two weeks,  local officials processed the arrests quickly this time in Boston.  Protesters were released on bail a few hours later, in time to eat  breakfast. This adds to the overall impression that Boston police  overall reacted in as efficient and as measured a way as possible.  Although the fact that the arrests took place suddenly and at night  seems at first glance disturbing, it is difficult to fault the police  for attempting to minimize the already considerable disturbance caused  by an unsanctioned protest site and sit-in. Many protests get out of  hand or pose a threat to the public precisely because they are either  not contained or because clashes with police occur at a time when many  other members of the public are in proximity.  At 1:30 a.m., this threat  is minimized.
Throughout the evening, Twitter and other social media outlets went  ablaze with references to Occupy Boston and wild claims of police  brutality. This helped circulate a much-believed myth that reporters  were told to leave the scene, a point clarified in The Crimson’s own  article on Tuesday. The capability of social media to facilitate the  dissemination of information from a vast array of outlets and  individuals is well-documented. On the whole, this is clearly a positive  phenomenon, and much has been made by many in the past year over social  media’s role in helping the organization of the revolutions in Arab  Spring. At the same time, Twitter and other sites carry the clear  potential to legitimize and spread like wildfire popular and frequently  inaccurate rumors. During moments of heightened sensitivity, it becomes  all the more important for the public and the traditional media to  remain especially skeptical of things they read on Twitter.
In evaluating many of our fellow students’ role in Occupy Boston,  Harvard’s campus should not let word of mouth color everyone’s own  reasonable judgment. Boston’s police had and have a duty to uphold the  law and maintain public order. In doing so early on Tuesday, they acted  in the interest of our community as a whole. Evidential proof of “police  brutality” is lacking; that police force was needed to make a lawful  arrest is customary to demonstrations and legitimate police responses  across the world. Whatever we think of the message behind Occupy Boston  or however many friends we may count among the protesters, we should not  rush to condemn the Boston police.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
All eyes are on Brazil as it prepares to host the World Cup in 2014 and  the 2016 Olympics. It is the country’s opportunity to show the  international community that it has graduated from the limbo it now  rests in between the developing and the developed world. While there is  much excitement and new development projects in the major cities  planning to host games for the World Cup, there is also an increasing  amount of tension between the government and the poor people living in  Rio’s near 1,000 favelas—or slums. The people of these favelas are an  integral part of Rio’s culture and history and their voices should not  be muted nor should their visibility be diminished as the city gears up  for the upcoming mega-events.
The favelas, made famous by the movie “City of God,” are most commonly  in international news for violence between police and drug gangs. One in  five people in Rio now live in favelas, and the government is trying to  move people out of the favelas and out of the eye of the international  community by forced land evections. Some people have lived in the  favelas for generations (as many of them were settled by freed slaves at  the turn of the 20th century), and now the government of Rio is handing  out eviction notices on the claims that people don’t have property  rights or they live in a “dangerous area.” When people living in the  favelas get these notices, they have no choice but to move to the new  area the government has assigned to them—often on the outskirts of the  city and far away from their work—and they usually don’t receive  compensation for it.
While in Rio, I was reporting for a non-profit media watchdog group  called RioOnWatch.org. The organization’s mission is to cover the  government dealings in the favelas to inform the international community  on what is going on in Rio, and the organization also equips the  leaders in the favelas with the reporting skills to cover what is going  on in the communities from an eye-witness perspective.
On Saturday, July 30th, the World Cup/Olympics Popular Committee (Comitê  Popular da Copa e das Olimpíadas) organized a march and rally to  protest the social injustices the mega-event planning process has caused  in Rio de Janeiro. The rally was timely planned to culminate just  outside as the preliminary 2014 FIFA World Cup Draws occurred inside the  Marina da Gloria–an extravagant event costing Brazilian taxpayers $30  million. Many community leaders came out to voice their anger over  forced evictions. Gizele de Oliveira Martius was at the march to voice  her disappointment with how the government is treating people in the  favelas. “The government of Rio is removing people from their homes and  putting them in areas far away from their original lives and work,” she  says. “They don’t want us near where the sporting events or airport are  out of shame, so foreigners don’t see.” This, she says, is unacceptable,  as people living in favelas are a proud part of Rio and their opinions  should be solicited in mega-event planning.
“Our objective today is to show journalists here for the draw what is  happening in Rio,” she explains. Once the hundreds of marchers reached  Marina de Gloria where the draw was taking place, over 50 police  officers were there to block off the entrance to the Marina. Though the  police were following orders, one officer admitted he sides with the  people participating in the rally more than with the government because  “we too get paid little and feel shame at what the government is doing.”
Although most people in the favelas feel either unaffected by the World  Cup and Olympics or slighted by the government’s efforts to “clean up”  the communities, some people are taking advantage of the potential the  favelas have as a form of tourism. “E uma vista privilegiada—a  privileged view,” Cremilson Rosa de Oliveira says as he sits atop his  under-construction hostel in the heart of Cantagalo, Rio’s third oldest  favela. Perhaps the striking views of Copacabana and Ipanema beach from  the top of a favela provide a juxtaposed but accurate depiction of Rio’s  extreme inequality.
The hostel, planned to be called Alto Ipanema, is set to open at the end  of 2011, and de Oliveira anticipates many more tourists coming through  the hostel doors with the mega-events looming in the next few years. De  Oliveira also plans to use the iconic images of the favelas to attract  foreigners to experience life within Cantagalo for themselves—“para  saber, para conhecer a vida aqui”—for a price of 55 reais a night.
Even though de Oliveira was able to find opportunity, most people living  in the favelas do not have the same perspective or hope of economic  gain from these events. As time gets closer to the World Cup, the  international community should do its best to hold the government of Rio  accountable for its dealings with people living in the favelas.  Undoubtedly 2014 will be a great time to show the rest of the world the  beauty and rich culture Brazil has to offer, but it should be a  time as well to help—not a time to hide the Brazilians living so close yet  worlds away to where the events will be taking place.
Meredith C. Baker ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social  studies concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate  Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the long weekend, I visited a friend at a university in New York.  When entering this friend’s dorm for the first time, I was immediately  stopped by a security guard who took my driver’s license, recorded my  name, informed me that I had to be out of the building by 10pm, and kept  the license until I left later that night. At first I was shocked and  somewhat offended by the seemingly unnecessary security measures, but as  I thought about the experience more, I realized that my surprise was a  result of my ignorance: I had never seen anything like this at Harvard.
Fewer than three years ago, there was a fatal shooting in the basement  of one of Harvard’s dorms, committed by a non-student who had been  living with his girlfriend in Lowell House for the entire year. Clearer  policies and more stringent enforcement of those policies could have  prevented this living situation and thus prevented a murder that  occurred in a Harvard building. Harvard would be wise to adopt some of  the security measures employed at other schools—or at least begin  enforcing the security measures that are already in place regarding  guests and overnight stays.
Page 137 of the Harvard Student Handbook, for example, reads that “A  person not regularly assigned to a particular dormitory or House may not  be lodged in that dormitory or House for more than a brief stay without  the permission of the Proctor, Resident Dean, or House Master.” This  rule is frequently violated with few—if any—consequences for the  offender. Harvard’s rules are already more lenient than those at many of  its peer institutions; guests whose stay is less than “brief” need not  be registered at all, although the handbook does stipulate that one’s  roommates must always approve of any overnight guests.
Harvard should begin by clarifying its rules on overnight guests by  defining the term “brief stay” more specifically—three to five days  might be a good time frame. In addition, a “brief stay” shouldn’t be  defined as a “continuous stay,” as the current rules imply; someone who  has a guest every other night may be inconveniencing his or her  roommates just as much as one whose guest stays for a week without  interruption. Without more clarity in the guidelines, individuals don’t  know whether they have a right to complain about a roommate’s overnight  guests—or even whether they’re violating the rules themselves.
After specifying the rules in the student handbook, administrators  should enforce these rules more stringently. Because the rules are so  laxly enforced at present, roommates inconvenienced by having an  additional guest in their rooms on a regular basis don’t feel that they  have a right to complain; instead, they feel ostracized for  unnecessarily causing a problem that is not viewed as important by other  administrators or students. The current lax enforcement creates the  impression that a student’s right to have overnight guests automatically  overrides his or her roommates’ right to have a positive experience in  the room.
Enforcement of the overnight guest rules would obviously require  checking the identification of all students who enter dorms on Harvard’s  campus. Although it might be a mild inconvenience, it’s also a  relatively simple way to ensure that the university’s rules are being  followed. It doesn’t take much effort: Simply flash your Harvard ID when  you’re walking in and out of your dorm. If you’re with someone from  another house, it will be noted that they’re entering a friend’s dorm,  and if you’re with someone from another school, they’ll have to provide  another form of identification. The university will know who’s entering  and exiting each of its houses without imposing much of an inconvenience  on students.  Perhaps distinct ID cards could be created for each  house, so that security guards can more easily tell whether entrants  into the building are residents of the dorm or guests.
This tactic isn’t foolproof: The college still won’t be able to regulate  guests who stay with a friend living in the same dorm. Undoubtedly,  some will say that these regulations impose too much of an inconvenience  on students who aren’t doing anything wrong, but are simply having an  overnight guest. However, monitoring who enters and exits each dorm  isn’t merely an issue of convenience—it’s an issue of safety. If the  Kirkland shooting incident wasn’t enough to wake us up to the need for  more stringent overnight guest policies, then we haven’t learned from a  tragic security failure in our past.
Peter M. Bozzo ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a government concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the Editor:
In her opinion piece “In Someone Else’s Words”  (Sept. 26, 2011), Isabel Kaplan dismissively claims that in my book Unoriginal Genius I am advocating a poetry that involves no more than copying the words of others—indeed, plagiarism.  But ironically it is Kaplan who is the copyist: in describing what my book is “about,” she merely copies, without any acknowledgement, the first two sentences of the advertising copy on p. 41 of the University of Chicago Press catalogue (2011). Such copy, Kaplan should know, is written, not by the author, but by a staff member in the Promotion Department.  Had she bothered to look at the book itself, she would have seen that Walter Benjamin’s prediction that soon everyone would be an author is made in sorrow: he believes, as do I, that such “democracy” means real poets need to work all the harder to create something that may transcend the discourse of the daily paper, the Internet and Facebook.  It is in this spirit that I examine citationality in poetry from The Waste Land and Benjamin’s own great Arcades Project to the present, and there are some pretty remarkable poets discussed.  Susan Howe, for example, to whom I devote a whole chapter, has just won the Bollingen Prize.
But Kaplan gets Goldsmith all wrong as well. Had she read his book, rather than the extract printed in The Chronicle Review, she might have understood that he is talking about a form of appropriative writing in which context is central, and that his defense of “plagiarism” is of course tongue-in-cheek: his own literary texts exhibit just how subtle “copying” can be.  In its resort to sound-bytes, recycled and distorted, and its seeming ignorance of the role appropriation has played in the visual arts for at least the past century, it is Kaplan’s article, not Goldsmith’s book, that is “offensive.”
As the grandmother of Alexandra Perloff-Giles, Harvard ‘11 and a former member of The Crimson staff, I am dismayed at the sheer laziness of this vituperative essay.  Which is worse: typing a copy of someone else’s words or writing “originally” about books one hasn’t read?  I thought The Crimson had a much higher standard.
Sincerely,
Marjorie Perloff
Professor Emerita of English
Stanford  University
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For Jeannette Hawley, the Costume Shop Manager at the American Repertory Theater, Halloween isn’t much different to the average workday. But she acknowledges that it’s a different case for everyone else. “I think it’s a chance for people to pull out the stops and express who they really are,” she said. “Or to express the opposite of who they are.”
Hawley’s favorite type of costume is the visual pun. Group costumes—or “puzzle-piece” costumes, as she called them—allow someone to interact with their friends. In terms of subject, it helps to turn to a topic that fits the group dynamic. “One of my most memorable Halloween parties was at a veterinary school, where everyone was dressed as a different cow disease,” Hawley recalled. Other sources of inspiration could include favorite books or movies, or even works of art.
Putting a spin on the standard costume is another option. “Anyone can buy a costume in a bag,” Hawley said, “but if you’re going to do it, do it up—maybe it’s a mummy post-op, or a mummy who’s had a little bit of work done.”
If you’re stuck searching for a last-minute costume the hour before you’ve planned to go out, don’t go to your closet: instead, look for tin-foil, paper bags, and take-out boxes. “See if a pun comes to you, or a sensation or a feeling, or maybe you can convey an emotion through your costume,” Hawley explained.
But Halloween, Hawley noted, is more than just a silly opportunity to dress up. “You’re engaging in a non-verbal dialogue; you’re allowing them to be amused, enlightened, or moved in some way,” she said.
Hawley suggests the following vintage and used clothing shops, all accessible from Cambridge, where you can find clothes to adapt into other outfits.
Garment District/Boston Costume Shop – 200 Broadway, Cambridge.
Great Eastern Trading Company – 49 River St., Cambridge.
Vintage Revenge – 1105 Mass. Ave., Cambridge.
Bobby from Boston (“a little pricey”): 19 Thayer St., Boston.
Sections
Move over, unidentified knife-wielding males near Cambridge Common—there’s a greater threat lurking for undergrads, and it’s been right inside our Houses for years. But thankfully the University has come to its senses and banished this menace: free weights are no longer allowed in House gyms.
Administrator, please. The rationale given is that lifting in the House gyms without a spotter could be dangerous to the students. This would make sense—except that lifting in any gym without a spotter has the potential to be dangerous. You could also just take some weight off. Or go lift with a partner. Or go read a book, if you’re going to be a wuss about it.
Also, the odds of me plummeting to my death off the balcony in Lowell Lecture Hall are 37 times higher than they are of me dropping a weight on my face, but the University doesn’t seem too concerned about that (or its inexplicable lack of WiFi, which puts your Farmville peasants in grave danger of starvation).
The MAC is crowded or closed whenever I want to go—it closes at 5:00 on Saturday. I’ve barely even left my bed by that point—and Hemenway is full of law school pricks, so being able to lift in my house would be a nice and sensible alternative. Free weights are far and away the best options for outfitting a small workout area such as the House gyms with weight-lifting equipment. The University has chosen to replace these simple yet elegant free weights with machines. Clearly, they haven’t seen ‘Terminator” or “Transformers.” I’m pretty confident that dumbbells won’t take over the world, but I’m not so sure when it comes to a Bowflex. (Oh, and also, machines can prevent the development of stabilizing muscles that prevent injuries in real life and can cause overuse injuries due to making the exact same movement repetitively without variation.)
My recommendation would be to put up a sign in the House gyms warning students that if you lift without a spotter, you could potentially drop a free weight, and it might hurt. But I guess making the paper for that sign could add more pollution to the atmosphere, which could damage my lungs. So that’s not going to happen because that too goes against the guiding principle of Harvard’s founding fathers: Don’t get sued.
Sections
Cambridge Common doesn’t only provide locals with a space to play sports, have picnics, and inhale illicit substances (if you’re into that, of course): it also commemorates obscure war figures of the past, like the Polish General Casimir Pulaski. Although your “Study of the Past” professor probably forgot to mention him, indie hipsters will likely remember singer Sufjan Stevens’ reverence for Casimir Pulaski. General Pulaski, for the record, was a Polish Patriot who was distinguished for his services to the U.S. Continental Army. The only thing more surprising than the bust of Pulaski is the organization that erected this monument: the Polish American Veterans and Auxiliary Cambridge Post. Next time you stroll through the Commons, take a minute to stop and appreciate.
Sections
In the realm of listservs, there are two types of people: senders and receivers. Most of us are receivers, humbly accepting our daily flood of mail with a shrug and the occasional quizzical frown. Yet there exists another breed, who seem to react to every passing question, demand, and desire that pops into their heads with the thought, “Thank God I have hundreds of friends on an email list to share this with!” The result: a deluge of emails so pointless or outlandish they are destined to go unanswered.
1. Subject: Want to win free movie tickets, massages, and chicken wings?
Woah, woah, woah, slow down there. While one of these things would have caught our attention, all three is just unrealistic. There has to be a catch somewhere. Of course, it turns out that an “epic race around campus” is required to win such objects. We should have known.
2. Subject: (Insert generic event)—Happening NOW!
If the event is happening now and people want to go, it seems fairly likely that they will already be there. If not, then this email is just needlessly making my phone bleep during a lecture. For shame.
3. Subject: Half off Civil War tour tickets!
At last, what we’ve been waiting for.
4. Subject: Bridge partner needed URGENTLY
Urgently.
5. Subject: Hey Mom, missing you ...
You know your life has taken a dark turn when even this goes unanswered in your inbox.
Sections
I used to agonize over whether Brother Bear had been so named before Sister Bear was born. When a seemingly autonomous silhouette traversed the span of my bedroom walls at night, I wondered if Peter Pan needed to be sewn to his shadow again. I dreaded my 11th birthday like an impending mid-life crisis.
The stories I loved as a child were not so well behaved as to exist solely between their covers. The Berenstein Bears, Peter Pan, Harry Potter, and, of course, “The Phantom Tollbooth”: Chroma-colored outside their bindings and into the chapters of my life, un-(poetically)-licensed. This week, Norton Juster’s “The Phantom Tollbooth” tick-tocks its way to the 50th anniversary of its publication. Many of its one-time devotees have probably grown up too much to remember how to grow down. But for some, the Unabridged allure still holds.
I first followed Milo into the Lands Beyond after covertly lifting the turquoise title from my older brother’s bookshelf. He’d stored it between such mature literature as “The Westing Game” and every Cam Jansen novel ever published. I took Milo-dramatic pains to stealthily slip the material from its perch and spent the subsequent days jumping to the Isle of Conclusions, wading through the Sea of Knowledge and finding Rhyme and Reason where it seemed there was none.
The plot may have progressed to the Doldrums, but the story never did. My memories of that first read are downright sepia-toned. And for a girl raised on a balanced diet of “The Elements of Style,” Phantom’s verbal wit was mathemagical.
It left me spellbound in Dictionopolis; I was rendered speechless by the Soundkeeper. It left me with a bad case of the puns. Its alle- was pretty, bloody -gory, but somehow it never landed in the Pedantic Ocean. Milo and I were just a pair of snarky know-it-all kids, but Phantom trusted us with a message that I’m still learning: time is precious.
In my junior year of high school, fighting the “ahn-WEE” that I hadn’t been able to pronounce when Juster first introduced it to me, I picked up “The Phantom Tollbooth” once more. I toted the text around, fancying myself a wannabe-Maoist, the worn blue just peeking out of my backpack. Anachronistic fellow travelers shared transcendent accounts of their trips to Wisdom’s Castle in the Air.
Happy Birthday, Tollbooth; you are one fine chick. Sorry all I got you was this article. What can I say? I’m cheep, cheep, cheep.
Sections
As the 375th anniversary celebration approaches, the hallowed halls of Harvard Yard are abuzz with rumor and anticipation. What could we expect from the University’s commemoration of three whole eighths of a millennium of greatness? Our resident analysts predict:
375 = E – 2P + 30S + N + T
Attendees are invited to enjoy dessert and “view the alumni, House, and graduate school parades.”
E = Anticipated entertainment value = 0.
Before the main event, we’ve been promised “a festive dinner with a menu echoing historic Harvard occasions”: an anonymous source close to HUDS leadership has leaked that the “Great Butter Rebellion of 1766” will be among those recalled.
P = Cases of food poisoning anticipated from eating butter that was made in 1766 = 175.
“Creative party dress appropriate to the season is encouraged.”
S = Number of undergrads that interpret this as an invitation to show off the “Slutty Larry Summers” costume they’ve been putting together for Halloween = 10. (Us.)
Yo-Yo Ma ’76 is promised to appear in a “short musical program enhanced with video and special lighting.”
N = Number of attendees who are really into the strobe lights and video montage of cats doing human things = 420.
We’ve been promised that the night will end with a “birthday cake moment.”
T = Minutes it’ll take Drew Faust to blow out 375 candles = 5.
Sections
Our fair lady of existential dread, Joan Didion, is heading to Harvard Square next month for a reading of her new memoir, “Blue Nights.” Tickets are now on sale. In preparation for her arrival, we’ve re-worked some classic “I Saw You Harvard” sightings in Didion’s unmistakable style:
“I saw you, I did see you, as if born from light and sadness and heavy. You tapped your knuckles on the counter. It was at the Greenhouse Café, that time I first saw you, at Greenhouse Café that I held so close my tattered, worn copy of “The Second Sex,” the new translation by Constance Borde and Sheila Malovany-Chevallier, and I felt that we could one day be that image I had always kept in the corner of my mind where my desires met my skull. In that image we held hands as we stepped off the curb in front of CVS. My Crest whitening toothpaste in one hand and yours in the other, we would step off that curb past third-wave feminism and the Pit where infinity resides.”
“I saw you ... British rower. Or maybe you are Australian. Or German. I am not sure where you come from, some land across the water where there are white men with accents that to a girl from Oklahoma are not real places where real people live. Just as you are not real to me. In Lamont I see you sitting slouched over a chair—accompanied by your golden halo of blonde hair and that infinitely romantic look of befuddlement—as you come across words you do not understand in your “Madness and Medicine” readings. Increasingly I become aware that you are my madness, you are my medicine. Cause, symptom, cure. I don’t dare provoke this fresh despair; instead I return to my bagel. The bagel is, remarkably, stale.”
Sections
If you’d like to show up your HAA roommate, skip the Warhols and uncover some of the Sackler’s more bizarre pieces, largely found in the medieval collection on the fourth floor. And since you don’t have to pay to get in, it’s easy to poke your nose into a few galleries and pretend to be cultured.
•    Public service announcements for STIs weren’t a 20th century innovation. Head to the fourth floor and find the first known representation of a man with syphilis. (Hint: He’s wearing a feathered cap.)
•    The fourth floor is also packed with timepieces, but only one has the hours painted on the inside of a man’s thighs. Find the image of this human sundial, and read the curator’s note. (Hint: It’s fairly grotesque, and oddly sexualized.)
•    This one is for History of Science nerds. Find a post-Copernican book showing the planets revolving around the Earth. (Hint: It can also function as a sundial.)
•    There are a lot of rhinoceroses on the fourth floor. Yeah, it’s weird. But nearly all of them are versions of the same rhino who died in a shipwreck between Lisbon and Rome when the King of Portugal tried to give it to the Pope. Find the one print of a different rhinoceros.
•    Suza Geer Berah Geer was famous for eating raw animals whole in 18th century India. Head downstairs to the second floor and find a step-by-step diagram of how to eat a raw sheep.
•    BONUS: Find a standing Buddha without a face or hands.
Sections
Two people sit at a stone table in front of Au Bon Pain. A chess board is spread flat, a timer alongside; the casualties of battle are knocked askew around the perimeter. Only 15 of the original 32 pieces remain. Both players flick pieces across the board, then tap their own side of the clock, ending their turn and restarting their opponent’s countdown.
This is blitz chess: occurring in the Square for hours on end, day after day. Each player starts with five minutes, but whenever the move is on them, their precious seconds trickle away. If you play carelessly, you’ll be checkmated before the clock runs down. If you think too long about all the options, however, it won’t matter how well you’re playing: you lose the game when you run out of time.
Daylight fades on a game this Sunday night, and the only illumination comes from a street light on the corner. An older man, playing white, sits between the board and the light, casting a shadow over the game. His opponent is a curly-headed teenager who hunches over the board, studying the situation. Black is down a pawn but up in time.
There is a man standing behind the clock. He nods approvingly when a good move is made and cringes when he sees a mistake. His shirt is cut open at the neck, making a V from his collar down his chest. He is middle-aged and well-built; he stands up straight, shoulders back, arms crossed.
His name is Thomas J. DeMartino and he was a Southie boy back in the ’70s. During dark times for the city of Boston, the 11-year-old DeMartino was allowed to roam free on the streets. “My father was a drunk and my mother had to let me go out of the house sooner or later,” he explains. “So I would make my way out of South Boston, downtown, where the lights were bright and everything stayed open late at night ... I was sick of going to bed, tired of going to bed, eight o’clock, nine o’clock ... screw that. I went downtown and I realized there was poison, and danger, and mayhem on the streets during that time and in that area,” he says. “If I got into a situation where I had to run, I’d run into this place called the Boston Christian Youth Organization, and they’d be open ’til 11 o’clock and in there they would have a place where you could work out, a place where you could read books, and they’d have a place in there for a gentleman to play chess.”
That’s how it started. But as a teenager, DeMartino started to lose interest in the game. “Basketball was the thing, and when I was telling people, ‘Yeah, I’m playing chess,’ they would say, ‘Well you’re gay; you’re queer. You’re playing chess? There’s something wrong with you.’ And I’d go, ‘Yeah, you’re right, I ain’t playing no more.’” So he quit the game. But just as his interest in chess was waning, the American chess hero Bobby Fischer captured the World Championship from Boris Spassky and the USSR. “And now it belonged to America!” DeMartino exclaims, “And I say, ‘Well I play that game! I know that game!’ So I went back.”
After playing competitively for a few years, he was “dragged” into the military and served in Afghanistan and Kuwait. “You know how life is, it just takes you away from the thing you like a lot,” he says. But when he returned, he found himself at those very tables on Mass. Ave., playing chess.
Today the game he has been watching comes to an end, and the older man is ushered away by his daughter. She had appeared during the game: when she walked over and tapped her father on the shoulder, he looked up at her as if he didn’t know her and turned back to the game. But now the chess is done, so life can resume.
The kid is Thornton M. Tice, a student at Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts, on the other end of Cambridge, who comes to Harvard Square for the chess. Lately, he has been revisiting the game he started playing when he was five years old. “My dad taught me how to play. And most recently, I’ve just been playing my older brother a lot, and he’s good. So whenever I lose, it’s a lesson.” Tice has been getting much better, DeMartino informs me. “He’s an aspiring expert for as young as he is and the amount of time he’s been playing. So this guy’s really, really good.”
DeMartino often reprimands the young man for not taking enough time with his moves, but Tice seems to like moving fast. He rarely pauses to think after his opponent has moved. DeMartino explains that this is because Tice plays both sides of the board: he figures out the best move for the other side to make, and then prepares his own best move in anticipation—all while his opponent’s clock ticks on.
Tice and DeMartino play a game, which Tice wins on the clock: DeMartino had a better position on the board but he ran out of time. When Tice plays, he seems relaxed and willing to make friendly conversation. “I’m getting my tempo back now, right?” DeMartino exclaims. “No,” Tice responds with an easy smile. “Not quite yet.” DeMartino keeps up his psychological game, insisting that Tice is in a bad situation, but the younger man’s confidence is unshaken.
After the game, a high school student leaves his sister and sits down opposite Tice. When he gets up again, Tice’s clock reads 4:54—the newcomer has been defeated in all of six seconds. Tice plays DeMartino once more and then rushes off to East Cambridge, leaving DeMartino alone in front of a dimly lit chess set, waiting for the next competitor.
Sections
When I walked into the first day of Life Sci 2 lab, I was hit with the smell of formaldehyde. Its strong, sticky vapor blanketed my nose. I tried to play it cool, so I pulled out a stool next to a lab bench and sat on my hands. Don’t touch your nose, I said. Don’t do it.
A little while later, we were strapping on latex gloves and dissecting lampreys. Saggital cuts, transverse cuts: we sliced the water creature open. Once it was carefully inspected, we moved on and dissected the dogfish shark. It wasn’t until we had skinned a cat (literally) and started playing around and poking at its muscles that I realized:
1. Dissection is really cool.
2. It’s more common than not.
Not everyone might agree with the first statement, but considering I’m pre-med, it’s a pretty good self-realization. The second idea—the commonness of dissections—is definitely some sort of semi-universal truth. Dissections happen everywhere, and are not necessarily limited to the cold stone tables of the Science Center’s fourth floor. Dissecting things—pulling them apart, analyzing the individual pieces, seeing how everything fits together—is human nature. Objects, situations, people: we pick and pull and prod at them. Sometimes it’s for the better, other times not.
When it comes to animal dissection, LS2 lab is just the beginning of my scalpel adventures. A few years from now, I’ll hopefully be in medical school, sinking my teeth (not literally) into anatomy. I’ve been told that medical students work in groups and develop six-month-long “relationships”—if that’s what you call it—with a cadaver. They journey into our complex physiological world with a few scissors, forceps and blades, and, not to mention, the profound stench of formaldehyde. The thought of seeing human insides doesn’t bother me, but the cadaver-student disconnect does. As students learn about livers, hearts and brains, they gain incredible insight into the human physiological world. But at the same time, they never learn the individual’s life story, family or name.
Dissection is not limited to the realm of biologists and premeds. As I fulfill my sociology concentration requirements, I realize that I’m taught to take the world apart, cut it into little pieces and try to sew it back together. Whether it’s collective effervescence or the historical dialectic, society is also dissectable. Down to its core.
The other day, we read “Connected” by Pfoho housemaster and BAMF Nicholas A. Cristakis. Even though we were assigned to read the entire book, in section everyone fixated on one chapter, specifically five pages within that chapter, concerned with happiness and marriage.
According to the book, married people are happier than unmarried people. Apparently, marriage can extend a man’s lifespan by seven years, but a woman’s by only two. Your risk of death decreases upon marriage, but spikes upon the death of your spouse. This risk for men increases substantially more than that for women. In fact, the risk of death for women varies with their spouses, but not so dramatically. After we discussed the facts, a girl raised her hand and asked a pivotal question—why get married?
The dissection here doesn’t quite mirror that of my cat and doesn’t require forceps, but the general idea is the same. In both situations, we dissect to learn and learn by dissecting. This time, there is no moral dilemma of not knowing the cadaver’s name. Rather, there’s the dilemma of the point of marriage.
Obviously, this is simplified, but just based on the facts, if you’re a woman, why get married? Even statistically, there’s a 50% chance you’ll divorce anyway. I remembered an article about lawmakers in Mexico City pushing for a two-year marriage license that would allow couples to marry, stay together for two years, and then decide to either continue or end their marriage. It’s simple. It’s non-binding. It gets rid of sticky, expensive divorce hassles. But what does that mean for happiness and death? What does that mean for society and culture?
If I mention this quandary to my roommates, we’ll embark upon an hour of dissection. Not of cats or marriage, but of boys and girls and happiness in general. Which is the happier sex? How do we know? We’ll draw on examples of our friends and also people who are mere acquaintances. We’ll try to generalize, come up with our own laws. In a way, we’re all dissecters. Once we’re through, we’ll have our own conclusions, thanks to the incessant prodding we did. We may not be right (no one is running a data survey here), but we’ll have learned something.
Then comes another eternal question—do girls dissect and overanalyze more extensively than boys? Unclear, but I’m definitely guilty of doing so. Maybe we’re unsatisfied with the current answers in the world. Maybe it’s because we have larger limbic systems than men do. Maybe we’re just bored. Either way, I’ve learned a lot from dissection and I still stand by my realizations—it’s our way of looking at the world, and it’s definitely pretty cool.
—Eesha D. Dave ’13 is a socioloy concentrator in Leverett House.   She’ll dissect your heart and put it back together again.
Sections
After her visit to Harvard last Thursday, FM sat down with Emmy and Golden Globe winning (and Oscar and Tony nominated) actress Laura Linney for a discussion on fame, clarity, and Flava Flav.  Guest starring her husband, Marc Schauer.
1.  Fifteen Minutes: Your most recent work is on Showtime’s “The Big C,” which you’ve said grapples with “the privilege of aging.” What is the greatest privilege of aging?
Laura Linney: (Chuckles) Not being dead. Mhmm, honestly.
2.  FM: Do you have to consciously think about how you will balance your life and your work?
LL: Yeah, of course. This type of work will inhale your life, you know? It just will. It’s very demanding and very time consuming and it requires you to travel a great deal. That kind of pace and that kind of engagement can be addictive. It’s difficult to say no when you’re offered something. It’s very hard to say no. It does cost. It costs a lot. You get to a point when you have to start making decisions so that you can have a relationship (gestures to her husband, Marc Schauer) and have a marriage and discover what that is. You have to do that so that your relationships with your friends don’t dissipate, so that your family still has a sense of who you are. You do have to be very conscious about that.
3. FM: You have said that comedy leads to clarity–who is your favorite comedian and what has he or she clarified for you?
LL: Well, at the moment, Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert. They do exactly that. They are a perfect example of what the skill of comedy can do to a situation; how the clear voice of comedy can come and make everything make sense. And then you realize the role of the jester, what the jester used to do. The jester was someone who was not just there to entertain–the jester put forth truth in a way that was so alarming that it would make people laugh. It’s an inherent thing in the human condition to point things out through comedy–it’s the great illuminator. I thank God for those two guys.
FM: I saw your interview with Jon Stewart–he thanked you for giving his life meaning, for affirming what he does!
LL: He’s fantastic.
4.  FM: Do you watch TV otherwise?
LL: Only in my lowest moments.
Marc Schaeur: When I first met you …
LL: Oh, I was in this reality show jag.
MS: She was addicted to “I Love New York.”
LL: Oh, yeah. That was just a train wreck of a TV show. That was really awful. It was a spin-off of “FlavaFlav.” Oh God. It was just the worst example of the train wreck that has happened to our culture.
FM: And you loved it.
MS: (Laughs) Laura watched marathons!
LL: I can’t say I loved it … I just couldn’t believe what I was watching. So yeah, I had my “I Love New York” phase. But we also watch “The Wire,” Stewart and Colbert, of course.
MS: It’s like a cultural spa weekend for us when we get to watch TV and movies.
5.  FM: Is there an academic discrimination in Hollywood?
LL: Um, sometimes. Most of the time, people don’t give a shit, to be perfectly honest. They don’t value it, it’s not valued. You can make a shit load of money–that means something. If you have the greatest education in the world, that doesn’t always mean something. And, that’s okay. I got it more when I got out of Julliard, and people would be like, “Show me what Julliard taught you.” I got that more than the Ivy League thing. But people can use their education in obnoxious ways. Unfortunately, people have done that. It’s not the majority of people, but that’s instantly what people are afraid is going to happen.
6.  FM: You attended Northwestern for only a year before transferring to Brown. Why did you leave Northwestern?
LL: It wasn’t the school for me. And I missed New England. I was really homesick for New England.
FM: You grew up in Manhattan, right?
LL: I grew up in Manhattan, went to boarding school in Massachusetts for four years. I was really homesick. I was homesick. For the trees, the seasons. [Northwestern] was cold, there was a lake. It was cold, it didn’t look like a lake, you know, it was a lake that looked like an ocean. The buildings were … (Schauer laughs) it just wasn’t my place … My husband is from Chicago, oddly enough. I loved the teachers there, loved them. And I loved the theater program, but it just wasn’t the school for me. I did go back for a summer because one of my professors was so good. But thank God I got into Brown, I don’t know how I got into Brown, but thank God.
FM: And that was the school for you?
LL: Mhmm. The trees!
7.  FM: How important is it for you to diversify the types of projects you pursue? You love theater, but would you feel badly doing theater exclusively?
LL: I think at this point I would. I love [film] now. People used to ask me, “Which do you prefer, stage or film?” It was always a very easy answer; it was always theater. And then the more you do film, the more you understand film, the more you see how it’s put together, what the challenges are, what you can actually do in telling a story, the challenge of doing it out of order, all of that stuff, you know, it’s fun. It’s tricky. It doesn’t always work. You’re not always good at it. I really enjoy the challenge of that; I love the demands of that. But, you know, if there was a gun to my head, I’d be very happy just doing theater. I think that when you go through different phases of your life, you have different needs and desires to explore different kinds of work.
8. FM: With whom would you love to work in the future?
LL: Oh, God. Lots of people. Maggie Smith. Oh, I love Meryl. I love Meryl. Meryl and I are friends and I love her so. Alan Rickman. But I could list 25 people.
9. FM: Is it tough to work with friends?
LL: Uh-uh, uh-uh! No, it’s great to work with friends. It’s heaven to work with friends. You start off and you’re already three steps ahead. You know, some of what we do is so ridiculous, it’s so insane. It’s nice to have someone you can turn to and be like, “Can you believe that?” You can turn to someone and have a good old guffaw! Liam Neeson and I have worked together a lot. And I just love working with him, we don’t even have to talk to each other. We know each other so well, we’ve worked together so many times, and we’re dear friends. There’s a huge advantage to working with someone like that.
10.  FM: Of all of the fantastic people you have worked with, who taught you something really valuable for your work?
LL: Clint Eastwood. He taught me about how to stay relaxed on set. And how to stay fluid on set. And how to move through a take in a relaxed, easy, open way. That was invaluable. It’s the environment he creates; it’s the way in which he works. He sort of guides you through it in a way. You get on set, it’s a small crew, and he goes, “Okay, you can open the door, you can sit over here, you can sit over there … give it a go, okay.” He doesn’t yell “action,” doesn’t yell “cut,” just “okay.” Then you go through it, and he goes, “Okay, stop. That felt good. Were you happy with that? I was happy with that. Were we in focus? Okay, we’re moving on.” And in order to work with that, you have to stay warm all day long. You have to know how to be in a sort of slight simmer so that when you have that one take, it’s not adrenaline filled. It’s thoughtful and deep. That’s how he works. It’s really so pleasant, it’s good for you.
11.  FM: How about non-career advice?
LL: Don’t be addicted to the work. Gabriel Byrne told me that. A lot of people will work back to back to back, and then you don’t deal with your life. You only work. Just as it’s a skill to apply yourself to a vocation, it’s also a skill to apply yourself to living and to life. If you don’t give it the time, it doesn’t happen.
12. FM:  How do you feel about the longevity of your work? Do you think you’ve contributed to products that can transcend generations?
LL: Oh no, I don’t make products. I hope I never make a product.
13. FM: Do you consider yourself famous?
LL: I consider myself well-known, but not famous. I don’t even know what that means anymore, really. Fame. Most people don’t know who I am. Within a certain group of people, I’m well known. Another group will have no idea who I am.
14. FM: Well, Askmen.com knows who you are.
LL: Oh, my.
FM: They say you have an “understated sex appeal.” How do you feel about that? Or (gesturing to Schauer), how do you feel about that?
MS: (Laughs.) They’re right. And thankfully, it was “understated” enough up until the time I met her!
LL: Yep, I’m fine with that. I’ll take it. Thanks, guys!
15. FM: So, back to “The Big C.” Harvard is currently making a 375th birthday cake for itself in the form of a big H. Do you bake?
LL: A big H, huh? I guess you have to make something like that in sections. I make cookies, sometimes. I experiment. I’m a terrible cook, but I try. I made amazing cupcakes last year—black forest cupcakes with a chocolate ganache. Delicious.
Sections
One day last fall, Paula M. Maouyo ’14 sat in front of her laptop in Matthews trying to think of a topic for her Expos paper about racial identity.
When Maouyo was a child, she identified as biracial. Her father is black, originally from Chad and her mother is white and American. But by the time she was nine, she began to move away from a biracial identity.
“For a long time I just didn’t identify,” Maouyo said, though she acknowledges that when most people look at her, they immediately categorize her as black.
She had never articulated her non-identification in concrete terms. That is, until she began brainstorming for her Expos paper.
After floating around ideas and fiddling with labels and words, Maouyo suddenly conceived of a term she felt most accurately captured her own identity: araciality.
“People use apolitical and asexual,” Maouyo observed. “Why not aracial?”
As soon as she stumbled upon the term, she began to search for evidence that her neologism existed.
“I googled a billion terms: araciality, aracial identity,” Maouyo said. “I was JSTOR-ing and googling out the wazoo.”
But Maouyo had landed upon a term that had rarely been used before. A google search of “araciality” turns up only seven results—most of which link back to a single reference. Instead, Google asks “did you mean: asexuality, raciality, asociality?”
While Maouyo may have just coined a new term, she is not the only person who has conceptualized of an aracial existence—it is more commonly known as “racial transcendence” or “racelessness,” terms that will be used interchangeably in this article.
Maouyo prefers “aracial.” “Racelessness,” to her, implies a denial of sorts. And “racial transcendence”—“it feels lofty. Like I am above this silly construction of race. Which is sort of what I am saying, but I think “aracial” sounds better.”
Terminology aside, Maouyo had hit upon a theory of abandoning race that is just beginning to be acknowledged and explored by scholars and researchers.
It is well-known that race is a social construct and has no biological basis whatsoever. The fabricated categories we use now—i.e., “black,” “white,” “Asian”—are historically contingent and have been subject to numerous changes over the years. Grouping disparate populations by skin pigmentation is as arbitrary as grouping people by height. Nevertheless, because race is a social reality, it is often treated as “real” in scholarly work. While a fair amount has been written about how to dismantle racial discrimination, far less has been written about dismantling the concept of race itself.
At some point, every Harvard applicant is asked to check a box, choosing between five racial identification options; but what if one of the options was “none”?
THE RACIAL SKEPTIC
“Transcendent identity” was first described by Dr. Kerry Ann Rockquemore, a former sociology professor and author of Beyond Black: Biracial Identity in America. The current working definition of racial transcendence that she offers—and the one that will be used in this article—is the conscious rejection of racial identity altogether. Not “black,” “white,” or “both” —but rather, “none.”
“My journey has taken me past constructions of race, past constructions of mixed race, and into an understanding of human difference that does not include race as a meaningful category,” wrote Rainier Spencer, the founder and director of Afro-American Studies at the University of Nevada, who identifies as racially transcendent.
Spencer grew up in a black neighborhood in Queens in the 60s with a white mother and black father. Over the years, Spencer has identified as everything from Afro-German to New Yorker to academic to baby boomer. It was not until his thirties, when he was a philosophy teacher at a northeastern college, that he began to question racial identity itself.
During the 1990s, debates about the politics of multiracial identity began to emerge in academic circles. According to Spencer, most of the discussion at the time revolved around the relative importance of multiracial versus monoracial identity.
Spencer entered the debate as a racial skeptic. “A lot of the black scholars who are against multiracial identity are very invested in black identity,” Spencer said. “I think all racial identity is bogus, and that makes me kind of unique.”
Race transcendence should not be confused with color-blindness, which advocates ignoring race without confronting the inequality and discrimination it breeds. Color-blindness implies that racism can be solved passively. Racelessness is far more complex, because people who transcend race “are actually aware of how race negatively affects the daily existence of people of color. They have very likely experienced discrimination, yet they respond by understanding those situations as part of a broad societal problem; one in which they are deeply embedded, but not one that leads to their subscription to racial identity,” according to Rockquemore as cited on a website for race transcenders.
Someone who is race transcendent or raceless may choose to identify by ethnicity instead, or emphasize another part of their personal heritage, such as nationality, language, or culture.
But this is where it gets complicated. Spencer identifies as raceless in his personal life and believes fervently in deconstructing race, but when he fills out a form, he checks the “African-American/Black” box. While this may sounds hypocritical, Spencer believes that if people refuse to check the existing race boxes on forms, then they are undercutting the government’s ability to collect statistics that might uncover instances of discrimination.
“I think that regardless of how people perceive themselves personally, they should—in support of anti-racism efforts—check the race box that corresponds most closely to the way they are perceived by others who do not know them.” Spencer wrote in an email. By this line of thinking, a biracial or multiracial person should check the box that describes what they look most like—an idea that has sparked a fair amount of controversy, Spencer said.
Spencer believes that racelessness must be accompanied by social awareness and unrelenting advocacy—“if it is not, then it is simply a useless and naïve exercise in solipsism. In other words, I do not merely say that I am raceless, and then go on about my business as usual. Instead, I am constantly arguing against and working against the idea of biological race whenever I can.”
Though Maouyo and Spencer’s lives have parallels, Maouyo’s journey to araciality was not so much a tireless social justice mission than a process of finding an identity that felt like a good fit. Maouyo does not conceive of herself as an crusading advocate—hardly a preacher, she is laid-back and open-minded in discussing araciality.
Maouyo said that she has never regarded race to be an important part of her life. Her elementary and high schools were predominantly black and most of the time she was never asked to identify because “everyone was black.” When her mom picked her up from school she would sometimes tell her classmates it was her au pair to avoid having to explain their physical differences.
Maouyo’s parents never talked to their children about race, and though Maouyo has yet to tell her parents that she is aracial, she said she does not think they would care. A Christian identity is more important to them, Maouyo said.
Maouyo’s older sister identifies as black, and her younger brother identifies as mixed. “I think that’s kind of silly,” Maouyo said, “No one is going to look at me and say I am mixed anyway.”
While no one will look at Maouyo and say she is aracial either, Maouyo said that araciality is a way of simplifying her identity for herself.
“People like to talk about how complicated their identity is, like, ‘my grandfather was one-eighth native American or my great-grandmother was Asian and the United Nations are within me,’” Maouyo said, “It doesn’t have to be that complicated.”
THE ORIGIN OF RACELESSNESS
The origin of the word “racelessness” is unclear, because the terminology has never been fully established.
Many of the Harvard faculty members interviewed for this article had never heard of racelessness or race transcendence before. Often they responded immediately with cautious concern, a knit brow, and questions such as: “honey, have you ever heard of something called ‘white privilege’?” or “do you understand why we’re not post-racial and why color-blindness is naïve?”
In fact, the biggest hurdle in any interview was laying the groundwork and coming to a common understanding of “racelessness” before proceeding with discussion. There exists no common vocabulary, in part because racelessness has hardly been studied, and because many people who are race transcendent do not know that their identity has, in recent years, been given a name.
In a 1982 issue of Esquire, a writer named David Bradley wrote, “I accept a belief that I have taken to calling ‘achromism’ (from the Greek a-, meaning “not,” and chroma, meaning “color”). Bradley’s use of “achromism” does not perfectly correspond to racelessness, but it begins to broach the idea.
Six years later in the spring of 1988, a young doctoral student named Signithia Fordham coined the term “raceless” to describe a strategy for success that she observed among high-achieving black students at Capital High, an almost entirely black high school in Washington, D.C.
Fordham, who published her results in the Harvard Educational Review, found that high-achieving black students distanced themselves from blackness in how they dressed, spoke, and self-identified. When they were asked to describe themselves using only one category, almost none of them used “black,” instead opting for gender, age, or another word.
Fordham’s high-achieving students never used the term “raceless,” and according to the definition presented earlier, they were certainly not “race transcendent.” They simply chose not to identify strongly as black in order to achieve their specific, individual goals. Today this is often discussed as the burden of “acting white” that is required to be successful in mainstream America.
And this is how Fordham sees race transcendence today—as a simple coping-mechanism that marginalized folks use for the purpose of escaping social realities. “Some of us have to create that kind of world in our minds and in our imaginations,” she said.
Racelessness—using Fordham’s own definition—is a survival strategy that she recognized in herself long ago.
“It was delusional. Reading books in my social science classes, I learned we had a meritocracy. I knew that wasn’t really true, but I believed so completely in that, it made it possible for me to get through school and do well,” Fordham said recently. “Now I don’t run around thinking what should be. I think about what is.”
Someone in Spencer’s camp would probably respond that the youthful “racelessness” Fordham described truly is delusional—and is closer to color-blindness than racial transcendence. In any case, why can’t we think about what should be? Certainly we are not yet “post-racial” if that means post-inequality or post-racism. But if we know race is a social construct, at what point do we begin the process of deconstruction?
WHO GETS TO BE RACELESS?
A lot of people might claim not to have a race for one reason or another. According to professor Jennifer Hochschild, who teaches “Transformation of the American Racial Order?”, there are three groups of people that might refuse to identify by race: 1) disaffected (probably white) people who believe the world is post-racial and that we should all be color-blind; 2) recent immigrants for whom American racial categories simply do not resonate nor make any sense; and 3) bi-racial or multiracial people who do not identify with any particular racial category.
It is safe to say that this article is not concerned with exploring the first two groups of people. It is too easy to call the first group naïve and the second group puzzled. The third group—biracial and multiracial individuals—is interesting, but lacks complexity.
There is a difference between a multiracial person who is ambivalent about his or her identity, and a person (of any color) who wishes to transcend race altogether in the way that Rockquemore describes. Perhaps multiracial individuals are particularly well-positioned to consider race transcendence, but the option is not necessarily limited to people who are of color.
Nevertheless, it is fair to say there’s a bit of ambivalence about what it would mean for a white person to be race transcendent. Let’s suppose this white person doesn’t belong to Hochschild’s first group and has truly thought through their rejection of race. Is he or she allowed to do that? What is the person “transcending”? Whiteness? Is that fair? Don’t white people get to wake up raceless every single day by virtue of the fact that they are white, the privileged mainstream, American baseline color?
“Wow. That would be very progressive,” Spencer said. “The final barrier is whiteness” and the power that is associated with the concept, he said.
Maouyo feels similarly. “Because I have adjusted to the concept, I would say, ‘cool, me too.’ I might ask them some questions about how they came to this conclusion,” Maouyo said. “But I wouldn’t really resent it or say ‘it’s white privilege.’ You’re a human. Me too.”
There is very little information about how many people identify as raceless at Harvard or in the United States generally. Some raceless individuals may check the “other” box on forms; some may opt out of checking any box at all, and some, like Spencer, may check the box that describes the way society regards them based upon their physical attributes.
There seem to be a greater number of individuals who say they sort of “feel raceless,” even if they do not actively identify that way.
When someone asks Signa L. Mahung ’14 “what are you?” she replies “everything.” And when she fills out forms, she ends up checking “basically all of the boxes”—”African-American/Black,” “Hispanic,” “Caucasian,” and “Asian.”
While explaining her ethnic composition is exhausting, Mahung said she sees her multiracial background as part of what makes her who she is.
“In some ways I feel like kind of an outsider,” Mahung said. “But the way I approach it is that I can either feel like I do not fit in with any group, or I can embrace it. I recognize that I am a unique individual and it’s okay.”
Mahung said that though she has not met anyone who identifies as raceless, she would be curious to hear how the person arrived at that identity.
“I think it would be liberating,” she said.
Anjali R. Itzkowitz ’13 is also multiracial, and said she often checks the “other” box on applications and fills in white and Indian, which she feels describes her better than “Asian.”
Itzkowitz, who is from London, said she tends to think of herself not in terms of race, but rather focuses on ethnicity and the cultural component of her Indian heritage. “I think ethnicity is a more helpful term than race. It is a very American thing to focus on race,” she said.
Itzkowitz, who is also a Crimson arts editor, explained that she feels this way in part because recent immigration to the UK has shifted the focus to culture rather than race. “I don’t know if I ever considered myself raceless, but the question never arose,” she said.
While Itzkowitz does not usually use race in describing herself, she would not call herself raceless. “If I just said I was raceless, I think it would provide confusion and not clarify,” she said. Itzkowitz said she feels that racelessness “is sort of a cop-out” if the person does not directly confront racial discrimination.
Maouyo said that most of the time when she tells people she is aracial, she gets confused looks. Some students have told her they think it is impractical, but for the most part, “people don’t want to question it because it’s not PC,” Maouyo said.
Maouyo said that even though she is “aracial” she most often checks “African-American/Black” when filling out forms, in part because of the federal statistics issues that Spencer describes, but also because she is aware of the many resource opportunities that are available to her as long as she identifies that way.
“It is so overwhelmingly in your favor to identify by race if you’re a minority,” Itzkowitz said. “You would be a fool to say you’re raceless if you’re black.”
Senior lecturer Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 said he would also be mindful of the practical consequences of identifying as raceless. “It is unrealistic because race is not just about self-identification but also about the perception of others,” he said. “If racist white guys beat the shit out of you, identifying as raceless is useless.”
Nevertheless, McCarthy said he believes that racelessness is powerful in its aspirations. “It is powerful to imagine a world where race doesn’t matter. A place where these hierarchies and animosities no longer exist,” He said. “We don’t need to be in a post-racial color-blind world to be equal. We can create a world where we are all equals.”
INSTITUTIONAL CHALLENGES
If a growing number of students begin to identify as raceless, Harvard and other universities will be compelled to decide how to best accommodate that sort of identity.
Many students, including Maouyo, said that they felt pressure upon their arrival to Harvard to identify more strongly with a racial group.
The application process, the Undergraduate Minority Recruitment Program, and affinity groups all encourage students to strengthen their allegiance to a particular racial or ethnic group.
“Certainly Harvard forced me in a very manifest way to adopt a racial identity on the application,” Itzkowitz said, though she acknowledged that this request was not unique to Harvard, but a part of all college application processes.
McCarthy said he believes there is a deepening sense of racial identity during college years, when students are thrust into a heterogenous community and have an opportunity to define how they fit into their new world.
Before Maya I. Anderson ’13 arrived at Harvard she identified as black, white, one-eighth Hispanic, and one-eighth Native American. Now, she said she is more likely to identify as either biracial or black.
Anderson said that she liked to emphasize her multiracial background in her diverse high school in Decatur, Georgia as a way of identifying with the white students in her AP classes. “I wanted to tell them that a part of me is the same as you too. I’m not different,” Anderson said.
But after discovering “black people like me” at Harvard, she said she feels more comfortable identifying as black.
McCarthy pointed to the proliferation of affinity groups as an indication that students are feeling a need to identify. “The fact that those groups have only increased shows that students have an increasing rather than diminishing interest in their identity,” he said.
Interestingly, a group called Remixed—which was specifically geared toward multiracial students—folded soon after it was created several years ago.
But the question remains for students like Maouyo: how should Harvard consider students who do not wish to identify by race at all? Should Harvard even acknowledge that choice?
One possible way of acknowledging racelessness would be for Harvard to include a “none” box when it asks students to identify. But some argue that while this would make it easier for raceless students to comfortably check a box, it would be a pyrrhic victory.
Many students expressed concern that white applicants would identify as raceless to “game the system,” although it is unclear what advantage or value racelessness would carry in the admissions decisions.
White students might also check “none” for other reasons. Sometimes white students will check the “other” box is if they are uncomfortable with the social meaning of whiteness, said Natasha K. Warikoo, an associate professor at the Graduate School of Education who studies race, immigration, and inequality in educational contexts. “It signifies privilege and racial exploitation, a history that some white people are uncomfortable with,” she said. In the blank line, these students might write “Italian-American,” or “Jewish-American,” Warikoo said.
To solve this problem, Harvard could have two sections—one in which you identify for the purpose of statistics and civil rights compliance, and one in which you identify in the way that reflects your personal life. This would allow raceless students (and the perplexed white students) to identify by race, and by whatever else they like.
There is no indication that any changes to the current format will occur anytime soon. The admissions office did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
So in filling out the current form, students must “understand that the boxes are specifically for fighting racism and are not a validation of personal identity—a step that far too few students are capable of taking intellectually,” Spencer wrote.
In addition Harvard could encourage more lively conversations and seize its opportunity to be “an incubator for the social interaction that we hope produces a better world,” McCarthy said.
A revamping of Community Conversations might be in order, and trying to include a broader cross-section of Harvard students in Sustained Dialogue might also be an option, Maouyo suggested.
She added that she would like to hear more discussion of racial transcendence at Harvard, especially because it is tiring for her to try to explain araciality to every classmate that asks.
Maouyo said that sometimes she just tells people she is black to sidestep a lengthy conversation. “Maybe that is selfish because I am keeping other people from learning about araciality and from having that freedom,” Maouyo said. “But frankly I’m thinking more about my pset than my race.”
A special thanks to Carlos Hoyt, who taught me to think about race, and then to think beyond it.
Sections
The spatter of spinach sizzling in a wok mixes with the beat of South American rap pounding in the kitchen. A girl in a worn t-shirt and running shorts carries bread batter from the refrigerator to the countertop where she slices it into loaves for baking. Jasper N. Henderson ’12 and Naimonu A. James ’14 perch before the stove, stirring a pot of applesauce and flipping sweet potato latkes.
“Everything is vegan but the latkes,” Henderson says over his shoulder.
Henderson and James are in charge of cooking the evening’s dinner at the Dudley Co-operative Society. The Co-op, which offers an alternative to living in the House system, was founded in 1958 and is currently located in two Victorian houses situated at 3 Sacramento Street and 1705 Mass. Ave, a few blocks from the Radcliffe Quad. This fall, 32 students are living in the Co-op, along with two residential tutors and three cats.
PITCHING IN
“Don’t spit in the soup, we’ve all got to eat,” proclaims the Co-op’s motto, painted above the doorway leading to the dining room. The phrase embodies the communal spirit of the home.
Beginning in their sophomore fall, students may apply to live in the Co-op, and, after attending an informational interview, they are placed on a waiting list that operates on a first-come, first-served availability basis. According to Henderson, almost all applicants receive a room offer within a year.
“It’s the only intentional community at Harvard,” says Lucy C. O’Leary ’11 as she kneads and slices whole-wheat bread dough. “Everyone chooses to live here.”
Lily E. Higgins ’12, one of the Co-op presidents, decided to move in during her junior fall, after her blocking group in Eliot separated.
“When I moved in, I wasn’t sure if I’d like it,” admits Higgins, who now says she can’t imagine not living in the Co-op. In fact, Higgins wishes she hadn’t waited until junior year. “In terms of growing as a person and living the kind of life that I like living, especially in terms of being really grounded while still living in this Harvard environment, I wish I had just moved earlier.”
Perhaps surprisingly, the day-to-day chores Higgins is required to do as a member of the Co-op community contribute to her feeling at home. Rather than eating in the dining halls and living in spaces curated by Harvard staff, students living in the Co-op share the responsibilities of cooking, cleaning, and food shopping. Students have a certain number of points that they must fulfill every semester, usually 32-34. Completing a task, such as doing the dishes or ordering food in bulk, earns a certain number of points—no specific chore is required.
For Higgins, cooking for more than 30 people is overwhelming, but Henderson, who grew up preparing meals, often volunteers to put a dish together for weekly dinners or Sunday brunch. “We have 100-plus cookbooks, and there are a lot of recipes that have been handed down,” says Henderson, who is wearing suspenders and a forest green shirt that reads ‘Prose before Hos’ underneath an outline of Shakespeare’s face.
Some of these recipes are put to use in the three big meals that the Co-op hosts every year: two faculty dinners and Thanksaween (Thanksgiving dinner on Halloween). Unlike faculty dinners in the Houses, at the Co-op, each student contributes his or her favorite dish for the professors and teaching fellows that come to visit.
“My advisor is always like, ‘The food is so good,’” Higgins says.
These three nights are also the only nights when the Co-op prepares non-vegetarian food.
A less-publicized mealtime tradition at the Co-op is naked Sunday brunch. “It’s entirely optional,” Henderson quickly points out. “Whether you want to go naked or not.”
A COMMUNITY IN FLUX
A large number of Co-op traditions center around meals, but another one of the threads that holds the Co-op community together is its tradition of protest and political activism. “I’m involved in different radical stuff on campus and this is a great place to live and do that,” O’Leary says. On the dining room walls, posters depict Russian recidivism, and the proletariat fist crushing American Capitalism.
However, even though this liberal political point of view is generally characteristic of the students who live in the Co-op, the timbre of the living environment transforms drastically each semester as students move in and out. Last year, one student played the banjo, so members often got together in the living room or on the porch to sing folk songs. This year, new quirky routines will surely develop.  “One of my favorite things is how transient it is,” says Iman E. James ’12, the other Co-op president.
With change inevitably comes a loss of connection with Co-op history. “So many of the stories get lost over time as people move out,” Higgins says. Yet even though the current generation of Co-opers might not know the extensive story of the Co-op’s past, various objects in the houses bear witness to the transformations.
Nestled between the course packs and novels that line the bookshelves of the Co-op library, a faded guest book reveals the life of 3 Sacramento Street in years past, before it was converted into undergraduate housing. Its entries, which begin in 1900, were taken down when the house served as a bed and breakfast. The signatures of a few notables—Henry Cabot Lodge, Franklin Delano Roosevelt—are hidden amongst the hundreds of now-forgotten names.
“Yeah, here’s his signature. That’s kind of cool,” Henderson comments as his finger traces the looping characters of FDR’s name. “It’s a gorgeous signature.”
A sign that reads “Center for High Energy Metaphysics” hangs above the porch of 3 Sacramento Street, another quiet reminder of change. “Fairly regularly people will come up to ask about the sign on the porch,” Higgins says. “But it’s very hard to explain it to someone else.”
Yet that sentiment is true of many Co-op quirks: unexplainable to the outside observer, definitive of the cooperative lifestyle.
Sections
As far as many Harvard students today are concerned, the only points of intersection between art and science are the doodles in their LS1a notebooks. However, the separation was not always so acute.  In fact, early knowledge of biology was informed as much by images as by written description. Without the aid of modern-day imaging technologies, art was scientists’ only means by which to visually communicate biological processes.
Harvard Professor Robert A. Lue is hoping to reestablish the connection between art and science. “To me it was always ironic that the first time that a cell was recorded we didn’t have cameras that could photograph,” says Lue, “so there were these beautiful ink drawings that scientists did to document the microscopic natural world as they saw it.” And yet, innovations in scientific visualization have not matched the rate of scientific discovery. Still, “visualization,” says Lue, “has not lessened in importance; it’s as important as it ever has been.”
In an effort to weave the paintbrush and petri dish back together, Lue founded BioVisions at Harvard in 2006. The project unites scientists and graphic designers to produce digital media visualizations that effectively communicate biological processes.
“In a way it was an opportunity to combine two things that I really love and especially in a way that I think could solve a problem that I’ve seen.” While students have no trouble memorizing what the functions of cellular structures are, envisioning the “inner life of the cell” still remains a mystery.
A SYMBIOTIC RELATIONSHIP
Lue knows his students. Many of those sitting in his LS1a lecture hall will likely go on to pursue careers in medicine and scientific research. In a way, BioVisions is Lue’s call for overly focused students to realize the aesthetic beauty of the natural mechanisms described in their textbooks. “I think ultimately it’s about stimulating your mind, and there are very few things that can be as provocative and stimulating as a piece of visual art.  For someone who’s a future physician, scientist, poet, or writer, it is important in my opinion to keep that source, that thread of stimulation alive in your life.”
The connection between art and science is by no means a one-way street.  As much as scientific concepts can be depicted through art, art and its appeal can in turn be illuminated by science. “Increasingly, especially with contemporary artists, you see a real interest not just in the imagery of the natural world as generated by science, but also in thinking about the processes of science in the production of art.”
One artist in particular whose oeuvre embodies Lue’s notion of science in art is Hans Haacke. The German-American artist draws inspiration for much of his work from closed scientific systems, biological growth, and random movements. For example, Condensation Cube (1963–5) is a moisture-filled Plexiglas container, the appearance of which is in constant flux. Haacke thus creates thought-provoking art by utilizing the basic principles of elementary-school science.
As Lue points out, science can not only inform art’s subject matter, but can also, to some extent, explain its appeal.
“I’ve always loved abstraction. It’s an interesting question: why should it be appealing to us? Part of it is that our brains have evolved to appreciate and to be sensitive to difference—to things that resemble something we recognize but are off-kilter” says Lue. “It is that difference that is so engaging. From an evolutionary standpoint, to scan a scene and pick up difference and be focused on that is in fact highly adaptive.”
INNER LIFE OF LUE
A glance into Lue’s office clarifies his involvement in the arts beyond BioVisions. On his walls hang an eclectic collection of works by such luminaries as James Welling and relatively unknown artists, including Texas-based monk Brother Jeremiah. He also admires contemporary artists such as Felix Gonzalez-Torrez, who has previously installed at the Carpenter Center, and Dana Schutz, whose work he describes as “cartoon-y, cute, and deeply off-putting.”
Looking ahead, Lue plans to expand BioVisions to incorporate chemistry and physics, noting an imminent project that will focus on the concept of randomness.  “In everyday life, we tend to suppress randomness. The way that order emerges from chaos is very compelling.”
Despite Lue’s extensive background in biology, however, he believes that the most enthralling aspects of the subject are those that retain a kind of poetry. He grins while describing the background of his computer screen—a  still shot from the BioVisions’ animation of the Golgi apparatus. “It looks like such a remarkable, permanent structure, but it is constantly in flux. In other words, it’s not a stable thing. If you stop the vesicles that create it, it completely disappears. It is transitory, and that is fascinating to me. There is an inherent dynamism to living systems.”
Sections
It’s Oct. 13, bitches. Do you know what that means? You should have pre-ordered your iPhone 4S nine days ago. That’s right, 4S—not 4A, not 4Q. I’m talking the 19th letter of the alphabet, assholes, 4SuckonthissweetpieceofdualcoreA5chip. My birds are gonna look so motherfucking angry with these graphics.
Hey ma, want pictures of me at college to send to grandma? Wait ’til she gets a load of me through this 8MP lens. Yo bro, pass out drunk with my junk in your face? Check that out through f/2.4 aperature. Pixilation ain’t got shit.
Trash that iPhone 4—it’s apple-picking season motherfuckers! You can’t take this month away from the swarming hoards of Apple fans as they systematically raid every authorized Apple retail store in the country! Fuck Wall Street. Occupy Apple!
Guess what my wallpaper’s gonna be? That’s right, a fucking Steve Jobs tribute. I’m talking Andy Warhol style tribute all up in here, I’m talking neon colors in alternating patterns, I’m talking legit. Go hard or go Droid, fuckfaces, and I’m sure as hell not going Droid.
Hey iPhone 4S, can you remind me to pick up my dress when I leave work? Hey iPhone 4S, can you write this text for me real quick? Hey iPhone 4S, will it be sunny this weekend in Miami? Fuck yes, fuck yes, fuck yes. BAM.
You’ll never guess what I’m going to be for Halloween. That’s right: my brand new iPhone 4S. Just try to get more fucking candy than me. Everything tastes better when you’re not just holding the latest version—you are the latest version. Hey baby, come take a look at my operating system.
You know all those shitty ads with “free ringtones” and goddamn smiley faces? Click the shit out of them! Apple doesn’t get motherfucking viruses like that prick Microsoft, and with the new iPhone you’ll have a fuck-ton of storage for all those fancy ringtones you want to stuff your fat face with.
Oh yeah, you have formals coming up? Do you also have an iPhone 4S? No? Well then you’re pretty much riding the bitch canoe up shit creek, aren’t you? I’m going with Siri, my voice-activated personal assistant and speak-only-when-spoken-to partner. It’s gonna be fucking sweet.
I can’t wait to dry hump the shit out of my new iPhone while you cry alone in the corner with your 4.0. Countdown to the iPhone 5, fuckers—point those money-cannons at your nearest Apple store and get ready for the shitstorm.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Casablanca—an iconic Brattle Street restaurant that has been frequented by Harvard faculty and students since its founding in 1955—is up for sale.
After 40 years of working for the restaurant, owner Sari Abul-Jubein decided that it’s time to find a new owner.
“It’s just time for me to move on in my life. I think the place will be much better served with somebody else with fresh ideas,” Abul-Jubein said.
Abul-Jubein worked at the restaurant as a part-time waiter and a bartender in the early 1970s. Eventually, he bought the establishment himself in 1976.
“I was fresh out of college, looking for work and that job was available. It was kind of falling in love and just the opportunity,” Abul-Jubein said.
Abul-Jubein said that the broad economic turmoil of recent years has taken a toll on the restaurant. Last year, he introduced a small bites menu with items under $5 to offer another price option.
“The economy has forced everyone to become creative to keep some business coming in the doors,” Abul-Jubein said.
Casablanca opened as a bar in 1955, and was inspired by the 1942 movie of the same name, which used to be shown annually at the Brattle Street Theatre next door.
Government Professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 said he used attend the yearly movie showings and then hang out at the bar afterward.
Casablanca expanded to a Mediterranean-style restaurant in 1970.
Medieval History Professor Michael McCormick said he sometimes goes to Casablanca to get meals with his students.
“It has a good selection of drinks and wonderful dishes. It’s nice to go with a group of younger scholars,” McCormick said.
Professor of Hebrew and Other Oriental Languages Peter B. Machinist ’66, who has frequented the restaurant since his undergraduate years at Harvard, said the restaurant offers an atmosphere reminiscent of the 1950s and 60s.
“Going to the restaurant reminds me of an era of Harvard Square which was more unconventional and intimate than I’m afraid it will soon become,” Machinist said.
Abul-Jubein said it is too early to know the fate of Casablanca after it is acquired, though the new owner may not retain the restaurant’s current name and theme.
Executive Director of the Harvard Square Business Association Denise A. Jillson said she hopes someone will purchase the restaurant and carry on the tradition.
“Recently, a Boston Globe column talked about the re-opening of Bob Slate Stationer and referred to it as ‘a miracle on Brattle Street.’ We look forward to a second miracle,” Jillson said.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin emphasized the critical role of young people during a lecture yesterday on the ongoing challenges posed by global population growth.
The lecture—given just a few weeks before the world population is anticipated to cross 7 billion—was hosted by the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, where Osotimehin served as a visiting fellow from 1996 to 1997.
Osotimehin said that while environmental sustainability is an important issue, it is also critical to address social issues facing young people, including economic inequality and poor access to reproductive health resources.
“We must ask ourselves how to engage with young people in different contexts so as to make them equal partners in the development of their countries,” said Osotimehin.
By providing the 1.8 billion young people in the world with political access, social access, and economic access, Osotimehin said, we can produce a better educated generation with the capacity to address ongoing social problems.
Also critical to global development, Osotimehin argued, is the empowerment and education of women around the world, which he claims will be key to development in societies that have historically marginalized women.
“The most vulnerable years of a girl’s life are 10 to 14,” said Osotimehin, adding that, in many societies girls are seen as ready for marriage during this stage of their development.
“We need to intervene aggressively to make sure that they become responsible adults in the long term,” he said.
One obstacle that Osotimehin focused on was gender-based violence, which he said is an under-reported issue in most cultures.
He went on to describe his advocacy in Nigeria, where he worked to promote women’s rights and empowerment, and also helped set up “husband schools” to educate men about reproductive health and rights.
“Introducing young boys to a different socialization process is a way that we can improve the future,” he said.
Osotimehin also called on the audience to collect data and conduct studies on these social issues.
“Academic institutions can be of great use to us,” said Osotimehin. “We need evidence from academic communities that our efforts are making a difference.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard workers and union members are flocking to the Occupy Boston movement in protest of what some call the University’s “submission to a corporate model.”
“Big universities like Harvard have become tools of large corporations,” said Wayne M. Langley, director of higher education for the Service Employees International Union Local 615, which represents custodians and dining hall workers on campus. “Universities have become part of the problem. They are just like the big banks.”
Members of the SEIU Local 615, UNITE HERE! Local 26, and the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers are not only participating in the movement in Dewey Square—they are also coordinating food deliveries and collaborating with organizers to plan other events.
They have plans for several labor marches in Dewey Square. which SEIU leaders say will be occurring within the next seven days.
“We think this movement is important and fully support it,” Langley said. “It’s about time that the focus shift back to the people who caused the financial crisis.”
UNITE HERE! Local 26 member Ed B. Childs, an Adams House chef who is currently participating in Occupy Boston, echoed Langley’s sentiments.
“[The Harvard Management Company] is a Wall Street firm that recklessly invests, and Harvard must be held accountable,” he said.
Childs added that he believes the “Occupy” movements are gaining steam, not only with dining hall workers at Harvard but around the country.
“More and more, workers are listening to our encouragement and heading down there,” Childs said, pointing to the mobilization of other union branches at Yale University and across the country.
Langley said that he hopes that as more University employees join the movement, the University will realize it can no longer “shirk responsibility for it’s actions.”
“Harvard, and all Universities that receive tax dollars and pay virtually no taxes ... cannot continue to skate by with irresponsible investing practices when they are supposed to be institutions dedicated to the public good,” Langley said.
SEIU is also participating at a national level, with SEIU president Mary Kay Henry emphasizing the union’s solidarity with the protestors.
“The 2.1 million nurses, janitors, school bus drivers and other members of the Service Employees International Union have a message to those on Wall Street today—We’ve got your back, we will join you in the streets, and we will not let up until we bring good jobs back to our communities,” Henry said in a statement.
The University declined to comment.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Dorothy A. Austin, an associate minister in Memorial Church, was appointed Lowell House Master along with her partner Professor Diana Eck, the worldwide media seized on the news of the first lesbian couple selected as Harvard House Masters. When an article that identified Eck as lesbian reached Austin’s aged aunt, she called Austin’s mother and asked, “Does Dorothy know that Diana is a lesbian?”
The anecdote was one of many personal stories—both humorous and painful—about the difficulties of revealing one’s sexual identity to family members and friends shared at an event Wednesday to commemorate National Coming Out Day. These experiences were related at a Queer Students and Allies sponsored candlelight vigil at the John Harvard statue Wednesday evening to memorialize both the suffering of LGBTQ community and progress made toward queer equality.
“We had this event to highlight what doesn’t get talked about, and how we can work to actively make our world better,” QSA treasurer Trevor N. Coyle ’14, who organized the event.
University President Drew G. Faust made a brief appearance at the vigil—which is the first event organized by the QSA that she has ever attended, according to QSA Co-chairs Emma Q. Wang ’12 and Sam J. Bakkila ’11-’12. In her speech, Faust recalled Harvard’s intolerant past and the 1920 Secret Court—a string of closed-door trials that resulted in the expulsion of several students for their sexual orientation—but said that one of her top priorities is to make the University an accepting and comfortable environment for queer students.
“I worry that even now people may ask themselves ‘do I belong here?’ One of my highest aspirations as president is to ensure that all the members of this community feel that they fully belong here and that Harvard truly is theirs,” Faust said.
“Let’s all work together to create a future where no one asks ‘Do I belong here?’, no one asks because the affirmative response to the question is already clear,” she added.
Her speech came after several months of tensions between queer rights activists and the administration. Emotions ran high last semester when the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps was welcomed back to Harvard after the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the policy that banned gays, lesbians, and bisexuals from serving openly in the military. But activists took issue with NROTC’s return as the military excludes transgender people, a policy which activists say violates the University’s non-discrimination clause.
While Faust has said that she is receptive to the concerns of trans rights activists, little headway has been made to resolve this issue.
“I think she was looking for a platform to show her support for the LGBTQ community,” QSA Co-chair Emma Q. Wang ’12 said. “She’s been under a lot of fire since last semester for ROTC.”
English Professor Matthew Kaiser, who is openly gay, shared a story from his childhood about the first time he encountered a gay man.
“The mere presence of him, just being himself so unself-consciously, meant something to me,” Kaiser said. “In his radiance I saw myself illuminated. This was a small miracle for me.”
“You leave in your wake a trail of beauty and confidence for little LGBT kids who are figuring themselves out,” he added.
Students were encouraged to share their own stories in an open mic session.
Several speakers touched upon the string of nationwide suicides that rocked the LGBTQ community last fall.
“Tonight we are here to honor the memory of our LGBT brothers and sisters who took their own lives,” Kaiser said. “We remember the senselessness and ripping apart that we all felt.”
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the past three years, in the midst of University-wide budget cuts, the dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences had relatively limited funds to push to improve his mission of bettering teaching at Harvard.
Now, with a stronger financial outlook for FAS, Dean Michael D. Smith says he can now focus on promoting his “teaching and learning” initiative.
At last week’s Faculty Meeting, Smith identified the school’s commitment to teaching and learning as a priority of the capital campaign—an initiative by Harvard to raise possibly billions of dollars to benefit University missions. Among the organizations to most likely benefit the most from this funding is the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning.
“We did a huge review of the Bok Center, and it’s done some amazing things,” Smith said in an interview late last month. “We’re trying new things—there’s more interesting research to do.”
In a new addition to the leadership at the Bok Center, which prepares instructors—especially teaching fellows—in pedagogical methods, a faculty director will work alongside executive director Terry Aladjem.
“The faculty director will play a major role in articulating the centrality of undergraduate teaching in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences,” FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal said. “Together with Bok Center colleagues, she or he will support faculty members in enriching their classes with new materials, methods and technologies, and assessing their efficacy in teaching undergraduates.”
The director will lead programs in “innovative pedagogies and assessment,” among other responsibilities of developing “good teaching,” according to Neal.
“We would love [to have] someone who is a faculty director, someone who’s gone out into the field,” Smith said.
Smith also announced that he will continue the series of panel discussions on pedagogy he initiated last year.
In 2007, the FAS Task Force on Teaching and Career Development released a guiding memo for the school to improve the quality of its faculty teaching. The 86-page document, titled “A Compact to Enhance Teaching and Learning at Harvard,” emphasizes greater prioritization of teaching and increased intra-departmental mentoring of junior faculty and graduate students by senior faculty.
“In principle, FAS expects all faculty members to do what many in fact do: devote comparable time during the academic year to teaching and research, and teach undergraduates as well as graduate students,” the report reads. “But in institutional practice cutting-edge academic research is what FAS celebrates and most consistently rewards.”
One year after the document was published, heavy endowment losses and an estimated $220 million two-year deficit prompted Smith to ask departments and centers to cut 10 to 15 percent of their operating budgets.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 13, 2011
The Oct. 13 article "FAS Focuses on Teaching and Learning Initiative" incorrectly stated that the new faculty director will replace the existing executive director. In fact, the new faculty director will work alongside the existing executive director, Terry Aladjem, who will continue in his current role.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Once a baker for the Leverett House grill who sold four gooey chocolate chip cookies for a dollar, Joanne B. Chang ’91 will be providing an indulgent treat for Harvardians once again this Friday as the creator of a massive birthday cake for Harvard’s 375th Celebration.
The giant, H-shaped birthday cake will be made of 63 individual red velvet sheet cakes that are 26 by 18 inches each.
The cakes will be laid on top of a 6-foot high platform. The entire cake will be frosted with Swiss meringue vanilla buttercream.
“We thought red velvet was the most appropriate, given Harvard’s color,” said chef Martin T. Breslin, the HUDS director for culinary operations. “And vanilla frosting is always in high demand.”
According to Breslin, a committee in charge of planning the 375th Celebration unanimously agreed that Chang would be an ideal candidate to bake the cake.
“Joanne is a terrific baker, and we know the quality of her product will be delicious,” Breslin said, emphasizing Chang’s focus on meticulously selecting her ingredients.
Breslin first met Chang in 2007 on the Food Network’s “Throwdown with Bobby Flay,” when he served as a judge for the show and Chang appeared as a challenger. In the episode, Chang triumphed over Flay with her “Famous Stick Buns.”
Breslin said the committee initially had a number of ideas for the celebratory cake, including an architectural design. But because architectural cakes are difficult to serve—and full of icing, which obscures the taste of the cake itself—Breslin said the committee decided to commission a simple, yet delicious, cake for the celebration. Chang was selected for the job soon thereafter.
With a degree in Applied Math: Economics under her belt, Chang spent two years as a management consultant before entering the culinary world.
“I wanted to try cooking to see what it’s like to work at a professional kitchen,” Chang said.
Her career began with a stint as a cook, who specialized in cold foods, at Biba Restaurant in Boston. However, Chang said she was not completely satisfied with the chaotic nature of working to prepare orders quickly during the restaurant’s bustling meal times.
Chang followed her sweet tooth instead, deciding that work as a pastry chef might better suit her tastes.
She took a job as an assistant to the head baker of Bentonwood Bakery in Newton and as a pastry chef at Rialto in Cambridge. Then, in 1997, Chang was hired to work in the cake department of the critically-acclaimed Payard Patisserie and Bistro in New York City.
Chang returned to Boston a year later to pursue her dream of opening up her own pastry shop. In September 2000, Chang opened Flour, a bakery and café, in Boston. She is currently the owner of three branches of Flour as well as Myers + Chang restaurant, which she operates with her husband.
Chang said she enjoys the creative aspects of cooking, and producing something that goes directly to the customer.
“Baking has a clear, direct gratification,” she said.
Chang added that she began baking the 375th Anniversary cake several weeks ago, baking two sheets of cakes every other day. The cakes are delivered and stored at a Harvard kitchen, where they are kept at a very low temperature in order to maintain their quality.
The final cake, which is expected to feed up to 5,000 people, will be situated in Tercentenary Theater, and will be served to guests throughout Harvard’s  375th birthday celebration. Desserts prepared by local vendors will also be served.
In addition, the event will include a musical performance by Yo-Yo Ma ’76 and an open bar for all individuals 21 or older.
—Staff writer Jane Seo can be reached at janeseo@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Blackberry users found themselves intermittently unable to check their email, communicate through Blackberry Messenger, or use a variety of data services Wednesday, as a network outage for the devices spread to North America early in the day.
Network disruptions began a few days ago in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and India before reaching the Americas.
For many, the first sign of trouble was the inability to send or receive emails.
“It was weird because I didn’t get any emails—usually I have 5 to 10 new ones every morning,” said Blackberry user Chika-Dike O. Nwokike ’15.
Many students regard their Blackberrys as essential tools for managing their lives, using the built-in calendar and messaging applications on a daily basis.
A disruption in data service could mean an inability to communicate with friends over BBM, or, perhaps more ominously, the possibility of missing an important email.
“It’s hard to keep in touch with my friends and organize stuff without BBM,” said Griffin T. Schumacher ’15, who realized that something was wrong after one of his messages refused to send.
But he also questioned the severity of the outage, given that text messaging and phone service continued to function normally.
“It’s not like text messaging is the worst thing in the world,” Schumacher said.
Many other students also said that they did not feel that the outage constituted a crisis in their lives.
Some users were not even aware that Research in Motion (RIM)—the Canadian telecommunications company which manufactures and provides data services for Blackberry devices—was having difficulties keeping its network afloat.
“I honestly didn’t even know that it had happened,” said Chelsea A. Mullen ’15.
Analysts have been scrutinizing RIM since the network went down, and some have criticized the company for remaining relatively silent throughout the outage.
Some students shared this sentiment, saying they wished there would be more of an explanation for the interruption of services.
“I wish they could just keep us informed,” said Ava C. Carter ’13.
Nonetheless, Carter added that she enjoyed the respite from constant communication.
“It’s kind of nice to not get emails all day long,” she said.
Although Blackberry devices are widely used by business professionals, their dominance has been challenged in recent years with the ascendancy of other smartphones, such as the iPhone and the Droid.
Among Harvard students, this recent blackout may have hastened the Blackberry’s decline in appeal.
“I’m already thinking of switching to the iPhone,” said Schumacher.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard lightweight coach Charley Butt, Crimson rower Andrew Campbell, and Radcliffe freshman Lucy Grinalds received nominated for USRowing Fan's Choice Awards on Tuesday. Grinalds is a finalist for the Junior Rower of the Year, Campbell for National Team Rower of the Year, and Butt for Collegiate Coach of the Year.
Butt was nominated following a season in which the Harvard first and second varsity eights went undefeated in the dual season and won Eastern Sprints title. The Crimson 1V finished .02 seconds behind gold medalist Yale at IRAs. Meanwhile, a four composed of 2V rowers and then-sophomore coxswain Alex Saal capped off the team's second-boat success with a national title at the IRA regatta.
While Butt was nominated for his success at Harvard, his national team success was also cited in the brief. Butt helped eight of his rowers compete for their respective national teams this summer, and coached Campbell and Princeton grad Gevvie Stone in the single.
Campbell, meanwhile, is coming off a history-making summer in the lightweight single. Just a year after taking bronze at the Junior World Championships, Campbell finished third at U23 Worlds and took fourth at senior Worlds. The bronze medals at Junior and U23 Worlds stand as the highest U.S. finishes ever in the events, while his fourth place finish at senior Worlds is the highest U.S. finish since 2002. Campbell is currently training in hopes of competing for the US at the 2012 London Olympics in the double.
Of the three nominees currently with Harvard, Grinalds is the only one in the group to have won a World Championship in the past year. In her fourth straight year on the U.S. junior national team, she took gold in the straight four. Grinalds also won the U.S. Junior Nationals in the pair, took bronze at U.S. nationals in the eight, and earned a second place finish in the junior lightweight event at C.R.A.S.H.-B.s. Grinalds competed with the Connecticut Boat Club this summer is currently with the Black and White heavyweight team.
You can vote for Butt here, Campbell here, and Grinalds here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In football, special teams—and especially kickers—are often overlooked. But just four games into the season, strong performances by both junior punter Jake Dombrowski and sophomore place-kicker David Mothander have made the duo hard to ignore.
In last Sunday’s win over Cornell, Mothander and Dombrowski played big roles in Crimson victories yet again. Mothander was accurate on all PATs against Cornell and made both attempted field goals—a 42-yard kick and a 26-yard strike, respectively.
While Dombrowski’s punts did not put any points on the scoreboard, he consistently forced the Big Red offense deep in its own territory.  Dombrowski had six punts on the day, for an average of 46 yards, and a long of 58 yards. In addition to length, his punts travel high in the air, giving the defense plenty of time to cover.
But for the junior punter, as with all strong kickers, Dombrowski has navigated a long road to achieve his current success.  He first started kicking footballs when he was in seventh grade.
“I went to one of the practices, because all of my friends played football … I talked to the coach and he said, ‘we can use a kicker,’” Dombrowksi said. “That is how it started.”
But unlike the current trend of specialization among young athletes, Dombrowski was a five-sport high school athlete, competing in soccer, football, track, golf, and basketball.
While a star on the gridiron, Dombrowski also made his name known on the soccer field, even receiving offers to play in Division I. Eventually, he chose football, citing the fact that it opened the most doors for him.
Once Dombrowski decided to play college football, the highly sought-after punter faced big decisions. Both the University of Michigan and Stanford recruited him, but ultimately the Michigan native could not pass up the opportunity to suit up for the Crimson.
“Having [a] Harvard education to fall back on ... you cannot really pass up [the opportunity],” Dombrowksi said. “And it’s still Division I football.”
Although Dombrowski was recruited to be both a kicker and punter, a nagging back injury from Aug. 2010 forced the junior economics concentrator to focus on punting.
A car accident followed that November. Dombrowski was in a cab returning from a physical therapy appointment when a large van rear-ended him, forcing him to sit out that game against Columbia. The following week, a procedure before the Penn matchup made his game-time status questionable.
But the then-sophomore wanted to get back in the game.
“I had to lay on the center aisle of the bus for eight hours on the way to Penn,” Dombrowski said. “[But] I played.”
As a result of Dombrowski’s inability to place-kick last season, the 6’3 185-pound David Mothander had the rare opportunity: to be an integral part of the team as a freshman.  Mothander embraced the chance. He was named National Placekicker of the Week on Nov. 1 and Ivy League co-Rookie of the Week on Sept. 20.
Mothander donned pads for the first time much later than Dombrowski, only beginning kicking his senior year of high school to fill the void on the school’s team.  After having a successful postgraduate year playing for Philips Exeter Academy, the kicker was recruited by Harvard.
Once in Cambridge, the inexperienced kicker was immediately thrown into action his freshman year. But Mothander seemed to be unfazed by the pressure.
“I was probably too naïve to feel [the pressure] too much,” Mothander said.
The sophomore has worked hard to improve his kicks, and over the past summer he remained on campus and trained in the mornings with the football team’s “summer dogs.”
“It never hurts to become a better athlete,” Mothander said. “Our strength and conditioning program is awesome, so it definitely helped.”
This season, Mothander’s hard work has manifested on the field. After making nine of his 15 field goals last season, the Mather house resident has yet to miss one this season.
But Mothander still believes there is room for improvement.
“Kick offs have not been where I want them to be or where they should be,” Mothander said. “I could definitely improve my consistency—that is always something to improve.”
Although it’s still early in the season both Dombrowski and Mothander have made large strides in their abilities, which can be attributed to their hard, regimented work.
“I think both kids had terrific offseasons,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “We gave them some specific goals and very specific things we wanted them to do.”
In positions where controlling the mind can be very difficult, both players have displayed good composure and ease under pressure.
“So much of being a good specialist is shoulders up, not from hips down,” Murphy said.
And so far, the kicking duo has elevated itself to elite status—both above and below the hips.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s tennis team is still months away from its primary season next spring. But already, the performances of a handful of its rookie members have given the squad hope that this year’s freshman class can push the Crimson over the top.
After graduating two seniors from last year’s team that finished last spring tied for third place in the Ivy League, Harvard coach Dave Fish ’72 has brought in a group of five freshmen from a variety of backgrounds.
Denis Nguyen has been quick to distinguish himself in the early going. Nguyen recorded a combined 4-2 record in singles and doubles action at the Chowder Fest tournament in late September, the team’s first event of the fall.
“Denis is a very talented young player,” Fish said. “We’ve been really pleased with his work ethic—he tries new things and that’s really the mark of somebody who’s going to succeed at the college level.”
Nguyen, who graduated from Canyon High School in Anaheim, Calif., was formerly the 18th-ranked junior player in the country and the top player in his home region of Southern California. Despite plenty of success against the best in the country, Nguyen notes that he arrived on campus with realistic expectations.
“Being near the top of the lineup from the start was definitely a privilege,” he said. “I was proud to be representing Harvard right away.”
But Nguyen isn’t the lone rookie working his way up the depth chart. Alex Steinroeder competed as the Crimson’s second-ranked singles player in the fall opener and teamed up with reigning All-Ivy senior Jonathan Pearlman in doubles. Steinroeder hails from Concord, Mass. and has competed primarily in New England, a region that, Fish notes, lacks a reputation within tennis circles for breeding stellar talent.
But reputation or not, Steinroeder was thrown into the fire right away at the Chowder Fest tournament, pinned against the University of Southern California’s Ray Sarmiento, who made a run to the NCAA championships round of 16 last spring. Steinroeder couldn’t pull off the upset, but he did push the highly touted sophomore to three sets.
“Alex has such a good, innate sense of how to play the game,” Fish noted. “We projected a very bright future for him, and he hasn’t disappointed us at all so far.”
The Class of 2015 is rounded out by Shaun Chaudhuri, Henry Steer, and Brandon Parker. Parker’s road to Harvard has certainly been the most unusual and indirect one. He returned to tennis this fall after a two-year hiatus spent on a missionary trip in Honduras.
“He’s done great considering his rust at the beginning,” Fish said. “He’s just getting better every day.”
Parker earned his first collegiate victory at the Chowder Fest tournament, winning in straight sets after dropping his first match. He also competed in doubles with sophomore Brendan Seaver.
Steer and Chaudhuri got off to strong starts as well. The pair teamed up to record a 2-1 doubles record at the Chowder Fest, while each also competed in singles play.
“Henry has tremendous upside,” Fish said. “He’s very athletic, has a huge forehand, and his serve is becoming a real part of his arsenal.”
Fish praised Chaudhuri for his poise and concentration on the court.
“He’s taken a couple of games off the chess master in Harvard Square,” Fish recalled with a chuckle. “He sort of plays tennis like that. He’s a very focused kid.”
The freshmen are quick to credit the coaches and upperclassmen for facilitating the smooth transition. Both Nguyen and Steinroeder noted the advice they had received from the veteran players on classes and managing a busy schedule.
“They don’t really care about where people play in the lineup; they just want the whole team to do well,” Steinroeder said. “It’s been great to have their leadership.”
“It’s not like there’s a tension,” Fish echoed. “Everybody wants to get better together.”
Nguyen and Steinroeder will compete this weekend at the ITA Regional Championship at Cornell. Chaudhuri, Parker, and Steer will join them in action later this month at Harvard’s Halloween Invitational.
“[The freshmen] have their sights set on trying to add something special to the team,” Fish said. “I think their hunger is pushing everybody to get better. And you can’t ask for much more.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Part of the responsibility that comes with being a football beat writer is travelling to all of the team’s road games.
It’s a fun job, but you can end up in some interesting places. Travelling to New York isn’t so bad. Making the trip to Lafayette can be.
As for New Haven, well, at least the rest of the Harvard population is down there with you. But I wasn’t able to go to last Saturday’s game at Cornell. And it has nothing to do with any logistics, travel difficulty, or general lack of desire to go to Ithaca—it’s because the game was scheduled on Yom Kippur.
Instead, the other two beat writers—both also Jewish—and I stayed in Cambridge. Two substitutes filled in for us admirably, covering the Crimson’s 41-31 victory over the Big Red as the three regulars, eagerly and hungrily, waited for sundown.
I’m not upset that I didn’t travel to Cornell, even if it meant missing junior Colton Chapple’s performance—one of the best in Harvard history. What bothers me more is that Cornell scheduled the game on the Day of Atonement.
Both schools have substantial Jewish populations. It’s difficult to put a clear number on it, but various estimates put the total percentage of Jewish undergraduates at both schools somewhere between 20 and 25 percent.
I would be inclined to say that most of these students aren’t particularly religious—and that includes all three beat writers. But even so, many still go through the motions on Yom Kippur—attending religious service and fasting for 24 hours—making it impossible to attend an afternoon game. And it also poses a dilemma for any Jewish players on the team, or players in the band, or in our case, writers in the booth.
Very early in the summer, we all decided that we wouldn’t attend the game if Cornell didn’t change its start time. But we remained hopeful—after all, there is precedent in the Ivy League for these kinds of adjustments.
In 2007, the Department of Athletics changed the start time of the Crimson’s first ever night game to avoid a scheduling conflict with Yom Kippur, responding to complaints from the community.
The team also played a night game in 2010 on a Saturday as opposed to a Friday, and a conflict was avoided with a start time not long after sunset.
There wasn’t an infrastructural issue at Cornell either. The Big Red’s stadium, Schoellkopf Field, has lights.
In the Ivy League, night games tend to attract bigger crowds than other contests during the year. Harvard drew 18,565 in a Sept. 23 contest against Brown, higher than the 13,298 that the team averaged in 2010, excluding the Harvard-Yale game.
Despite rainy conditions, Dartmouth’s first-ever night game drew 8,117 fans, many more than its 2010 average of 5,971 per home game.
I would imagine that the lights would have had the same impact in Ithaca. Casual fans, and especially students, tend to enjoy the night-game atmosphere more.
Certainly, there would have been logistical problems. With a start that late, the team would not have gotten back to Cambridge on the bus until the wee hours of the morning. The team may even have needed to spend an extra night in upstate New York.
I recognize the problems with moving a game around, both financial and logistical. But Dartmouth made it work for Penn, and I think Cornell could have—and should have—done the same.
Jewish athletes have been forced to make tough decisions when it comes to playing on Yom Kippur for decades. Hank Greenberg and Sandy Koufax both famously sat out at critical points—Greenberg in a pennant race, and Koufax during Game 1 of the 1965 World Series.
Others choose to play. Ryan Braun of the Milwaukee Brewers did this past weekend, and his team won Game 5 of this year’s NLDS. Closer to home, sophomore Xanni Brown played rugby—while she fasted.
But in the little world of Harvard football coverage, I had my Sandy Koufax moment, abstaining not just for religious reasons, but also on principle.
On the bright side, I hear Cornell’s food was underwhelming. At least I got to break my fast with the finest that HUDS has to offer.
—Staff writer E. Benjamin Samuels can be reached at samuels@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Let's face it, as much as we love the H, getting into the Halloween spirit may require getting up and out of the bubble—plus, sometimes we just need a brain break that goes beyond Tootie Frooties. Here are some quirky and classic destinations in the area that guarantee an autumnal experience you won't soon forget.
1. Salem (Travel time: 45 min.)
Regardless of previous witch hunting activities, 21st century Salem has a certain charm. When planning your visit, keep an eye out for these attractions, which will appeal to all of your friends' diverse interests.
Lori Bruno, modern-day Salem witch
See your Harry Potter-inspired dreams come true by paying a visit to Lori Bruno, a bona fide witch. Leave it to a veteran psychic and Tarot reader who has been featured on CNN, FOX, SyFy, and TLC to discover all the ways that Harvard has made you nutty.
Vampire & Ghost Hunt Tour
Twilight fans can finally feel unashamed in the company of professional ghost hunter and supernatural expert Mollie Stewart on her nightly interactive ghost hunt tour to documented and researched haunted sites.
Peabody Essex Museum 
While you're in Salem, swing by the Peabody Essex Museum and check out the "Man Ray | Lee Miller: Partners in Surrealism" exhibit to see some seriously psychoactive art.
Gulu Gulu Café
Grab a crêpe and glass of wine at Gulu Gulu, a European-style café that is also a gallery featuring local artists.
Angelica of the Angels
Don't forget about your friends who couldn't make it! Stop by Angelica of the Angels, a gift shop that also offers psychic readings, trance channeling, and nightly séances, before heading home.
2. Connors Farm Corn Maze (Travel time: 40 min.)
Have some good old family-style fun with your friends at this local farm. Get lost in the 7-acre corn maze, pick apples and pumpkins, experience the jumping pillow, and enjoy a meal at Bob’s BBQ Pit.
3. Walden Pond (Travel time: 30 min.)
For an autumn outing to calm your mind and soothe your soul, head out to Thoreau's hallowed hangout spot. Swim, picnic, hike, use canoes and rowboats, fish, cross-country ski, and snowshoe, or just bask in the intellectual glory for which the pond is known. The changing leaves will make for breathtaking scenery and a welcome escape from the Harvard bubble.
4. Belkin Family Look-Out Farm (Travel time: 30 min.)
Described as an "orchard/amusement park hybrid," Belkin offers hayrides, a pumpkin patch, maze, hay pile, train, bee farm, playground, and even live entertainment on weekends. Get there with time to spare because it tends to get busy on weekends, and definitely try their homemade artisanal gelato!
5. Nightmare New England (Travel time: 60 min.)
If you're looking to get hardcore this Halloween, Nightmare New England is the place to go. With haunted attractions like The Colony, The Catacombs, Torment, Willow's Asylum, House of Eternal Darkness, and Freak Show in 3D, the hour-long journey to get there is well worth it. Apparently they have chainsaws, clowns, and an attraction with electric shocks, but don't worry—alcoholic beverages are available for the weak of heart.
