News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At last, Harvard’s alcohol policy is under formalized review. The College has created an alcohol policy committee, chaired by Cabot House Master Rakesh Khurana, charged with reevaluating current drinking regulations and proposing a new set of guidelines. Administrators have begun holding discussions with students in common spaces across campus regarding potential changes.
The contentious nature of Harvard’s current alcohol rules, especially in light of last year’s crackdown on in-House drinking, means that the present reevaluation is both necessary and welcome. Although Harvard ought to be concerned about the implications of underage drinking, the fact is that protecting student welfare is a complex task. Indeed, it may be safer for students if the College practiced some degree of salutary neglect with regard to on-campus drinking.
It is a well-accepted truth about the Harvard social environment that there are not enough safe, open, and inclusive social spaces. Yet, the fact is that there exists no shortage of venues where students could—in theory—socialize in an environment devoid of the malignant gender dynamics and reckless behavior that define many off-campus locales. The upperclass Houses, each a perfect microcosm of the Harvard community at large, are ripe with potential to be the sort of inclusive social space that Harvard students feel is lacking. However, college students socialize over alcohol. Therefore, the overbearing alcohol-control policies of the College administration prevent Houses from flourishing as they might. (Should anyone need convincing of the power of alcohol to draw students to House events, they should look no further than the 375th birthday celebration; the open bar was the reason many students went.) Lukewarm House spirit causes students to seek community elsewhere, and thus the College’s alcohol policy is culpable for driving much of the social scene off-campus, outside the protections that Harvard offers.
For upperclassmen, the best solution going forward is for Harvard to decentralize control of alcohol policy to House Masters. Masters know their House communities best and are well positioned to understand what regulations would promote or regress safety.
For freshmen the issue is different; for this group, the lack of inclusive, open, and safe social space presents the greatest danger. Harvard currently maintains a ban on alcohol in the freshman dorms. This policy is rooted in worthwhile concerns regarding many freshmen’s lack of drinking experience and newness to the college living experience. Certainly, this policy rids Harvard of much legal responsibility. Yet the fact remains that we have no reason to believe that such policies (and their strict enforcement) reduce how much alcohol freshmen actually drink. We do, however, know as a matter of certainty that these policies outsource drinking to off-campus venues, most notably male final clubs. They contribute considerably to the social exodus of female freshmen from dorm spaces subject to campus regulation to the exclusive and often predatory environment of all-male final clubs.
As the College’s primary interest in this issue is the welfare of its students, the revised alcohol policy ought to promote safe social spaces where students can socialize as they actually do—with moderate amounts of alcohol. We at the Crimson understand that the University cannot explicitly endorse underage drinking. Nevertheless, we believe that there exists ample room to positively affect the student experience by modifying enforcement practices. By returning control to the Houses and reforming freshman drinking restrictions, Harvard can decrease the risks caused by the College’s overbearing alcohol policies.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A frail old man fasting for days to mobilize attention for his cause. An arrogant government brought to its knees. If you still remember some world history, you’re probably thinking of Gandhi. The man I am talking about, however, is Anna Hazare, a lifelong political activist who went on a twelve-day fast in August to force the Indian government to form an organization that could combat the large-scale corruption in government offices.
Large sections of the Indian media and Hazare’s many followers look at him as Gandhi’s spiritual successor. Indeed, at the recently concluded MIT India Conference, a panel on good governance described him as the “best thing to happen to India in the last ten years.” The last year’s horrific instances of government corruption, in the allocation of telecom money and in the Commonwealth Games, bears out the importance of this cause.
In essence, Hazare’s movement aims to pass a bill forming an organization called the “Jan Lokpal” (a public ombudsman) that will have the power to independently investigate charges of corruption by all government officials, including the prime minister. According to his website, the Lokpal bill proposes that the members of this all-powerful organization be elected by “judges, (eminent) citizens and constitutional authorities” in a “transparent and participatory process”.
Sounds great, right? Nevertheless, despite how attractive this organization seems, it is actually unconstitutional, impractical and undemocratic.
The formation of the Lokpal is problematic. When the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court himself admits that the judicial system has its share of corruption, it is improbable that it can choose a group that is completely honest. Additionally, getting so-called “eminent” citizens to vote for this body is a form of elitism. The idea that a group of people who call themselves the civil society can make decisions for the rest of the country dangerously subverts democracy, especially when this group bear no responsibility or accountability to the country’s citizens.
Even the Gandhi analogy falls apart when you realize that Gandhi was leading a movement against an illegitimate foreign power, while Hazare is basically proposing to place an unelected body above a democratically elected government. The fact that the corrupt government has been voted into power is a crucial detail Hazare’s followers conveniently forget. The educated middle-class, Hazare’s main support base, have somehow convinced themselves that the government has been elected by the unwashed multitudes that cannot make correct decisions. However, the power of a democracy is that each citizen has equal rights. India cannot just hand over good governance to the body of people deemed most worthy by those who deem themselves most worthy.
And who is to say that this body won’t be as bad as the government? Assuming that the stringent measures the proposed organization promises to take against corruption are enforced, it seems entirely probable that unscrupulous political rivals or government competitors will charge honest officers with false claims. This could paralyze government workings, as government officers become afraid to take any risks. Hazare’s website claims that the workings of the Lokpal will be “completely transparent” and that claims of corruption against any officials of the Lokpal will be addressed speedily. Who will investigate those charges, though? If the Lokpal itself investigates charges of corruption against its members, there is an obvious conflict of interest. In Juvenal’s oft-used slogan, “Who will guard the guards?” How many organizations do we have to create before we can claim to have one that is above suspicion?
The Lokpal Bill also attacks the other great pillar of the Indian political system: the Constitution. If a bill can be passed in the parliament by the sole support of perhaps 500,000 people in a country with a billion, it questions the integrity of the elaborate framework laid out in the Constitution and sets an incredibly dangerous precedent. Disadvantaged groups in India that are the beneficiaries of affirmative action laws are already distancing themselves from the Lokpal, fearing that the same activist blocs that support this bill might next through a bill that is hostile to their interests. This brings up the question: Does a proposed law become legitimate because of a small number of vocal supporters? What about laws benefitting the voiceless members of society—the poor and disempowered?
Of course, the Lokpal movement has had some very valuable consequences. In bringing widespread discontent to the attention of those in power, it has effectively backed the government into a corner from where it will have to take some concrete action against those responsible for the terrible scams. Hopefully, it will institute long-term measures to curb corruption, such as setting up fast-track courts to make sure corruption cases do not run for thirty years or initiating government-funded elections to legitimize electoral spending. These measures do not have to be the quick-fix aura of the Lokpal but can have more lasting effects.
A problem as deeply rooted in the Indian system as corruption cannot possibly be ended in one step. If it is to be truly defeated, the Indian people must demand it from those elected from their constituencies and from those they pay their taxes to, in a constant and sustained manner. Even when it is no longer fashionable to support Anna Hazare. Even without the glamour of a Gandhi.
Namya Mahajan ’15, a Crimson editorial comper, lives in Wigglesworth Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
In general, I have sympathy for arguments in favor of restoring marriage as an institution to America. I have no love for promiscuity, and I believe that the stability of our home environment determines our overall health. And yes, I believe that America’s increasingly sexualized culture is something worrisome and dangerous for American youth.
Nevertheless, reading the op-ed by Luciano E. Milano’14 and James P. McGlone’15 entitled “Reclaiming Marriage” was a shock. They quote “studies” and “research” that have (apparently conclusively) shown that “marriage provides better conditions than any other form of relationship for couples’ well being.” Their claims reinforce faulty stereotypes of non-traditional parents as being violent, drug-affected, low-achievers who have no morals.
First, the authors should have produced some empirical research that backed their claims that traditional households perform better on “a myriad of sociological indices,” preferably not from an institution predisposed to traditional marriage. Apart from the obvious bias, there are definitely confounding variables driving both the rate of marriage and the negative sociological effects the authors identify, giving a false impression of a relationship.
Though the reckless claims are egregious enough to statistical sensibilities, the more serious problem is the admission that marriage is just a front: It is norms (commonly associated with marriage, but perhaps mistakenly so) that promote stable living environments. In that case, what’s the big deal about marriage?
Marriage is no longer the only way to love. The lifestyles some have chosen to embrace are private matters that deserve respect. Arguments castigating them on practical grounds are unfounded, and those that do so upon moral grounds are self-righteous and antiquated. Pro-marriage advocates often promote marriage to the exclusion of all other forms of love; instead, they should promote the norms commonly associated with marriage to advocate for healthier, committed, moral couples…without necessarily being married.
Today, we wage an unnecessary war to promote marriage between individuals of all kinds of sexuality. For those who are told that marriage is not accessible, the idea that marriage is the only legitimate institution for forming a family is an affront. We should be escaping from the pure symbolism of the altar and realizing that love need not be confined to where the law dictates.
Stop trying to reclaim marriage from people who never took it away. Instead, help reclaim love, understanding, commitment, and moral integrity, characteristics that—imagine that!—can and do exist separate and apart from marriage.
Kevin Liu Huang ‘13 is a joint Government-Statistics concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As European leaders meet this week, they continue to twiddle their fingers as the risk of an enormous global financial crisis caused by Europe’s crisis increases. The Eurozone faces critical jssues borne of their inability to properly construct a functional economic union, and the problems they have created will require aggressive and bold solutions. European citizens and their leaders face no choice but to ensure an orderly default for Greece, effectively guarantee the debts of all other Eurozone countries, and recapitalize European banks; the alternative is almost certain to be economic chaos and recession.
Europeans have constructed their economic union in a few stages. First, the Europeans had an integrated market, a wise idea that broke down trade and immigration barriers and increased economic activity by allowing the free movement of goods and peoples. This market strengthened over time and led to a society that maintained distinct cultures and governments but shared economic markets and a set of admirable fundamental rights. They should have stopped there.
Instead, many of the EU member states went ahead and created a currency union. The flaw in their plan was that fiscal and monetary policy must go hand in hand; it is impossible to run a properly functioning monetary union without also having integrated fiscal policy. We can see the ramifications of the Europeans’ decision right now: Countries like Greece, Italy and Spain would traditionally use substantial inflation to devalue their debts, but instead they are subject to a tight monetary policy that better suits the stronger European economies such as Germany and Austria.
If Europeans don’t find a way to manage an orderly default for Greece, protect other at-risk Eurozone economies, and recapitalize European banks, they could start a global economic crisis that would make the 2008 financial crisis look like a warm-up act. Taken as a single entity, the EU is the world’s largest economy. A chaotic default by Greece, or even worse, defaults by Spain or Italy, could send the European economy into a tailspin, and it would bring the rest of the global economy down with it.
Europeans must immediately arrange an orderly debt restructuring (partial default) for Greece. This will entail reducing Greece’s debt burden to a manageable level by forcing bondholders to take substantial haircuts, or debt-for-equity swaps, on their holdings of Greek debt. Greece is almost certain to default at this point, and the only question is whether it will do so in a chaotic or orderly fashion. It is essential it is done in a methodological manner to minimize the effects on other European economies as well as the larger global economy.
Forcing bondholders to take substantial haircuts on Greek debt will understandably result in major losses for banks. European member states and the European Central Bank must together commit to support the banks through a combination of recapitalization measures and unlimited lending facilities. Member states seem to have agreed to a preliminary set of recapitalization measures, but any that don’t include unlimited lending facilities won’t go far enough to ensure trust in the European financial system. It is never pleasant to bailout large banks, but given the large sovereign debt holdings of most European banks, the alternative could be a string of disastrous bank failures.
Finally, European member states must ensure that none of the other Eurozone economies default. This requires a commitment to “open-ended financing” from the ECB to every other European economy. The ECB must commit to buying all bonds of European countries for the foreseeable future as well as engaging in more expansionary monetary policy. A strong commitment to financing will remove investor concern that these countries won’t be able to pay off their debts, while a more expansionary monetary policy will devalue the nominal debts and make it easier for countries to pay them off.
Instead of committing to this right now, the Eurozone is convinced that a leveraged fund, the European Financial Stability Fund, should be put together to buy European bonds. Yet its hard to believe that a complex, leveraged, and limited vehicle for bond purchases subject to electoral approval by every single Eurozone member state will really be more effective than an ECB that can just print the Euros necessary to finance the debt of member states. It is puzzling that European leaders and Mario Draghi, the chair of the ECB, are not committing to debt purchases of all at-risk EU sovereign debt.
Europeans have not committed to the bold measures that are needed to prevent disaster because, to quote Matthew Yglesias ’03, they are uncomfortable with being fully “on the hook” for problems arising in any European member state. By joining the currency union, however, Europeans committed themselves to integrated fiscal and economic governance. They now have no choice to continue on this path if they want to avoid a string of defaults, bank failures, and crises that would leave Europe and the rest of the global economy in tatters.
Ravi N. Mulani ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
As a race transcender and a researcher exploring the factors that lead to this identity disposition, I wish to offer some clarification and a caution to Camille S. Owens ’13 and Carolyn W. Chou ’13, the authors of “Resisting Racelesness,” a letter in response to the article “Raceless Like Me” and others who might have had similar reactions to learning about this identity orientation.
Race transcendence is no more a theory than is race. We may and should develop theories about the phenomenon of racial identity, but that is quite apart from acknowledging the existence of any particular orientation toward racial identity. To be “concerned by the implications of presenting race transcendence as a viable theory for reconfiguring identity” is simply to misconstrue an identity as a theory of identity. We would not say that the authors’ self-description as two women of color is a theory to be accepted or disputed. It is a statement of a disposition about an aspect of their identity, and they are entitled to present it—but no more so than is someone who is race transcendent.
Regarding the question of whether one can think beyond the boundaries of race, I assure the reader that I have done so from the moment I was presented with the absurdity of the idea of race, and I am documenting the narratives of others who also think beyond the real constraints of this false construct. I am quite aware that my inability to accept a specious concept as legitimate is fully matched by the inability of some to see the concept as specious, illegitimate, and, at least cognitively, optional.
The authors are quite right that race is about more than subscription. It is indeed initially and primarily about assignation. The construct of race functions like Jeremy Bentham’s Panopticon, performing the diabolical trick of leading the policed to police themselves. So powerful is racialization that we not only accept but also embrace our incarceration, unable to imagine a reality beyond our skin cells.
Regarding the practical implications of having a non-racialized sense of self, the authors raise some important questions. “How does a person who is perceived as non-white but who identifies as raceless deal with racism in their personal life?” And “…how can one be embedded within a system and simultaneously above it?” If these are questions based in genuine scientific curiosity, they can be pursued with interest and even excitement. If they are, on the other hand, queries conveying invalidation of a harmless worldview, then they represent, no matter how politely presented, a soft form of bigotry.
The fact is that there are people who reject the notion of race and racial identity. You might not be raceless, like me, but please do not tell those of us who hold this identity orientation that we cannot exist. We’re here (if rare); get used to it.
Carlos Hoyt is an Associate Dean of Students and Psychological Counselor at Phillips Academy Andover. He is currently pursuing his PhD at Simmons College. He is the founder of the website racetranscenders.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
FIVE HALLOWEEN COSTUMES FOR $5 OR UNDER
With a sexy skunk costume coming in at 108.95 hard-earned dollars on www.yandy.com, times have never been tougher. When times get tough, the tough get going, or in this case, they get creative. For those willing to be a little resourceful, here is a guide to putting together outfits that will leave an impression without emptying your checking account.
1. Tom Cruise’s Character From Risky Business:
Before Suri and Scientology, Cruise was singing “Old Time Rock and Roll” without pants on. His look offers affordability, along with maximum mobility for whatever action the night may bring.
College Events Board Wayfarer Sunglasses: $0.
Shorts: Boxers (Merona Knit Boxer, Target, $5.00)
Socks: Hopefully, you’ve got these bad boys covered, $0.
Dress Shirt (pink preferred): Girls, finagle one from a male friend and guys, break out those button-downs.
Total: $5.00
2.  The Cast of Jersey Shore:
Take on the GTL regimen without breaking a sweat.
G: Forget the gym—gel (Ampro Pro Styl Clear Ice Gel, CVS, $1.39) or a teasing comb (Conair Dressing Comb, CVS, $1.99) are your new best friends for a hair-raising Halloween.
T: While Cambridge might be hurting for UV rays, some bronzer (Wet ‘n’ Wild Ultimate Minerals Bronzer, CVS, $2.99) can provide the same natural orange glow.
L: That graphic tee or muscle tank lurking in your bottom drawer should get the job done—$0.
Total: $4.38 or $4.98
3. Vampire:
Cash in on the tween, ahem, young adult sensation that is Twilight for a get-up that will scare and seduce.
Fangs: Ones that glow-in-the-dark go for just $2.74 with free shipping on Amazon Prime (www.amazon.com).
Pale Make-up: Baby Powder (Johnson & Johnson, CVS, $1.99)
Normal Clothes (because that’s what vampires wear these days): $0
Total: $4.73
4. Super(wo)man as Clark Kent:
Put a fun spin on recruiting season by wearing the typical power suit with the shirt unbuttoned to reveal the hero within.
Power Suit (your own): $0
Blue T-shirt Underneath (your own): $0
Superman Crest: Print out an enlarged color copy of the crest (Science Center, $0.15) and make a copy on glossy photo paper (Gnomon, $0.65). Cut this out to size and tape to your blue t-shirt until secure.
Clark Kent (hipster) Glasses: $3.70 on Amazon Prime
Total: $4.50
5. Dobby:
Bring everyone’s favorite house elf back to life with the help of some linens and home-made ears.
Shirt/Dress: Tear up some arm-holes in an old white pillowcase or sheet, $0.
Socks: A symbol of freedom, the crazier the better, $0
Headband: Used for placing the ears (Scunci Cushion Tipped Headband, CVS, $3.99)
Ears: Glue two pieces of white paper together and cut them out, $0.
Total: $3.99
FIVE COSTUMES FOR GROUPS OF FIVE (OR FEWER)
1. Scooby Doo (five people)
Come on, gang! Become meddling kids and meddle with other kids’ Halloween. You have plenty of “masked villains” to track down—go unmask them and say, “Look who it is!” really loudly each time. Then take all of their “Scooby Snacks” for yourself.
2. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (four people if you stick to ninjas, five if you include Master Splinter)
Turtle power! Remember, TMNTs love pizza, so if you stay true to character you should be in and around Noch’s pretty much the whole night.
3. Spice Girls/*NSYNC (five people)
For single-sex blocking groups looking for ideas. Remember, if you’re in costume, singing the same song at the top of your lungs everywhere you go never gets old.
4. Power Rangers (however many you want)
Skin-tight suits in bright, eye-catching colors. If anyone in the group goes home alone, you’re doing it wrong.
5. Wizard of Oz (five people)
Dorothy, the Tin Man, the Lion, and the Scarecrow form the core group here. Choose a victim to be the Wicked Witch. Throw water on the Witch every 20 minutes, taking the opportunity to scream “You’re melting!” every time.
FIVE COSTUMES IN UNDER FIVE MINUTES
1. Mad Scientist
Break into Northwest Labs and/or steal a lab coat from your pre-med roommate. Rustle hair to get an extreme morning-after look. Walk around with a disgruntled look on your face.
2. Magician
Find a deck of cards and begin stapling them to the outfit you happen to be wearing. Pour glitter over your head. Alakazam!
3. The missing H in HUHDS
Befriend a HUDS chef. Trade outfits. Use a black sharpie to write an “H” on your back.
4. Justin Bieber
Grab a pair of scissors and give yourself the Beiber swoop. Grab a hoodie and an ironic, age-inappropriate t-shirt. Grab the nearest brunette and make her your Selena Gomez.
5. Drew Faust
Put on the recruiting outfit from your latest OCS schmooze-fest. Proceed to spend the night nodding politely.
*For a costume in under four minutes, add “slutty” to any of the above and remove one article of clothing.
Sections
One of the only non-rain-soaked parts of Harvard’s 375th birthday celebration on Oct. 14 was the celebratory dinner the Harvard University Dining Services prepared. HUDS offered dishes ranging in uniqueness from “Corn Chowder” to “Cornbread,” intending to narrate the history of Harvard’s food for its first 375 years. Descriptions written by representatives from The Food Literacy Project flanked each of the featured food items. HUDS will likely continue this tradition at Harvard’s subsequent birthday parties, so to make the lives of future FLP representatives a little easier, FM would like to offer our take on some dishes du jour:
“Golden Nuggets”
“Golden nuggets” were neither golden nor nuggety. They were, in fact, potato shavings molded into cylinders and deep-fried. Students usually ate them alongside dipping sauces, most notably “ketchup” (catsup). Popularly known in most circles as “tater tots,” “golden nuggets” reflected Harvard’s larger problem of calling things something different from their pre-established, accepted names—whether “Marshmallow Mateys” instead of Lucky Charms, “Frosted Mini Spooners” instead of Frosted Mini-Wheats, or “concentration” instead of “major.”
“Crispy Fish Sandwich,” “Vegan Dog,” “Hallal Grilled Hamburger”
It is unclear why HUDS regularly offered these items at the “grill,” since nobody ordered them, and they were disgusting.
“Boca Burger”
Literally translated from the Spanish as the “mouth” burger, the “boca burger” illustrated Harvard’s commitment to culinary diversity in an age of globalization. The mouth burger was served daily at the grill, providing a consistent vegan offering for individuals concerned with the implications of their food for animals and the environment. It contained the following ingredients: Boca Burger (Water, Soy Protein Concentrate, Wheat Gluten, Contains Less Than 2% If Methylcellulose, Salt, Natural & Artificial Flavor, Dried Onions, Maltodextrin, Yeast Extract, Sesame Oil, Defatted Wheat Germ, Hydrolyzed Protein (Corn & Soy) & Hydrolyzed Wheat Gluten, Caramel Color, Soy Sauce (Water, Soybeans, Wheat, Salt), Autolyzed Yeast Extract, Disodium Guanylate, Disodium Inosinate, Succinic Acid.))
“Hot breakfast”
Legend has it that this mythical meal was at one point served in House dining halls. No reports have been verified.
Sections
We are the generation whose fingers can’t stray away from the “like” button; the generation whose tongues naturally mimic how our peers speak; the generation that has been accused of lacking conviction in the things we say. And at the root of this phenomenon is one simple word and its surprising evolution: “like.”
Bland and unpretentious, “like” used to draw little stylistic and grammatical attention unless sandwiched in the middle of a simile. As a verb, its over-simplicity often lacked the power to add further meaning to an expression—“to like” falls short of “to adore” or “to enjoy.”
Today, “like,” which can serve as an adjective, an adverb, a preposition, or a conjunction, is more than a garnish to any Valley Girl’s conversation. Noted for its unconventional use by members of the Beat Generation, and later popularized in Frank Zappa’s hit “Valley Girl,” it frequently replaces “said” (e.g., I ate his cake and he was, like, oh no you didn’t!). It can be joined with “you know’s” or significant facial expressions to make sense of an incomplete sentence (i.e., I was annoyed and he was like ... you know?). It can even be inserted to create a pseudo-pause in practically any portion of a sentence.
“Like” now acts as a filler, replacing other space-eaters such as “um” or “er.” Its usage has gotten so out of hand that people barely even notice that they use the word to fill any gaps in speech. At the University of Iowa, Assistant Business Professor Phil Davies judged the situation so dire that he created a “like” jar. By the end of the semester, Davies had collected $425 from his students’ slip-ups to donate to Habitat for Humanity.
This fall from eloquence is well-documented, particularly among younger generations. “People see it as associated with teenagers,” said Stanford Linguistics Professor Arnold Zwicky in an interview with The New York Times. “In general, variants associated with young people tend to be disdained.” But the word redeemed itself, in part, by providing the inarticulate preteen a means by which to communicate his hormonal urges in the tamest way possible. “Like,” then, has become a tool of comparison and infatuation for the Bieber nation (and some of us, besides).
Running an ad campaign with the slogan “don’t sound stupid, stop saying ‘like,’” the Academy of Linguistic Awareness highlights the word’s negative public perception. According to the ad campaign, 23-year-old Paul “used to be happy.” But when he told his girlfriend “I, like, love you,” she dumped him, and now he “cr[ies him]self to sleep every night.” Additionally, Discover Magazine relates that interviewees were perceived as less professional and less eligible for a job if they overused the word “like” when answering questions.
It’s time to reassess our linguistic choices to get rid of these problems. With enough effort and time, maybe we’ll, like, succeed. Cheers to a “like” button for that.
Sections
The Panhellenic Council’s first fall open house, “Meet the Greeks,” was held at the Anthropologie store in Harvard Square this past Wednesday.
Hundreds of students flocked through the gloom of night last Wednesday to arrive at the first annual Ancient Greece discussion at the Department of Anthropology.
It was an oddly feminine affair, with only women in attendance. It seems as though the male gender’s interest had diminished.
Unfortunately, cultural awareness was low. The attire at the event ranged from business casual to semi-formal, and toga-wearers were frowned upon. Topics included Greek life and cupcakes, an odd interdisciplinary approach. Moreover, the keynote speakers seemed to miss the point of the event.
Knowledge of Ancient Greek history was slim to none, and many speakers refused to divulge any information on the subject, even after pertinent questions were asked concerning ancient Greek life. When asked whether they enjoyed Aristotle more so than Plato, the speakers evaded the question and threw cupcakes at surprised attendees.
To be fair, there were kind (deluded) women insisting that the items in the Department of Anthropology were “for sale,” and that the guests could “shop” when the event was over.
All in all, it was a glorious event filled with delightful chatter and a conspicuous lack of knowledge about anything, be it Greek or otherwise. It appears as though we must save our Philhellenism for another event, dear grecophiles. Until next time.
Sections
Jose Antonio Vargas, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who has written for the Washington Post and The New Yorker (among other publications) shocked readers earlier this year when he revealed that he is an undocumented American. After nearly 15 years of hiding his secret, he’s now speaking up about his own story and speaking out against the current state of immigration policy.
 
 
1. Fifteen Minutes: How has your life changed since you “came out” as undocumented? 
 
Jose Antonio Vargas: If you have a driver’s license, give it a real, big, tight hug. I can’t drive—which sucks, because I love driving. [And] I can’t work. But I’ve never felt more liberated. It’s funny, I feel liberated and restricted at the same time. I feel like my job as a journalist just started. I feel like I’m working on the biggest story of my life. 
 
2. FM: You seem really comfortable when you’re talking about your life. In reality, do you still have a hard time talking about these things so openly? 
 
JAV: I’m in a transition. I was a reporter, so I’m used to asking the questions. That’s weird. I hear myself giving sound bites and cliché answers and I’m cringing inside to myself. I’m just trying to be as honest and as truthful of my reality as I can.
3. FM: You’ve mentioned discovering you were undocumented when you were 16. How old were you when you came to the United States?
JAV: Twelve.
 
  
  4. FM: And when was the first time you really felt like you were undocumented?
JAV: College. Applying to college.
5.  FM: Why college? 
 
JAV: I mean, this was in 1999-2000. The DREAM Act wasn’t even around yet. What was I supposed to do? I couldn’t apply for financial aid ... I remember [asking], “How am I going to get into college?” You know, thankfully some guy decided to send me to school for free. A private donor. I’m not sure I would have made it without that.
6. FM: How was your relationship with your family affected by your discovery? How do you respond to rhetoric referring to undocumented minors as paying for ‘the sins of their fathers’?
JAV: You know, I support my mother financially in the Philippines. I love my grandparents. I love my grandmother. I have a great relationship with them. They’re my family. When people say “don’t blame them for the sins of their parents”– what’s the sin? They wanted to give their kids a better life. I mean that goes back to the Irish and the Italians and the Eastern Europeans that moved to this country.
 
7.  FM: How do you feel that being gay and being undocumented, two different parts of your identity, intersect?
JAV: They’re all me. It’s so interesting people use the term ‘coming out,’ you know? It’s coming out to society, but in many ways it’s like ... you know at the end of the day this is my reality. This is my life. This is my system of reality. 
8. FM: How has that affected the way you see yourself in relation to other people around you?
JAV: Just because [other people] are not undocumented, or because they’re not gay, doesn’t mean that we’re any different. We’re all alike. We’re all the same. I’m just as human as the next straight guy or as human as the next documented person.
 
9. FM: You’ve mentioned “coming out” twice, once as gay, and the next time as undocumented. How were they different? Or how were they the same?
JAV: I mean, I held onto [being undocumented] the longest, because you know, I wasn’t sure. They were both hard in different ways. And it’s funny, because ... as somebody who’s gay, I am a second-class citizen in this country. And as someone [who is] undocumented, I am a second-class citizen in this country. And yet I couldn’t be more American than I am.
10. FM: When people talk about immigration, and particularly legal immigration, we rely on phrases like “illegal alien” and “undocumented,” but many people take offence to such terms. Do you agree with the terms “illegal alien,” or “undocumented”?
JAV: You know, I don’t agree with it. I don’t agree with illegal. There’s part of it that is purely, actually literal and also just grammar. People are not ‘illegal.’ I don’t want to get into the whole political correctness ... but words matter.
11. FM: You seem kind of critical of the way journalists report on illegal immigration. Would you say that’s true?
JAV: Yeah, I think journalists have not looked at these issues as fully and as thoroughly and as comprehensively as they should. Arthur Miller once said that a good newspaper is a country talking to itself. We can’t really talk to ourselves if we don’t know what the realities are, if we don’t know all the facts. And I think a lot of facts need to get out there that are not out there.
12. FM: Like what?
JAV: Undocumented people are paying taxes. They are contributing to society. They’re not all Hispanics. They’re not all day laborers—although bless the ones who are working really hard as day laborers—they’re also doctors and lawyers. They also want to go to college. They also want to contribute and keep giving back to society.
13. FM: How would you recommend journalists tell this story?
JAV: I think the best stories are always intersections, where lives and cultures and generations intersect.
14. FM: What changes would you like to see?
JAV: I want solutions. All we talk about is the problems. Where are the solutions? Where are the solutions coming from in the campaigns? And real solutions. Electronic fencing? Deporting everybody? We know we’re not going to do that. So let’s get serious.
15. FM: As a closing note, can you tell me a little bit about the work you’re doing to advocate for immigration policy reform?
 
JAV: We’re telling stories and we’re elevating the conversation—that’s what we’re doing. If you go to defineamerican.com, you’ll see some articles there too. 
 
Sections
It’s close to midnight. Approaching the dark, gloomy entrance, you feel a chill crawl down your spine. You hear the door creak open and you ask yourself the fatal question: what is for dinner tonight? The food here is usually good, but tonight, on Haaalloooweeeen, nothing is quite like it seems. So come on in, children, and prepare for some eerie dishes that’ll scare the pants off you. OOooooOOooooOOOooooOOO.
Quiche, egg and hot dog combo 
Egg on egg? With Spicy Thai Peanut? And a wiener? How frightful!
 
 
Milk and cookies
Even milk and cookies are spooky if you’re a vegan. Also, calories! OOOoooOOOOOooooOOOO!
Tofu, applesauce, chicken salad, eggplant goop
Salad bar? Or human innards? Spoooookkyyyy.
 
 
Bruised apple
Mutations! Mushy! OoooOOooo.
Sections
1. The world’s population is expected to reach seven billion before the end of the month. The six billionth child, 12-year-old Adnan Nevic, offered his comments to the press: “I wish that the birth of the seven billionth child brings peace to the planet.”
2. On the other hand, Paul R. Ehrlich, a professor of Population Studies at Stanford, predicts that the increase in the world’s population means that human civilization has only a 10 percent chance of avoiding collapse. This coming from the guy who, in 1971, bet that England would not exist by the year 2000.
3. But Johnstone Family Professor of Psychology Steven A. Pinker has young Nevic’s back. In his new book, Pinker declares that the world is more peaceful than ever before.
4. Out of Iraq and on to Mexico: Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry has announced that he would consider deploying American troops to battle gang violence inside the borders of our Southern neighbor.
5. In lighter news, Charlie Sheen has put a new narcissistic spin on the DIY Halloween costume. Of course, Sheen can find a mask of his own face, which some may find difficult.
6. Facebook stalking makes you smarter. A study to be printed in the journal “Computers and Human Behavior” suggests that while posting statuses is correlated with a lower GPA, “lurking”—as the author of the study, Professor Reynol Junco, calls it—is correlated with higher grades.
7. For most families, a corn maze is not the scariest part of Halloween. But for one directionally-challenged Massachusetts family, it proved to be a harrowing experience, only reaching its end when their 911 call beckoned police to their rescue.
8. Siri, the voice of the new iPhone, is female in the U.S., but male in France and the U.K. Stanford Professor Clifford Nass, author of “The Man who Lied to His Laptop: What Machines Teach Us About Human Relationships,” says that users’ preference for the female voice might be biological.
9. Bats, spiders, and poison dart frogs, oh my! Celebrate Halloween at the Harvard Museum of Natural History this weekend, and check out the new exhibit “Spiders!” Costumes are encouraged but not required.
10. Reading on the toilet might lead to health risks, says Val Curtis, director of the Hygiene Center at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. In Britain, she says, one in six mobile phones is contaminated by fecal matter. But “we don’t need to get anal about it.”
Sections
1) The Monster Mash:
Make a party drink that will spook your guests into the next morning.
Infuse (1) cup of vodka with (1/2) cup of candy corn for three hours beforehand.
Strain the vodka/candy-corn mixture.
Empty (5) cans of Jones Soda: Candy Corn into a punch bowl.
Add your infused vodka to the punch bowl.
Combine the above with (1/2) cup of Cointreau orange liqueur.
Garnish the punch bowl with candy corn.
2) Jack-O’-Lantern Punch:
Reminisce on Halloweens spent trick-or-treating with this mild, yet flavorful, concoction.
Combine (3) ounces sparkling wine with (1) ounce of the orange-hued Aperol aperitif.
Douse the mixture with orange sparkling water.
Garnish with an orange slice.
Top the drink with licorice candy spiders.
3) Witch’s Spell Martini:
Summon the dark magic that lurks in the halls of Harvard with this classic.
Pour (3) ounces of vodka (Blavod black vodka, if possible) into a cocktail shaker.
Combine with (1/2) ounce of a raspberry liqueur (Chambord liqueur is the best).
Shake well on ice.
Pour into glasses, or mini cauldrons, and garnish with chilled peeled grapes for a ghoulish sensory effect.
Sections
I.
There is a moment in the footage of the 1991 Clarence Thomas Supreme Court nomination hearings when the camera pans out. Amidst a patchwork of drab business attire, one suit catches the eye—a splash of bright aqua. At this distance, it is almost possible to avoid the other, more significant differences between the blue-suited figure and the investigating panel: the person sitting alone in front of a microphone, in contrast to the majority of the Senate members, is black, and she is a woman.
In 1991, following the retirement of Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall, then-President George H.W. Bush nominated Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. To the President, Thomas must have seemed like an ideal candidate. An African-American, he would maintain the Court’s racial composition; a proven conservative, he would likely rule in line with the president on issues such as abortion and affirmative action. Despite expected contentions with liberal factions, the hearings proceeded normally—until Anita Hill stepped forward.
II.
Hill was 35 years old, a professor at the University of Oklahoma, a graduate of Yale law school, and a former special assistant to Clarence Thomas at the U.S. Department of Education and the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission. And in the time they had worked together, Hill alleged, Clarence Thomas had sexually harassed her.
Besides repeatedly inviting her on dates and commenting on her attractiveness, Hill claimed that Thomas spoke about pornographic films, graphically told her of his sexual prowess, and commented on the size of his penis and his skill at oral sex—despite her expressed aversion to such conversation.
Hill’s allegations inspired a frenzy of controversy, from expressions of disbelief to accusations that she was vindictive or even insane. Part of this, some suggest, was due to a lack of public awareness of sexual harassment as a legitimate issue. “We had sexual harassment laws at that time, but nobody was really taking them seriously,” said Columbia Law Professor Patricia Williams in a 2011 interview with “The Takeaway.”
Yet there were other issues simmering at the time. Besides categorically denying Hill’s accusations, Thomas emphasized the potential racial dimension of the charges against him. “This is a circus,” Thomas famously said during the confirmation hearings, “It is a national disgrace ... it is a high-tech lynching for uppity blacks who in any way deign to think for themselves.”
Thomas’s words “seemed to create a racial bri[a]r patch that no white senator would want to venture into,” said New York Times Magazine reporter Andrew Goldman in a recent interview with Hill. She agreed. “The specter of racism loomed so large that he was able to get away with it,” she responded, “And it was as though my own race really didn’t matter.”
Indeed, Henry LaBarre Jayne Professor of Government and Professor of African and African American Studies Jennifer L. Hochschild explains, “Clarence Thomas was the person perceived as being black, and somehow therefore Anita Hill couldn’t be black, or couldn’t be as black.” In this sense, Hill’s identity as both a woman and an African American put many members of the American public in a bind. “Many black women said then—and maybe now—that their primary loyalty is to their race,” Hochschild says, “So they had to stick up for Clarence Thomas even if they were unhappy about doing so.”
Thomas was approved by a 52-48 Senate vote, but the Thomas-Hill controversy and the racial and gender-related tensions that it revealed were not so easily settled in the mind of the American public. “Let’s not be entirely deceived about this,” Hill commented in the same New York Times interview with Goldman. “I’m not sure that the Senate Judiciary Committee and the Senate at large were really ready to deal with gender discrimination no matter who was alleging it.” Nevertheless, Hill speculates she would have been treated differently had she been white.
Hochschild agrees. Conservatives, she comments, tended to support Thomas for his social views, but “it would’ve been harder for them to do so if [Hill] had been a white woman.” On the other hand, liberals “didn’t want to disbelieve either a black woman or a black man ... It just got very tangled up in issues of race and gender,” Hochschild said. “Nobody could quite figure out which identity took precedence.”
III.
Twenty years ago this October, a woman in a blue jacket did not prevent a man from donning black Justice’s robes. But she did spark national awareness of sexual harassment and, perhaps in a more subtle way, contributed to the discussion of what it meant to be both female and black.
Anita Hill, now a Senior Advisor to the Provost and Professor of Social Policy, Law, and Women’s Studies at Brandeis University, has been writing and lecturing on these issues since the hearings—most recently in her new book “Reimagining Equality: Stories of Gender, Race, and Finding Home.”
The Thomas-Hill controversy is often viewed as a catalyst for the recognition of sexual harassment in the United States, but it also inspired discussion on the ways in which various aspects of identity can conflict. “We have had 20 years of experience in dealing with the intersectionality of race and gender since the Clarence Thomas hearings,” Hochschild says. Twenty years in which a white woman has made significant strides towards the presidency. Twenty years in which a black man has been elected to lead the nation. Twenty years in which a Latina woman has been confirmed as a Justice on the Supreme Court. As the camera pans out over the last two decades, the conversation remains relevant.
Sections
Notice: I am willing to sell the rights to the story sketched below. I am writing it here only because the History and Literature department won’t accept a screenplay of “A History of Myself, in Literature” as my senior thesis. But the structure is yours, to have and to hold, to write and to produce, for most likely poorer. Though his house is lovely at Christmas, I don’t presume myself Mark Twain, but I do discourage you from finding narrative, moral, or plot.
The Disclaimer: I’m going to speak in circles here, not linearly. In my mind, pies are squared, so to speak, but to a certain degree—most likely second—the piece should (be a) function. Use your imagination. The primary visual cortex gets more blood that way.
The Characters: My—no, our, I insist, help yourself—story, in four people I briefly met.
A. To date (what we don’t seem to be able to do), Harry Baggageclaim and I have almost gone to two soirées (there’s always an accent aigu, mind you, even in text messages), one presentation, one coffee, and Oktoberfest.
B. The elderly gap-toothed gypsy in Prague whom I met on two separate occasions, at opposite ends of the day and town. I almost bought her ring but I never did; I thought we’d meet a third time, maybe, but we didn’t. The ring she dropped, picked up, and said I’d lost is my favorite ring I’ve never bought. (“Odd beginnings and maybe even ends” is my favorite phrase I almost never thought).
C. Now, the fruit vendor outside Quincy Market and I never met, but I feel like we did, almost (“Whatya lookin’ at that peppah for? Yah gonna cook it and eat it, not take a pitcha with it!”).
D. The young man with a fascination for 70s big-lady porn and a taste for Floor D of Widener and I have never almost met, I’m nearly sure, but we’ve come closer now than we nearly almost never did.
The Setting: But let’s get back on track. Here’s my pitch for where the blockbuster should take place. A demolition site, of course, would be ideal, given the nature of the film.
(Backtracking): But, don’t you feel that the important part, the point to impart, is the point of departure? Things always happen there. That’s where I met Harry, née Baggageclaim, at Logan airport. And it’s where I began writing this, at a train station and then in transit. And this, right here, right now, may be when you’re starting to wonder where, in fact, we are going, and when, in fact, you should get off. But not like that, please.
(By this point in the article, my readers, says my editor, are all bored.)
And I agree—all aboard! It’s the train platform, in particular, where things happen. It’s there that the main character will achieve that really peculiar, particular feeling of belonging—the one inherent to the very foreignness of the place. It’s more common to train platforms than airport gates, I guess, because even Tom Hanks can’t call those home. (This is why you also want to avoid setting the film in Seattle, Philadelphia, and the North Pole.)
Train platforms are the really in-between places, where no one belongs and so everyone does; where no one stays but everyone knows. (For train platforms, here, you could also substitute the category “hipster.”) Now, stick with me; actually, it’s a very small idea. But there’s an important question nestled in between these in-betweens that strikes at the nature of the human condition, okay, so you want to include it if you produce this film: if I’m 20 and in international airspace, flying from London to New York, can I order a glass of wine?
The Plot (or point): I’m really good at almost meeting people. It’s just this thing I do. That’s where the characters came from. In fact, I’ve almost met so many people, almost been so many places, and almost done so many things, I can almost string a story out of it.
Which is the funny thing, really, because if you’ve made it this far, you’re the same. You have, as it were, almost met me. But is it enough—these almosts—to make a story? Thirty-seven text messages, two conversations English to Czech, a vegetal reprimand, and porn. Here’s the hypothesis: any one of these, at the perfect time and perfect place, gives better insight than three years of friendship, or 57 hours of mutual company, or two children, a down payment, and a Labrador.
But that’s all silly. Because the important part, everyone knows, is the ending—it should be flashy.
For our ending I’m thinking it should be something like a pangram: “Mr. Jock, TV quiz Ph.D., bags few lynx.” It contains all 26 letters, it’s so novel, original, it says so much! But yeah, okay, fine, despite Mr. Jock or despise Mr. Jock, it really, ultimately, really, eventually, always, never and—sigh, almost—says nothing.
FIN(feuille.)
—Michelle B. Timmerman ’13 is a History and Literature concentrator in Pforzheimer House. She may, or may not, or may almost be found standing at the T stop waiting for the Red Line.
Sections
FALSE START
The Harvard Kennedy School was not always so proudly named. In the 1930s, Harvard considered the school more like an unidentified flying object that had inconveniently landed near the Yard—they just didn’t know what to do with it.
In 1935, Mr. Lucius N. Littauer from the Class of 1878 gave Harvard two million dollars (at 1935 valuation) to invest in a school that he hoped would lead to “the development of training in government as a profession, and not simply to education in government as a branch of learning.” He imagined public servants working to rebuild America as a major element of Roosevelt’s New Deal.
So President James Bryant Conant took the money and, in 1936, oversaw the establishment of the Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration. Harvard named the Littauer Center after the generous man—and then rolled its collective eyes.
RESISTANCE
There was certainly some resistance. As former Harvard President Abbott Lawrence Lowell once explained, Harvard had no interest in training men “for a career that does not exist, and for which, if it did exist, I think our training would very likely not be the best preparation.”
“Real Harvard” refused to offer formal degrees to students because, come on, what did they even learn? They allowed 12 professors from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to teach classes at the GSPA in addition to their usual jobs.
Then they gave themselves a pat on their collective back for being so generous.
SERVICE PREVAILS
By 1941, Harvard began to award GSPA students formal master’s and doctoral degrees in public administration—but the University still considered this all to be ceremonial. President Conant insisted that a GSPA degree was “not worth the paper it was written on.”
Harvard’s next president, Nathan Pusey, decided that the proper remedy would be to close the school entirely. If Pusey had had his way, Harvard would have shaken its head and forgotten about this whole public service stuff once and for all. Harvard could have written a short letter to Littauer explaining the whole thing, then looked towards the future.
But many believed in the school’s mission, and the GSPA endured. Through the years of World War II enrollment numbers continued to grow, slowly but steadily; a new dean was hired to spearhead an initiative to redefine the school.
In 1966, Harvard renamed the GSPA the John F. Kennedy School of Government, and the Kennedy family worked with Harvard to found the Institute of Politics. During this time, the Kennedy School transitioned from being an overlooked offshoot of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to a separate school, respected in its own right like it is today.
Sections
(Enter Doug, a junior who isn’t actually called Doug.)
DOUG: “It was Halloween, and we were just hanging out in our dorm and looking for a party, like all the freshmen were. We were following the music and somehow we ended up near the Owl. Obviously none of the guys thought we would get in, but we were with a lot of girls so we thought, ‘Yeah, let’s try.’
“It was the first time any of us had been in a club and it was the second month of freshman year. We went upstairs into the foyer type thing and everyone’s dancing: there’s a ton of girls and not that many guys, and we tried to get in on the dancing but some Owl guy said, ‘No, you have to stand out here, you can’t go into the main area.’ He made us go in the backyard or something and that kind of pissed us off. We were in there, but they wouldn’t let us do anything, and I think that motivated what I did later somehow.
“Eventually, we said, ‘Okay, this is really lame,’ so we went downstairs and were about to leave because it wasn’t very fun. And our friend Emma was like, ‘Wait, we should definitely steal something.’ And there was this, like, this great big owl, like, three feet tall and made of bronze—it was like 80 pounds or something. I mean, it was a good looking piece, right, and in our drunken state we decided to take it and not anything smaller.
“So I’m lugging this thing up the stairs of the Owl, like, waddling, it’s so heavy. Then we get to the top and for some reason I veer right instead of left, towards the front door, and I’m waddling right when I just get tackled by this Owl bro and I’m on the ground, like really drunk, like I have no idea what’s going on. And he’s holding the owl, like, this gigantic owl over my head, and he says, ‘Yo, I’m gonna drop this on your head, I’m gonna drop this on your head, tell me who you are, give me your ID.’
“I’ve never been back to the Owl. I hear they don’t care anymore; that’s what I heard from an Owl member. If I got caught, maybe I’d regret it.  But it’s a good story.”
(Doug laughs.)
Sections
The first thing Vigo M. Conte does when he arrives at the Pudding is ask how everyone is doing. The second thing he does is ask for the list.
For 17 years, Vigo has been working the door at the Hasty Pudding house, The Harvard Crimson, an assortment of final clubs, and The Harvard Lampoon. He wears a tuxedo when he works, and he looks you square in the eye when he’s talking with you. He’s a father, a husband, and a proud employee of the U.S. postal service.
It was Vigo’s brother-in-law, Michael J. Canley, who got him into the trade. Canley used to work the bar at the Lampoon and found that they always struggled to manage the crowd that showed up for parties with special guests. He suggested that Vigo might be able to help. “He’s very cordial and he can handle people,” Canley says. “He does it very professionally.”
From his first gig back in 1995, Vigo has become the go-to doorman for the clubs and organizations in Harvard Square. His reputation has spread through word of mouth—“a pretty decent job and no complaints,” according to Vigo. If Vigo loves his job, and he says he does, then the regular club crowd loves him more. “Anyone can call him at the last minute and he’ll come do it,” Canley explains.
Tonight Vigo’s working at Two Garden Street. His station wagon pulls up at 11:25 p.m., when there are already crowds out. He pokes his head in the door to say hello. “Viiigooo!” He’s greeted like an old friend, and within minutes he has a list, a chair, and a Diet Coke. (Vigo says he never drinks on the job.) He sits on the left-hand side of the door, so when he opens it for people, he isn’t blocking the entrance. But no one opens the door but him. 11:29 p.m. It’s time for the party.
Guests begin to arrive in twos and threes. Vigo welcomes them like a host, checks off their names, and wishes them a good evening. His smile is warm and avuncular; he presses his lips together like a frown, but from the rest of his face it’s somehow obvious that he’s smiling.
“Hi, guys,” Vigo says, with the rise and fall of someone receiving a long-awaited guest. And then: “Can I have your first and last names please?” He checks his list fastidiously, except when he knows that somebody’s a member—then it’s a greeting by name and a handshake, sometimes a quick chat as well, and they’re on their way in. “Have a great evening, folks.”
AS A RULE
Vigo is strict on the rules. No one gets in without being on the list—unless the president himself gives them the OK. “Thanks, come on in,” Vigo says, and learns a few new names along the way. When he rejects someone, he does so with the maximum respect. “I’m sorry, you’re not on the list, and those are the rules of the club.”
Two girls arrive; one is on the list and the other isn’t. They hug their good-byes, wish each other a lovely night, and go their separate ways. The one that gets in rolls her eyes at the half-empty dance-floor and wanders into the kitchen.
Vigo is a gentleman. He attributes his style to Joe Hickey, who was the Steward of the Lampoon when Vigo started working at Harvard. “My buddy, Joe Hickey, he trained us well,” Vigo says. “It’s a real simple thing—I’m going to treat you the way you’re going to treat me, with that kind of dignity and respect.”
And it works in 99 percent of cases, according to Vigo. “You are going to get that person who thinks he or she is better than you, that you are just a doorman and who the hell do you think you are,” he says. “At that point you set the person straight and say these are the rules of club—you have to be firm. But I try to be a gentleman about everything.”
Vigo’s brother-in-law goes one step further in his summation. “Literally, he’s like a teddy-bear,” Canley says. “I stand at the door with Vigo and he’ll say to all the girls, ‘Honey, do me a favor and be careful tonight.’ He’s genuinely concerned about people and that’s what makes him efficient.”
Tonight Vigo chats about Rupert Murdoch and the evils of divisive mass media. He checks that a girl isn’t walking home alone, and then he refuses a skinny sophomore who says, “I know that guy” and points at nobody in particular. He sits for a good 20 minutes with one austere young man, a final club president.
One of Vigo’s favorite things is seeing students graduate from the College, and then seeing them come back again for grad events. Another is meeting the younger siblings of people he befriended many years ago. He tells the story of one club member who had talked with him at length one night about Ted Kennedy ’54-’56—“I’m a liberal and I’m a Democrat, very much so”—and that started a conversation over three or four years. When Kennedy passed away, this club member came back and gave Vigo a book on the late senator. Inside the front cover, the member “wrote some really nice things,” Vigo says. “It touched me, but it touched my wife too in a really big way.”
At around 12:30 a.m., two boys come in and their five other friends are turned back; they mutter to their scarves as they walk down the stairs. There’s a group hanging around outside, some on the way in, some on the way out, and some wait in chilly purgatory for the presidential nod. “I don’t even want to go in any more,” one shouts, turning back towards the Quad. “Fuck this.”
Vigo is unfazed. It’s not his job to be fazed. Everything is exclusive at Harvard, he explains. The Crimson to dorm parties to the College itself. “Basically, life’s not fair,” he said. “And I don’t mean that in a bad way.”
LIFE’S NOT FAIR: THE FRESHMAN BOY
 
(Enter Keith H. Bender, the freshman boy. He looks young. He speaks frankly and without self-pity.)
KEITH: “It’s something that affects us on a weekly basis. A lot of the freshman girls will go off to places that let them in and turn us away.
“Oh, there have definitely been nights—the majority of nights—of walking around from location to location, mostly to no avail. I understand that girls branch off, because they want to have fun too, and if they have an option then I totally understand them using that option.
“It’s kind of institutional: as a freshman guy, you just have to put in your hours of wandering, and not having the greatest social experience. I wish we could be without this institutional exclusion of freshman boys ...
“It doesn’t cloud my view of Harvard as a whole. It enables us to form friendships; you meet a lot of people doing the wandering freshman thing. It’s taken on a culture of its own. We commiserate together and it’s just something we have to deal with.”
ON THE LIST
 
Vigo doesn’t compromise. People try everything: flirting, name-dropping, begging. One girl waits until Vigo looks at his list, then dashes in and disappears into the dance-floor. Thirty seconds later and Vigo has her back at the doorway, cordially asking her if her name is on the list and telling her she’ll have to wait for the president if she isn’t.
He is a professional, alright. Members and plus-ones, members and plus-ones. The list defines the night. Dorm parties face the constant threat of being busted. Off-campus spaces, thus the default, can only house so many, with limited room and red cups. In such a world, real estate is everything.
A great deal of ink has been spilled about social space and exclusivity at Harvard. It is an important conversation but one that is already well-worn. All that matters now, at 12:50 a.m. at the door of the Pudding, is the list—not why there is a list, not who should be on the list, just that there is a list and who is on it.
“We try to adhere to what the club wants for that evening and let them set the tone,” he says. Only once was he asked to let the hot girls in. “I don’t put up with anything nasty,” Vigo explains. “I have a certain moral compass of my own and, like I said, I have two children of my own.”
Vigo is also selective about where he will work. “I only go where people are just trying to have a good time, not having to duck their head to avoid a beer bottle,” he says. “When you get to my age, it’s a night out, watching you guys do what I did when I was in college.” Although he never drinks on shift, he says, he sometimes has a drink after work. And even though he ends up being friends with a lot of familiar faces, he won’t let members of one club into another club’s party if they’re not on the list.
(ANOTHER NIGHT OF DOORS)
 
On another Saturday, Vigo isn’t working. It’s a mellow weekend and there isn’t a list: at the Fly, the Owl, and the Phoenix, it’s just the boys by the door.
I.
Two tall blondes walk past a crowd on the stairs to the Fly. “Do you know any members?” one member asks.
“Probably,” one girl says with a shrug.
“I’m sorry, you have to know a member to come in.”
“Um, Zeke, I know Zeke.”
“Zeke’s standing in front of you.”“Hi, I’m Zeke,” says Zeke.
“Hi,” she says, playing cool.
She and her friend go into the party.
II.
A trendy foreign girl drags on a cigarette and watches the next batch arrive. “You girls go to B.U., right?”
“Um, no. Yes.”
The member at the door asks, “Do you know any members?”
“I hooked up with one once. Blond-haired guy, sort of built. I don’t know his name.” The guys by the door try out names, to no avail. The mystery of the night. “I didn’t get his name”—now defensive—“but we did hook up, and he has my number.” It must have been a punch, they decide, and the B.U. girls go in.
III.
There’s a group outside the Owl. “Don’t stand around like you’re going to get in, because you’re not!” says a voice from the doorway. Then, a member skips out after a group of girls: “What, you didn’t like it in there?” He follows them to Pinnochio’s. Major Lazer pounds away on the other side of the fence.
Suddenly, a member at the door and a short-haired stranger are at each other. “Hey, I know a grad member, I said I know a grad member, chill the fuck out, I said I know a grad member and then you just got in my fucking grill.” For a second there’s a chance of a fight, but then it’s resolved and the stranger walks off. The other member by the door: “If he punched you, man, I would have killed him. I’ve got your back.” There’s a hug, but they’re interrupted by a new guest. “The lady is welcome,” one says, with an Austro-Hungarian bow.
IV.
The Phoenix has no music playing, but still there’s a crowd outside. A middle-aged man in a bowtie talks to another doorman about Occupy Boston.
A group of girls in heels ask him, rapt, about how the club has changed over the last 35 years. Then a member appears in the crack of the door. “Hey, can you let us in?”
“No girls, tonight. I don’t know who’s telling you. Go to the Fly or the Spee.”
“C’mon, let us in.”
“I don’t know who’s telling you, it’s a grad dinner tonight, no girls.”
The bowtie interjects. “I’m the president of the graduate board, and I’m going to have to tell you the bad news: we can’t let anybody in.”
One girl—tall, long hair, beautiful—strides off alone down the road. “Where are you going,” ask her friends.
“I’m going to the Spee.”
They: “Is it good at the Spee?”
She: “Of course not, it’s never good, but there’s nothing else to do. Fuck.”
V.
Later on, it gets cold on Mt. Auburn Street. A group of girls are standing around with their arms crossed hard like straitjackets because they didn’t dress for the wind. Someone from a club is walking past, and is stopped by three girls and a guy from Europe; they want to know if they can come to a party. He says no.
“Our grad board is there.”
“I don’t know what that is and I don’t give a fuck.”
“Well, do you know people at any of the clubs?”
“I hooked up with Cameron Winklevoss once, no joke.”
“Well I took a shit in the woods once.”
“Wow, I can’t wait to hear about it.”
They laugh; he walks off. She, to her friends: “What’s with all the terrible people here tonight?”
SABRINA LEE
(Enter Sabrina G. Lee ’12: short, pretty, ferocious. The smile must be memorable.)
SABRINA: “I began writing about final clubs my sophomore year because I was curious about the rumors I had been hearing for over a year at that point and all the hype about punching I observed among my friends and acquaintances. As I tried to interview students and administrators about final clubs, I was struck by how many people harbored intense emotions about the clubs—fear, jealousy, bitterness, and anger, to name a few—yet how few felt comfortable expressing such emotions on record. And then after it was published I was told by one of my sources that she had been angrily confronted by final club members for her comments in my article.
“Within a few weeks, I was invited to join several final club members affiliated with the BSA for a two hour discussion about final clubs in the context of social justice issues.  That dialogue was a turning point in my experience at Harvard.
“I think that, to quite a few people, I became known as ‘that crazy final club girl.’ But good things came from that. For one, I began saying whatever I thought about final clubs to whoever would listen because people expected me to say pretty explosive things on the topic anyway. And, more importantly, people began seeking me out to talk about final clubs. Their qualms about being in a final club. Their experiences of discrimination or even violence in final clubs. Somehow, I became one of the go-to people for anyone with doubts and complaints about final clubs.
“So, in September of last year, I decided it was time to do something with all of these stories. I got a group of 15 or 20 of my friends together: we generated a list of everything we did not like about final clubs and then we generated a corresponding list of tactics we could employ to address those problems. Ultimately, it was a relatively moderate campaign—it was called the Final Club Campaign, not the Anti-Final Club Campaign—aiming to do damage control for final club issues. We talked to the administration about alternative spaces and the availability of information about final clubs, like sexual assault statistics, for example. I think everyone on the campaign knew the problems ran much deeper and were aware that we were not addressing the heart of the issue, but we were interested in doing something—anything—to address the problems in the here and now.
“That campaign’s goals have been largely absorbed by the Committee on Student Life and the student organizing around final clubs has disbanded. I am still sometimes identified and sought out as ‘the crazy final club girl,’ though ...
“At times I feel I don’t have much to offer the people who talk to me about final clubs. I often watch my arguments about male-dominated space and exclusion fall on deaf ears and that is not too surprising to me. Mainly, I find myself asking people to think about what our campus could look like and to act it out in their everyday lives. From what I can tell, that idea is appealing to people and it seems to be planting a few seeds. I can only hope that those seeds grow into something else, but I have a feeling I will have graduated before that happens.”
A TINY WORLD?
 
How does Vigo respond to the accusations leveled at the clubs: that they’re elitist, that they’re backwards, that they’re sexist? “I just crack up,” he says. “Because, honestly, what is here at Harvard is what you see in the real world.”
He says he is regularly offered money by people trying to get into a party, but he  always turns it down. Other times, people try to argue their way in. “Two o’clock in the morning,” Vigo says, “and someone wants to debate me on the philosophy of why they can’t get into a club. I say, ‘Look, these are the rules, and that’s it. Have a nice night. Do you want me to call you a cab?’”
He goes on: “Human nature is the same here as it was, you know, 30 years ago where I went to school: people seem to congregate where they feel comfortable. There’s a clan-like factor, not in a derogatory way, just that you hang around people that you want to hang out with.” For Vigo, the clubs are just trying to maintain their own tradition.
Thing are evolving at Harvard, but in the eyes of many, the storied Harvard clubs are dragging their feet. The continued resistance to making male final clubs co-ed is one thing; latent classism is another.
In 1965, the Spee Club accepted its first-ever black member. On the occasion, William C. Coleman III ’66, the Undergraduate President of the Delphic, told The Crimson: “I don’t want to say that this is a precedent that all the clubs at Harvard should follow, or that the Delphic Club is going to take in a Negro, or a Chinese, or whatever.
I think as far as the clubs are concerned within the context of Harvard University, this is a good thing. It is an indication that clubs are not exclusive—in any sense, not just racially—as people have tended to think they are.”
In 2011, there are still battles being fought. No female final clubs own their own space. Heterosexual dates are often expected at punch events. And for some observers, the monopoly of social space is always going to be a problem.
“These clubs have been sustained because people have wanted them to stick around,” Vigo says. “Is it all great? No. Could it always be better? Sure. But from my opinion, it’s gotten better every year, never worse.”
Vigo is optimistic because he believes in the dynamism of Harvard: “You have your own melting pot, your own little world here, if you don’t get stuck in your own little tiny world.”
END OF THE NIGHT
 
Just inside the door of the Pudding, it’s 1:15 a.m., and it’s getting quieter. Vigo starts saying more good-nights than good-evenings. The regular crowd—and you can tell who’s a regular—makes sure to stop and say thanks. “See you next time,” Vigo says.
All the club presidents refused to speak on the record for this piece. So did all members. But tonight, one is clumsy, and finds out that Vigo’s being profiled: “I just love Vigo!” she says, before heading down the stairs.
At 1:30 a.m., the Reverend who lives nextdoor complains and the party is over. Vigo sees everyone out, shaking the hands of the men and checking that the women are safe. He packs up, says good-bye, and drives back home to Somerville, to his wife and his kids.
A gaggle of members of the Pudding clean up the house, lounge on the stairs outside, and then saunter back down towards the Yard.
—Leslie B. Arffa contributed to the reporting of this article.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard graduates tend to underestimate the inequality of wealth distribution in the United States, according to a recent survey by Harvard Business School Associate Professor Michael I. Norton that was conducted through Harvard Magazine’s website.
On average, survey participants—most of whom attend the College, Business School, and Law School—guessed that 72 percent of the nation’s wealth was held by the top quintile, or 20 percent, of the population, when, in fact, the top quintile holds more than 80 percent.
Norton’s previous data has shown that these misconceptions are not isolated to University affiliates.
According to an earlier study by Norton, which surveyed Americans across a broad range of socioeconomic and political backgrounds, the average American estimates the top quintile to hold 60 percent of the nation’s wealth.
“The random sample of Americans that we polled included people from all walks of life: rich and poor, young and old, liberal and conservative,” said Norton, who co-wrote the nationwide study with Dan Ariely from Duke University.
“The latest data shows that inequality has not been this high since the Great Depression, and we wondered if people would be aware of what the wealth distribution looks like today,” he said.
In addition, the results of the study and of the Harvard survey both show that respondents agreed almost unanimously in their hope to see a society in which wealth was divided more equally amongst all people.
“Even in the Harvard sample, we found that while Republicans and Democrats disagreed a little, both groups indicated that they want to see an America in which wealth is more evenly distributed,” Norton said.
Rishab Mehan ’14, a prospective social studies concentrator, said that he doesn’t find the news too surprising.
“One would expect the college-educated population to know the realities of it, and the fact that even Harvard students don’t recognize the problem means that the solution should go beyond academics,” he said.
As a possible approach to achieving a more balanced distribution, Mehan said that he believes that media could play a more active role in spreading awareness.
“I think that the media should take the initiative to educate people about the effects of income inequality that people experience in their everyday lives,” he said.
—Staff writer Matthew M. Beck and be reached at mbeck@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
President Barack Obama announced on Wednesday that he plans to sign an executive order that will ease the financial burden of student loans for many young Americans, including some Harvard undergraduates and graduate students.
Under Obama’s new plan, the federal “pay-as-you-earn” loan repayment program passed by Congress will be accelerated. This program was originally set to allow borrowers in 2014 to pay only 10 percent of the their income toward loan repayment, down from 15 percent previously. Now, the 10 percent cap will be implemented two years earlier, starting this January. Any remaining loans will be forgiven after 20 years, five years earlier than current law requires.
In addition, college graduates who currently have government-backed loans issued by the private sector and direct loans issued by the government will now be able to combine those debts and pay a lower interest rate.
The consolidation will make it “much less likely that [graduates] will default by accidentally missing a payment,” Secretary of Education Arne S. Duncan ’86 said. “These are real savings that will help graduates get started in their careers and make ends meet.”
A majority of Harvard College students graduate debt-free due to the University’s financial aid program. However, some undergraduates do take loans from the federal government.
This new initiative will likely affect a greater number of graduate students, many of whom rely on loans to pay tuition or have accrued debt from their undergraduate years at other universities.
“Harvard College’s strong policy of providing direct grants to students enables them to go to college without borrowing and has helped most of our students avoid debt,” Kevin Casey, associate vice president of Harvard public affairs and communications, wrote in statement.  “However, these new repayment options and consolidation incentives announced by President Obama should be of enormous help to young people all over the country, including undergraduates, as well as graduate and professional students.”
Since the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 mid-term elections, Obama has had difficulty pushing legislation through a highly partisan Congress. His American Jobs Act, which would allocate $447 billion in fiscal stimulus if passed, has been stalled in Congress for over a month.
Duncan said that this student loan initiative did not require Congressional approval, citing executive regulatory authority that allows it to sidestep partisan bickering in the House and Senate.
Director of Domestic Policy Melody Barnes said that these actions are part of the Obama administration’s broader push to take action to boost the economy without having to wade through the Congressional approval process.
According to Barnes, the program comes at no cost to the taxpayer, because the consolidation of debt will result in federal savings.
These changes are consistent with the tone Obama set in his last State of the Union address in focusing on developing skills to remain competitive in the international market.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, known as the FAFSA and a key document in college financial aid applications, does not recognize same-sex couples, students at Harvard with parents of the same sex have been relatively unaffected by the bureaucratic hurdle, according to Director of Financial Aid Sally C. Donahue.
The FAFSA, a federally sponsored application to determine eligibility for financial aid, was criticized in a report published by the Center for American Progress as the cause of “distortions [that] can have important implications for members of families headed by a same-sex couple applying for financial aid.” These potential distortions include instances that both help and harm the size of a student’s financial aid package.
While Harvard requires that potentially eligible students complete the FAFSA, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid also mandates that students submit a separate form that accounts for factors not included on the FAFSA.
“What the FAFSA asks is important for federal funds, but it’s not defining in terms of what a Harvard student receives,” Donahue said. “In the context of our generous financial aid policy, we at Harvard expect both of a student’s parents to contribute to the extent they’re able. You can imagine all the permutations of all Harvard families, including same-sex parents.”
The federal government forbids students who receive financial aid packages deemed overly generous from their college from receiving federal assistance. This is common at Harvard where financial aid packages are often more generous than the federal standard, Donahue said.
Uncommon family situations at Harvard that do not fit into the FAFSA extend beyond same-sex parents.
“We have a whole lot of different kinds of situations and we really try to apply our financial aid policy consistently across them,” Donahue said.
The exclusion of same-sex parents from the FAFSA has garnered national attention in recent weeks after the publication of the Center for American Progress report.
“All applicants for federal financial aid for higher education should have equal access to that aid based solely on financial need,” reads the report, authored by Crosby Burns, a special assistant for the organization that sponsored the report. “Such an approach is fair, effective, and efficient...”
“It was so stressful and so frustrating to try to fit our family into those forms when so clearly it wasn’t going to fit,” a student with two mothers and two step-mothers told The New York Times earlier this month. “You feel like you are lying no matter what you do.”
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The tenth floor of William James Hall, which previously housed the research facilities of former psychology professor Marc D. Hauser, will be renovated to accommodate laboratory space for three other psychology professors.
Hauser resigned from the University last August after a three-year internal investigation found him guilty of eight counts of scientific misconduct. He used the floor as an animal cognition lab while he was a professor.
Hauser took a one-year leave of absence following the summer of 2010, when Harvard confirmed the findings of its internal investigation.
With a separate federal investigation ongoing, Hauser resigned this summer.
The Psychology Department had voted in February to bar Hauser from teaching during the 2011-2012 academic year. Some of his courses have been reconfigured and are being taught by faculty members and lecturers in the department.
The floor left available by Hauser is now under renovation to create space for psychology Professors Matthew K. Nock, Jesse Snedeker, and John R. Weisz, according to Psychology Department Chair Susan E. Carey ’64.
The renovated floor will be ready by August 6, according to Snedeker.
In the renovated space, the three faculty members will each have room for graduate students, research assistants, and in some cases postdoctoral fellows, according to Weisz.
The new space will be renovated to fit the specific research needs of the three faculty members. There will be private call areas for phone interviewing, work areas for assembling research materials, and rooms divided by one-way glass, according to Weisz.
The Psychology Department has struggled with overcrowding in William James Hall in recent years, pushing some professors to utilize space in other buildings.
Snedeker had a research lab in Shannon Hall, a building near the Divinity School.
“A lot of our participants get lost trying to find Shannon Hall,” Snedeker said. “[Lab space in William James Hall] means undergraduates won’t be wandering around.”
Snedeker, who frequently works with young children, had a second floor lab space without an elevator in Shannon Hall—a problem for her stroller-bound study participants.
Lab space in William James Hall will also allow for increased collaboration among faculty members.
The tenth floor lab space will “bring more of the people and activities of my lab together in close proximity,” Weisz wrote in an email.
“That will improve communication within the lab, link the various projects together, and create more opportunity for cross-pollination, identifying shared interests, and collaboration among folks in the lab,” Weisz wrote in an email.
The renovations will include a shared common area and a conference room.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A male graduate student was robbed at gunpoint on Tuesday night at the intersection of Dana and Harvard Streets, according to a Harvard University Police Department community advisory sent Wednesday morning.
The incident comes on the heels of a series of similar incidents that have occurred in Cambridge in recent days.
According to the Cambridge Police Department’s incident report, the victim, 31, said that he was walking down Dana Street from Harvard Street at approximately 11:40 p.m. when he heard people running behind him. As he turned around, two men in their early 20s approached him.
One of the suspects held a hand gun against his chest and demanded all of his possessions. The victim said in the police report that he handed them his laptop and his wallet, which contained $40. The victim also handed over his cellphone when the two men asked for it.
After the two suspects had taken the victim’s cellphone, they reportedly ran up Dana Street and got into a vehicle parked on Harvard Street. The suspects drove off heading toward Harvard Square.
The victim was not injured during the robbery.
The victim described both the suspects as black males of average build and approximately 5’5” to 5’7” in height. The suspect holding the gun was wearing a black jacket and possibly had a goatee. The other suspect was wearing a blue sweatshirt with the hood pulled over his head.
The incident is being investigated by Cambridge Police as it did not occur on Harvard University property.
In its advisory, HUPD reminded the community to take adequate precautions when walking in the city late at night. HUPD also advised affiliates comply if someone approached them with a weapon. Following a number of recent robberies, Cambridge Police released an advisory for community members to be vigilant while walking at night.
The same night that the Harvard graduate student was robbed, a man was approached by two black men on Cardinal Medeiros Avenue and Marney Street who then took his bag and fled.
Early morning on Oct. 25, two black male suspects robbed two males of their cell phones and money on Chatham and Hancock streets after showing a handgun.
On the evening of Oct. 24, two black male suspects showed a handgun to a woman and robbed her of her purse on Marney Street. A male delivery person was then robbed less than an hour later by two black male suspects on Thorndike Street by showing a handgun and taking the victim’s wallet and cellphone.
None of the victims of the armed robberies were injured.
The Cambridge Police said that they are currently investigating the robberies and following up on a number of active leads. A team of detectives has also been assigned to formulate a deployment plan for additional uniform patrols.
—Staff writer Julia K. Nguyen can be reached at julianguyen@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Social spaces and the ban on alcohol in Yard dorms were the main topics of discussion at a sparsely attended freshman-specific discussion Wednesday night on the College’s alcohol policy.
Six students—four of whom were freshman Undergraduate Council representatives—and six administrators participated in the meeting, which was meant to solicit student opinions that would contribute to the decisions of the College’s recently established alcohol policy committee.
Despite the small turnout, students and administrators interviewed said they felt the environment was conducive to a productive and candid conversation.
“I heard some good things here, even though it was a small sample size,” Dean of Student Life Suzy M. Nelson said. “I didn’t feel that people held back. I felt they were honest about what’s going on.”
The discussion touched on a variety of subjects, ranging from the freshman-proctor relationship to the dearth of social space available to freshmen.
“It definitely made me more aware of how much of a pickle the school is in in terms of what position they can take,” said Jason G. Zhang ’15, a UC representative from Ivy Yard. “They can’t really go against the law.”
According to Elm Yard Resident Dean Sue Brown, administrators elected not to publicize the event over Yard-specific email lists out of concern that the response might become overwhelming. Instead, they promoted the “Forum on Harvard College Alcohol Policy” over the 2015 events email list and through emails from each Yard’s UC representatives.
Elm Yard UC representative Darragh J. Nolan ’15 expressed concerns that students may have been deterred by the event’s characterization as a “forum” and approached Brown after the meeting about the possibility of holding additional freshman-centric alcohol meetings in the future.
“I would be really happy to facilitate or co-facilitate another group,” Brown said. “We love to have student input.”
Yesterday’s meeting was the second in a series of discussions that the College will hold with the student body over the coming semester as it plows ahead toward a potential overhaul of its current alcohol policy.
Discussions will be held with students from several Houses at a time.  Wednesday’s meeting was the Class of 2015’s opportunity to participate in the dialogue.
When the alcohol policy committee was first formed last semester, none of its members represented the freshman perspective, according to Brown.
Both she and Colin J. Donovan ’11—a proctor in Thayer who served on the alcohol policy committee as the Quincy House Committee Co-Chair last year—personally reached out to Nelson and requested that they be included as members of the committee for the coming year.
Harvard’s alcohol policy has long been unpopular among students—especially for freshmen, who under the current rules are not allowed to have any alcohol in their dorms.
Administrators recognize that for many Harvard students, the first year serves as their first experience with drinking and can define their relationship with alcohol throughout their college years.
During an interview with The Crimson in March, Dean of Freshman Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said that a number of students called the ban on alcohol in the Yard “way too strict” in last year’s freshman survey.
According to Nelson, the College is interested in reevaluating the current alcohol policy in the context of creating a healthy social scene, while still staying within the boundaries of the law.
Nelson said that student input from the meetings will be sent to the alcohol policy committee, which will draft a preliminary version of the updated policy for review and approval by Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the wake of a New York Times/CBS poll that indicates that distrust in the federal government is at its highest recorded level, Harvard’s student political leaders say they share the public’s concerns. The national poll found that 89 percent of Americans do not think that they can “trust the government in Washington to do what is right,” and 74 percent think that the country is on the wrong track.
Jonathan L. Newmark ’12, president of the Harvard College Democrats, and Michael W. McLean ’12, president of the Harvard Republican Club, agreed that the poll’s results were unsettling.
“As an American, it’s disconcerting, regardless of politics,” McLean said. At least for now, he said, high levels of dissatisfaction can be found among members of both parties.
In a poll of Harvard students, “I think there’d be a similar trend,” Newmark said. “But I don’t think it would be as extreme.”
“I don’t think it would be different than the student body’s distrust in the Bush era,” he said.
McLean and Newmark both said that the distrust in the government indicates a desire for change in the 2012 election, but how that change will come, unsurprisingly, was up for debate.
“I’m not sure if the President has the political capital and confidence of the American people to take steps to fix the economy,” McLean said.
Newmark said he does not lay blame on the President.
“I understand that rarely is an economic situation the result of one president,” Newmark said. “I try not to lose too much faith.”
But he acknowledged that his fellow Harvard College Democrats were not quite so steadfast in their commitment to the President.
“You definitely see people who are not as enthused as they were in 2008,” Newmark said. “It’s frightening to see that.”
According to the New York Times, the President’s approval rating is 46 percent.
Professor Thomas E. Patterson of the Harvard Kennedy School said that he was not surprised by the results of the national poll, pointing out that confidence in the government peaked before the Vietnam War and, with some exceptions, has been waning ever since. But now, he said, approval is “about as low as it goes.”
“This is a public that for a lot of reasons doesn’t have a lot to root for,” Patterson said.
Patterson said that he does not expect public opinion of the government to improve any time soon, either.
“The economy’s not going to turn around easily,” Patterson said. “There’s hardly anyone who’s very optimistic about the economy.”
He also said it will be difficult to bridge the widening political gap between the two parties.
“It’s hard to see a dramatic policy that will tell Americans that times have changed, that people are acting like grownups,” Patterson said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joycelyn A. Wilson, a fellow at the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute of African and African American Research, opened her presentation of her academic work on Tuesday by rapping. Wilson, who is an Emmy-nominated documentary film producer, discussed hip-hop as a locus for education within the African American community.
She focused on the importance of “schooling” in hip-hop, an idea that can be strongly tied to teaching others through song.
She cited three of Kanye West’s albums: “College Dropout,” “Late Registration,” and “Graduation” and Jay-Z’s famous line that he graduated “from the school of hard knocks,” as evidence of a trend of the primacy of words related to education in rap music.
Wilson conducted a study of educational language in hip-hop that involved 238 songs and 9 interviews. Using open coding strategies, she found distinct ways that hip-hop talks about education.
Wilson found that, “non-southern artists speak more explicitly [about education] than southern artists do.” She added that southern rap is also concerned with education, but in a more subtle manner.
Wilson also focused on the differences between southern and northern rap more generally.
She showed clips from the documentary “The Dirty States of America: The Untold Story of Southern Hip Hop,” which asserted that southern rap is more deeply tied to America’s legacy of slavery and thus often more deeply engages with the subject of racism.
Audience members said that the presentation was thought-provoking.
“It was really enlightening,” said Rayshayna Gray, a Cambridge resident, noting that the almost “eyewitness perspective” that southern rap artists bring to African American history is remarkable.
Jessica F. Carter, a student at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, said that Wilson’s research was very important. “I’m from the South, so it was very relatable,” she said.
She added that it was essential that rap artists think more deeply about the importance of being a voice of social conscience.
“Hip hop is still in its infancy, it’ll be interesting to see what will happen 10, 15 years from now,” Carter said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Policy makers should anticipate potential shortcomings and unexpectedly high costs associated with the expansion of Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act of 2010, according to a study released Wednesday by researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health.
In an effort to provide insurance coverage to the 50 million uninsured Americans, the Affordable Care Act revised Medicaid to include more low-income adults by 2014. But according to the researchers, their analysis revealed much more uncertainty than the government’s estimates of the number of people who would become eligible for Medicaid and then elect to enroll.
The Congressional Budget Office and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services predicted that 16 million Americans would elect to join the Medicaid program by 2014. But the Harvard researchers predict that as few as eight million or as many as twenty-two million uninsured individuals would actually enroll, increasing uncertainty surrounding the policy change.
“Medicaid expansion may be successful or not depending on how many people enroll,” senior author and Professor of Health Policy and Management Arnold M. Epstein said.
Based on their numbers, the researchers estimated that federal spending for increased Medicaid enrollees would range from $34 billion to $98 billion and create a demand for 4,500 to 12,1000 new physicians to care for the enrollees.
“This could leave a lot more people either having to go through [state] exchanges or being uninsured, or it could potentially cost us more than we expected,” Epstein said.
For any piece of legislation concerning federal spending, the CBO must determine the potential budget impact and can only produce one estimate. Together, the CBO and the CMS provided Congress with the estimate that 16 million Americans would join the Medicaid program.
“Our objective was to provide a more realistic range of how many people might be covered by Medicaid under ACA and what the implications would be for health care providers,” Professor of Health Policy and Economics Katherine Swartz said.
Led by Assistant Professor of Health Policy and Economics Benjamin D. Sommers, the researchers used a simulation model and national surveys to determine how many people would enroll in Medicaid.
The study suggests that legislators should be prepared for a broader number of possible new Medicaid enrollees. If the number is higher than anticipated, policy makers will have to increase care providers and compensate for the costs, Swartz said. If the number is lower, then they will have to develop a marketing strategy to encourage people to enroll, Swartz added.
“It’s going to be a lot of time for all this to iron itself,” Swartz said. “It’ll be 2019 or 2020 before we know.”
—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Once seen as a front-runner in the Democratic primary for Massachusetts’ U.S. Senate seat, social entrepreneur Alan A. Khazei ’83 will withdraw from the race, a spokesman announced Thursday morning.
Since she entered the race in September, Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren has taken the presumptive lead in polls, and attention has fallen away from candidates such as Khazei.
With Khazei out of the race, Warren faces little serious opposition in her drive to gain the Democratic nomination. Polls have indiciated that Warren and Brown are currently in a dead heat, and the race is expected to be one of the most closely watched of the 2012 cycle.
Two years ago, Khazei ran in the special election to fill the vacated seat of the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56 but lost the primary to Martha Coakley. Khazei was the only candidate from that race to return as a challenger to current Senator Scott P. Brown.
Earlier this month, Khazei criticized Warren’s acceptance of money from political action committees in a meeting with Harvard students in Currier House, where he lived as an undergraduate at the College.
Also a graduate of Harvard Law School and a former fellow at the Institute of Politics, Khazei is a co-founder of the national service organization City Year.
Khazei is expected to make his official announcement at campaign headquarters at noon.
—Staff writer Stephanie B. Garlock can be reached at sgarlock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When scouting reports said that Melissa Johnson ’00 had a good shot, they weren’t just talking about her jumper.
Johnson, a former Harvard women’s basketball captain, debuted her new film, “No Look Pass,” at the Outfest Film Festival in July of this year. The story revolves around Emily Tay ’09, another former Crimson basketball captain whose story revolves around the crossing of racial, cultural, and social boundaries in order to achieve the simple goal of attaining personal happiness.
In addition to her in-season battles against Dartmouth, Yale, and the rest of the Ancient Eight, Tay had to fight against the homophobia that was ever-present in her strict Burmese home life. Though she wasn’t able to come out to her parents, Tay quickly found the support of her teammates at Harvard.
“Emily came out to our team her sophomore year,” explained Katie Rollins, a former Crimson basketball player and Tay’s closest friend. “She came out to me freshman year, a couple of months into college. So, when the film was being shot, they knew she was gay. Our teammates were so supportive of her, it was great.”
Tay’s coach at Harvard, current women’s basketball coach Kathy Delaney-Smith, remembered the meeting when Emily came out to both her teammates and coaching staff.
“It had no effect on anything whatsoever, which I’m very proud of,” Delaney-Smith said. “It was kind of like ‘Yeah, so? What else?’ It was a non-factor, other than probably Emily had some difficulty with it, mainly based on that culture that we live in and the culture of her parents.”
For Johnson, one of the most important aspects of the filming process was capturing Tay’s life in a relatable way.
She aimed to create a union between the viewers and the athlete. In a way, the documentary seeks to break down the same barriers as Tay has.
“I wanted the film to tell the story about these emotional things, but with a sense of reverie and humor that [could] make it feel relatable to people,” Johnson said. “I’ve said before, you don’t have to be gay, you don’t have to be Burmese, and you don’t have to be a basketball player to understand what Emily is going through, to understand what it means to say that ‘I love my parents, but they really just don’t get me.’”
One of the biggest boundaries for Tay to break was her innate shyness. At her Los Angeles high school, Marlborough School, it was her reserved nature that immediately stood out.
“She was definitely quiet when she first came to Marlborough,” high school teammate Shaina Zaidi said. “At first, it was only her play on the court that we knew. But when she got more comfortable, her leadership really flourished, and she definitely stepped into her role. By the time the upperclassmen left and she was captain, she was leading the team. Whenever I would come back and watch their games, I could see her leadership.”
It was a similar story when Tay came to Harvard. Despite the growth in her leadership, she still remained reserved.
“She was a little non-traditional in that for such a great player, she didn’t have a lot of confidence,” Delaney-Smith explained. “I would say that was the unique part of Emily. We probably spent four years working on her confidence.”
With a shy demeanor, starring in a film does not seem like an obvious choice.
But “No Look Pass” is largely about Tay’s journey of coming to terms with herself and the different situations that she faced.
“I really saw Emily grow up a lot, and I think it really comes through in the film,” Johnson said. “I think the person you see at the end of the film is very different than the one you see at the beginning. When she went up for the question-and-answer [at the Outfest premiere], you could really tell that this was a much different girl than I’d met when we first started this whole process. By the end of the question-and-answer period, she was cracking jokes and not giving the microphone back. She saw that these people wanted to celebrate her.”
The film also depicts the close-knit friendship between Rollins and Tay, which was sustained throughout Harvard and their post-graduate basketball careers in Germany.
“[Our] friendship was very unexpected,” Rollins said. “We are polar opposites. I’m tall, from the East Coast, crazy, straight—we can even go that far. I’m boy-crazy. She’s reserved, Asian-heritage, West-Coast, lesbian, likes girls. How we became best friends, I don’t even know. We just connected instantly the first week of college and were kind of inseparable all four years.”
Rollins and Tay even took every class and section together—a choice that, looking back, Rollins jokingly called “creepy.”
“I think we just had a mutual understanding and respect for each other,” Rollins explained. “We balance each other out. I would try to get her to be a little wilder, and she would tame me a bit. At the root of it, we’re both hard-working people just trying to figure it out in life. That’s where I think we bonded.”
Ultimately, when the film premiered on July 9, Tay not only had the support of Rollins and Johnson but also of her entire Crimson team. As Tay flew in from Germany, and Rollins from New York, the rest of the team members traveled from across the country to view the film as a single unit.
The film proceeded to win the Special Programming Award for Freedom following its two initial showings, both of which were completely sold out.
“It was amazing,” Johnson described. “It was so powerful and fun, and I know that Emily was very nervous because she really put her life in front of these people. The film had a big payoff when we heard people laughing at the film and gasping at all the right moments. You could really tell that they were really into it. I watched the film sitting next to Emily and, on the other side, Katie. They were also just so into it and were just having so much fun remembering all these key moments in their lives growing up … That made it all worth it.”
The film will continue its world premiere next month at the DOC NYC Film Festival in New York, followed by a trip to the International Documentary Film Festival in Amsterdam, which is one of the most highly-regarded documentary film festivals in Europe.
The overall structure of the film, one of a star athlete who must overcome several challenges in order to be a more complete player and person, has themes found in the other sports movies of this generation, such as Rocky and Hoosiers. But where “No Look Pass” separates itself from the crowd is in the fact that Tay does not use just her skills to dazzle both the defense and the viewers. Instead, she became what Rollins called “the go-to person that everyone could look to and look up to.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After carving through the Bucknell coverage unit on Oct. 15, Seitu Smith III turned on his jets and galloped towards the end zone, adding to the day’s offensive onslaught while becoming the first Harvard freshman to ever return a kickoff for a touchdown.
Coming back to the sideline, the Florida native was greeted not with jubilation, but with a sense of contentment that was a long time coming.
“They said ‘It’s about time,’” Smith recalled. “On the first kickoff, if we had just picked up that one block, it would’ve been a touchdown. We knew if we picked it up on the next kick, we were going to score.”
His teammates had been predicting a touchdown for more than a couple of quarters too.
“They had been waiting for one from the first week,” Smith said. “We [had] five or six close ones. Now we are waiting on the next … There will be another one.”
Thanks to his 91-yard score two weeks ago, in addition to several other long runbacks, Smith is now ranked fourth nationally in kick return average with 31.1 yards per return.
The 5’11” returner followed up his record-setting game against the Bison with an even stronger all-around performance against Princeton Saturday. Beyond returning five kickoffs for a total of 122 yards, Smith also ran a punt back to the 11-yard line before a Tigers tackle saved a touchdown.
The freshman also led the team with a career-high six catches for 54 yards. Tallying 220 all-purpose yards on the day, Smith became the first Harvard rookie in eight years to surpass 200 all-purpose yards in a single game.
“Coming into the game, looking at the way Princeton played defense, we expected [Smith] to catch a few balls,” senior quarterback Collier Winters said. “I don’t know if we have anyone with his game speed on offense. He’s our big playmaker-type guy.”
For his efforts, Smith was named the Ivy League Special Teams Player of the Week as well as the Ancient Eight co-Rookie of the Week.
Despite the impressive performance, Smith believes he could have done even better, as cramps slowed him down in the second half of the shootout with Princeton. Fortunately for the freshman, Harvard coach Tim Murphy said that he will try to get more touches for the return man extraordinaire.
“[Sophomore wideout] Matt Brown and Seitu are two guys we are trying to get more reps for because they are clearly outstanding athletes and competitors,” Murphy said. “We’ve transitioned to packages for those guys, because they are talented athletes that deserve to play.”
While Smith said he would embrace a larger offensive role, he feels most at home on special teams.
“You know you can catch it ... And make plays,” Smith said. “There is nothing like returning a kick.”
Smith has certainly made plays this season, running his way past defenses and into the Crimson record book, to his coach’s approval.
“[Smith] has been a pleasant surprise,” Murphy said. “But we had high expectations because we thought he was one of our top recruits. The only surprise is that he’s been able to transition to our offense so flawlessly for a freshman.”
Senior wideout Alex Sarkisian has been similarly impressed by how quickly Smith has adapted to the college game.
“It takes a special kind of player to come in and play as much as he does as a freshman,” Sarkisian said. “But he has a great mental approach to the game and works hard on knowing all of the plays.”
In addition to learning a new playbook, Smith has had to adjust quickly to a completely different style of play.
“[Ivy football] is a tougher type of football,” Smith said. “In Florida, we are all speed, but here everyone is tough, everyone is stronger. That’s the main difference.”
Since joining the squad, Smith has tried to combine the contrasting styles of play.
“Coach wants me to play with speed, so I play with it,” he said. “But he also wants me to play with toughness.”
The rookie says there are other attributes that have helped him succeed as a returner.
“I think it’s my instinct,” he says. “Reacting to player’s movements and finding the hole to run through and then the burst of speed after.”
As fast as Smith is on the gridiron, he has flown up the depth charts even faster. Coming into the preseason, the rookie was behind a couple of other players in the returning pecking order but was named the starting returner on the day of the team’s first game. Similarly, Smith has gone from an afterthought in the passing game to one of Winters’ top targets, with still more room to move.
“He certainly has the potential to be a number one receiver,” Sarkisian said.
While that may be the case, Smith is currently happy in the slot role.
“I think for me I’ll always be the main slot guy, being at my height with my quickness,” Smith said. “I like [that role] a lot. Linebackers can’t keep up.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Picture this: heaping piles of grilled chicken, burgers, hot dogs, an assortment of colorful salads, perfect domes of corn, peas, and carrots all stuffed onto plates and smothered in a bath of savory, creamy sauces. Alongside these dishes are cups of Gatorades lined up as far as the eye can see. All the while, the pungent aroma of grated Parmesan atop pasta fills the room.
Where are we? A buffet? A restaurant’s kitchen? The intersection of the entrées with the grilling station at Annenberg?
Try dinner with the football team.
But instead of talking about blocking assignments or this week’s upcoming primetime matchup against Dartmouth, the topic of conversation at a recent meal turned to the building blocks of life: food.
The biggest eaters of all were—not surprisingly—the linemen. To one who has never watched a football game before, a lineman’s task sounds simple enough: just control the opposing player on the line of scrimmage. But when the sheer size and power of these young men are taken into account, things no longer seem so simple.
On ESPN’s Sports Science, two NFL offensive linemen, Marvel Smith and Joe Staley, were able to push a truck with a whole football team inside—the equivalent of 15,000 pounds. Since American football’s inception, a lineman’s job has transformed into something resembling that of a modern-day gladiator.
How does one create these powerful beings that do things that are physically impossible for the average American? The answer of course is complicated and depends on a variety of factors, such as genetics, training, and willpower.
Nevertheless, what these guys put into their mouths plays an essential role. Some strength and conditioning coaches recommend that in order for a lineman to maintain his weight, he should consume 5,000 calories a day, which is two-and-a half-times the FDA standard.
Many on the line follow these guidelines, including defensive line stalwart senior Josue Ortiz. Thus far this season, Ortiz leads the team with six sacks. As a junior, Ortiz was named to the Associated Press All-America third team.
But while Ortiz’s stats are eye-popping, his eating habits are even more so.
On a typical day, what Ortiz consumes—steak, grilled chicken, brown rice, and other foods he qualifies as “basic”—is not unusual. What separates him and other linemen is how much they eat.
Indeed, like many red-blooded American males, Ortiz’s favorite food is steak. But when asked how much usually fills him up, he said about 32 ounces. This number exceeds any steak served at Frank’s Steakhouse, a Zagat-rated steakhouse on Massachusetts Avenue, by a whopping 10 ounces—­­the size of another small steak.
Senior Kevin Murphy, a 295-pound left tackle who used to play tight end and quarterback in high school, and 305-pound junior right guard John Collins, who wrestled competitively before college, demonstrate the fact that no two lineman are alike.
“[The difference between] John and me is [like that] between night and day,” Murphy said. “Some people have a bigger problem stuffing themselves with food. I have to eat a lot to put on weight.”
Collins explained that his metabolism was naturally slow and that during the offseason, despite trying to lose weight, he ended up putting it on.
Other differences arise from personal eating habits.  Whereas Ortiz, Murphy, and Collins all try not to overeat during the team breakfast before games, some have different philosophies than others.
“I am weird in that I buy into the idea of playing hungry,” Collins said.
Following the game, though, the linemen and the rest of the team all unite and “pig out,” according to Murphy and Collins. Collins admitted that sometimes he and fellow lineman Jim Deng go to Charlie’s Kitchen and feast.
The Harvard line is full of 270-plus pound, pure physical specimens. Just like anyone on any other sports team, they keep healthy according to their own stringent regulations.
But for the line, these regulations often take a slightly different form. In fact, after Murphy moved from a skill position to the offensive line, his consumption habits changed accordingly.
“I definitely started putting down a lot more tacos once I made the switch,” Murphy said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After last weekend, it’s time to shake things up a bit. With one top-five team not in action and strong performances from two teams on the outside looking in, the top five needed some reshuffling.
5. Men’s Heavyweight Crew
The rowers took first place in the championship eights division of the Head of the Charles Regatta, finishing perhaps the most prestigious race of the fall season in just over 14 minutes. Plus, there were free samples of everything along the banks of the river all weekend.
Previous Rank: Not Ranked
4. Sailing
Once again, the sailing team competed in multiple races with snobbish names. The team finished fifth at the Stu Nelson Trophy regatta, 13th at the Hoyt Trophy regatta, 12th at the Ober trophy, and 8th at the BC Invitational.
Previous Rank: 3
3. Women’s Tennis
The Crimson finished its fall season at the ITA Northeast Regional. All six Harvard participants advanced at least to the second round of the main draw, while juniors Kristin Norton and Camille Jania both played into the fourth round of singles and doubles competition before being eliminated.
Previous Rank: 4
2.  Women’s Soccer (10-4-1, 4-0-1 Ivy)
As it turns out, Harvard soccer does have something to cheer about. The women’s team is currently riding a three-game winning streak, beating Princeton last weekend to gain sole possession of first place in the Ivy League. The team plays its final home game on Saturday against Dartmouth before ending its regular season next weekend.
Previous Rank: Not Ranked
1. Football (5-1, 3-0 Ivy)
Congratulations, Coach Murphy. You have the top two performers in the Ivy League, but they both play the same position, and it’s not clear who’s better. After two consecutive record-breaking performances from junior quarterback Colton Chapple, the Crimson started a healthy Collier Winters behind center on Saturday against Princeton. He didn’t exactly disappoint in his return, throwing for 403 yards and five touchdowns and running for one more score in the Crimson’s 56-39 win. Maybe Murphy should just have Chapple and Winters pass to each other.
Previous Rank: 1
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard freshman right tackle Will Whitman doesn’t have much in common with Jerry Rice.
 
But the Lexington, Ky., native does share one similarity with the greatest wide receiver of all time—both established themselves playing for FCS schools, and for that, Whitman has the chance to be honored in the wideout’s name.
 
Last week, the rookie was mentioned on the watch list for the Jerry Rice Award, which honors the most outstanding freshman player in the Football Championship Subdivision. This is the first time the honor, presented by The Sports Network, is being awarded. 
 
The trophy is named for Rice, the Hall of Fame receiver who was an FCS (then Division I-AA) star at Mississippi Valley State University during his college days. Whitman and 17 other FCS rookies were named to the watch list for their contributions to similarly-small football programs.
 
The 6‘6”, 280-pound right tackle, one of the few freshman starting at that position in all of college football, was the only lineman on either side of the ball named to the watch list.
 
“We didn’t count on a freshman being able to come in and be able to hold his own against anybody,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “[But] the combination of experience and confidence has allowed [Whitman] play at a high level.” 
 
In the Crimson’s first five games, Whitman played every snap and compiled 30 knockdowns in that span, including 10 in a single contest against Cornell. The freshman allowed just one sack over those contests, anchoring a Harvard offensive line and protecting two quarterbacks—junior Colton Chapple and senior Collier Winters—who have combined to throw 19 touchdowns with just five interceptions on the year.
 
“With any position, we grade you, just like on any test,” Murphy said. “His grade has gone up consistently.”
 
Princeton freshman running back Chuck Debilio, who rushed for 135 yards against the Crimson last week, was also named to the watch list.
 
The award will be presented at the national awards banquet on January 6 in Frisco, Texas, and Rice himself is expected to be on hand to present. 
 
“I love to give back and it is amazing to be able to award a deserving freshman based on his accomplishments,” Rice said in a statement. “I think it’s important to recognize people at all levels for their hard work and dedication.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Starbucks? Move over. Harvard students in need of a delicious and quick jolt of morning caffeine can stop by Cabot Café between 8:30 and 10:30 a.m. Monday through Friday next week for their morning fix.   Next week marks a trial period for what could become regular Café hours for the popular Quad-spot, which will continue to serve drinks and food during it's current hours, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday.
"We have consistently been getting requests to operate in the mornings," said Jesse J. Kaplan '13, a Cabot Café manager. "My friends have been telling me that they only drink caffeinated drinks in the morning, so we figured we might as well try it out."
Kaplan said that the Café will test the waters before diving into the morning venture full force.
"We're going to be starting off pretty low-key, just serving hot coffee and hot tea," he said. "If things go well and people start coming, we'll definitely phase in other menu items."  He also added that the staff is hopeful that the mornings will open up Cabot Café to a new set of customers, while keeping the old customers as well.
"I think our morning customers will be some of our night-time regulars but a lot of new faces as well," Kaplan said. "Tons of students are busy at night or go to bed early but are still excited by the idea of a student-run café, so we're hoping we'll be able to reach out to a lot of new students."
And Cabot Café is not the only student run vendor making themselves more accessible to students. The Quad Grill has started accepting credit cards in addition to BoardPlus, Crimson Cash, and cash.
"It's more convenient for students to be able to pay by credit card," said Grill manager Olivia M. Shopshear '12.  "We just wanted to have that option available so that we could better serve the quad community."
