News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I stop by the Occupy Boston site for the first time this past weekend and there, I meet “John.”
His neatly trimmed silver hair and long black coat stand out against the sea of ruggedness. I ask him if he has a family. He explains in long-winded fashion that he’s unemployed and divorced but remains a devoted father to four children, the oldest of which is 20. He takes them out every Tuesday after getting his check, which, you know, leaves him broke by Wednesday morning—but it’s worth it because he would do anything for his kids.
It’s the hardest thing to do, to watch someone try not to cry.
I ask does his family know he lives here, and what do they think about it.
“My oldest son came over once, and you know, afterward he looked at me, and said ‘Dad, what you’re doing is really great, it’s going to end up in history books, and people are going talk about it even years from now.’ And I thought, man, he’s right, you know. We’re making history.”
The Occupy movement doesn’t like to assign positions of leadership, but John is a leader nonetheless. He’s been at Occupy Boston almost since its conception, around the same time he found himself out of a job, and as a result knows the neighborhood well enough to keep the peace. Not a soul passes that he doesn’t hail down to perform an introduction. I can’t imagine John ever being less than outgoing, but when I ask him how he’s changed, the first thing he says is that he’s more social now.
“And definitely more political,” he adds in his Boston accent. “I like to keep up with the news, not just here, too, everywhere—internationally.” He pauses. “Compassionate. I’m more compassionate. I think that’s what all this is about, and what people need more of: compassion.”
He indicates toward a guy walking past us wearing a clash of colors and jewelry with a fat orange backpack on. “See that guy? He can come here, and no one bats an eye. Welcome.” And then John tells me about a transgender homeless friend of his who used to constantly get harassed at shelters. She now calls Occupy Boston her home.
The unfortunate result of campaign-style rhetoric, oversimplified posters, and slogans railing against or for the “one percent” is that all of us have fallen into the trap of seeing this as yet another “us versus them” battle between the “haves” and the “have-nots.” I don’t disagree that there is a political debate to be had or even an economic war to be fought. But perhaps there’s a reason that Occupy has coalesced more into a heartfelt community than into concrete demands.
We are, after all, not just a political state or a capitalist economy: We’re also a simple collection of people.
More than anything else, Occupy is a demand for a home from those who don’t have one. It’s a desire to belong—anywhere, somewhere—even if it’s within a tent community at a public park. It’s a cry to be cared for.
I think again about how hard it is to watch someone trying not to cry, and how you never know what to do when the tears start falling anyway. I wince, remembering that awkward feeling you get when you’re not sure if you’ve held them for a moment too long or an hour too short. They apologize for getting your shirt wet; you ask them if they’re okay. “Yeah, I’m fine,” they sniffle. I never know how to respond to that because I’m never convinced everything really is okay. The world is so messed up, who could ever be completely okay anyway?
John’s telling me about their plans to insulate their homes in time for winter when I realize I have to run.
“Make sure to grab some food on your way out!” he says.
I tell him I already ate lunch.
“Well, grab some anyway. We always have more than enough. Or come back tomorrow when you’re hungry again.”
He reminds me of my dad.
And then he looks me in the eye as he shakes my hand one last time and says, “Take care of yourself, Danielle.” I smile; he had been working to remember my name. And then: “I’ll never forget you.”
I walk away, slightly stunned by his words. “I’ll never forget you”? What was there even to remember, anyway? All I did was stand there and listen.
Maybe that’s all that compassion is. Standing there, and listening.
Danielle Kim ’12, a Crimson Design Chair, is an anthropology concentrator in Quincy House. Her column will now appear on occasional Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I have appreciated the student dialogue on Occupy Harvard in the Harvard Crimson. One perspective I'd like to add to the discussion: those of us who live in Harvard Yard and are now, effectively, "occupied" in our homes.
I live in Thayer Hall with my husband and our six-month-old son, and, of course, our thirty awesome freshmen. It felt profoundly unsettling to be inside the Yard last Wednesday night with several hundred people outside the gates. I wasn't sure whether to feel displeasure about the sudden locked gates, restricting the rights of those outside to assemble and express their views, or relief that I was safe from individuals who - in contrast to the goals of the Occupy movement - might potentially mean more harm than good. Days later, I remain a confused mixed of sympathetic, ambivalent, and hostile to the tents that purport to occupy this space I've come to call home.
Galvanizing individuals around an anti-Harvard sentiment might be an effective means of changing the university, but it might also have unintended results. I felt sharply aware on Wednesday night that the building my family and I live in might be a target for someone looking to express rage and frustration at a broken political and economic system and Harvard's perceived complicity in our country's problems. When forty individuals who do not live in Thayer had a meeting in our basement, I felt an unease I don't think I would have before having my son. I feel deeply the responsibility to keep my family and my freshmen safe, and I'm worried that the Occupy Harvard site might attract people who want not to change the university but to damage it, either for the catharsis or symbolic power of that damage. I realize that the organizers of Occupy Harvard mean no harm (they say so on their website, of course), but hearing that a group recently showed up to the gate in masks and holding bats has made it hard for me to sleep.
The Yard has been a site of political debate for hundreds of years, but it is also a place where many people sleep, including ten small children. Though the Occupy movement is spread throughout the globe, I am not aware of another site where it is a residential community being Occupied, 24 hours a day. I wish that the Occupiers had considered what it might mean to Occupy not a public site but a space that is also home to many members of their community.
Kristi L. Jobson '06, HLS ’12, is a Freshmen Proctor and former magazine associate editor at the Harvard Crimson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
My mom always had a dad, though I never really had a grandfather. A $25 check for Christmas, one for my birthday as well. The sentimental card that used to arrive around Valentine’s Day. For someone special always gave me pause.
We would visit every few years—he had houses in Ohio and Florida. Fish and guests are a lot alike, you know? Both of them start to smell after three days. We would often stay longer.
Our meals would be eaten at his favorite restaurants, at night they were followed by drinks at the bar. The waitresses knew his name. Oh, Bill, then a high laugh that I was too young to decipher. He would produce a flower plucked from some nearby planter—another laugh. Now what can I get you guys for breakfast? I remember the way he always ordered extra bacon.
Then, the obligatory driving tour of the neighborhood. He would point out what had changed since our last visit. I could rarely remember enough to appreciate the suburban alterations. I sat in the back. He insisted upon radio talk shows, despite the inaudible volume. Once, in the parking lot, he gave me my first gold necklace. My mother smiled by the passenger side door and I wondered if this meant something I was missing.
When we returned to his house, he would go to the basement, turn on the television. Was there cheap vodka? The muffled volume provided the soundtrack to the shows my mother and I watched, on low, the floor above. Once, I decided to perform a ballet for her—in between segments of “American Idol,” I found inspiration in stocking feet on plush carpet. Steps on the stairs. Can you stop all that banging around? I can’t hear my program. I told Mom I couldn’t see what the big deal was—we could hear his program just fine. Let’s just wait until tomorrow.
Sometimes, tomorrow meant the museum or the water park. Eventually, it would mean returning home. Air-conditioned drive, leather seats, terminal—I don’t really remember the coming and going. The in-between always comes easier to my mind.
When he got sick, my mom, aunt, and uncle moved their father to live near us in Western Massachusetts. I was already in college at the time. Conversations with my mother now centered on where they had gone for lunch that week, the most recent purchases at Target. We were walking down the street today and Dad just lost his pants. He was a good sport about it, though. We had to go and buy him new ones. In the past, her voice hadn’t been as gentle toward him. It also hadn’t seemed so tired.
When Christmas came, we were at my grandma’s, his former wife. She had given me their engagement ring years before. For graduation—I never take it off. He would die if I told you this but do you know that I bought that ring myself? He didn’t have the money at the time so I just marched us down to the store and picked it out. I’ve questioned the significance of constantly bearing an emblem of broken love.
When the light catches it, it casts prisms just the same.
In the living room, my aunt tried to strike up conversation. So Bill, isn’t it nice to be here with your family for Christmas? He would prefer Florida. He was happy that soon he’d be able to drive once more. I was angry. He hadn’t been the grandfather who slipped Oreos with a wink when my mom wasn’t watching. I had never been enamored by his stories as he recounted his past. My father’s parents had died before I met them—he was my only chance. I told him that he wasn’t being realistic, that he wouldn’t be able to return to his home. I told him that he should enjoy being with us.
Mom was not happy. That was not your place. What does it matter if we let him hope? I tried to feel remorse. All I could see were the lines around her eyes. If anything, I regretted adding more stress, making them more pronounced.
I didn’t expect to feel anything when I said goodbye. Mom promised we wouldn’t be at the hospital long. We’ll just stop in, he’ll be happy to see you here. A stroke the week before had rendered him unable to swallow. He was conscious but without food or drink. I looked away. Mom stepped out to find water for his lips.
I sat on stiff cushions; his body was tangled in the sheets. The man on the television referred to years by their presidents, even though the topic was not politics. Moans came from the bed, attempts at speech that were impossible to hear. I took my mother’s seat at his bedside. I held his hand.
I don’t know what you’re saying, I can’t understand. I struggled to find words sufficient to fill a gap of 19 years. I’m a sophomore now, almost a junior. Classes have been going really well. You would be proud of my grades. I write for a magazine, that’s where I spend most of my time. I’ve been writing a lot, actually—I wish I had some here. I’m going to Tanzania in June. What more did I have to say? Tears I thought would never come came.
Mom returned. I knew she was thankful for the past year, it had brought them closer together. She waited at the door until I ran out of words. When she entered, he had dropped my hand. I relinquished my chair.
Mom and I sat, watching television. Are you going to do something fun today? Are any of your friends around for Easter? I’ll stop at the grocery store on my way home. Is there anything you want me to pick up? I told her my plans—I probably wouldn’t be back that night but would make sure to come home early tomorrow. We made a shopping list. Are you sure you don’t want anything for breakfast? The 70s and 80s became the Carter Era and Reagan Administration.  A stretcher came to bring him to a nursing home for the final few days. Okay Dad, they’re here. Are you ready? The nurses had loved my grandfather, even though he no longer had flowers to give.
—Kathryn C. Reed ’13 is a sociology concentrator in Adams House.
Sections
1. Fifteen Minutes:  You’re a semiologist. What does that mean?
Umberto Eco:  How many months do you give me to explain? Semiotics is a general theory of all existing languages ... all forms of communication—visual, tactile, and so on ... There is general semiotics which is a philosophical approach to this field, and then there are many specific semiotics.
2. FM: What do you think of America?
UE:  I have been, with this time, 55 times in America. I feel pretty at home ... I was just looking, because in front of the big news-stand in Harvard Square there was a marvelous bar and restaurant that just disappeared, and it is back now. This happens in America. You come back one year later and a skyscraper has disappeared.
3. FM: You’ve traveled a lot. Do you have a favorite place?
UE: Many. But if I had to select a place to live in other than Italy, it would be New York or Paris. In fact I have a little flat in Paris. From Milan to Paris you can go on a plane in an hour and a half, so it’s easy to visit. For a long time, since my son worked in New York for12 years, I also had an apartment in New York.
4. FM: I read somewhere that your surname “Eco” is an acronym for “ex caelis oblatus,” or “given from the heavens.”
UE: I only discovered this maybe 10 years ago. My grandfather was a foundling, and the name to foundlings is given by an official of the city hall. Sometimes there were very sadistic officials who gave terrible names, but we had no way to know why this man had chosen “Eco,” until a friend of mine was studying in the Vatican Library and came across a list of acronyms made by the Jesuits. One of them was “ex caelis oblatus.” I think it is good. Better given by the heavens than by hell.
5. FM: What inspired you to write “The Prague Cemetery,” and what did you hope to accomplish with it?
UE: I always said that one of the main features of human languages is the possibility of lying. Dogs do not lie. When they bark to say that someone is outside, they tell the truth. Human beings lie continuously ... A particular form of lying is forgery ... like “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion,” which, if not the only cause, certainly contributed to the Holocaust. I find [“The Protocols”] interesting because, one, they are a completely self-contradictory text ... Second scandal, they were proven in 1921 to be false, and after that they were believed more and more, so it’s an interesting story. The fact that many beautiful and interesting historical essays were written on this topic is evidently not enough, because they have not reached the mass public audience. So, I don’t say it is the only motivation, but one of the motivations was that, maybe, transforming it into a narrative, I could reach more of an audience. I was just told yesterday that my book has been asked to be translated for Indonesia, a Muslim country. I don’t think Indonesians have gotten many opportunities to read the great scholarly books on “The Protocols”, which are reserved to a few scholars.
6. FM: How do you view the relationship between your scholarly output and your popular writing?
UE: I started by considering myself a scholar who worked six days a week and wrote novels on Sundays. And I thought at the beginning that there was no relationship between my novels and my academic work. Then, reading critics, they found connections ... There is a very important series in this country called the “Library of Living Philosophers” ... And since every human enterprise declines, I am the last [living philosopher] to be dealt with by the next volume. In this volume, every author must write a philosophical autobiography, and 25 people write 25 essays to which the author is supposed to answer. It is a terrible endeavor. Since it’s the “Library of Living Philosophers,” I hope to die before so it will not be published and I will not have to work so much. But I know that the editors of the collection have asked the writers to speak philosophically also of my novels ... It means, for certain persons, there is a strict relationship between the two of my activities.
7. FM: What can you do with a novel that you can’t do with an essay?
UE: When they ask me why I started to write the novel only at the age of 48 ... I don’t know why exactly I started. Probably I just had some wish to. But there were scholars who spent their whole lives wishing that they were novelists. Take the great Roland Barthes. A genius. He died with this sort of bitterness, not to have written what stupid people call “creative writing,” as if Plato and Aristotle were not writing creatively. In fact, Barthes was writing creatively his whole life. And in a way all of my essays have a sort of narrative structure. So, I always say that I’ve had a narrative impulse. I satisfied it in part by telling stories to my kids, but unfortunately they grew up.
8. FM: You once wrote a book about pop culture, in which you discussed apocalyptic and integrated intellectuals. Do you still think about that kind of binary?
UE: No, that was in 1964. Because at that time, there was, on one side, the going up of new popular mass-communication, television, and comic strips, considered low-brow, and on the other end the avant-garde movements. In some sense I already had a foot in the avant-garde, but at the same time, five years out of university ... I was also a passionate, even though critical, consumer of textual novels and comic books ... There is always a difference between the silent research and experiments of music and literature and what is produced for popular consumption, a difference between King and Franzen. But it is less important than before, and it would be silly to make such a straightforward separation.
9. FM: You have spoken about “open” and “closed” works of literature. Are your books open or closed?
UE: Starting this research, I got to the general conclusion that every work of art is open, because it elicits multiple interpretations ... But, for instance, a porno movie is very closed. It is meant to elicit a sexual reaction and then stop. You are not so free to muse on it. In this sense, someone said that I was one of the first to speak of the role played by the reader in the development of a work of art ... I always try to remember that when I spoke of “open work” the title had two aspects—the “open” and the “work”—so the work was there, and it could limit interpretations ... If you ask me if my books are open, I don’t know.
10. FM: But as a writer, don’t you think about how your books will be read?
UE: I’m joking when I say “I don’t know.” I have very well the impression that when I make certain allusions or use an ambiguous sentence I put the reader in the position of choosing among a series of interpretations, but I also know that in the course of my book I am eliminating the untenable interpretations.
11. FM: How has your approach to writing changed over your career?
UE: It’s very difficult to answer. One always has the impression to do the same thing. It is the job for somebody else to decide this. Or for myself in the next fifty years when I look backwards. I am too much inside still.
12. FM: Who would you cite as your important literary predecessors?
UE: If a writer confessed to have a unique predecessor, he would be an idiot. We have been shaped by a lot of influences. Certainly, because I have written a book on Joyce, Joyce has been an influence. But would I say my books depend on or follow Joyce? I don’t know. I don’t think so ...
13. FM: Who are some contemporary writers that you like to read?
UE: I should answer that since I’ve become a novelist I’ve stopped reading contemporary writers. One, not to become influenced. Second, because if they are writing more than me I cannot stand them, and if they are writing better than me I get very frustrated. So I read more and more 18th and 19th-century literature and many historical books. It happens that I read continuously contemporary writers but not systematically. For instance, I read the latest Jonathan Franzen; I am a devotee of Phillip Roth; I like Don DeLillo.
14. FM: If you had one message that you would wish to endure for your readers, what would it be?
UE: For my readers, they are my books. For the rest, I keep this [gesturing to phone] turned off because I don’t want to send messages or receive messages.
15. FM: What do you see next for yourself? What do you think about critically these days?
UE: Listen, in two months I will be 80. The most important things in my life these days are my two grandchildren, and I try to spend a lot of time with them. And all this preoccupation with the future does not concern me. I’ve had already enough.
Sections
Despite the minor scratches and remnants of duct tape from the time I drove into my garage and knocked the side mirror off, my harvest-gold SUV has stuck it out through the good, the bad, and the 2 a.m. 7-Eleven runs. On breezy summer afternoons, I put my responsibilities on cruise control and pass the day to the upbeat wails of a no-name band.
I hit play and Ben Lee’s rendition of “Float On” begins. From the first happy note, my spirits are instantly lifted. Fingertips tap-tapping on the wheel, head nodding in time, my pitchy vocals broadcasting out the windows to whomever is unlucky enough to listen. I have and need no destination, but all routes eventually lead to his driveway.
We’re in the parking lot of the deserted local library, and a cotton candy-colored dusk is setting in. I turn the volume knob until melodic beats fade behind our whispers. Feet dangling out the window, we mull over and under and before we’re ready the album’s all played through.
I’m cruising down Telegraph Road, and I’ve probably been listening to the same song on repeat for 25 minutes, like I’ll never get tired of it. It’s amazing how I can convince myself that this will never get old.
Tuesday night, which means we’re alternating “Entourage” and some sports movie. I’m not paying attention to either, and my Cheez-Its are starting to taste stale. Going out to dinner and a movie isn’t for everyone. Chinese take-out again? Yeah, sure.
That Halloween he was dressed as a cowboy. I tried not to judge him for his lack of imagination. My friends and I had sewn our own Mario characters costumes out of felt (I was Yoshi, complete with a plush egg). And that was only the start of our differences. He was careless and guarded and never wrote down his physics homework. I was nervous and over-analyzing and listened to indie folk to hide that fact. But “A Walk to Remember” had deemed that even the fiercest of opposites could be happy together, so when the one-month mark became the fifth, sixth, eighth, I still considered him the Shane West to my Mandy Moore.
The next track starts, but I’m zombieing out because it’s some shameless fratty dubstep remix of what was originally a good song. My pride takes a hit—how much of it is left?—as I bang a right and drive at the painful 35 mph limit. I’ve gotten one too many speeding tickets here, and don’t think I could muster up fake tears to a cop again.
Towering pine trees line the narrow lanes and obscure the houses nestled comfortably into the woodsy terrain. I used to miss the driveway all the time, but I’ve since learned to recognize the mailbox-mailbox-gnome-mailbox pattern that precedes the yard of interest. I try my best to slow down inconspicuously, maybe even turn on my blinker as if to make a turn, so that I can sneak a furtive glance at the stark white house. Unsurprisingly, it looks the same, triumphantly standing unaffected, whitewashed.
I roll up to the red light at the end of the street. The wait feels longer every time. Three minutes and what feels like hours later, the light turns and I tune back into reality. Wow, this one’s bad too. Skip back to track one.
At some point our whispers and singing-along graduated to lazy requests and half-hearted goodbyes. Soon we were screaming, drowning out everything else in a cacophony reminiscent of a Yoko Ono album. I couldn’t even pretend to be an innocent victim. Between the tantrums and passive aggression and one glorious bitch slap, I may as well have been blasting the most horrific mash-up of Gucci Mane and Enrique Iglesias that has thankfully not been put into existence.
My thoughts still wander to him while I’m driving around sometimes, mostly because the sweet and sour notes linger and will continue to for God knows how long.
Sections
In 1959, the syndicated sports columnist Walter W. “Red” Smith called a Yale athletics official  at the time, Charlie Loftus, to say he wouldn’t be able to make that year’s Harvard-Yale football match. Loftus disbelievingly replied, “What? You’re going to miss The Game.”
Although Smith’s absence went largely unnoticed at the game that year, his column did not. In that week’s paper, Smith stole the epithet from Loftus’s comment and christened the Harvard-Yale rivalry football match “The Game” for good.
The name didn’t quite find its legendary foothold right away. It wasn’t until the following year, when Harvard Sports Information Director Baron Pittenger mantled the Yale game program with the respective title, that the name stuck.
Many college football fans across the country find the name “The Game” smug, pretentious, and woefully indicative of the Ivy League elitist sensibility. The Harvard-Yale rivalry, they say, is mere backyard tomfoolery compared to the likes of Ohio State-Michigan, USC-Notre Dame, or Alabama-Auburn—rivalries of so-called “real” football. So where do Harvard and Yale find the audacity, not only to preface their rivalry game with the definite article “the,” but also so presumptuously to capitalize that “The”?
Let’s not forget where American football started: in the Ivy League schools. And back then, in the 1860s, when the sport was just taking off as a more violent variation of rugby, it didn’t yet have a name. Although soon it was deemed “football,” more colloquially it was known simply as “the game.”
Admittedly, Harvard and Yale are not quite the football monoliths to which we normally sing odes of giddy exaltation. But every November, despite the chronic disinterest that Harvardians and Yalies show towards their athletics, Harvard Stadium or the Yale Bowl manages to fill up to maximum capacity. This year, the 128th game, it will be no different. Thousands of students, faculty, alumni, and their usual associates will pour into New Haven to watch the match. After all, this isn’t just any old football game. It’s The Game.
Sections
With Harvard playing at Yale this weekend, the easiest method of transportation is by student-organized shuttles. We hope you’ll use this six-hours round-trip to better appreciate all things in, on, or around buses. Whether they inspire you, instruct you, or simply make the time go by faster, each of these songs will make the journey to and from America’s number one safety school a little bit better.
1. “Bus Stop Song” (from “Sesame Street”) by the Four Tops
Spell out “Bus Stop” in song while wearing metallic crayon blue suits with your three best friends. If you’re as lucky as the Four Tops, Big Bird will be the driver of your imaginary school bus, all of the way to the Dirty Have.
2. “Get on the Bus” by The Doodlebops
A Wiggles-esque inspirational number about how wonderful it is to get on the bus. A close reading of the chorus—“Get on the bus / Get on the bus / Get on the bus / Get on the bus / ...”—reveals the complex yet simple joys of getting on the bus, getting on the bus, getting on the bus, getting on the bus.
3. “Get on the Bus” by Busdriver
Same idea, but this one’s X-rated. Also funktastic. “In the driver we trust”—there are so many layers to that metaphor.
4. “Wheels on the Bus” (Traditional)
Can you sing this song for three hours straight? There’s one way to find out.
5. “We Like to Party! (The Vengabus)” by Vengaboys
Stuck for a way to get to Yale? Continuously perplexed about     the Vengaboys’ favorite pastimes? This is the song for you.
Sections
FM put on its thinking cap and tapped into its most pronounced highbrow persona to evaluate this year’s Harvard-Yale t-shirt offerings. “Where art thou, innovation?” we wonder, aloud, in affected accents.
Shirt One
Evidently a pupil of the school of contrast and juxtaposition, this shirt illustrates a monochrome John Harvard statue alongside an ironic companion: the Yale Bulldog. The inherent tension to the composition is electrifying, as is its spare but affecting tagline, “Domesticated Since 1701.” A more evocative statement might have been made, however, if the quip had been rendered in Helvetica Bold instead.
Shirt Two
This shirt harnesses the brute machismo of caps lock to convey its timely message: “OCCUPY YALE.” The motif of aggression both disturbs and fascinates, and its deliberate starkness calls to mind the simple cries of our freedom fighters in Zuccotti Park. A yawning stretch of blank background canvas is a mesmerizing touch; its determined negative space appears fertile with imagined possibility.
Shirt Three
“Yale is all about Safety,” announces the shirt, accompanied by the image of a silver lock emblazoned with the moniker of our rival. The schematic’s appeal lies in the universality of its message, but it could have gone further by utilizing an avant-garde inversion of this oft-used insult. While the depicted lock’s vertical symmetry is reminiscent of the deliberate balance of the nouveau contemporary, its color palette fails to impress. We all appreciate the perennial dichotomy of black and white, but this is Game Day. Have we learned nothing from Mondrian? (Trick question—of course we have!) Everything looks better with a splash of Crimson Red.
Sections
With or without the hyphen, the word “startup” is as puzzling as it is ubiquitous. The Oxford English Dictionary Online defines it as “a business enterprise that is in the process of starting up,” usually as applied to a “startup company.” That seems about right—but is the media misusing the phrase when referring to Facebook, which was launched in 2004 and has long since finished “starting up”?
“People refer to Facebook as a startup—that’s not accurate,” says Andrew J. Rosenthal, an MBA student at the Harvard Business School who cofounded the Startup Tribe, a campus group for student entrepreneurs seeking to launch new businesses.
“I visited Facebook’s headquarters in a rental car, and I found out that they had valet parking. If you have valet parking, people shouldn’t call your business a startup,” says Rosenthal.
For the moment, it seems, the startup is increasingly associated with tech-based companies—even those that are now well-established—because those are often the most successful and the most visible. Yet that visibility itself depends on more than just success. Entrepreneurship has been around forever—what makes calling something a “startup” so special?
******
The OED traces the origins of the term, used in its modern sense, back to a 1976 Forbes article, which uses the word as follows: “The ... unfashionable business of investing in startups in the electronic data processing field.” A 1977 Business Week article includes the line, “An incubator for startup companies, especially in the fast-growth, high-technology fields.”
Startup also has digital associations, as in “startup menus,” “startup processes,” and other “startup” computer-related phrases. Wikipedia mentions that startup businesses often have “low bootstrapping costs”; that is, founders of a business fund their venture using their own capital rather than external capital. Bootstrapping comes from the phrase “to pick yourself up by the bootstraps,” which is also where the term “booting up” a computer comes from. Wikipedia explains that “boot” is a shortened version of “bootstrap load,” the process by which the computer starts up by reading a bootstrap sequence that tells the computer how to load in its own operating system.
It should be noted that startups needn’t be tech-based or web-based, but these technological associations hint at one reason why startups are so popular: anybody can start their own. In Rosenthal’s words, technology has had a “democratizing effect” because it has reduced the amount of money and capital needed to start a business. Meritocratic overtones are a part of the very etymology of the word—nobody gets their bootstraps pulled up for them.
******
According to Google N-Grams, a service that measures the frequency of a word’s use within Google’s collection of scanned books, the usage of “startup” steadily rose in the 90s and then peaked around 2002—that is, shortly after the spectacular burst of the “dot-com bubble” of the late 90s and early 2000s. “Startup” appeared less and less frequently between 2002 and 2008; the N-Grams tool doesn’t show any data from 2008 to the present.
“Startup” was being used less and less in books in the time when blogs and online media newly embraced the term in reference to a second generation of internet-based ventures, the most prominent being Facebook. For some reason, in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, startups became increasingly popular.
“I am a huge believer in the idea that starting during a downturn is the best time to start,” says HBS Senior Lecturer Janet J. Kraus. “Opportunity costs are low, and if you’re able to turn a profit in a down market, then you will be very profitable when markets recover.”
Kraus co-teaches “Founders’ Dilemmas,” a course that addresses the challenges of starting a company, and says that cost is also an issue when considering the popularity of the startup. Kraus’ first website in 1996 cost $400,000 to create—not only because it was being built from scratch, but because a great deal of money had to be spent marketing the website and educating people about the Internet.
“You had to explain to people that the Internet existed, that there was something called ‘dial-up’, that you could buy stuff online, and that doing so was secure,” says Kraus.
******
Another major difference between now and then is differing attitudes towards entrepreneurship and towards other business-related paths like finance, consulting, and management—partially a result of the Great Recession. Creating complicated derivatives and working to “lubricate” capital flows might seem less appealing to a generation that has seen the dangers of volatile financial markets.
“The crash of 2008 disillusioned a lot of people looking at those types of careers,” says HBS Professor Thomas R. Eisenmann ’79. Creating something from nothing, on the other hand, might seem more appealing now than before. “If you stand back and look at what your generation wants to do, building something new is [considered] fundamentally pretty cool,” Eisenmann says.
The most successful startups have also proved to be inspirational for many college-aged young adults—who wouldn’t want to be as famous and successful as Mark Zuckerberg?
In an email, HBS Professor Noam T. Wasserman cites “role models” as a major cause for the recent trending of startups: “Founders who have recently captured the public’s imagination—e.g., Jobs, Gates, Zuckerberg—have helped fire the public’s imaginations about how founders can impact the world and inspire people to think about entrepreneurship as a viable path to a rewarding life.”
Wasserman includes a note of caution, however. “At the same time, the public’s focus on those phenomenally-successful founders can cause unexpected perils for those who are less prepared for the challenges of entrepreneurship but try to imitate them nonetheless,” he says.
Support for startups hasn’t just come from the public—the White House unveiled its new “Startup American Partnership” initiative in January to facilitate and encourage startups. In an official statement, President Obama declared,
“Entrepreneurs embody the promise of America: the idea that if you have a good idea and are willing to work hard and see it through, you can succeed in this country. And in fulfilling this promise, entrepreneurs also play a critical role in expanding our economy and creating jobs.”
Startups aren’t just cool or trendy, then: they’re American, too. In a time when American populism appears to be on the rise, and when the Occupy movement gains momentum against its alleged “one percent,” the current popularity of the startup can be no coincidence. “When the big-picture economy looks so bleak and a select group has really flourished,” says Rosenthal, “startups hold a lot of promise.”
Sections
Thanksgiving Break: The First Encounter
Freshman Parent: (Greeting!)
Freshman: (Greeting.)
(Embrace.)
Freshman Parent: (WEIGHT?)
Freshman: (Brain break.)
Freshman Parent: (Brain break? Grades?)
Freshman: (CS50.)
Freshman Parent: (Studying?)
Freshman: (…)
Freshman Parent: (Studying?)
Freshman: (Lamont … café.)
Freshman Parent: (Café … weight?)
Freshman: (MAC after Thanksgiving.)
Freshman Parent: (PIERCING?!)
Freshman: (Experimentation.)
Freshman Parent: (Should experiment with studying.)
Freshman: ( … after Thanksgiving.)
Finding a Drunk Friend at Harvard-Yale
Student 1: (Location?)
Student 2: (YALE!)
Student 1: (Address?)
Student 2: (YALE!!!!)
Student 1: (Toads?)
Student 2: (FROGS!)
Student 1: (Frogs?)
Student 2: (YALEEE!!!)
Student 1: (Which college?)
Student 2: (YALEEEEEEE!!!!)
Student 1: (Where?)
Student 2: (New Haven!)
Student 1: ( … )
Student 2: (SHOTS!)
Student 1: (New Haven—Guns?!)
Student 2: (FROGS!)
Student 1: (Toads?)
Student 2: (NO! Trumball!)
Student 1: (College?)
Student 2: (NO! YALE!)
Student 1: (Coming.)
Sections
Whether you are going to New Haven this weekend to watch The Game or just to tailgate, one thing is certain: you’re going to get hungry. FM gives you some suggestions of where to go.
Coffee or hot chocolate: After a long day of tailgating, any one of the drinks at Atticus Café will warm you up and get you ready for the bus ride back to Cambridge, or another night at Yale. Atticus also offers soups, salads, and sandwiches.
1082 Chapel St. Sun.-Thurs.: 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.; Fri.-Sat.: 7:00 a.m to 10 p.m. Prices: $1 – $10.  $1 coffee if you order to go.
For a classy meal:
It’s unclear how a classy dinner would transpire over Harvard-Yale weekend. In the event that it does, try Skappo, which serves delicious and creative Italian dishes in an intimate and cozy environment.
59 Crown St.  Wed.-Thurs.: 4:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.; Fri.: 4:30 p.m. 11:00 p.m.; Sat.: 4:30 to 11:00 p.m, Sun.: 4:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Prices: $15 – $25
Late night meal with friends:  If you’ve been hankering for Indian food, Thali Too, located right behind Morse and Styles colleges, offers genuinely tasty cuisine. The fairly large portions are great for sharing, so go with friends.
288 York Street. Daily: 11 a.m. to
1 a.m. Prices: $6 – $15.
For a taste of Yale dining:
If you stick around until brunch on Sunday, head over to Silliman dining hall and start your morning with freshly squeezed orange juice and head over to Silliman dining hall, which boasts a juicer machine.
505 College Street. Sun. Brunch: 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Prices: Ask a Yale student to guest swipe you.
Bon appetit.
Sections
Jane Collins ’71, a staff assistant in the Harvard College Deans Office, led our group silently from the Yard into the street. She knew the route well, as she has been walking every Wednesday during her lunch break for years.
When I signed up for the Harvard-Cambridge Walk for Peace, I did not have many expectations. I was however, expecting more than four other people to show up. The fact that there were more tourists meeting at the John Harvard Statue than walkers was disconcerting. Out of the six of us, only two were students: the Crimson photographer and myself.
We must have looked like an odd bunch: Collins, a veteran, two elderly women, and two students following along. Yet as we waited patiently for the stoplight to change, no one seemed to see us.
Students walked past and turned their heads in the opposite direction. Men in suits dragging leather briefcases paused in conversation but did not acknowledge the mismatched group begging for peace.
I was starting to think that I had grown invisible when one street performer gave us a shout out. “Let’s make some peace waves,” he said. “War is not the answer.”
The performer, draped in a suit of random instruments and stuffed animal monkeys, played the harmonica while singing, “Let it Be.”  He was a regular. I’d seen him before. Or rather, I’d pretended not to see him before. Usually, I would look away or check the time on my cellphone, but not this time. This time I gave him a smile.
Sections
This week FM set out to examine which restaurant has the best guacamole in Harvard Square.  From Border Café to Boloco we bring you the inside scoop on the guacamole goodness.
Chipotle
Chipotle’s guacamole is quite well known and it certainly lived up to its reputation.  With a smooth, consistent texture and a fresh avocado flavor, this was a strong entrant.  We liked the balance of cilantro and lime.  While the guac lacked salt, the saltiness of the chips made up for it.
Price: $3.15
4 Stars
Felipe’s
Felipe’s chips have a fresh tortilla flavour, with just a hint of salt and no lime and were our favorite.  This was a great complement to their guacamole, which was the best that we tasted.  With tomato chunks and plenty of onion and garlic notes, Felipe’s recipe provided a complex and nuanced flavor with many strong highlights.  Also the freshest.
Price: $2.75
5 Stars
Boloco
Boloco’s chips were thick, but were not very fresh.  This was also a feature of their guac.  While it was the correct color, the flavor was strangely sour, indicating use of extra lime juice to keep it green longer.  The texture was creamy, almost too rich, and it included too much cilantro.  Like Chipotle, Boloco used the chips to provide the salty notes, but the overpowering flavor of the guac negated this choice.
Price: $2.95
2 Stars
Qdoba
Qdoba’s “hand smashed” guacamole was simple and clean in its flavor, presenting primarily avocado notes.  However, it also hit some sour notes, and the salt content of the guacamole was too much for the heavily salted chips, making the combination overall far too salty for our tastes.
Price: $3.19
3 Stars
Border Café
Border Café presented us with the most unique of the guacamole and was the only one where the spice of the jalapeños could be detected in a subtle aftertaste.  It was the sweetest, with the least lime.  It was also the freshest of  the samples, having been made right before we got there.  We were impressed with the quality and flavors, but still found the complexity of Felipe’s more intriguing to the tongue.
Price: $3.95
4.5 Stars
Sections
Fifteen Minutes
@FMmagazine:     The Harvard Crimson’s Magazine
Describe Yourself (in 140 characters or less):     On a mission to demystify Twitter, at Harvard and beyond
Relationship to Twitter (in 140 characters or less):     TBD
Followers:     You
Nobody wants to know what you had for breakfast.
That, at least, is what David D. Weinberger (@dwein-berger), Senior Researcher at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, says of recreational Twitter (over)users. Composed of 140-character units, Twitter enables users to create a web of information that can encompass the most dramatic of world events (see @ReallyVirtual’s unwitting live account of the Bin Laden raid) and the most trivial details of everyday life (see: breakfast). It has as many uses as there are users, from social and professional networking to political campaigning and instant news. And while not the most prominent social media tool at Harvard, its users encompass a broad swath of the undergraduate community, from political activists to athletes to, yes, people who will probably update you on what’s happening at HUDS.
“It’s a good form if you want to tweet what you had for breakfast, assuming you didn’t have a very big breakfast,” Weinberger says. But “if that’s your example of what Twitter is about, then you can’t possibly understand [it].”
Instead, “the interesting thing about Twitter is that it really works the way it works for you,” comments Ethan Zuckerman (@ethanz), Senior Researcher at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society.
So how does it work for Harvard students? “Twitter lets me let my hair down,” says Gary D. J. Gerbrandt ’14 (@garyge-rbrandt). “I have a vague goal that if somebody is going to see my tweet and laugh at it or see it and think something, I hope that I can improve infinitesimally someone’s day.”
Sophia D. Chua-Rubenfeld ’15 (@semper_phi) agrees. “It’s a way for me to look at my own daily life with fresh eyes and a little grain of salt,” she says.
Siddarth Chandrasekaran ’12 (@sidd) takes a different approach. A computer science concentrator who interned at Twitter for two summers, he highlights Twitter’s capacity to provide a cross-section of enormous amounts of information, from news and pop culture to personal updates and political campaigns. “Some people view it as a manifestation of our lack of ability to hold full-on interest in something, but there is an infinite amount of information—we’re drowning in a web of information,” Chandrasekaran says. “The internet is the largest landfill of human thought that’s ever existed, so in that, I just want signals for the most interesting things.”
Interestingly, perhaps the largest sector of the Harvard population on Twitter is athletes. “A solid quarter of us are on Twitter,” speculates Treavor S. Scales ’13 (@t_scales24), a running back on the football team. “We connect on different levels. We tweet music. We share information with each other,” he says.
The politically involved have also found in Twitter a convenient medium to promote candidates and publicize issues. “It’s much more effective and productive to use it to spread awareness or talk about politics,” says Simon M. Thompson ’14 (@simonthompson), who is involved in Maine politics and has tweeted for the Harvard Political Review, the Harvard Democrats, and Generation 44, a young-adult offshoot of the Obama campaign.
This range of uses—with snippets of text composing broad networks, trends, and themes—represents Twitter’s greatest appeal. It can create a sense of coherence out of fragmentation, a broad perspective from the minute. “One of the things I think is most interesting about Twitter is that clearly it scales,” Weinberger comments. “So if you have five followers and they’re all your friends and you’re using it to coordinate your night out ... it works for that, and if you are a celebrity and you have five thousand to five million followers, it works there.”
Considering ourselves poised to enter the latter category, FM solicited some additional advice from the masters, #hashtag style.
#hashtags
@dweinberger: “[Without #hashtags] Twitter would simply be a stream of Heraclitus—you can’t step in the same stream twice.”
@semper_phi: “Twitter’s already forcing you to be pretty pithy, but then the #hashtag, that’s really where you crystallize what you’re saying.”
#twitteratharvard
@simonthompson: “I don’t really see too much of a #twitteratharvard culture per se, I guess ... I know a lot more alumni who are on Twitter than at the college.”
@garyge-rbrandt: “So few people at Harvard, or so few people at Harvard that I know, have embraced Twitter. #twitteratharvard”
@semper_phi: “I feel like my Twitter universe doesn’t intersect with my Harvard universe at all ... for me, it’s really about getting out of the bubble and connecting with other people.  #twitteratharvard”
#140characters
@semper_phi: “Twitter really forces you to distill things, and you just have to really find the best, fastest, wittiest way of saying something. #140characters”
@dweinberger: “Here we have what looks like a terribly diminished form of communication, #140characters ... and it spurs new rhetorical form.”
#TweetTweet
Sections
1.  Some eat what they love. Others just love people who eat. According to Liam Hemsworth, a love of food is one of Miley Cyrus’s most alluring qualities. Miley’s boyfriend reported to the press, “When I look over at her when she’s biting into a steak sandwich and there is some steak sauce dripping down her chin, there is nothing sexier than that.”
2.  Black Friday... on Thursday? If the turkey dinner’s not doing it for you, you might want to ditch the table and get to your favorite stores extra early. Large retailers such as Walmart, Target, and Toys ‘R’ Us are slated to open as early as 10 p.m. on Thursday night. Some feel that “Black Thursday” just doesn’t have the same ring to it.
3.  Who let the dog out? Yale did. In anticipation of the upcoming game, Yalies have resorted to a desperate measure to break their losing streak: erecting a quarter-ton bronzed statue of their beloved mascot, Handsome Dan. Let The Game(s) begin.
4.  Here’s something for a sister to swear about. Delois Blakely is suing Disney and Sony Pictures for allegedly stealing the idea for their 1992 movie "Sister Act" from her autobiography.
5.  Tree climbing never gets old, even if you do. “Technical tree climbing” or “rec” climbing is becoming an increasingly popular way to reach new heights while getting a great workout. According to a report in The Wall Street Journal, you should make sure you climb with ropes, as “free climbing” can damage the tree.
6.  The “Harry Potter” saga never ends. There may be no more installments to look forward to, but a University of Texas Dallas scientist is working on an invisibility cloak, for the aid of wizards and muggles alike.
7.  Barack Obama and his Discontents: Practicing psychoanalyst and author Dr. Justin Frank delves into Obama’s psyche in “Obama on the Couch: Inside the Mind of the President.” In the book, Frank coins the phrase “Obsessive Bipartisan Disorder” and identifies Obama as a sufferer.
8.  Michelle Obama, meanwhile, made an appearance on iCarly, where she showed off her best dance moves.
9.  Free beer draws the best (and worst) of ’em. After previous tactics failed, British cops tracked down suspects by pretending to be a marketing firm and offering each a free crate of ale.
10.  Better eat your vegetables.  Congress passed a bill that would allow pizza sauce to count as a vegetable in school cafeterias.
Sections
It is 5:00 p.m. on a Tuesday and the sky is already black. But the soft, warm light in the mahogany-walled Eliot library makes bearable the early end to the day. In the back left corner sits the only other student in the room. Headphones in, back straight, face calm, she has positioned her pen on a fresh sheet of lined paper, ready to take notes on her assigned reading. From far away, it’s easy to recognize which textbook she is perusing. The hard cover, the white and red color scheme, are both so familiar—even for someone who has never taken the course she is studying for. It is Professor N. Gregory Mankiw’s “Principles of Economics,” the main text for his celebrity course: “Ec 10.”
Mankiw is one of many professors who has extended his expertise to endeavors beyond the classroom walls, and he’s not alone. Professors from all disciplines actively engage in pursuits that aren’t always student focused. They write books. They appear as political commentators on news shows. They advise government officials. They play music. They run nonprofits.
Commenting on Harvard professors’ involvement in other activities outside of the classroom, Jennifer L. Martin ’13 says, “I’m for it. I don’t think that a professor should put their interests or goals on hold just because they’ve decided to teach. And if the research or work they have chosen to do happens to relate to the subject matter of the class, I think it can only heighten the learning experience. It helps to really show students like myself how what we are learning in class translates into the real world.”
But some are slightly more hesitant about faculty participating in “extramural interactions with industry and other external constituencies”—as outside engagements are called in the eighteen-page official Harvard University Policy on Individual FinancialConflicts of Interest for Persons Holding Faculty and Teaching Appointments. While in some cases other work can enhance the learning and teaching experiences of students and professors, it’s logical to question whether or not these involvements might detract from professors’ focus on the students.
How does outside work (especially of the political variety) affect objectivity toward subjects being taught? What is the right balance—how much energy can a professor devote to students when he or she is splitting time between other engagements? And where do professors’ priorities lie?
THE RIGHT RATIO
As illustrated by one student’s experience, learning from a professor with external commitments has its pros and cons. According to a junior concentrating in Human Evolutionary Biology who preferred to remain nameless for this article and is currently taking a cross-listed course (technically co-taught by Harvard Medical School professors) at MIT on drug development, the effects are twofold. Her professor, Anthony J. Sinskey, is the co-founder of bioscience company Metabolix, which is focused on providing sustainable solutions for the world demand for plastics, chemicals, and energy. He also happens to be on the board of Tepha, Inc., a medical device firm that employs biomaterial technology.
“Long story short,” she says, “he brings total credibility to what he teaches because he’s proven himself to be successful in the real-life industry. Plus, he can talk about real situations and examples between investors, boards of directors, researchers, etc. that are drawn from his real experiences. He definitely brings what would potentially be dry material to life.”
She identifies the drawbacks, saying “To be honest, I do feel like the professors aren’t great teachers, per se. They’ve all done and are doing incredible things in the pharma world and so the experiences are great to hear about. But while they could qualify for ‘Best Pharma Director’ they would never qualify for ‘Best Professor.’”
To avoid professors’ “extramural” engagements from compromising their abilities to teach to the best of their abilities, and to prevent the potential diminishing of the school’s “reputation and integrity,” Harvard’s administration is careful to establish certain rules pertaining to what is and is not appropriate behavior outside of the classroom; the section of the Conflict of Interest Policy document that addresses the “instruction and advising of students” notes, “A faculty member’s outside financial interests should not adversely influence his or her instruction, guidance, or supervision of students, trainees, or post-doctoral fellows.”
While this states a clear position on the issue, it doesn’t exactly provide specifics, something that professors determine for themselves on a case-by-case basis. Daniel E. Lieberman, Professor of Human Evolutionary Biology describes the process behind finding this balance: “If you focus more on the outside than your job as a professor at Harvard, then question it. But the job description is complicated. You have to teach but you also have to interact with the world. Harvard’s mission : make the world a better place. To do that we must engage with the world. What’s the right ratio, I don’t know.”
Despite the open-ended nature of this practice, Professor Jeffrey A. Miron, director of undergraduate studies for Economics, voices a need for this type of freedom. “If the university wanted to have a policy that said that [it] reserves the right to veto certain types of external acts of public activities, that [it] wants to vet op-eds before you submit them or something like that, I think the university should be legally allowed to have such a policy ... But I think it would be insane for a university to have such a policy because a lot of very talented people will not want to be academics if they’re going to feel muzzled.”
The difficult part, of course, comes from negotiating the divide between being a professor and cultivating “outside financial interests” at the same time.
THE ARTIST
On a clear, nippy Veterans Day, the doors to Harvard’s Mahindra Humanities Center are locked. All is silent except for the whisper of red and brown leaves and the deep sigh of the shuttle as it comes to a sluggish stop outside Lamont. At least from the outside, the glare of the November sun on the windows and the glass entrance makes the Humanities Center seem dark and completely empty. But inside it is a different story. The toasty, book-laden office of Homi K. Bhabha—Anne F. Rothenberg Professor of the Humanities in the Department of English and Senior Advisor on the Humanities to the President and Provost—is open for business. After entering the building (with some difficulty, of course) and even before stepping foot into his ground-floor office, his voice becomes audible. It is immediately clear from the echo that Bhabha and his assistant are the only ones home. Bhabha’s distinctive voice, mellifluous, rich, smooth like hot tar, spreads throughout the entire space. He is ending a phone call with a friend, sending his “warm regards.” Just as I reach his ground-floor office, he hangs up, stands, all the words on his “I Love Bombay” t-shirt fully visible, grasps my hand tightly, nods, and winks. No need for a verbal “hello.” The sincerity of his greeting is all in his gestures. Sitting down once more in his desk chair, he folds his left leg over the right, smooths back his salt and pepper hair with a flat palm, and begins to talk.
When asked whether he ever had any other professions before settling in academia, he smiles slyly and says, “In some sense, my career followed a very boring and predictable trajectory.” Now in his early 60s, the expert in postcolonial theory (Bhabha coined many of the neologisms and concepts in contemporary postcolonial studies) received degrees in English from the University of Bombay and Oxford. He has taught at institutions including Princeton and the University of Chicago, and has written a slew of books, scholarly articles, and essays. His “Nation and Narration” and “The Location of Culture,” for example, are both works that any student interested in multiculturalism or the complicated existence of once-colonized peoples and places would read. With his educational background, his affiliation with prestigious institutions, and his widely-recognized published literature, Bhabha may at first appear to live the life of the “typical” academic (if there really is such a thing). But in addition to teaching at Harvard, where he has taught courses such as “Contemporary Postcolonial Writers,” Bhabha is a modern art fiend.
“I was always very into art,” he explains. “As a teenager all I wanted to do was write poetry and and be an artist. I even worked with a sculptor in Bombay. I was just sort of a gopher, you know, just running around and doing tasks for her. But it was a great experience. Then, of course, I found out I had no talent. And I failed. But failure was a good thing because it allowed me to think about art. I could make art in language.”
While, self-admittedly, he might not be a Jackson Pollock or Dan Flavin, the scholar finds other ways to participate in and contribute to the interdisciplinary world of modern art. “I also write in the field of contemporary art, and in fact, I have a book coming out on my art writings with the University of Chicago about the intervention of art in cultural life, into social life,” he says.
In addition to writing, though, the Harvard professor also works with the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City.
“I’m an advisor to the director and curators of the MoMA, whose research scheme is one on contemporary art in a global context,” he says,  furrowing his brows slightly, and interlocking his fingers, suddenly a little more serious. Although the amount of time Bhabha devotes to his artistic endeavors is very much seasonal (depending on when exhibitions are set to take place and when he is teaching), his commitment to his duties at the museum is palpable. “I’m going to be working with one of the curators of MoMA who is doing the São Paolo Biennial in 2012.”
But Bhabha says that he does not lose sight of his academic goals in the midst of his artistic pursuits. On the contrary, his interests in literature, postcolonial theory, and modern art, like his fingers as he sits at his desk, are firmly intertwined. Bhabha’s life inside the classroom is inextricably linked to his life outside it. In fact, he believes his “extracurricular activities” are important for his job at the University.
As he tilts his head back and his eyes move slowly towards the ceiling, he says, “When I’m teaching a great work of literature, I try to the best of my capacity to be able to make students feel that enraptured feeling that you have when you look at a piece of art.”
THE ENTREPRENEUR
If Professor Margo I. Seltzer ’83 were not working in computer science, she would play professional women’s soccer—preferably for the Boston Breakers. “I’m a total soccer groupie. If you haven’t seen the Boston Breakers yet, you really should,” she says jokingly on a Friday afternoon after having returned the night before from presenting a Distinguished Lecture at Brown.
Growing up in a small, rural town in upstate New York, which, as this Herchel Smith Professor of Computer Science likes to say, “had more cows than people,” she first became interested in computer engineering during her senior year of high school.
“That’s really when the first home desktop computer, the TRS 80 produced by Radio Shack, came out,” she explains.
Her love affair with computers—even with the TRS 80 in all of its retro, non-colored bulkiness—has lasted ever since. Seltzer’s various careers both in the classroom and outside revolve around these same machines and their brethren.
After receiving her A.B. in Applied Mathematics from Harvard/Radcliffe College in 1983, Seltzer left school to work for three different startup companies—Sequoia Systems, Stratus, and Kendall Square Research. At each place, she assisted other engineers in their “building of new hardware that required entirely different software.”
But soon she had a change of heart and left the world of startups (at least for a while) for the University of California, Berkeley, where she received her Ph.D. in computer science in 1992. After a pregnant pause, a deep breath, and a low, drawn-out “ooooooooook,” she reflects on what seems to have been an agonizing decision to return to the academic world nearly 20 years ago. “It’s a long story, but I guess fundamentally it was the realization that while I loved technology, I wanted to do something more interactive. Fundamentally, my role as an engineer was to fix, but I wanted to do more than that. I wanted to have close interpersonal relations with others, and teaching definitely gives you that.”
Since graduate school, Seltzer has taught the challenging, and perhaps even “glamorous,” Computer Science (CS) 50, CS 51, and various other courses on databasing and operating systems.
Still, she has not completely given up her career designing software. As Professor David J. Malan ’99, the current professor of CS 50, points out about his colleague’s responsibilities outside the classroom, “Margo Seltzer has done some really interesting work with databasing.”
In 1996, Seltzer and her husband founded the charmingly-named Sleepycat Software, Inc., which was primarily accountable for maintaining the Berkeley database packages. The two computer engineers ran their private company until 2006 when Oracle Corporation, a computer technology corporation that specializes in creating and selling hardware systems and software products, bought it.
Seltzer does not see her work in the classroom and her professional engagements as competing interests.  Speaking about her outside work, she says, “It keeps me grounded in the reality of what’s happening out there, and I can convey that to my students. My job at Oracle allows me to show them that it’s not all about textbooks and assignments. There are real engineers with real engineering problems and puzzles that need to be solved.”
Alan M. Dershowitz, Harvard law professor and jurist, echoes this sentiment, “Harvard is a wonderful place to teach because it allows you to integrate real world and academic work. I have been able to bring the courtroom experience I have into my classroom, and to bring the classroom experience I have into the courtroom. I think it’s made me a better teacher and a better lawyer by being able to do a little bit in both worlds. Over the years I’ve taken a small number of cases, most of which fit in very directly with my schoolwork, most of which are pro-bono—that is, I do them without fee for poor people, like death penalty cases—and I bring them into the courtroom and into the classroom.”
Even though there is a clear intersection between his professional and academic activities, he draws the line at promoting his own viewpoints. “I try my best not to bring my politics or my personal views into the classroom,” says Dershowitz. “I don’t think it’s appropriate for a teacher to use the classroom to propagandize students.”
Based on its policies, Harvard is an institution that recognizes the undeniable value in professors’ work outside teaching. Faculty members do have to report annually about their pursuits outside of academia so as to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest, but there seems to be a widespread respect for the diversity of interests professors possess.
As the introduction to the Harvard University Policy for Individual Conflicts of Interest states, “Faculty members’ collaboration with outside organizations and communities furthers Harvard’s mission of societal service and also benefits the University. Such interactions promote intellectual exchange, enhance professional development, spawn further discovery, and augment and renew the vitality of the University.”
Seltzer herself partially attributes her success in the technology industry and with her undergraduate students to the school’s support.
“Harvard has very generously allowed me to take one day a week for my Oracle work with the idea that what I experience with real computer engineers will carry over.”
THE LAB RAT
As a child, Amy J. Wagers, now a stem cell expert and professor in Harvard’s relatively new department of Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology (HDRB), was the anomaly. She didn’t want to be a prima ballerina. Nor did she have any desire to be a heroic policewoman. Nor, for that matter, did she aspire to be a stethoscope-wielding, syringe-bearing physician. Instead, she wanted to do scientific research.
“Research. I’ve wanted to be a scientist since I was 10 ... I know,” Wagers says, laughing all the while, the lightness in her voice complementing the seriousness of her professional undertaking. “Let’s just say I was highly motivated.”
As an undergraduate at Johns Hopkins and Northwestern—she finished college in 1999 in three years, doing one year in Baltimore and two outside Chicago—her primary interest was in immunology. It wasn’t until Wagers was at Stanford completing her postdoctoral fellowship that her interest in stem cell biology was born.
“It was very serendipitous actually. I had been tested earlier to see if my bone marrow would be a good match for a transplant. One day when I was  working in the lab, my mother called me to tell me that I was, in fact, a match. So I started reading about it and really looking into procedure, which has a lot to do with stem cell biology. And back then it was such an exciting time for stem cell research. You could really see this incredible new field taking form. And the clinical relevance of stem cell science really drew me in,” Wagers explains.
Now at Harvard, she directs several courses for both undergraduates and graduates, including “Understanding Aging,” which she launched just as the HDRB program was getting underway, and a unique class which she has appropriately termed, “Boot camp in degenerative and regenerative biology.”
“It’s two and a half weeks during J-term, and the day technically lasts from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.—we usually end at around 6:00 p.m., though. We study topics like organ development and epigenetics and we work in labs throughout Cambridge and Boston. It’s a great opportunity, especially for undergraduates, to experience science in many different areas in a sort of intensive way.”
When she is not running her winter “boot camp,” the professor is a faculty member in the Section on Developmental and Stem Cell Biology at Joslin Diabetes Center, which is affiliated with Harvard Medical School. “My job at Joslin is focused on using stem cell biology to study disease, and to come up with new ways to prevent and treat it. We’re looking at the ways in which cells and tissues operate differently in diabetics. We’re working to understand how diabetes develops, and how to correct some of the changes that take place in order to make these tissues function better,” Wagers says.
And just as it is for Bhabha and Seltzer, her two “lives” aren’t all that separate. In both jobs, Wagers is working to make a meaningful difference.
“You know,” she says, concerning her pursuits inside and outside of state-of-the-art Harvard laboratories and seventies-style lecture halls in the Science Center, “when you walk in through the clinic area of Joslin, you walk past sick patients, and it really reminds you of why you’re doing what you’re doing. And in a similar way, when you’re walking through the yard on your way to teach an HDRB class, and you pass all of these busy students, carrying backpacks, laughing, it reminds you why you’re doing what you’re doing.”
ACTING AS MODEL
Perhaps even more than taking an interest in students, these professors offer a multidisciplinary model of work inside and outside of the University. Lieberman highlights the singularity of the student experience. “Students are a very restricted population of the world. Going places and talking with people—that gives you new perspectives and questions,” he says.
Figuring out how to find these new perspectives is an area where many students could use a little guidance, potentially stemming from professors’ own occupations.
“I think it’s awesome,” says Kimberly A. Goh ’13 of the multifaceted nature of professors’ work. “It shows Harvard students that even if you’re passionate about something, it doesn’t mean you have to devote 100 percent of your energy to it. Half of learning is trying new things and finding outlets besides academics.”
Sections
Friday night will see the release of “The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn,” the fourth installment in Bella Swan’s gripping autobiography. The movie carries us through the standard milestones—Bella’s marriage, deflowering, and vampirization—and it is sure to be replete with tiresome werewolf politics and repulsive birth imagery. We looked to the heroine of “Twilight,” Bella Swan, to give the ladies of Harvard some advice from her conjugal coffin of love. Here are her tips for snagging that perfect, pale somebody.
I. Whoever told you that life isn’t like a book or movie was wrong. In fact, your life actually contains elements from “Pride and Prejudice,” “Wuthering Heights,” and especially “Romeo and Juliet.”
II. There’s potential for fucked-up romantic yearnings around every corner! Take them and hold them closely because they might disappear, like my boyfriend does sometimes. Maybe even somewhere in there you’ll get a West Side Story-style battle between warring paranormal creatures.
III. By all means, ignore everything that your friends and family have to say about your hot vampire man. Mere mortals cannot possibly understand the love that exists between you and your high school boyfriend, especially if you’ve caught one of the special ones who sneaks in through your window and watches you while you sleep.
IV. If you reject a guy, be sure to introduce him to your first born daughter. Even if he wants to kill her at first, sometimes murderous passion can ignite a wildly inappropriate May-December romance. And don’t be afraid if they come from different backgrounds, just because you were prejudiced doesn’t mean she will be too.
V. Marry a man with sharp teeth—you never know when it will come in handy for erotic foreplay or an impromptu C-section.
VI. Most importantly: wait until marriage. You should know from my experience that not having sex can be just as erotic as actually doing it—especially when there’s all the built-up tension of your boyfriend wanting to, you know, kill you. And not to play up my accomplishments or anything, but I’m pretty sure that most of you just aren’t ready to have a half-vampire baby lurch forth fully formed from your womb. Leave that kind of stuff to me and the fine folks at Summit Entertainment.
Sections
To set the stage: November, 1922. Abbott Lawrence Lowell presides over Harvard University. Names like Greenough, Cabot, and F. A. O. Schwarz pepper the college roster. Office Hours are announced in The Harvard Crimson, alongside articles regarding the state of the British Parliament, reviews of theater productions across Boston, and an advertisement, directed at Harvard athletes, for a “private massage.” (Call “WIN”. Brookline 7784-J.)
The second Saturday of the month. The “University eleven” is to go up against Princeton football at Harvard Stadium. Both teams are entering the game with perfect 6-0 records. Princeton is coming off a couple of hard-fought victories. Harvard has just trounced Florida to the tune of 24 unrequited points.
The Crimson jump to a 3-0 lead with a drop-kick early in the game. When Harvard captain and quarterback Charles C. Buell '23 sprains his ankle at the top of the second quarter, however, the Crimson’s advantage is quickly erased, and Princeton rides to a 10-3 victory. It is the first time the Tigers have topped Harvard, at Harvard, since 1896.
The Crimson’s first defeat of the year, coupled with Buell’s injury, does not bode well for the future of the ’22 season. Despite this, spirits are lifted at the university when The Harvard Crimson reports that the quarterback will be available for play in that Saturday’s game against Brown.
The week’s papers are littered with athletic updates and the ever-present offer of a private massage. Wednesday’s issue features a letter to the editor predicting, “the farmer in 1970 will hold the position of foremost among mankind.” Friday’s paper claims that 800 first-years—or, all of them—cheered on the freshman team the day before, during an assembly prior to Saturday’s game against their Yale counterparts.
The dominant Princeton team looks to be on its way to a fourth-straight Ivy League title. The success of the season will no longer be measured by Harvard’s Ivy League ranking, but by the result of a single game. All that matters is beating Yale.
But, for the time being, the game that will capture the attention of the Harvard undergraduate community is on Saturday against Brown.
Harvard, featuring their second-string quarterback (to avoid further injury to Buell) and second-string coach (as head coach Robert T. Fisher '12 is in New Jersey scouting the Princeton-Yale game) has trouble landing the ball in the Brown end zone, but simultaneously holds the Bears scoreless throughout the first three quarters.
At the beginning of the second quarter, the Crimson forces the ball behind the Bears’ goal line, but the play is nullified after a holding penalty is called on the offense. This will be the closest Harvard gets to scoring. At the top of the fourth quarter, Brown sends the ball through the uprights to take a 3-0 lead and the victory.
A week later: It is November 25. A mild, even balmy late-November week has given way to a brisk Saturday. The Harvard undergraduate population piles onto trains and into cars, clogging routes across Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut for the pilgrimage to New Haven.
This is the 41st edition of the Harvard-Yale game. In the wake of back-to-back losses to Princeton and Brown, the odds are against the Harvard eleven. Questions abound as to how much playing time Buell, fresh off an injury to his ankle, will be able endure.
The coin flip goes to the Crimson, and the game begins. Early in the first quarter, George Owen Jr. '23 snags a punt and returns it with what The Crimson will, on Monday, call “a dazzling feat...the sensation of the game.” Deftly dodging a trio of Eli players, Owen runs the ball 57-yards to Yale’s 4-yard-line where he is forced out of bounds. Nevertheless, Owen picks up the touchdown in the following plays with a run up the middle.
At the opening of the second period, Yale scores on a drop-kick, shrinking the Crimson lead to only four points. But the Elis will score no more, and the Crimson goes on to their third-straight season-ending victory over Yale.
“Yale Goes Down to 10-3 Defeat as Owen Runs Wild.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over 160 members of the Harvard community registered on Wednesday for a chance to donate their bone marrow to those in need of a transplant.
Several student groups contributed volunteers and advertisements to help host one of the very few bone marrow registration drives at Harvard. The event, sponsored by the Gift of Life Foundation, was held in Harvard Hillel’s Rosovsky Hall.
According to Paige M. LaMarche, a volunteer for the Gift of Life, Caucasians have a 73 percent chance to find a donor match, while minorities hover around seven to nine percent. People of mixed race have a one percent chance.
LaMarche said that the foundation started 20 years ago when the founder Jay Feinberg, who is Jewish, was “barely able to find a donor on the list” after being diagnosed with leukemia. According to LaMarche, at that time the chance of a Jewish man finding a bone marrow match was in the single digits, but now, due to the involvement of the Gift of Life, the number has risen above 70 percent.
Now, the goal of the Gift of Life is to increase the chance of finding a donor for a member of any ethnic minority.
Samuel G. Greenberg ’14, philanthropy chair of Alpha Epsilon Pi, was approached by the Gift of Life Foundation to help host a bone marrow registration drive at Harvard.
“The other Alpha Epsilon Pi chapters nationwide had shown their support so we thought the Harvard chapter would be the perfect choice,” LaMarche said.
Greenberg presented the idea to his fraternity and a host of other Harvard student groups. “There is a need for any ethnic minority to be involved in the event so there are better chances for people to find matches,” Greenberg said. Through Greenberg and the support of the Hillel, other organizations became involved and generated volunteers for the event.
According to LaMarche and Greenberg, the greatest obstacle in getting students to register is fear. “You think of a painful procedure involving a giant needle in your spine when you hear about a bone marrow transplant,” said LaMarche.
But the majority of cases no longer involve the classic bone marrow donation, in which a patient is sedated while doctors withdraw marrow from a large bone, usually the pelvic bone. According to the National Marrow Donor Program, in the majority of today’s cases, when a match is found stem cells are actually collected from the donor’s blood in a non-surgical procedure.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Even when given free medicine, heart attack survivors are unlikely to consistently take the medications prescribed to prevent further disease and save lives, according to a new study led by Harvard Medical School researchers.
Previous research showed that one-third of Americans cited cost as a reason they didn’t fill a prescription or used less medicine than they should. In this study, researchers set out to determine if patients would be more likely to follow their doctors’ orders if their medications were free.
Led by Dr. Niteesh K. Choudhry of Harvard-affiliated Brigham and Women’s Hospital, the study offered 2,845 of 5,855 total participants free drugs including cholesterol-lowering statins and lifesaving medications that regulate heart rate and prevent subsequent complications. The other patients, chosen at random, were responsible for their own copayments for the same drug regimens.
The findings, published online by The New England Journal of Medicine and presented this past Monday at an American Heart Association conference, reveal that the share of patients who filled their prescriptions increased only modestly after a year, from 38.9 percent in the group that paid part of the cost to 44.3 percent among patients given the same drugs for free.
While the incidence of heart attacks, strokes, chest pain, and heart failure was notably lower in the group offered free medicine, the authors said the small gain in adherence signaled a need for further investigation of other factors contributing to the problem.
Choudhry, associate professor at Harvard Medical School, said cost is by no means the only cause of non-adherence. Knowledge of drugs and their side effects, ease of filling prescriptions, the number of pills prescribed, and forgetfulness are also factors. “It is well-known that the more pills you have to take during the course of the day, the less likely you are to be adherent,” he said. “Many of these patients have to take six to 10 pills a day on average — it is important to make it as simple as possible for patients to obtain their medication from the pharmacy so that they will continue to take them.”
Choudhry and his team are taking steps to further investigate and find solutions to the phenomenon of non-adherence. Said Dr. Elliott M. Antman, Harvard Medical School professor and another author of the study, “What we have learned is that a combination of reducing cost barriers and interventions will be necessary to produce any sustained improvement. It will be important to have integrated health care teams that will support the patient, not only face-to-face, but also via email and text messaging. We live in a very digital world, and should utilize it.”
In fact, one strategy proposed by Choudhry is to have patients sign a contract agreeing to take their medicine — and be able to prove that they are — in exchange for a small stipend. Another idea is to regularly remind patients of their medical routines via text messaging. For Choudhry, the results of these efforts will be incremental, but effective in concert. “Reducing each factor will likely only increase adherence by five or 10 percent, but if we can combine them, then we can talk about a sizeable improvement,” he said.
The cost of the drugs used in the study was covered by Aetna, the commercial insurer of all participants. Choudhry said the insurer is considering implementing a similar free medication program in the near future, made economically feasible by reductions in the cost of subsequent hospital care for patients who take the free drugs.
This area of research reflects a shifting attitude toward health care and the job of doctors. “Many doctors think that their job is done after they write a prescription and the patient walks out the door,” said Dr. Robert J. Glynn, associate professor in biostatistics and the statistician of the study. “But that’s just not true — a lot of people just don’t like taking their pills, and we need to start addressing the reasons for that.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After the Harvard community mobilized to search for Elliot M. Layton, the missing 16-year-old son of a Graduate School of Education administrator, the teenager returned home safely late Wednesday night.
Layton’s parents became alarmed after he left home on Tuesday morning. On Wednesday, the GSE—where the teen’s mother Daphne Layton is a senior associate dean—sprung into action to spread word of Elliot Layton’s disappearance via phone calls, posters, and social media efforts.
Undergraduates joined the effort as well, particularly by forwarding a description of Layton over House and student organization email lists. The email message and posters told students to keep their eyes peeled for a six-foot-three-inch teenager riding a black bicycle and carrying a green sleeping bag and a violin in a black half-moon case.
Since Daphne Layton described her son as a nature lover who might be drawn to “wooded areas,” volunteers scoured local forests and trails in hopes of finding Layton. Community members also checked for him at the Occupy Boston and Occupy Harvard campsites.
Before Layton returned home on his own some time after 11 p.m. on Wednesday night, over one hundred faculty, staff, and students at the GSE had picked up flyers with Layton’s photograph on them to distribute in the community.
“We wanted to support one of our colleagues,” said GSE Dean for Administration Jack Jennings. “Daphne is certainly very popular and when the word got out, people certainly wanted to help in any way they could.”
On Wednesday afternoon, Daphne Layton’s voice cracked as she described the efforts of the Harvard community as “overwhelming.”
“My colleagues at Harvard have really been amazing,” she said. “I can’t even put into words how grateful we are.”
She said that her son left home in the early hours of Tuesday morning, before she and her husband were awake.
“There was no fight, there was no indication, there was no event [that prompted him to leave],” she said. “I just think he was starting to feel the walls closing in.”
When her son returned on Wednesday night, Layton said she shed “tears of happiness.”
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the early days of Harvard, slaves played a role in the everyday life of the university. They worked in the homes of faculty and alumni, and later, they hid in the Warren House as part of the Underground Railroad.
This history has been relatively unknown, but now a group of undergraduates and extension school students have brought it to light in a newly released booklet.
Yesterday evening at the Graduate School of Design, some of the students, and professors Evelyn Higginbotham and Svern Beckert, talked about their project and its findings before a packed hall.
The booklet, “Harvard and Slavery: Seeking an Unforgotten History”, started as a research project of students in a seminar taught by Beckert.
He explained that he decided to begin this project after reading a report on the history of slavery at Brown University in 2007. The next year, he taught a history research seminar that focused on Harvard’s history with slavery.
“I thought, why not do some meaningful research instead of research that was basically just for the professors to grade and then put aside,” Beckert said.
The group is also launching a website on the subject: harvardandslavery.com.
The night began with general introductions from Beckert and Higginbotham, who is chair of the Department of African American Studies at the college, before the panelists went on to detail their specific findings.
Before the American Revolution, they said, Harvard was funded by participants in the slave trade, such as the Perkins brothers of Boston. Others examined the academic legacy of racial science, including the work of prominent professors such as Louis Aggaziz and Nathaniel Shaler, a proponent of white supremacy and notions of racial hierarchy.
“I think it is a really important question and a lot of universities have been investigating this in the past few years,” audience member Sarah Carter ’02 said in an interview. “I am really pleased that Harvard has taken on the challenge to really think about the role of slavery in its history.”
Afterward, Beckert said he was more than satisfied with the turnout and the audience’s response. “It’s great, people seem to be really excited. A very large amount of people are interested in their research and that doesn’t happen that often,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Occupy Harvard may have a larger obstacle than the security at Boylston gate: the weather.
Wednesday’s rain caused some participants to leave their tents behind for dry quarters, according to members of  the Occupy Harvard movement.
Student leaders of the event say the rain is not posing any major problems, but others acknowledged the latest downpour may prevent some students from remaining in the tents.
“I think the rain will definitely deter a number of students,” said William P. Whitham, a member of the Student Labor Action Movement. “It’s unfortunate, but I don’t think it’s avoidable.”
Whitham noted, however, that the Occupy Harvard movement does not require a large number of people for the tent city in the Yard to remain active.
“We don’t need all of our tents to be 100 percent full all the time,” Whitham said. “We just need to make sure there are enough people to hold down the fort in the encampment, and I think we’ll be ok.”
For some supporters of Occupy, the rain is ending their involvement, at least temporarily.
“Honestly, I support the Occupy Harvard movement in general, but I don’t think it’s worth sleeping in the rain for,” said a former tent-city resident, who wished to remain anonymous. According to the student, several other people have said they won’t be coming back to sleep under the stars unless the weather is nice.
“I think a lot of people kind of just think it’s cool to be a part of a movement like this,” the student said. “But at the end of the day, they’re going to choose comfort over sleeping outdoors.”
Despite the potential loss of student bodies, organizers of Occupy Harvard say that the core of the movement is still strong.
“I don’t think the rain has had much effect on the Occupy Harvard movement,” said Sandra Y. L. Korn ’14, a SLAM member and crimed. “I think people are going to continue to support the movement no matter what the weather is like.”
Korn did note, however, that the rain forced Occupy Harvard organizers to move their information booth inside of a tent, but she said that otherwise the movement is dealing well with the weather.
“We got a lot of advice from people at Occupy Boston for how to deal with the rain,” she said. “I think we’re very well prepared.”
Participants have put tarps over their tents and placed styrofoam pads under the tents.
Whitham said he feels the movement will persist through the rain.
“Our movement has a lot of momentum right now,” Whitham said. “I don’t think that rain is going to be able to take that away.”
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu..
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: NOV. 21, 2011
The Nov. 17 article "Rain Pushes Some Occupiers Indoors" incorrectly stated that an information booth was moved inside a freshman dorm. It was, in fact, placed under a tent.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Starting Monday researchers could access over a million papers belonging to Harvard Law Professor Alan M. Dershowitz.  But not at Harvard.  He donated his papers to Brooklyn College because he credits his success to his undergraduate experience there.
“I owe everything I have become to Brooklyn College,” Dershowitz said.
His papers, accumulated over the course of his life, range from elementary school report cards to notes for the defense in the O.J. Simpson murder trial to letters from Bill Clinton, Robert Kennedy, and Abbie Hoffman.
“What better gift can you give than yourself?” Dershowitz said.
Dershowitz, the first in his family to go to college, could not afford a tuition-based school. Brooklyn College, which was free, gave him the four most important years of his life, he said.
Despite being a “terrible” high school student, Dershowitz said that Brooklyn College transformed him. There he became a straight A student, president of the student body, and captain of the debate team.  “Brooklyn College turned me from a loser into a winner,” he said.
Dershowitz’s Political Science Professor at Brooklyn College, Dr. Benjamin Rivlin fondly remembers teaching him. “Despite his success since he left, he has not forgotten his alma mater,” Rivlin said.
Anthony M. Cucchiara, Associate Librarian and Archivist at Brooklyn College, said that it is a “tribute to his dignity” that Dershowitz donated his papers. He said that it is common to sell such collections.
“I wanted to give them as a gift,” Dershowitz said.  “I didn’t dream of selling them.”
Dershowitz decided to give his papers to Brooklyn College in 2001 at Cucchiara’s suggestion. Cucchiara has spent eight years organizing the papers, which are now stored in 1,844 archival boxes.
In addition, Cucchiara recorded a 10-hour oral history of Dershowitz’s life.  The transcript will be included in the collection of Dershowitz’s papers.
“I cannot say any more emphatically how excited we are to have these papers,” Cucchiara said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“We’re late because we were making pizzas,” explained Melanie Dunea, as she hustled into the Harvard Book Store on Wednesday evening. Dunea, together with Boston-based chefs Barbara Lynch and Lydia Shire, was quickly excused by the audience with murmurs of approval and scattered applause. After all, they had gathered to hear about food.
Dunea was there to discuss her latest project, “My Last Supper: The Next Course: 50 More Great Chefs and Their Final Meals,” in which she called upon 50 renowned chefs to share their desired last meals on earth.
Dunea readily concedes that the project is not her immediate area of expertise. She is a celebrity photographer by trade, whose work has appeared in Vanity Fair and Time Magazine. Portraiture, she said, is how she “makes her bread and butter.”
On Wednesday evening, however, she graced Massachusetts Avenue to celebrate the bread and butter itself. Her new book is her second collection of chefs’ final feasts. In this bravo act, the chefs’ responses range from predictably mouth-watering, to poignant, to amusing.
One of Dunea’s favorites came courtesy of David Chang, proprietor of the group of Momofuku restaurants in New York and other cities. “I asked him,” Dunea remembered, “‘What would you drink?’ And he said, ‘Just get me drunk. I would drink Bud Light in the bottle. Just get me drunk.’”
Lydia Shire, a Boston-area chef, shared that she would want to dine on “beef and butter: a great combination,” but that she understood Chang’s decidedly “low-cuisine” request. “It’s the last meal. You want to live it up.”
On her left, Barbara Lynch disagreed. “I hate that,” Lynch said. “It’s mind-boggling to me that that would be his answer. I’m sorry.”
When asked what she would enjoy for her last meal, Lynch rattled off a laundry-list of treats: “Foie gras, sweetbreads, squab, caviar, New England lobster. And vanilla ice cream. I’m a Brigham’s vanilla girl,” she asserted, naming the cherished local treat. “That’ll probably never change.”
An ultimate repast is not composed only of its menu, which Dunea accounted for in choosing the six questions she put to each epicurean. When avant-garde Spanish chef, Albert Adria, was asked with whom he’d like to dine, he responded, “Clowns and beautiful girls. Of course, all of them really drunk.”
Part of what Dunea finds so appealing about the project is the way that the same questions elicit such radically different responses.
Tara M. Metal, who represented the bookstore in hosting the event, echoed Dunea’s sentiments.
“I like how much each chef’s personality comes out in this relatively short interview,” Metal said.
As people waited in line to get their copies signed, they munched on foie gras and fruit salad. Kay Hurley said that she has indulged at a few of the restaurants represented in the book.
A love for “the history of food and the taste of food,” routinely brings her to events like this one, she said. “I think food tells us a lot about our culture and about people.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: NOV. 21, 2011
The Nov. 17 article "Chefs Dish on Desired Last Meal in Book" incorrectly stated that Lydia Shire is the owner of the restaurant Locke-Ober. Though she once owned the restaurant, she has since left Locke-Ober.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduates could see greater faculty involvement in their discussion sections and a more formalized midterm evaluation system if two student proposals are implemented.
One proposal would “require or encourage” professors who teach undergraduate lecture courses to lead each of their course’s sections at least once each semester, while the second proposal would give students a voice in improving their courses by implementing a College-wide feedback system in the middle of the term.
The two proposals — which were presented Wednesday to a meeting of the Committee on Undergraduate Education — would have to be taken up by additional faculty committees before they could be formally approved.
At the meeting, members of the Committee on Undergraduate Education — which includes administrators, faculty, and students — weighed in on the proposals, which were drafted by the Undergraduate Council’s student-run Education Committee.
While members of the Committee on Undergraduate Education were generally supportive of professor-led sections, most said they thought the proposal should not be mandated for the entire College.
Instead, some Committee members said they thought the proposal would be better implemented as a recommendation only for discussion-based humanities and social science sections, which are more conducive to faculty-student interaction than homework-based math and science sections.
The proposal for increased faculty leadership in discussion sections was intended to eliminate the discomfort some students say they feel when interacting with faculty after lectures, and during office hours, said Education Committee Vice-Chair Jared Daar ’12, who drafted the proposal.
“Anyone who’s had an experience with office hours knows that it can sometimes be a sort of awkward encounter,” Daar said. He added that he thought faculty-led sections would provide students with an opportunity to get to know their professors in a setting with a specified topic.
However, Computer Science Professor and Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 maintained that intellectual engagement with faculty is “a bigger issue” than just teaching section.
To supplement faculty-led sections in humanities and social science courses, he called for additional ways of encouraging professor-student interaction.
The proposal suggests that the policy should initially be limited to lecture courses with four or fewer discussion sections so as not to place an undue burden on professors, according to Education Committee Chair Samuel F. Himel ’13.
The second proposal offered by the Education Committee called for a centralized instructor evaluation system that would “complement the Q Guide.”
Currently, students must submit Q Guide evaluations at the end of the term in order to access their grades, while the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning informally facilitates mid-semester evaluations that some professors and teaching fellows distribute to their students.
Although most members of the Committee on Undergraduate Education supported a more formal mid-semester evaluation system, many said they thought the Bok Center’s existing system suffers not from a lack of access, but from under-use.
According to Daar, the proposal arose from the concern that “there wasn’t always a mechanism in place where students can give feedback” mid-semester.
Himel, who drafted the proposal, added that he thought a new midterm evaluation system could indirectly aid in Pre-Term Planning by providing an additional metric to plan for student enrollment.
Lewis questioned the utility of student-generated feedback. In place of the existing student-generated instructor feedback system, Lewis called for “a system of faculty evaluating faculty.”
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Updated: 7:08 a.m.
WOBURN, Mass.—Adam B. Wheeler, who pleaded guilty last year to charges related to his fraudulent acceptance to Harvard, will undergo psychiatric evaluation in a locked hospital facility before the court decides in December whether he should serve further jail time.
Wheeler was sent to jail, without bail, last Wednesday for violating the condition of his probation that prohibits him from identifying himself as a former or current Harvard student. While applying in July for an internship at U.S. Green Data, Inc., a company that provides data to help clients evaluate green projects, Wheeler submitted a resume claiming that he had attended Harvard.
“It does appear that Mr. Wheeler suffers from a mental illness, and the conduct for which he stands convicted is a product at least in part of that mental illness,” Superior Court Justice Diane M. Kottmyer said during Thursday’s hearing.
Wheeler spent a month in jail before his father paid his bail when he was first arrested in May 2010. His probation agreement, which also forbids him from visiting University property or using the story of his crimes to turn a profit, stipulates that he will not serve the remainder of his two and a half year prison sentence if he abides by the itemized conditions.
In light of the recent violation, Assistant District Attorney John C. Verner and probation officer Angelo Gomez Jr. advised Kottmyer on Thursday to immediately sentence Wheeler to the 29 months of his prison sentence which he has yet to serve. But Wheeler’s attorney Steven A. Sussman opposed the recommendation, arguing that his client should remain on probation and be required to follow a stricter regimen of psychiatric therapy.
Kottmyer remanded Wheeler to Bridgewater State Hospital, a facility in southeastern Massachusetts that houses the criminally insane and inmates whose sanity is under evaluation. Mental health professionals will observe him there for 40 days. At a follow-up hearing on December 23, Kottmyer said she will determine a penalty that would “both protect society from any future crimes or any violations of the probation, as well as address any particular issues that Mr. Wheeler [faces].”
The recent probation violation came to light when a Kirkland House alum, who works at U.S. Green Data, Inc., received Wheeler’s cover letter and resume, which had been emailed as part of an application for an unpaid internship. In the material, Wheeler claimed to have been a graduate student in English at Harvard from 2007 to 2009. Having heard about Wheeler’s case before, the employee forwarded the application to Harvard officials, who then alerted the district attorney’s office.
Wheeler made headlines in May 2010 when he was accused of forging letters of recommendation, falsifying transcripts, and fabricating SAT scores to gain transfer admission to Harvard and to receive more than $45,000 in grants, prizes, and financial aid. At the year’s end, Wheeler pleaded guilty to 20 felony and misdemeanor counts of larceny, identity fraud, falsifying an endorsement or approval, and pretending to hold a degree.
Wheeler was admitted to Harvard as a sophomore transfer student in 2007. In his application, he claimed to have completed his first year at MIT and to have graduated from the prestigious private high school Phillips Academy in Andover. In fact, Wheeler had graduated from a public high school in Delaware and attended Bowdoin College in Maine for two years before he was suspended for academic dishonesty. His Harvard application also included forged recommendation letters from professors and an Andover counselor, and the lie that he had earned a perfect score on the SAT.
Once he enrolled at Harvard, Wheeler won a Hoopes Prize in his junior year for a paper that prosecutors later revealed to have been plagiarized. In his senior year, Wheeler was caught submitting a plagiarized essay while applying for the Rhodes and Fulbright scholarships, sparking an investigation that eventually fell in the hands of state police. Aware that he was under suspicion, Wheeler left Harvard. But he continued to apply for transfer admission to top-tier universities. Wheeler gained admission to Stanford and Williams College before his criminal indictment came to light.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 Updated: 7:03 a.m.
In a move which trans rights activist have called a step toward greater equality, the Harvard University Health Group Plan and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care have modified their coverage plans to include lower gender reassignment surgery, according to University spokesperson Nanci Martin.
The change will take effect on Jan. 1, 2012 for faculty and staff and on Aug. 1 for students. Trans Task Force co-chair Jia Hui Lee ’12 sent an email announcing this change over the TTF, Harvard College Queer Students and Allies, and Radcliffe Union of Students listservs on Thursday.
Lower surgery, also known as bottom surgery, alters an individual’s genitals to match his or her transitioning gender identity.
“I know Harvard students who have made the decision to take steps to have surgeries to reassign their gender,” said QSA Co-Chair Samuel J. Bakkila ’11-’12. “I know it’s always a difficult decision for anyone to make, and I think that it’s great that the University is now supporting steps to have [individuals’] outward gender reflect their inward gender.”
Last year, Harvard modified its health care plan to include coverage of top surgery, which includes breast construction and mastectomies, for “individuals struggling with serious gender identity issues,” according to a statement issued by University Health Services. This change took effect on Aug. 1, 2010.
In 2010, the University decided not to include lower surgery in its health plan, though Blue Cross Blue Shield had outlined Harvard’s new health policy to include the operation. At the time, the University cited a lack of local qualified health care providers for individuals transitioning from one gender to another.
Harvard reviewed at its policy regarding gender reassignment surgery earlier this year and concluded that lower surgery is a safe procedure for both males and females, according to a UHS statement. The health care policy was “further modified” following that review, the statement said.
When considering this alteration of policy, Harvard examined the coverage of its “peer institutions,” which have also begun to include gender reassignment, according to the statement.
This academic year, the University of Pennsylvania began covering gender reassignment procedures, including hormone treatments and sex reassignment surgeries.
Harvard’s decision has received much praise from members of the Harvard BGLTQ community.
Bakkila said that he thought the policy change might help Harvard attract “a more vibrant student body” because it demonstrates administrative support for students considering transitioning from male to female or vice-versa.
TTF  co-chair Levi M. Roth ’14 echoed Bakkila’s sentiments, calling the coverage “a great thing.”
“In terms of outcome, one of the most important forms of equality is equal medical coverage and access to healthcare,” Roth said. “The fact that there are people at Harvard who are willing to take on this project is very important.”
—Staff writer Eliza M. Nguyen can be reached at enguyen@college.harvard.edu.                                                                 —Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“How good is he really?”
This question, regarding freshman running back Zach Boden, ran through Harvard coach Tim Murphy’s mind before the start of the football season.  Now, the answer seems obvious: he is good—really good.
Coming from the Lovett School, a small independent institution in Atlanta, Ga., it was tough for the Crimson coaching staff to judge Boden’s true potential. Although the coaches had witnessed his talent on film, they couldn’t have predicted the success he’s had thus far.
“We knew he was fast and elusive, but we didn’t know how instinctive he was and how tough he was, both mentally and physically,” Murphy noted. “We have gotten more out of him than we could have expected [from] a freshman.”
Although the Harvard coaches might have been uncertain about the running back’s role on the 2011 team, Boden’s goals were always clear: he wanted to show what he could do out on the field.
“Going into the season, I was expecting to compete for the starting job,” Boden said. “I was never expecting to be low on the depth chart.  I’m a competitor. I want to play.”
In a preseason scrimmage, Boden’s strong performance allowed him to achieve his goal of earning significant playing time for the Crimson.
“The moment that really stands out in my mind is our scrimmage against Dartmouth,” Boden recalled. “I had a pretty good game and did some good things. Afterwards, the coaches asked if I would contribute to varsity.”
Regardless of Boden’s ability and preparation, the adjustment to college play is a hard one for any player to make.
“No matter how hard Zach worked, I’m not sure that anybody is prepared to make that transition easily,” said Lovett School coach Mike Muschamp. “The athleticism on the next level is greater, and the physical demands placed on your body are going to be greater as a result.”
Though Boden was accustomed to playing high-level football in Georgia, he says the detail of the college game has been the biggest change.
“The hardest transition from high school to college for me was learning the playbook and verbiage,” Boden explained.
Boden attributes much of his successful adjustment to the guidance and mentorship of the offensive linemen.  Junior running backs Treavor Scales and Rich Zajeski have been particularly helpful in showing Boden the ropes and passing along their veteran wisdom.
In addition, Boden relied on the network of fellow freshmen on the varsity team to transition successfully.
“Especially at the beginning, when we were all kind of uncomfortable, it was great having other freshmen on the team for support,” Boden said.
As he adapts to college play, Boden has been focusing on the continued evolution of his identity as a running back.
“I have been trying to be more elusive and not take as many hits,” Boden said. “I don’t like getting hit. I’m not a power running back. I try to make people miss rather than running into them. I’m working on seeing the holes and bursting through.”
Boden has done just that on a number of occasions this season.
The running back has twice been named the Ivy League Rookie of the Week and has rushed for 464 yards and five touchdowns this year.
In Harvard’s game against Lafayette early in the season, he scored his first career touchdown with a 43-yard run and finished with 72 total yards. Last weekend against Penn, Boden scored a touchdown and rushed for 81 yards to help the Crimson win both the matchup and secure the Ivy League title.
It goes without saying that Boden has found and cemented his role on the Harvard team.
“Zach’s biggest strength is probably the fact that it is so hard to tackle him,” said fellow freshman and offensive tackle Will Whitman.  “He is so strong and so hard to bring down. It has really helped our team because even if we don’t have a perfect block, and we just get somebody on the person trying to tackle him, he can break through.”
Even as a young member of the football team, Boden strives to motivate and energize the members of the offense.
“I try to give the offense a spark,” Boden said. “When things are moving slowly, I try to make something happen and just help the team out in whatever way I can. I try to make a big play or get a first down, or break the game open with a big run. When we become kind of stagnant in the mid-second quarter I try to just pick it up and tell everybody ‘let’s go.’”
Murphy says that the next step for Boden will be to become stronger and more physical. His high school coach has no doubt the running back will be able to achieve all his goals.
“The great thing about Zach is that he was blessed with an awful lot of natural ability,” Muschamp said. “But he is one of those kids who still works extremely hard to be the best he can be.  He is very comfortable in his own skin, and he is his own person. He has always been that way.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the Trinity men’s squash team won its first national team championship, Harvard co-captain Will Ahmed was in the third grade. And 13 years after the 1999 season, no team has managed to dethrone the Bantams.
According to the 2011-12 CSA preseason rankings, this year will be no different, as Trinity remains the nation’s top seed. But there will likely be more parity in college squash this season, as the Bantams enter the year without four of their top five players from a squad that last year took home Trinity’s 13th straight championship.
“Trinity lost some big players,” Crimson sophomore Gary Power said. “There are definitely going to be two or three teams competing [for the national title]. There’s no clear favorite right now … but Trinity’s still the team to beat.”
No. 2 Yale—which nearly took home the national crown last year, bowing to the Bantams, 5-4, in the Potter Cup finals—will likely challenge for the CSA team title again this season.
And don’t count out the No. 5 Crimson. Although tomorrow marks Harvard’s first official matchup, the Crimson competed last weekend at the Bulldogs’ Brady Squash Center in the annual Ivy League scrimmages. Harvard came away with the overall victory, toppling Princeton, 7-2, before taking down Yale, 5-4, in the finals of the preseason tournament.
Harvard returns seven of its top-nine players from last year’s squad and will be aided by sophomore transfer Ali Farag and a talented freshman class. At the Ivy League scrimmages last weekend, three rookies—Nick Hopcroft, Julian Kirby, and Tyler Olson—played in Harvard’s top nine.
“[Our success at the Ivy League scrimmages] says a lot about the potential we have,” Power said. “It just creates a very positive atmosphere and is a good basis for the start of the season. … But we still have to beat all of those teams [in the regular season].”
The Crimson officially begins the 2011-12 campaign tomorrow at No. 10 Williams. Last season, Harvard took down the Ephs, 8-1, at Barnaby Courts two days after sweeping Brown in the first match of the year.
“This is the best team I’ve played on since being at Harvard,” Ahmed said. “It’s the first time I think we have a real shot to win a national title as well as an Ivy League title.”
Instrumental to a Harvard bid for the national crown will be newcomer Farag. The sophomore transferred to Harvard at the beginning of the school year from American University in Cairo and currently boasts the No. 1 junior ranking in the world.
“[Farag] is an amazing player,” Power said. “He’s coming from a new country and speaking a second language. … He makes everyone better because he sets such a high standard.”
Power, who played at the top spot for Harvard throughout the 2010-11 season, will start the year in a new role, as he and classmate Brandon McLaughlin compete for Harvard’s No. 2 spot. Power ended his freshman campaign ranked No. 7 nationally after an impressive performance at the CSA National Individual Championships. McLaughlin, who played No. 4 for the Crimson last season, currently holds Harvard’s top spot, as Farag awaits eligibility.
“All the way through the lineup we have really close [challenge] matchups,” Ahmed said. “It’s fun to see that kind of depth on the team. We have the No. 9 giving the No. 4 a good match, and, ultimately, that’s what it takes to win a national title or an Ivy title.”
If Harvard hopes to win its first national crown since 1998, the Crimson will have to go through a Trinity team that is currently riding the longest winning streak in the history of college athletics with a grand total of 244 straight wins, as well as a slew of traditional Ivy League rivals.
“We’re a lot stronger now than [we were] last year,” Power said. “Obviously we’d love to win an Ivy title and a national championship, and I think those goals are realistic, but we’re just focusing on doing better than we did last year. … We have very high hopes for this season.”
Last season, four of the Crimson’s top-nine players were freshmen. This year, youth will also be a factor, as the top-six players in the Harvard lineup will likely be underclassmen.
“Our sophomore class is probably the strongest in the nation,” Ahmed said. “It’s a team that will develop over the next three years … but as captain, I think we have enough depth to win [a national title] now.”
Although Harvard will face its toughest competition after winter break, the team refuses to overlook its early games.
“[The contest against the Ephs] is our first match—obviously you want to make sure everyone is at least fired up,” Ahmed said. “[Williams] is not ranked as one of the top teams, but they’re definitely a team that deserves respect, is well-coached, and comes to play.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some things in this world have a tendency to linger: winter in northern cities, for instance, or a bad credit score. The same goes for a difficult loss in a championship game.
When the Harvard women’s squash team steps onto the court against Stanford and Williams this Friday, the athletes will attempt to eliminate the bad taste in their mouths that has remained for over six months after losing the national championship in February to Yale, 5-4.
“The team felt that they were the favorites last year and that they could have, and should have, won the Ivy title and the overall,” Crimson coach Mike Way said. “And we lost both titles, 5-4. That memory lingers.”
The squad took a large step in turning a new page before the start of the regular season by winning the Ivy League scrimmage last weekend at the Bulldogs’ Brady Squash Center.
“For us to … have some very, very tough matches and to win it is just a confidence booster,” Way said. “It makes [the team] realize the program is working and they are on track for the real guts of the season, which is after Christmas.”
While the Crimson won’t face their toughest competition until 2012, junior Laura Gemmell said that these early contests are still important for the succcess of the team.
“It definitely sets the tone,” Gemmell said. “But everyone is more excited for it. We’ve been training since September, and now the season finally starts.”
Gemmell has more reason than anyone to be ready to begin anew.
In February, she suffered her first collegiate loss to Yale’s Millie Tomlinson in the finals of the CSA National Individual Championships. Yet, like the team, she took a step toward gaining retribution last weekend at the Ivy League scrimmage.
“I played [Tomlinson] over the weekend, and I beat her this time,” Gemmell said. “It was cool because it wasn’t very stressful, and it was good to walk away with the win.”
In addition to the demons of last year, Harvard will be facing two top-flight opponents on Friday. Stanford finished sixth in the country last year, a school record, and retained that spot in the College Squash Association’s preseason ranking.
As much as the Cardinal, led by junior First Team All-American Pamela Chua, would like to focus on its matchup with top-ranked Harvard, it will simultaneously have to ready itself for the five other contests it has slated for this coming weekend alone.
After taking on the Cardinal at 3 p.m., Harvard will turn around and face the Ephs, ranked ninth in the nation by the CSA.
Last year, Williams had an underwhelming campaign by its standards. Now, the squad will attempt to improve on last year’s 14-12 performance, as 10 of its top-11 contributors return to a team now bolstered by at least three incoming freshmen expected to compete during the coming season.
In both matches, the Crimson will be forced to play without freshman Amanda Sobhy, who must still go through compliance procedures. In 2010, Sobhy became the first U.S. player to win the World Junior Squash Championships. Harvard’s other freshmen, Haley Mendez, Julianne Chu, and Megan Murray, will be in the lineup according to Way, who said that the rookies have already strengthened the team.
“They’ve already had an impact just in work ethic and attitude,” Way said. “It’s already a much stronger unit and more cohesive unit, which is terrific.”
On its mission to recapture the national championship, Harvard will  also have to carry the psychological weight of a preseason No. 1 ranking.
“We are the favorites. We are expected to win, so that always [adds] a little more stress,” Way said. “But they are always prepared. They are feeling confident, but not cocky.”
As the team handles multiple pressures in early action, Way expects the players to be able to rely on each other.
“As tight a unit as they were last year, this group is a much tighter bunch, and in all the good things,” he said. “Not to take anything away from last year, but we just see some very genuine friendships off the court. And in large part that has to do with the captains [Cece Cortes and Nirasha Guruge], who are doing a terrific job.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Walking  or driving past William James Hall, passersby can now see more than a  concrete eyesore. Bright Christmas lights and reused psychology  conference posters spell out the word "OCCUPY" in large letters through the seventh story window of the  academic building on Kirkland Street.
Members  of the psychology department's Vision Sciences Laboratory created what  they call a "holiday display" to show their solidarity with the Occupy  movement in Harvard Yard and worldwide.
"After the [Occupy Harvard] rally on Wednesday, we put one of their red signs in a window," said Justin A. Jungé '03, a post-doc in the lab. "People looked up, but it wasn't big enough. We wanted something people could see."
Construction on the lighted display began at 9 p.m. on Tuesday—but only after the faculty, fellows, grad students, and undergrads in the lab voted in favor of the message. A group of seven post-docs and graduate students worked until 2 a.m. cutting up old research project posters and stringing 600 lights to outline the letters.
"William James Hall is a good location for the sign because the lights can be seen from a distance," Professor Ken Nakayama said. "We hope to set a positive example to Occupies all over the country and the world."
How long with the sign remain? "Probably as long as the Occupy movement is going on," Jungé said. 
Sections
Harvard denied Yale the satisfaction of printing one snarky t-shirt as the Yalies wanted, scoring a Crimson victory in the world of trademark restriction before the victory that we all know is coming on the football field on Saturday. The original design for the shirt in question, which was created by the Yale Freshman Class Council, showcased the words "How To Be Successful at Harvard." Under that, the words "Step 1: Drop Out" were printed in the style of a Facebook post. That supposed post was "liked" by  "Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Matt Damon and 63 others."
But when the Yalies brought their shirt to their dean's office, according to the Yale Daily News, they were told to contact Harvard's trademark office before going to press. And that was where things got messy.
In an emailed statement, the trademark office explained to Flyby that it objected to the use of celebrities' names in connection with Harvard.
"We have a long-standing policy that does not permit the use of Harvard's trademarks with third-party trademarks or celebrity names," the office wrote. "The Harvard Trademark Program asked that the design be modified before approving it in accordance with the University's licensing policies."
The new version of the shirt makes reference to the star Harvard dropouts without giving their names. Instead, it reads: "People who like this also like Social Networks, Personal Computers, and Roads Not Taken."
But we already knew that Yalies appreciate "roads not taken." They haven't taken the road to victory since 2006.
Sections
We've done some scouting and come up with six shirts that are currently on sale for the upcoming Game on Saturday. Make sure to pass by the Science Center, where the majority of the shirts are being sold, or check out the websites in the captions. Here's to the 6.2 percent!
Sections
With the recent advent of the iPhone 4S, there seem to be as many iDevices in the Yard as there are (read: used to be) tourists. In light of this, we've found six iPhone apps sure to make your day-to-day life more enjoyable and convenient. Flyby apologizes if you still live in the 20th century and don't have an iPhone. We're sure Android has some cool apps too.
The Harvard Mobile app—free
Why haven't you gotten this yet? It has shuttle schedules, library hours, courses, dining hall menus, maps, and news stories from The Harvard Gazette, all arranged in an easy-to-use interface. It's indispensable when you're trying to decide whether to wait for the shuttle or make the trek to the Quad, or whether to eat in the Square or suffer the d-hall's portobello lentil patties.
Pocket MBTA—$0.99
This handy app has real-time bus tracking and schedules for all the bus routes that are served by the MBTA. The app is incredibly convenient should you dare to remind yourself that there's a world east of Quincy Street.
SoundHound—free
You know that song you've been hearing at every single party you've been to, the one with the loud bass and ridiculously catchy hook that you haven't been able to get out of your head or remember the title of for the past five weeks? With SoundHound, the next time you hear it, you will be tortured by ignorance no longer. Just open the app, record a few seconds of the song, and SoundHound will quickly match it to the song title, artist, and even lyrics. Alternatively, you can sing the song to the app, but it usually doesn't work that well.
WHRB 95.3 FM / Harvard Radio—free
This free app lets you get Harvard's radio station, WHRB, directly on your mobile device. Odds are you probably haven't listened to the actual radio in a decade, so this app is a great way to get music carefully chosen by fellow Harvard students wherever you go.
Gmail—Free
Now that the College has switched to Gmail, you can access all your @college email from your phone without having to deal with the clunky and stiff email app that comes with the device. The Gmail app is painless to use and transfers most of Gmail's features seamlessly to a mobile device. Now, if only Google would bring the old Gmail back.
iKamaSutra—$0.99
With its beautiful and detailed illustrations, this app allows you to track your progress through some of the more, um, innovative ways to copulate. You can make note of the positions you've tried and the ones you liked the most. You can even share your progress on Twitter and Facebook. After all, hopefully these skills will someday come in handy on Widener Level D.
Sections
The Game is almost here, and this year, it's Harvard's turn to make the arduous trek to enemy territory. While you're in New Haven, there's more to do than just watch football—and we don't mean tailgating. Check out the Yale arts website for a great list of events featuring Yale artists and performers as well as your own Harvard kin.
