News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Allston Task Force members and community residents expressed concerns about the new renovation plans for the Western Ave. streetscape, a topic that the University has stayed mum on for over a year, at a Task Force meeting Monday night.
“Sidewalks and trees are not community development,” Allston Task Force member Brent Whelan ’73 said to much applause. “It’s pathetically inadequate.”
Director of Master Planning Harris S. Band said that Harvard plans to create more pedestrian-friendly sidewalks along Western Ave. with trees and fences, particularly focusing on Barry’s Corner.
David Spillane of Goody Clancy, an architectural firm, said that the firm hopes to create a consistent sidewalk aesthetic.
“We hope the small changes over time cumulatively support the larger vision,” said Spillane.
But residents feel that beautification of sidewalks is not as pressing as Harvard’s vacant properties, saying that these efforts should be transferred to the paved-over Science Complex foundation on Western Ave. and the soon-to-be vacant Charlesview Apartment Complex.
The new Charlesview broke ground Monday morning and is projected to finish construction in the next two years. The new location—formerly owned by Harvard—was given to Charlesview in 2009 in exchange for University ownership of the lot on which the current housing complex stands in an effort to consolidate Harvard’s Allston land holdings.
The University has yet to announce definite long term plans for either the current Charlesview property or the Science Complex foundation. Harvard halted construction in Dec. 2009 due to financial constraints.
Allston residents’ reactions to construction plans for the Business School’s Tata Hall ranged from indifference to skepticism. In an effort to make the Business School’s campus landscape more open to the community, three new green spaces will be created alongside the new academic and residential building. Tata Hall itself is shaped like a half moon, its concave curve intended to signify welcoming the community, according to the project’s planners.
As with the sidewalk redevelopment, residents said that it was unclear how this project’s architecture would benefit the community.
“With every major building development there should be a  discussion of community benefits, and that’s been lost with Tata Hall,” Task Force member Bruce E. Houghton said.
“I have this feeling that we’re putting the ass in front of the horse here,” Houghton added. “Harvard has gone ahead with Tata Hall as its on their campus and they think it doesn’t affect us.”
Residents again expressed confusion as to why Harvard is not focusing on vacant properties along Western Ave.
“I think Harvard is doing another bait and switch here with us. They’re taking this beautiful piece of ground on the Charles River and digging up all this grass when there are two sites going to be unused—the current Charlesview and the science [complex],” said Allston resident Lisa J. Kunze.
Addressing residents’ worries, Allston Work Team Co-chair Bill Purcell said that the Work Team’s recommendations are on track, slated to come out in mid-2011 and that they will provide a longer term framework for Harvard’s Allston development.
Gabe Handel,
the managing director of the Harvard Business School Dean’s office, also updated residents on the progress of the Innovation Lab, slated to be open in September.
Handel said that the renovation of 125 Western Avenue, which will house the lab, is moving smoothly.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Abel Acuna '11 and Kenneth K. Li '12 just released "One Ring for Harvard," a video advertising class rings from the Harvard Shop.
The video presents students with all of the nescessary information for selecting and purchasing a class ring. However, the video remains amusing throughout, featuring allusions to Gollum from The Lord of the Rings and a hilarious dance number to the tune of Beyoncé's "Single Ladies."
Acuna and Li directed the video for Senior Spring Productions, their new production company.
The original idea behind Senior Spring Prouctions was to create a video production service for Harvard that would make video production easier for on-campus student groups, according to Acuna.
 
They proposed their idea to the Harvard College Innovation Challenge and won the Investment Fund Award.
"There was a problem and a need to be filled, so I got the idea that we needed to figure out a way to institutionalize video production so we could take the burden off of the student organizations and let them focus on what they do best while they outsource it to us," Acuna said.
Acuna and Li will continue to work on their Production Company over the summer in hopes of a full launch in September. They plan to offer their services to Harvard Student Agencies in addition to helping companies in the Cambridge area.
Sections
Semester grades should be trickling in starting today. If you've completed your Q Guide evaluations, go to the Student Record website and log in. If you haven't, you can go to the Secondary Field Advising Portal and click on any of the listed fields to find an updated student report.
