News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They’re back for more. Fresh from a Supreme Court decision that enshrines their military funeral protests as protected under the First Amendment, the Westboro Baptist Church will once again make their way to Cambridge on Wednesday. This time, however, the members won’t be protesting the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School for its gay-straight alliance, or the Harvard Hillel for bolstering Jewish life on campus. Instead, next week, the WBC will be protesting the memorial service for Reverend Peter J. Gomes, Harvard’s spiritual mentor who passed away last month.
Quite simply, Gomes is the epitome of everything the WBC opposes. There is nothing that gets this church’s blood boiling more than a homosexual Christian preacher who spent his career pushing for pluralism, tolerance, and religious compassion. “He, in the name of God, teaches rebellion against God,” said spokeswoman Shirley Phelps-Roper.
When the WBC protested the Harvard Hillel in December, students organized an absurdity protest to counter them. From Jerusalem, I voiced my full-throated support for that rally in my column, arguing that a WBC counter-protest can often be a positive and constructive community-building exercise. But Wednesday is different. Rather than organizing a response to the WBC clan—who won’t even be allowed on University property—the best thing our community can do is spend the day honoring Gomes’s memory as though they aren’t there.
It’s crucial to distinguish between two different kinds of WBC protests. When the WBC pickets institutions like synagogues, churches, and schools, their aim is to provoke bystanders and gain media attention. As I argued in December, assuming that these protests only happen once in a while (unlike, for example, in their native Kansas, where much of the population has rightly decided to ignore them), good-natured counter-rallies can often offset the media attention the church receives as a result. Indeed, The Crimson estimated that between 200 and 300 people participated in the absurdity protest, and those interviewed for the article gushed about the positive impact the rally had on our community.
But it’s extremely counterproductive to act this way when the church protests funerals and memorial services. Here, the church’s aim is not merely to inflict emotional distress, but also to take the spotlight off of the deceased and put it directly on themselves. The Supreme Court decision that made this church the darling of civil liberties groups nationwide came out of a case where they protested the funeral of Lance Corporal Matthew A. Snyder. Most people will now most likely remember Snyder—who died in the service of his country in Iraq—not for his heroic deeds, but for the fact that the Westboro Baptist  Church protested at his funeral. Sadly, the same seems to be set to happen at Harvard, judging by how one of The Crimson’s headlines in the print edition, “Protest to Upset Gomes’s Service,” framed the WBC’s visit to Cambridge.
We have the power to prevent this from happening. Gomes’s memory does not deserve to be associated with these people. Queer Students and Allies and other student groups who helped organize the absurdity rally in December should encourage the Cambridge community to spend Wednesday learning about Gomes’s life rather than spending any time engaging the WBC.
So instead of making a counter-protest sign next week, read more about what it meant for Gomes to come out as “a Christian who happens as well to be gay” in 1991. Read his best-selling “The Good Book: Reading the Bible with Mind and Heart” to learn about how zealots like the WBC abuse scripture to justify bigotry. Read his article defending “the Harvard accent” in The Crimson in 2007. Watch his interview on “The Colbert Report,” where his mischievous wit garnered him more laughs than Colbert. All of these are much more conducive responses than acknowledging the WBC’s presence.
“I go into Harvard Square,” Gomes remarked in a sermon last year, “and I see all these people with their signs and their placards, everybody ready for an argument, everybody ready for a debate. Not me,” he said. “That sort of thing does not turn me on.” The sermon is called “Religion For Smart People,” and you can download it for free on iTunes, along with many of his other speeches—all of them eloquent, all of them entertaining, all of them uniquely Peter Gomes. I encourage you to download a few and listen to them as you walk to and from his memorial service on Wednesday, so that you won’t even be able to hear the WBC members protesting. In our busy schedules, the College has set aside a single day in April to honor a figure whose thoughtfulness, dignity, and unwavering faith in the human spirit defined everything that is beautiful about our university. The best way to drown out the hate of his detractors is to learn more about what made him truly spectacular.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Tuesday night, Ali Suleiman Aujali, the former Libyan government ambassador to the United States, spoke at the Institute of Politics in favor of his side in the Libyan revolution. Aujali resigned on Feb. 22 in the wake of Muammar Gaddafi’s brutal crackdown on protesters against his regime. He has subsequently joined the forces opposing Gaddafi and begun speaking and negotiating on their behalf. Aujali appeared on a panel along with academics and other diplomats, and appealed to both the United States and the international community to recognize the Interim Transitional National Council, which is headquartered in the rebel stronghold of Benghazi.
Aujali furthermore made clear his expectation that as long as coalition support continues for the rebel forces, then Gaddafi’s military will eventually lose the war. Today, as the rebels are once more pushed back by Gaddafi’s forces from key oil towns in eastern Libya, Aujali’s hope for increased, unified international support comes as the United States seeks to scale back its military role in the intervention. Still, both the coalition and anti-Gaddafi rebels will no doubt be emboldened by the news that Moussa Koussa, the Libyan foreign minister,  defected from the Gaddafi regime yesterday.  As Gaddafi’s government continues to perpetrate human rights violations and deny legitimate demands for political reform, we endorse the international community’s support of the Libyan rebels. They are rightfully protesting for the end of an oppressive dictatorship and for a chance at democratic self-determination.
In a larger sense, given the response the Libyan revolution has elicited from the world as well as the United States’ prominent role in the uprising, the conspicuous absence of substantive campus-wide discussion on Libya is surprising. This is thrown into sharp relief when we consider Harvard’s response to the earthquake in Japan, which included large-scale, last-minute efforts that raised both awareness and funds for disaster relief.
Harvard’s student body deserves commendation for the scale of its response after the earthquake in Japan, which evidences that it does have the capacity to react to events happening across the globe. But why has there not been similar attention paid to Libya, albeit in the form of discussion and opining? Of course, it is much easier to react decisively in the wake of natural disasters. The situation in Libya is not so clear cut; indeed, a poll by the Pew Research Center found that 46 percent of Americans want the military action in Libya to include Gaddafi’s removal and 43 percent indicate it should only include protecting Libyan civilians. It is easy to glance at the headlines and come to the conclusion that Japan needs our support, but it requires serious thought before endorsing a specific course of action in the middle of a faraway revolution. (For this reason, we appreciate President Obama’s deliberation before committing to the intervention.) At Harvard, we prize intellectual ability and substantive debate, but we should not confine these efforts to the hermetically-sealed world of courses.
This call to greater engagement with controversial world affairs is not confined to us. Indeed, all young Americans should try to take the time to become informed and to take a stand on difficult issues, before apathetically declaring that “I don’t know enough about this.” As long as we continue to live in a world that becomes more connected and more open, and as long as the United States continues to take an active interest in the world’s affairs, we ought to be well informed about a region whose future will have serious repercussions for us all. We can start with the situation in Libya.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The online community was not at all forgiving to the words “ching chong, ling long, ting tong.”
On March 11, Alexandra Wallace, a student at University of California, Los Angeles, posted a clearly offensive video online in which she complained about Asian people on their phones the library: “I swear, they’re going through their whole families, just checking on everyone from the tsunami thing.” The viral video’s polarized remarks drew nationwide criticism and even alleged death threats. Nonetheless, the UCLA administration decided to abstain from disciplinary action because, “As a public university, UCLA protects free expression. While I and most on campus were appalled by the sentiments expressed in a recent YouTube video, we have uncovered no facts that lead us to believe that the Student Code of Conduct was violated.” However, as an educational institution, the University ought to have taken disciplinary action against Wallace so as to educate the community and remind students of its accepted values.
Granted, Wallace’s words—even the racial slurs—are protected by the First Amendment.  The Bill of Rights is designed to protect the fundamental principles of human liberty, including freedom of speech. Wallace’s rights to voice discriminatory remarks are undeniably protected, given that the Supreme Court even protects the Westboro Baptist Church’s right to protest. Additionally, Wallace received public humiliation and harsh treatment on YouTube in response to her video, and this may have influenced UCLA’s decision to refrain from disciplinary action.
However, UCLA had the right to punish Wallace and ought to have exercised that right, teaching her the unacceptability of her wrongdoings and to elucidate to others the values of the community. By enrolling at UCLA, Wallace and her peers implicitly agreed to subscribe to the rules of the school, such as the “nondiscrimination Policy Statement for University of California   Publications Regarding Student-Related Matters.” Given that viral media is such a popular and widespread means of communicating on college campuses, it seems misguided and naïve to, on one hand, hold campus publications to a high standard of respectful conduct, and on the other hand, allow students to act in a discriminatory method in on an even bigger stage. If a student subsequently violates an institution’s code of conduct by openly voicing racial discrimination and bigoted slurs, the University should take disciplinary action when a student breaks this agreement
The reasons to punish students for bigotry extend beyond this.  Plainly, the consequences of bigotry in professional and public life today are real, and students must learn this. Just recently, John Galliano, Christian Dior’s chief designer, was dismissed for his anti-Semitic remarks. Even at Harvard, former University President Lawrence H. Summers resigned after the uproar over comments he made about women in science. Why tacitly accept a standard of behavior from students that is clearly not acceptable in any post-graduate professional sphere?
The First Amendment may protect students from federal punishment, but educational institutions can and should punish its students for their discriminatory statements regardless of their protection under the constitution. Wallace ultimately decided to leave UCLA, saying that her mistake “led to the harassment of [her] family, the publishing of [her] personal information, death threats, and being ostracized from an entire community.” Unfortunately, she learned the hard way that such remarks cannot be left alone, regardless of official university action or, in this case, inaction. By accepting bigoted remarks from other students in the name of protecting freedom of expression and upholding constitutional rights, the University would be doing a disservice to its students.
Jaehyuk You ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Straus Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Tea Party, the political movement that swept the 2010 midterms, sees itself as more than a political interest group. It has brought a new focus to the question of Constitutional interpretation, by arguing that the Constitution, exists to strongly limit the powers of the federal government. The Tea Party appears to consider the list of powers that Article I, Section 8 grants to Congress as exhaustive and narrowly specific. Modern Constitutional scholarship has understood the commerce clause as a broad grant of power, allowing everything from the detailed financial regulation of the New Deal to the civil rights act. The Tea Party, on the other hand, sees such far-reaching legislation as exceeding Congress’s legitimate power and untrue to the strict letter of the Constitution.
The incoming 112th Congress would appear, at first glance, to share the Tea Party’s sentiments. They opened their session with a reading of the Constitution, to emphasize how the founding document limits congressional power. Furthermore, Republican leadership established a new rule, which requires each bill introduced for consideration to include a “Constitutional Authority Statement.” These passages explain what portion of the Constitution would authorize Congress to pass such a law. Such actions suggest that the 112th Congress shares a strict Constitutional interpretation, one where Congress is limited to its explicitly enumerated powers.
However, a close read of these Constitutional Authority Statements reveals more hypocrisy than anything else. Take, for example, the Constitutional Authority Statements for bills introduced on the first day of the new session. Several of the Authority Statements introduced that day simply referenced Article I, Section 8—the section that grants Congress all of its powers. Others simply referred to the “necessary and proper” clause or “general welfare” clause, two of the most vague grants of legislative power in the constitution. There is little evidence that these Authority statements are anything more than a formality.
But that’s far from the worst of it. The Authority Statements are not simply nugatory. A close read of the Authority Statement for H.R. 2 reveals just how incoherent the strict reading it purports to uphold is.
H.R. 2, the repeal of last year’s historic health care reform was one of the Republican’s top legislative priorities upon retaking congress. Why? Well, as H.R. 2’s authority statement states, the Republican majority believes that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was unconstitutional.
But while Congress has the power to interpret Constitutionality and can act according to their beliefs, the Constitution does not explicitly grant Congress any power to repeal laws. Generally, the power to repeal a law is the same as the power to enact it. Congress has the power to determine income tax rates: It can use that power to create a tax, or set that tax equal to zero. However, this argument fails when the law in question, like Health Care Reform, falls outside of the realm permitted by strict constructionism. Then, there is no granted power to repeal nor to legislate in the realm in question. How can a strict-constructionist Congress repeal a law passed earlier that is unconstitutional?
The 112th Congress answered this tricky challenge mostly through bluster. H.R. 2’s Authority Statement claims that Congress has the power to repeal unconstitutional laws thanks to the “clear meaning” of the Vesting, Supremacy, and Oath Clauses, and the “clear” statements of James Madison. (It’s a good rule of thumb to recall that when lawyers use the word “clear” more than once, they don’t have a case and are hoping you don’t notice.) But the Vesting clause only grants Congress legislative authority generally, while the Supremacy and Oath Clauses enumerate no Congressional powers whatsoever. Finally, James Madison’s statements cannot add enumerated powers to the constitution. In short, from the perspective of our hypothetical strict constructionist, the Constitutional Authority Statement for H.R. 2 is a load of bunk.
This, however, will lead us to the nonsensical conclusion that a strict-constructionist Congress cannot repeal unconstitutional laws! It is hard to imagine a more ridiculous ongoing principle of government. But it’s where we are inevitably led if we follow the strict constructionists down the rabbit hole. They have presented their best arguments in H.R. 2’s Constitutional Authority Statement (admittedly, in compact form), and fallen miserably short of their own standards. A genuinely strict construction of the constitution, where Congress’s only powers are those specifically enumerated, would create a Congress incompetent to legislate, not simply on important modern issues, but in general.
Instead of this foolish approach, we must accept that reading the Constitution is always an interpretive act, bound by common sense as well as the ink on the page. Congress must not be bound by those who believe that a vague list of eighteen items is exact and exhaustive. That does not mean all laws are constitutional. It simply means that we must engage the question honestly, with thorough arguments about which laws can and cannot be permitted. To maintain the fiction that constitutionality can be boiled down to a handful of words at the beginning of a law does not preserve the Constitution. Instead, it disrespects our nation’s founding document.
Louis R. Evans ‘13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a Social Studies in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Even if you you you so excited to get down on Friday, a recap of the days of the week is completely redundant to anyone out of preschool. Before Sunday comes—apparently it’s after Saturday—listen to these other Friday-themed songs that are sure to make the weekend fun ....
“Friday” — Ice Cube
We would party with this guy over Rebecca Black any day. The girls in his music video aren’t wearing braces—or much else.
“Last Friday Night” — Katy Perry
No matter what happened, waking up to “glitter all over the room” and “pink flamingos in the pool” sounds like a pretty successful Friday night.
“Thank God it’s Friday” — R. Kelly
R. Kelly wants you to let him know if you find the party spot. In the meantime, he is bursting with gratitude for the arrival of the weekend: “Oh God, thank you for Friday ... Heavenly Father.”
“Freaky Friday” — Aqua
Aqua is confused, and arguably even less eloquent than Rebecca. “Life’s a country song, what the heck is going on?” We have no idea, but we might not take her suggestion to “play on the highway”—especially if Rebecca and her preteen gang are on the road.
“Friday I’m in Love” — The Cure
Same idea, more actual rhymes. And fewer random rappers in cars.
Sections
James Gleick ’76 wrote for The Crimson and published a book earlier this year titled “The Information: A History, a Theory, a Flood.” The book discusses the development of information before the present Information Age. Gleick spoke with FM about the development of his information theory, the distinction between information and knowledge, and what he sees as the future of information.
Fifteen Minutes: Did you begin to plant the seeds of your information theory while at Harvard? What originally sparked your interest in this line of thinking?
James Gleick: I never heard anything about it when I was at Harvard. I was an English major combined with linguistics. I was kind of avoiding science courses, so I didn’t know anything about it. I first heard about information theory when I was working on my first book, “Chaos.” I bought Claude E. Shannon’s little book, “The Mathematical Theory of Communication,” and I have been thinking about it ever since—thinking about the connections between this intellectual theory and the world we live in, which is so riddled with information to the extent that it’s a cliché: The Information Age.
FM: What, if anything, do you see as the difference between information and knowledge?
JG: Information became a scientific word with a definition. It became a quantitative thing that we measure in bits. Electrical engineers proved theorems about it and worked out ways of compressing it, handling error correction and transmitting information through noisy circuits. Because of all that, the concept of information has become much more interesting and all-inclusive. It used to be just a word that meant instructions or news, maybe facts. And then it started to mean all kinds of stuff. Anything that you could put into writing, anything that you could convert into sound, such as music, is a form of information in this modern sense of information that we’re all familiar with. And so are images because they can be digitized as bits and emailed to your friends and shown on your phone. Suddenly information is everything in the world. Our bodies are composed of information. DNA is nothing if not information. It’s not a coincidence that we call it the genetic code. It’s not even a metaphor. It’s literally a code about messages and instructions. A side effect of engineers and mathematicians taking over this vague term information is they needed to talk about it as a thing for which meaning was irrelevant. When you’re measuring the length of a message, or manipulating it in various ways, you’re looking at the bits in the message. It doesn’t matter what the message means. The message could be true, or it could be false, or it could be nonsense. If it’s a picture, it could be a beautiful picture or it could be an ugly picture. That’s beside the point. None of that enters into the engineering issues. And that idea of information divorced from meaning suddenly may sound all too familiar, because here we are living in a world where we’re bombarded by information, and a lot of it is not particularly meaningful. It’s not the information we need. And so we remind ourselves that information and knowledge are different things. Knowledge is the information we value, the information that corresponds to something in the world, the information that is real. T.S. Eliot said, and I’m paraphrasing, that information is not knowledge, and he also said that knowledge is not wisdom.
FM: What do you think wisdom is?
JG: Oh, I’m not wise enough to know yet. I hope I’ll live long enough to find out.
FM: Also, is more information always a good thing?
JG: No, definitely not. We know it’s not. We talk about information overload  and information fatigue. That’s one of the things that the information age has brought us: the knowledge that more information isn’t necessarily a good thing. And in part that’s because of what we were talking about, because of the separation between information and knowledge—the divorce of information and meaning. But it’s also just the nature of the world we live in and the world of people. When you’re able to listen to 10,000 people offering different opinions about something, they’re not all going to be right, and they’re not all going to be worth listening to, and it’s going to be a challenge to sort them out. But that was just as true when we were only able to listen to 10 people. So I certainly don’t think that more information is necessarily a bad thing. I just don’t think it’s automatically good.
FM: You said in an interview with Kevin Kelly, co-founder of Wired Magazine, that “information is the thing that we care most about.” Why is this?
JG: Occasionally if you’re really hungry, you could care about food. We certainly care about sex. I don’t mean that information has replaced these fundamental things. Information is what defines us. It’s what makes us humans, in my view. And it’s always been that way. The name of our species is Homo sapiens, so we always collectively defined ourselves in terms of information. It’s only now that we have this vocabulary. We didn’t used to call it information. Sapiens, I suppose is translated more as ‘knowing.’ We want to know things and we want to communicate with our fellow creatures.
Sections
Poor Rebecca Black has received too much flack. Black, a 13 year-old aspiring (or perhaps already made!) pop star, has been universally sacked after releasing her notorious single, “Friday.” But Black does not deserve to wear the scarlet letter. Harvard students have participated in this undeserved bashing, myself guiltily included, but maybe it merits a reevaluation. I, as well as other Harvard students, ought not pan Ms. Black. In fact, this backlash may result from our own jealousy of her social life, which—if it is embodied in the lyrics of her best-selling single on iTunes—is quite impressive indeed.
Perhaps I should speak for myself. While just three letters separate Black’s last name from my own, our social lives could not be more different. Her weekends are unparalleled in my experience at Harvard, or even in my life. The only time I have come close to her level of social butterfly-hood was during the seventh grade, when the Bar and Bat Mitzvah circuit was at its most active.
Let’s do a close analysis—one thing I have learned at Harvard—to compare my Fridays with Black’s. Black Fridays involve many sexy activities. She wakes up, her eyes jolting open in a fashion reminiscent of a horror film trailer that features pale, emaciated children (Think “Hide and Seek”). Having opened her eyes in this disturbing manner, Black consequently starts her day at 7 a.m. 7 a.m.! Just imagine all the things I could do if I woke up that early. Did somebody say Annenberg hot breakfast? Hot. HUHDS’ breakfast sandwiches could surpass even Black’s attractive-sounding “cereal.”
Next, Black has “gotta catch the bus.” I, too, opt for a shuttle bus on Fridays, and I proudly share this experience with her. According to her lyrics, Black has her choice from among the various seats available in the convertible driven by her unlicensed friends (“Which seat can I take?”). However, the video shows that Black has, in fact, only one seating option—and the middle seat at that! I am usually able to select from myriad seats on the Friday shuttles. Then again, she does get to brag to everybody about being driven by under-aged drivers. She’s such a bad girl! ... and yet, so cool.
Black claims that she has “gotta get down on Friday.” This compulsion reveals her deep commitment to exciting Fridays. Mine simply pale in comparison. Sometimes, I gotta do my homework on Friday, or I gotta see a movie on Friday, but Black clearly senses a deeper obligation to partyin’, partyin’, than I do. Black passionately exclaims: “fun, fun, fun, fun.” I’m really jealous. My orchestra’s parties are my favorite at Harvard, but would I ever describe them as Fun 4x?
While Black’s friend, who appears to be not much older than Tommy Pickles, drives her down the highway, Black sings about the days preceding and following Friday—as well as Friday itself. Rebby belts: “Yesterday was Thursday, Thursday/Today it is Friday, Friday,” later claiming, “Tomorrow is Saturday/And Sunday comes after ... wards.” Is she so intoxicated that she must remind herself of the days of the week? Black even neglects to include verbs in some of her sentences, again proclaiming in reference to Friday, “We we we so excited.” Harvard students know, however, that due to Harvard’s firm and consistently implemented alcohol policy, no one ever gets drunk here. But Rebecca’s parents, unlike the Harvard administration, are chill enough not to care about their daughter’s potential alcohol consumption. They are, of course, cool enough to fund this music video in the first place.
But Black’s parents are not the only old people who are making a significant impact on her musical career. Patrice Wilson—one of the song’s Nobel Prize-winning writers (just kidding! There is no Nobel Prize in music)—also has a cameo rap appearance in the music video. Again, Black’s social capital trumps mine, and, I imagine, that of many of my fellow Harvard students. Someone who follows your every move, and even your school bus? How on earth did you pull off a posse at age 13? Rebecca, you sly gal, you.
I guess that’s the end of the close analysis, since none of the lyrics change, well, ever.
As a reader of Fifteen Minutes, you are probably a deliberate socialite, somebody who’s looking for fun things to do at Harvard this upcoming Friday. After you are rejected at the door of a party or prevented from participating in your House’s canceled “golf” event, do not watch Rebecca Black’s video to fill your free time. You may be seeking fun in taunting her, but I fear that you are projecting your own insecurities. For RB, Rebecca Black, has a much better social life than the average Harvard student.
In that sense, I suppose, her soulful lyrics are in fact proved wrong. At least at Harvard, not everybody is lookin’ forward to the weekend. Weekend.
Sections
I couldn’t take it anymore. The remaining piece of my heart that had not yet sunk down to my stomach was at once pounding and crumbling. Not exactly ideal when attempting to eat a spicy tuna roll.
Eliza, Jaime and I are childhood best friends. I know I’m saying that with false bravado, but we met 10 years ago in Bunk 30 at our Jewish sleep away camp in the Poconos. And our trio has stayed alive through the middle school, high school, and now college years, through what are becoming less and less frequent sushi dinners like these.
But somehow, the rare occasion before my train was set to depart from Grand Central, not to mention the esteem in which I hold my two friends, could not measure up to what was happening, or rather what wasn’t happening, at the table next to ours:
He, a well-groomed, pastel, collared shirt and khakis, Wall Street (or maybe associate at a law firm? Yeah, associate at a law firm) kind of guy, looked to be about 28. She was thin, around his age, certainly attractive, probably worked in accounting. And they hadn’t said one word to each other since the moment they sat down to dinner.
Their silence was consuming me. At this point, I was less-than-half listening to whatever Eliza was saying about the student farm at Yale. I pushed my spicy tuna aside. I once heard somewhere that when male sports fanatics watch a game, they build up so much testosterone that by the time the game ends, they feel as if they’ve just played in it. That’s what watching this silent couple for half an hour was like.
I instantly became the woman—an identification made for the obvious reason that I am one, but also because, well, I’ve been on this date. Only once, but once was enough. “The silent date”: perhaps the single most painful memory I hold from the bad ending of a very good relationship.
I couldn’t hold it in any longer—I had to talk about it. And the moment I interrupted was the same moment Jaime started gushing about—you guessed it—her very new, very exciting relationship. He was the one, she had decided. In fact, they had talked about it. Jaime was in love; I was post-first relationship and a little negative about it all. Naturally, we all voiced very different opinions about the fate of our fellow diners.
At least my friends treated the matter with a level of vehemence that somewhat mirrored my utter indignation. And we all agreed on one crucial point: the young couple was doomed. They obviously had to break up. They couldn’t think of a single conversation topic, for God’s sake!
Perhaps a little too loudly, we analyzed their body language: “He’s leaning toward her aggressively and she’s shrinking back in her chair,” Eliza whispered. We hypothesized the problem: “Maybe she cheated on him?” Jaime asked, horrified. “Or, you know, maybe it’s just over,” I sighed. We invented the lives they would return to after dinner: “Ugh, they live together. She mumbled something about bringing home their leftovers; they totally live together. That makes this so much worse.”
The couple finally left the restaurant and we stopped feigning whispers. Our diagnoses varied, unsurprisingly, based on each of our current relationships with love.
Eliza and Jaime both urged immediate action, a quick tear of the band-aid. But I was more hesitant: “She’s scared.”
“I don’t care if she’s scared to speak up,” Eliza triumphed. “She has to do it.”
“Yeah, but if she speaks up, they’ll probably break up,” I countered.
“They should break up.”
“She knows that. But she doesn’t want to.”
“She should want to.”
“Yeah, but she doesn’t.”
I argued the point all the way back to Jaime’s apartment, until I was finally put in my place. Eliza announced that she had spent enough time talking about strangers. She had a point. But it wasn’t that simple—for any of us.
Jaime wanted, possibly needed, to believe that what we had just seen was a fluke. And I, albeit the self-appointed cynic in this particular group, similarly wanted to believe that each member of  the restaurant couple just hadn’t found the right person yet.
It wasn’t until weeks later, while I was relaying the story of the restaurant couple to a different set of friends, that I began to understand my overly intense reaction. I got to the part about the troublesome leftovers, and my friend started laughing: “Or maybe they were just having a bad night.”
Oh. I hadn’t thought of that.
At only 20, it’s not exactly surprising that my friends and I take so seriously the relationships we see happening around us (even if we have to invent most of the story). We don’t quite get it ourselves yet, so instead we turn an inner search outward. We rely on friends, family, books, movies, and even on total strangers to teach us about the existence, and more importantly, the sustainability of love. So I’ll probably keep sticking my nose in random couples’ business at restaurants. And though I know I won’t find any concrete answers, I hope I’ll keep believing.
 
Sections
“Schadenfreude”: everyone’s favorite German-cum-English word, meaning to take pleasure in someone else’s suffering. Not just aurally pleasing, schadenfreude also highlights one of the many shortcomings of the English language: “I am an asshole” is not nearly as elegant.
In this respect, English lets us down again and again. Why should we have to rely on the Danes for the term “kælling”: a mother who stands on her own doorstep and yells obscenities at her children? Where was Webster when that happened?
Just think of how many awkward First Chance Dance hookups are avoided at the University of Tokyo because of the Japanese word “bakku-shan,” a term used to describe a girl who appears pretty from behind but not from the front.
The limits of our own language can be overcome by a bit of creative borrowing. Linguistic determinists say our native language limits our capacity for knowledge and thought—and sure, we may not empathize with Persian’s “nakhur”: a camel that won’t give milk until her nostrils have been tickled. But it’s not only the Germans that have to restrain themselves when confronted by a “Backpfeifengesicht”: a face in need of a slapping.
And if there is no word in English for hesitating and then running away like Charlie Chaplin, why not dip into Central American Spanish for the wonderful term “achaplinarse?”
So the next time you borrow things from a friend, one by one, until they are all gone, remember that you’re guilty of “tingo,” as they say on Easter Island. And if your schadenfreude starts to show its face, try and suppress it by thinking of how splendid it is that the Germans created a specific word devoted to the concept.
Sections
Coming Back From Spring Break
Mild Acquaintance 1: (Greeting!)
Mild Acquaintance 2: (Greeting!)
Mild Acquaintance 1: (Spring break?!)
Mild Acquaintance 2: (Spring break! Spring break?!)
Mild Acquaintance 1: (Spring break!)
Mild Acquaintance 2: (Bye!)
Mild Acquaintance 1: (Bye!)
Summer Plans
Friend 1: (HUHDS.)
Friend 2: (HUHDS.)
Friend 1: (Summer plans?!)
Friend 2: (Summer plans. Summer plans?)
Friend 1: (SUMMER PLANS! Funding?!)
Friend 2: (        )
Friend 1: (Rockefeller! OIP! CAS!)
Friend 2: (        )
Friend 1: (Home?)
Friend 2: (Home.)
Friend 1: (HUHDS.)
Friend 2: (HUHDS.)
Worldly Affairs
Student 1: (Libya?)
Student 2: (VES concentrator.)
Post-Thesis
Senior 1: (Thesis?)
Senior 2: (Drunk! Thesis?)
Senior 1: (Almost, Tuesday.)
Senior 2: (Drunk Tuesday!)
Senior 1: (Drunk Tuesday.)
Sections
You may have noticed the new labels on your d-hall’s coffee dispensers, but you probably don’t know their stories.
Like flavor number four, she was rich, elegant, and complex. He, number five, was bold, dark, intense.
Dipping into our imagination, FM explores where they’ve bean. What is this about? It’s the subject on the tip of everyone’s tongues: love. This is the story of two coffee mates for life.
He sat next to her every day, but lately, something was different. It was the same for her. Something inside of them had changed.
For hours, they felt the energy sizzling between them, but neither had the courage to speak. His fear of getting burned had held him back, but all at once he was tired of the dull grind.  Now was the time to be bold.
Before, he had felt pressured, like something was pressing down on his head, trying to drain him, but suddenly it just spilled out: “You’ve been keeping me up at night.”
With the silence broken, the barrier between them dissolved. She had had many beaux before, some full-bodied, some bitter, some velvety smooth, but none like this café noir. Last night she was empty, but now she was overflowing, and things got hot fast. “I want to wake up to you in the morning.”
In all of her relationships, she had never felt full-filled. She was used to the finer things, and people had always only wanted her for her richness. They only took, and never gave. He looked different, but was he? He had a dark past. Maybe things weren’t different after all.
“Au revoir, mon cherie,” she whispered in French, pressing against him—but he wasn’t ready to let go of what was brewing ....
Sections
Whether you live on the bleeding edge of fashion or just throw on whatever smells least offensive in the morning, the styles blooming this spring will make you laugh, cry, or—quite possibly—lust. Here is FM’s list of the smoking trends that should make a stop at the Square and those that should take the outbound express.
Outbound!: Flatforms
Imagine a pair of cute flats or oxfords, then stick a brick underneath them. That’s what flatforms are. Despite their sheer bulkiness, flatforms are making an appearance on the street and on the runway. The $795 Prada Creeper Brogue, whose inexplicable popularity caused them to sell out in every Prada store in Manhattan, looks like a sophisticated, sleek oxford lace-up perched precariously on a neon stack of rubber and espadrille. Terrifying.
Outbound!: Short shorts on guys
Certainly, there are many attractive men at Hemenway sporting shorts and cut off T-shirts for the benefit of all those around them. But how much skin can be shown before it borders on disturbing? Thigh? Mid-thigh? When it just gets too damn hairy? A good rule of thumb to follow: when the tan line ends, so do the shorts. Otherwise, the shorts are too damn high!
Outbound!: Denim flares
Why, fashion gods? Why? Just when we had committed to an exercise regime, learned to suck in our guts, and wrapped our minds around the ultra skinny look, you bring the 70s back. Depressing.
Inbound!: Loungerie
Stockings! Lace! Satin! Sheer fabrics! Dior and Reyes reminded us of how so little clothing can say so much. While it can be difficult to walk the line between the titillating and the downright skanky, FM doubts many people will complain.
Inbound!: The extreme side part
DKNY, Lacoste, and Carolina Herrera showed us that Spring 2011 is all about this. The asymmetrical frame draws attention away from imperfections and towards the eyes. Sexy.
Inbound!: Punk influences
If you can get over the vaguely depressing postmodern phenomenon that borrows image from movements without adopting their substance, punk fashion may be for you! Think leather, ripped stockings, studs, safety pins, and combat boots. Also, remember: black will always be the new black.
Sections
One August night every year, around 10 p.m., my dad slammed shut the trunk of our silver station wagon, which idled on our back drive. Layers of duffel bags, stuffed with swimsuits and summer bedding, filled the rear window. Bikes—two bolted to the roof and three fastened to a bar on the back—weighed the car down. The packed station wagon looked ready to escape the Dust Bowl. But my family was always headed east, away from Cleveland to a simple house near the beach on Martha’s Vineyard.
Cozy in pajamas and moccasin slippers, my sister, brother, and I piled into the backseat. I always sat next to the left window, behind my dad, the driver. He liked to drive through the night and reach Woods Hole, where we boarded the ferry, before noon. By lunchtime, we were sitting on a sandy blanket beside the Atlantic.
My siblings and I slept from Ohio to the potholed state routes in upstate New York, when the sun began to rise over the soft peaks of the Catskills. We contorted our faces for travelers in passing cars and eagerly motioned truck drivers to sound their horns, cheering at that rare honk. Eventually, my brother would plead with my mom to play with his new toy. The day before departure each year, she took us shopping and let us pick out a vacation toy, which we weren’t allowed to open until we had crossed the Sound. My mom usually safeguarded the toys in the wagon’s trunk, somewhere between body boards and grocery-filled plastic containers. To occupy us, she also bought books on tape, perfectly timed for the trip’s length. One year, “Cheaper by the Dozen” ended exactly as we drove onto the ferry.
During the ride, I preferred to gaze out my left window. Unreasonably short, I sat straight up, sometimes on my hands, to glimpse the empty ski lodges of Windham, the glittering Hudson River under the Rip Van Winkle Bridge, main streets in the Berkshires. As I watched the landscape whiz by, my dad would briefly take his eyes off the road and look at me in the rearview mirror. We’d make eye contact in the mirror, then both smile. The journey was long, but it wasn’t draining. Everyone’s excitement seemed to grow as the odometer spun.
I was 11 or 12 when the ritual began to change. My mom convinced my dad to break up the drive into a two-day affair. We left Ohio during daylight and my mom packed a picnic lunch, roast beef wraps, carrots, and pretzels. We stopped for the night in East Durham, New York, also known as the “Emerald Isle of the Catskills.” The water in our motel’s swimming pool was an alarming green. When girls in curly wigs started prancing around the dining room’s parquet floor during dinner, we learned that the motel was also the headquarters of an Irish dancing camp. We checked out at 6 a.m.
The next year, my dad reluctantly agreed to give up state routes in favor of I-90 and I-87. It will save us hours of driving, my mom said. And she was right. Yet we no longer passed through Alfred, where a restaurant served red chicken fingers, or Great Barrington, where I first sampled fresh-squeezed apple juice. Outside my left window, off-ramps and highway sprawl replaced much of the scenery I was accustomed to. But my dad continued to glance back at me through the mirror.
With high school came a long-awaited growth spurt, and my knees pressed into the back of my dad’s seat. We replaced the station wagon with a larger, hunter green SUV. My left window, tinted, still offered the now-familiar highway panoramas. But CDs of David Sedaris and Augusten Burroughs succeeded the tapes of “young adult” authors. Conference calls with my dad’s clients punctuated the racy readings. Then, a few years ago, a publishing internship in New York kept my sister from traveling and, for the first time, we weren’t together for August. Lately, I have taken a bus or plane in from wherever I’m spending the summer. My parents drive with my brother. Last year, they were alone.
Returning on the ferry to the mainland and driving back to Ohio at vacation’s end was never particularly fun. It’s like falling asleep at the end of your birthday when you’re a kid, realizing the day’s over and you have to wait 12 months for another. But there was still next year to look forward to, there was infinite potential for next year. Getting older means dealing with unpredictable change. That drive through western Pennsylvania, upstate New York, and rural Massachusetts was my constant. Sitting in the backseat, I knew what to expect out the left window, in the rearview mirror. But the rhythm of summer is changing.
—D. Patrick Knoth ’11, a history and literature concentrator in Dunster House, is a former Magazine chair. He wants to remind you that it’s called “the Vineyard,” and if you don’t know which one then you should probably be reading The Voice.
Sections
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury.
You’re going to have to trust me here: I really do try to be a nice guy. I take girls out to dinner and care about their feelings. I challenge my friends when they use the word “bitch.” But I can’t keep up the act any longer. I am the worst guy of them all.
The guy who says “thanks” when the girl says “I love you.”
It was a pretty typical move for me at the time. I had always been perplexed by people’s obsession with love, especially the endless playground debates about whether she liked him, like-liked him, loved him, or was in love with him. My indifference was heretical. One day I wrote in my journal: “Borges—To fall in love is to create a religion with a fallible God.” Mens rea: I was a smartass.
Actus reus: the victim was a high school sweetheart, the kind of girl who lived off Wheat Thins and cocktails for weeks at a time. She was brilliant and beautiful and took none of my bullshit.
We were down by the harbor one night, feeding each other Skittles and watching the city lights smudge on the darkness of the water. When she told me she loved me, I steeled up, angry—as if she were demanding something that wasn’t mine to give. “Thanks,” I bumbled. I said I didn’t see the point of it all: that exchanging that one sentence could never be an assurance that we felt the same way. “It’s just a word. Can’t us be enough?”
She brooded in the taxi and we broke up a few weeks afterwards (it was agreed we would not be together during our final exams). We both needed to focus on the important things, I suggested: school, activities, responsibilities at home. If I hurt, then I went running or dreamed.
We were not on good terms at all. We didn’t have a real conversation until a year and a half later, when I was out celebrating the letter I never expected: the letter that whisked me away from everything I knew in Australia and took me here.
__________
It’s not like I find it hard to say “I love you.” I say it at least 10 times every weekend, in fact, but generally not when sober—and definitely not in a romantic context. (I’ve insisted on casual terms of dating since I got to college.) And never does it come without one crucial little addition.
I love you, man.
I wouldn’t say I’m much of a manly man. I pretty much quit the gender when my dad moved out and I quit playing sports; it didn’t seem so relevant anymore. Even still, I find myself captive to this catchphrase of blokedom—as if in the language of men on a night out there just aren’t any other ways to demonstrate compassion or affection.
Or maybe that’s exactly the point: maybe love is what you can’t express in any other words.
________
When I found out I got into Harvard, I had never been to America. It seemed like a dream. I planned to study economics and the Big Ideas of modernity, to learn a language that talks boldly about the best way to fulfill our desires but has no words for the actual constitution of what we want.
While I waited out the summer before college, though, life got complicated. I started to see her again, an inevitability that made sense only to the two of us. Romance with an expiration date: my friends told me I was crazy.
But it was wonderful. I was perennially excited by how romantic, how uncharacteristic the whole thing was. There were even moments I thought I might stay in Australia for it. I was converting to a brand new faith. I was coming to love the cares: fetching Wheat Thins and flowers, talking through issues, and making theatrical declarations of affection. I still resisted the three words, however; I wasn’t sure they were necessary or sufficient.
One night we were on our way back to the suburbs after an evening in town. We detoured through a local park and walked up the steps of the empty grandstand which looked back over to the city. And that’s when I said it. I wasn’t planning on doing so; I just couldn’t think of anything else that explained what I felt.
She told me the same. I don’t believe we felt exactly the same at that moment: I’m far too modern for that. But we knew we were both reaching for that word-beyond-words, and confessing that neither of us had a word that could get any closer.
A working definition of love. (Objection, your honor: conjecture!)
And once I said it, it was with me and with her and lost to the sky.
_________
The end of that summer: I love you I love you I love you I love you.
Every time I said it I fought with it, trying to mould the hackneyed phrase to my emotions. The more I told it to her, the less it seemed to accomplish.
She looked up at me with wide eyes and hair on her face. I’d screwed it up before but I had spent the last few months trying to make her see how perfect she was; bewilderingly, she still wasn’t convinced. Tomorrow I would leave, more or less forever. (Neither of us knew that we’d be getting back together during each of the next two vacations.)
“I don’t know how to say it. I—just—fucking—love—you.” She laughs at my peturbation and draws me in: I kiss her with my mouth open. That will have to do, I think, and I leave.
Sections
Hey Professor of Comparative Religion and Indian Studies,
Diana L. Eck:
A recent study suggests that religion is on a steady decline in nine developed countries, including New Zealand, Austria, and Switzerland. Could these countries really be headed for godlessness?
“I don’t think mathematical data about ‘religious affiliation’ has much to do with the whole range of phenomena that are part of religious practice, the energies of faith, and the quest for meaning. ‘Belonging to a religion’ is far too crude a gauge by which to understand what is going on in today’s world. This kind of question is reflective of the ways in which people might tend to think of religion as ‘institutional religion,’ that is, belonging to a church, synagogue, etc. and attending services the way one might be affiliated with the Rotary Club and attend lunch meetings. That may be the most measurable thing for those whose investigations are limited by such measurements, and it is perfectly reasonable to conclude that religious belonging is increasingly attenuated in countries such as Austria, Australia, the UK, etc., but if one were to look at NGOs, the social concern for issues of justice, peacemaking, and health, one would find some of those same countries very religiously active.”
Sections
When Majahonkhe M. Shabangu ’14 was picked up from Logan Airport seven months ago, he was hungry. He had been traveling for days, and he couldn’t remember where he ate. He picks up the salt and pepper shakers sitting on the table in front of him—the restaurant was near a structure that resembled them.
—The Charles MGH Bridge?
—Yes.
“I had a sandwich—a bread sandwich.There was bread and chicken and a lot of stuff,” he recalls.  “But then what was interesting was when I said I wanted a sandwich the waiter started to ask me all these questions. ‘What type of bread do you want?’ and I said, ‘You have types of bread?’ You know, we only have one type of bread in my country.”
After finally arriving from Swaziland, Shabangu shared his first meal in the United States with Robin M. Worth ’81, a woman he says knows basically everything about him. As director of international admissions,  Worth’s institutional memory matches her knack for recalling faces and first meetings.
Situated in her office on Brattle Street, Worth sits in front of a Persian tapestry given to her by an Iranian woman class of ’76 now living in the U.K. When asked, she identifies each of a dozen  items on her desk, statuettes and boxes from all over the world, all gifts from former students at the College or contacts she met on the numerous trips she’s made abroad to increase international enrollment.
Over the past 10 years, the percentage of the international Harvard student body has risen from 6.76 to 10.01 percent. Worth is proud of the increase. Harvard was the first school in the Ivy League plus Stanford and MIT to have an African country rank among students’ top ten countries of origin. Since coming to the College as an undergraduate from her native Texas, she remarks that the biggest change in international admits is not in number—which has recently hovered around nine to 10 percent of the undergraduate population—but in the diversity of backgrounds.
“I think that is the whole Internet revolution, that we really have people applying from their neighborhood high school and coming to us. So that for me, from the time I was a student here to now, has been the biggest change,” she says.
But the impact of the Internet is a recent phenomenon, complementing an existing framework. Worth describes international students’ motivation to come to Harvard in a “push me, pull me” context. Drawn by the globally recognized name and the appeal of a uniquely American liberal arts education, and pushed by lack of higher educational opportunities in their home countries, international students come to Harvard under a variety of forces not exerted upon their American peers.
For some international students, Harvard’s unrestricted financial aid has special allure. Applicants from the poorest of backgrounds can come to campus without paying a penny. According to Worth, these students—no matter their educational circumstances at home—are evaluated within the context of their environments.
“One of the hardest things to explain about Harvard admissions is that it’s not a reward for what you’ve done, its sort of an investment in what you will do. Admissions is really about looking forward, not looking backward,” says Worth.
Be that as it may, many international students are both pushed and pulled. They aren’t afforded the luxury of the admissions office’s blinders.
“I’m on financial aid. But here now that’s not really what’s pushing me. What’s pushing me is what’s behind me,” gestures Shabangu, glancing over his shoulder. “It’s what’s back home. It’s what I need to do back there.”
POINT OF ACCESS
For international students who don’t attend international schools or one of the 13 United World Colleges (UWC), ignorance of opportunity is as limiting as geographic distance and financial feasibility. UWCs award two-year scholarships to top students selected to attend by National Committees in nearly 130 countries.
Christopher Coey’s ’12 interactions with exchange students at his own school, the University of Queensland in Brisbane, compelled him to apply. Feeling limited by the narrow field of academic offerings, he decided to take some time off while he considered American colleges.
“Everyone’s heard of Harvard in Australia,” says Coey, the only student who has ever applied to Harvard from his hometown of Mackay, Queensland. “Maybe they realize it’s open to internationals, but I don’t think they think anyone would really get in.”
“There’s no way I would have applied straight out of high school because I didn’t know anything about the liberal arts degrees or the general education or anything like that,” he adds.
Giselle Huerta ’12 spent three-and-a-half years at the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile before applying to Harvard last spring. Pursuing a rigorous five-year degree in business and economics which only allowed her to choose one course per semester, she worked to open an international liberal enterprise with a Harvard exchange student who was studying abroad. In working closely with the student she learned about Harvard and the liberal arts program offered in the United States.
“I hadn’t realized until that point not how unhappy, but how restricted I felt,” says Huerta. When she received an email in January from her friend informing her that Harvard had reopened transfer applications, she decided to apply.
One-and-a-half years away from her projected graduation in Chile, she transferred for two years at Harvard.
BUILDING A STRUCTURE
Lacking the chance to study the arts and humanities back home in an academic system with limited options, Namrata Baral ’12, feels liberated by the Core Curriculum while many of her classmates feel constrained.
Carrying a Harvard tote bag from the Coop and wearing a seasonal parka, it’s difficult to imagine that the petite economics concentrator had never left her hometown in Nepal before she began her applications to American colleges.
“You know how we always talk about bursting the bubble?” she smiles, “For me, [leaving my hometown] was a big bursting.”
Baral was the first student to apply to Harvard from Pokhara, the third-largest city in Nepal.
“My school did not have any resources whatsoever for students that wanted to apply to U.S. colleges,” says Baral, who learned about the application process by emailing admissions officers and searching the web—dial-up, that is, between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. when it was more affordable and slightly faster than its normally sluggish pace.
She traveled seven hours for each of her SAT tests. For advice on aspects of the application process she didn’t understand—early decision, financial aid options—she turned to more informed students in Katmandu via College Confidential, the discovery of which she credits as crucial to her ability to apply to Harvard.
As impeding as her and her teachers’ complete ignorance of the application process was her community’s reluctance to aid her endeavor.
“I had to start everything from scratch, everything from initially convincing teachers to write a recommendation for me because they were unwilling to let me consider anything except engineering or medical school,” she says.
In Nepal, students that want to come to the United States do so because they want to earn money, she explains. They apply through consulates to community colleges that are cheaper for them, make money, and go back to Nepal to have a “good life.” Her teachers stereotyped her into the same group.
As her classmates entered the medical and engineering schools in Nepal that she’d been encouraged to attend, and neighbors who had applied to community college in the U.S. were accepted and obtained their visas, her mother became increasingly skeptical of Baral’s efforts, going so far as to question whether her daughter was hiding the fact that she had been rejected from all schools in the States.
“There’s so much uncertainty. You’re doing it all on your own,” stresses Baral, leaning forward over a table in the Dunster dining hall, punctuating each sentence by slamming her fist on the table. “You have no examples from the past. There is no support. If I hadn’t gotten into a good college in the United States, I’d be one of those students who is not able to get into medical or engineering school and just goes to a random school and wastes their life. There was constant fear, uncertainty.”
THE SECOND WALL
Harvard accepts approximately six out of every 100 applicants. For American students, whose application to the College usually requires just one more fee, one more interview, and one more essay, the hardest part of Harvard, it’s often said, is getting in.
But before international students from remote communities can face the remarkable challenge of being granted acceptance, they must break a second wall.
Shabangu, who joined dorm crew and the Freshman International Program (FIP) at the beginning of the year, grew up in a small village in Swaziland that lacked running water. When thirsty, he went to the river to drink. In his home, firewood substituted for electricity. Floods in his village would make access to primary school impossible, and sometimes he wouldn’t attend for weeks.
Wearing a windbreaker with the logo of the UWC he attended in Swaziland, Shabangu acknowledges that he was lucky to possess all the structures and encouragement necessary to apply to schools in the United States. He explains, “There are two sorts of walls here. The first one you have to break is to attend a primary school in the village and go to a better public high school and from there make it to a UWC.”
This is exactly what Shabangu, ranked the number two student in the country when a teacher at his public, urban high school recommended he apply to the UWC, did.
When Baral surprised skeptical teachers and peers with her acceptance to Harvard, she also faced opposition. Growing up in a conservative family, her parents were wary of sending their daughter to school in the States—especially to an institution as liberal as Harvard.
After her acceptance, an alumnus from the capital interviewed her about her reasons for applying.
“He asked me some questions to gauge how liberal I was. He asked me about homosexuality because maybe he thought I was very conservative or something,” who recalls her first experience on campus seeing two men holding hands and how it seemed to indicate to her the freedom of speech and thought that she had always attributed to America.
With the help of the alumnus and Harvard’s promise of a host family to look after their daughter, Baral’s parents, who are both educated, understood she would be safe in the United States and accepted their daughter’s decision.
Besides, Harvard held a special place in her parents’ knowledge and her country’s history. “Ever since I knew what school or college was, I knew that the [former] king [of Nepal] was very educated and that he went to Harvard. Harvard is the only U.S. college that everybody in Nepal knows.”
STABILITY IN THE SHOCK
“The day I left I was so clumsy it’s insane,” says Dalumuzi H. Mhlanga ’13, recounting how he briefly forgot his passport and bag at the airline counter in South Africa on his way from Zimbabwe to the States. Attempting to bring biltong, a type of jerky, into the States, he remembers that “I was clever enough to declare that I had it in a little package, and I had to hand over this small package … I was trying to be honest; I didn’t want to get deported. And so I had to wait for three hours with the real criminals.”
Once released from customs, he went to Starbucks (“I felt so American.”) The coffee was decent, he recounts, but the barista didn’t add sugar to it. “I didn’t see where the sugar was and I was like, ‘Oh, so Americans drink their coffee without sugar. Fine!’” he laughs. “So I just went to my little corner and tried to finish the coffee without sugar only to discover later that no, we actually do put sugar in coffee.”
After becoming accustomed to the speed of the internet, the flavor of coffee, the preponderance of food, and social habits in the United States, the shock of coming to Harvard can be matched by the shock of going back home.
Naseemah Mohamed ’12, President of the Harvard African Students Association (HASA) and also from Zimbabwe, attended a prep school on the East Coast on scholarship. In her past seven years traveling between Zimbabwe and the United States she has realized that going back to Zimbabwe is definitely more difficult after being in America.
“It’s funny,” she admits, “because when you come to Zimbabwe from America you undergo a culture shock. And when you’ve been in America for a long a time and go back to Zimbabwe it feels like another culture shock.”
Remembering his trip to the United States in the fall, Shabangu recalls, “I’d only seen airplanes up in the sky, so the excitement was there. I’m going to get on an airplane for the first time in my life.”
This summer, Shabangu will be returning to his village and seeing his family for the first time since he made that trip.
WORTH THE SACRIFICE
“Whenever SAT season comes,” says Yifan Wu ’14, “if you go on the plane [to Hong Kong, where the SAT is offered] half of the plane is people going to take the SAT.”
Wu, who went to a local school in Beijing, is the only student from her school to ever attend an Ivy League school. Although she got into one of the two best Chinese universities, she was thrilled with the opportunity to come to Harvard.
“Ranking-wise, the best schools in China don’t even get into the top 100, globally,” says Wu. “I knew I would learn so much more here.”
Wu, who gets excited when she discusses the number of talks she went to first semester, says, “I like knowledge over bonds. I prefer going to talks on academic topics than going to parties and socializing.”
She admits to experiencing a certain culture shock socially upon arrival on campus—a shock she thinks may contribute to her current dissatisfaction with her involvement in extra-curricular activities. “To be frank, I myself don’t like the party culture. And it may be that I am limited in a sense growing up in a society that is so used to non-party things, but I think sometimes by not identifying with the culture you don’t connect with the people as well, and this is definitely very impeding in my extra-curricular activities,” she says, mentioning that if she were in China, she would be involved in more organizations. “Sometimes I feel like I can’t mingle with other people on campus … should I try to change myself, or should I try to stick to who I am?”
Andrew N. Trott ’11, on the other hand, was drawn to the U.S., and specifically to Harvard, in part because of his extra-curricular involvement.
While applying to Harvard, Trott studied the most competitive major, business science, at the University of Cape Town (UCT) in his native South Africa.
Pulled to Harvard by the quality of the rowing program here, Trott explains: “There’s no other institution in the world I could go to and get this opportunity, and that’s ignoring the academics and everything else, so it was worth the risk. I guess because it’s Harvard, but also because it’s Harvard crew.”
Aware of the opportunity to be recruited to rowing at Harvard—the only American university to which Trott applied while at UCT—the athlete gave up rowing on the water for a year, in order to be able to be classified as a freshman upon entering the school, according to NCAA laws.
On campus, Trott immediately bonded with fellow international students. Although his closest friends at the beginning of the year were from FIP, by the spring he found he connected even more with fellow rowers—the athletes who would form his blocking group and remain his closest friends.
“I think the number of times I thought of myself as an international freshman year was probably quite a lot,” remarks Trott, who, when asked to explain what defines him, says he thinks of himself as a CS student, a lightweight rower, and a South African. “Nowadays, I don’t think about it at all really.”
THE PASSPORT PARADIGM
Approximately 75 percent of international students haven never been to the United States when they arrive on campus for the Freshman International Program (FIP), says Evan R. Covington ’12, the former Director of Freshman International Affairs.
FIP, co-sponsored by the Woodbridge International Society and the Harvard International Office, serves to introduce international students to American life at Harvard. For the past several years, freshmen have stayed in Weld during a week in which they get to know campus and each other.
“It was definitely a great program,” recalls Trott, “and absolutely necessary for me in terms of understanding all the essentials like American banking, getting accounts, getting a phone, all those sorts of things.”
Many internationals attest to meeting some of their closest friends during FIP. Some international students who meet during FIP block together in the spring. All-international blocking groups and a very Western European-heavy board have perpetuated an image of Woodbridge as an adamantly exclusive group—a stereotype that the Society’s current President, Aleksandar Stefanovski ’12, hopes to mitigate.
“There’s this misconception that it’s mostly Eurocentric and mostly internationals who want to party,” he says, noting that Woodbridge will be trying to reach more people in the next year through extended outreach and partnership with other student groups on campus, including the IOP. For the first time ever, the FIP leader application was sent to the entire freshman class, in the hope that more Americans would apply.
A ROUND-TRIP TICKET
Mohamed notes that students from Africa, more so than ones from Western countries, feel the pressure of being very privileged compared to most on the low-income continent. This pressure, in addition to an appreciation of the richness of African culture may account for why many African students choose involvement in HASA over Woodbridge and desire to return home after graduation.
“It’s the personal responsibility that really compels me to go back,” says Mhlanga. “It’s not that I don’t love the U.S. I love the U.S.; I’d love to stay here, but I feel like there’s more for me to do, and I could use what I gained here in a way that impacts more people in a deeper sense if I go back home.”
David Sengeh ’10, now a graduate student at MIT working on the connection between the body and prosthetic limbs, hopes to bring his technology to his native war-torn Sierra Leone.
“I want to be close enough to the problems in Sierra Leone and close enough to the solutions in Boston so that I can fully understand what the problems are and be able to use the resources I have access to—the colleagues and the innovations here—to solve them,” he says.
Shabangu grows somber as he recalls his mother at home and his brothers, who get drunk and give her trouble.
“Sometimes it’s hard. Sometimes she’s crying because something happened and, you know, once I call her she’s like ‘I feel better.’ Sometimes when I think about the things I have to do, the things I have ahead of me, I still feel like it’s a bit too much.” Shabangu sighs, not as a sign of exhaustion, but more like a release of pressure. “Then I ask myself, who else will do it? If I don’t do it … I have to do it.”
Conversely, for some international students, a plane trip to Harvard isn’t part of an extended round-trip back to a home country.
Some students pursue graduate school in the States. Next year, Trott will be in Boston. Coey, who was drawn to Harvard in part for the greater opportunity to study international development, doesn’t know where he’ll find himself in a few years, but expects that it won’t be Australia.
“I’m not a nationalistic person at all. I think national borders are somewhat arbitrary constructions. I mean, they are,” laughs Coey. “I’ve never felt patriotic. I don’t feel tied down to one place. I’m just going to go wherever exciting work that I enjoy will take me. Be that Europe, be that Africa, be it America, or Australia, eventually.”
LOOKING FORWARD
This week, 10 girls from Stefanovski’s school in Macedonia find out if they’ve made it to Harvard. Since Stefanovski was accepted in 2008, NOVA has sent a student to Harvard every year.
“I think it’s a common occurrence now that a lot of high-achieving students from other schools are transferring to our school junior year just to take advantage of opportunities that come of applying to schools in the U.S.” says Stefanovski.
Ana Angelovska ’13 has followed Stefanovski’s path. Both have become precedents, points of access for students at their school.
She recalls that Stefanovski came back to NOVA during her senior year to give a presentation. Last year, she did the same.
“I feel like something that’s so far away—that people think is only in the movies—becomes through us, so much more accessible.”
Trott and Baral received dozens of emails from students interested from their high schools, interested in applying to Harvard and curious about the process. Coey’s cousin now holds Harvard as her goal.
Sometimes all it takes is one point of access to bridge the distance—to make Harvard, so distant in thought and space, familiar. And once that bridge is constructed, momentum can build and with increased awareness comes higher numbers of applicants.
But how much is too many?
Worth asserts that there is no quota for international students.
“I think that it’s less that you have an end goal in mind that you’re getting to, it’s not like we say, you know, we want to be 25 percent international,” says Worth. “The most important thing we can do is make sure that anybody who’s interested—maybe they don’t even know they’re interested yet—is introduced to what a liberal arts education is in the United States, why Harvard, all that, and let people decide for themselves whether that education is for them.”
As of yet, no one has followed Baral to Harvard from her hometown. She finds that awareness of Harvard’s opportunity, locally, is still limited.
“Just because you were born in some obscure rural city far away from the capital, that should not lessen your chances of getting a good education. Just because your financial background is not as good as those of students who live in the capital, you should not be penalized.”
Baral acknowledges that it isn’t financially or physically possible to go city by city in every country. But she thinks building a relationship with the Nepalese government, a local nonprofit, or herself as a returning student, could increase the number of talented applicants from her country who are ignorant of opportunity abroad.
Mhlanga cites unfamiliarity with Harvard’s financial aid program and with opportunities abroad as a crucial barrier hindering the number of Zimbabwean applicants.
“There are a heck of a lot of smart people in Zimbabwe, a lot of them,” he says. “But they just don’t apply because they think they don’t have the money.”
Sengeh believes that the admissions office does “a very good job” giving opportunities to students from different environments, and that the College thrives on the diversity of financial context.
“It’s good to have people who come from the high end who learn to live with people who don’t share the same background with them,” says Sengeh. He pauses excitedly, having discovered something.
“Actually, I think this is the simple question: if I gave you access to world-class faculty and I gave you access to some amount of money and if I gave you access to colleagues who could take your project to another level, what would you do with it?”
Sections
Outside Loeb House, across from Lamont Libary, a small crowd of protestors gathers clad in warm clothes and high spirits. Holding signs decrying the reintroduction of Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps to Harvard’s campus, the  group can’t help but feel disquieted by the University’s recent agreement with NROTC. Months ago, these protests might have been aimed at the military’s controversial “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. But now, they hope to advocate for another, less visible minority–trans-identified people, both in the Harvard community and beyond.
In the wake of the repeal, members of the queer community still say the military violates Harvard’s non-discrimination policy. As a result, they take issue with Faust’s signing on again with ROTC.
“Trans rights are often overlooked both on campus and in the larger world, but the return of ROTC has really brought these issues to light,” says Vice President of the Harvard Democrats Katie Zavadski ’13, who says that she sympathizes with Faust’s situation.
After Harvard first expelled ROTC from campus in 1969–amidst the height of Vietnam War protests–it defended the continued split with the military on the basis of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” which Harvard considered in violation of its non-discrimination policy. With the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” last December, gays and lesbians can now openly serve in the military, and the University signed an agreement on March 4 that officially recognized NROTC, ending four decades of tense relations between the two institutions.
But even after the repeal, trans-identified and intersex individuals are excluded from military service; the military considers gender identity disorder, which is associated with transgenderism, and intersexism to be medical disqualifications.
In March, at the official signing ceremony reintroducing ROTC at Harvard, the audience privy to Faust’s speech included military officers in uniform, ROTC cadets, Faculty members, and journalists. When Faust talked, there was silence around her. But each time someone opened the back door to the hushed room, voices from outside blew in. “Drew Faust it’s not too late! Harvard can’t discriminate!” chanted the trans-rights protesters from across the lawn. And: “Put down your pen!” But Faust, nor anyone else, acknowledged their voices from the podium.
“I feel really sad, more than anything else,” says Cameron E. Partridge, a trans-identified lecturer on Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality and at the Divinity School who attended the rally. “I don’t think this is an uncaring decision. This just raises questions about how Harvard intends to uphold its non-discrimination policy.”
The policy protects University affiliates from discrimination, saying that “any form of discrimination based on race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, national or ethnic origin, political beliefs, veteran status, or disability unrelated to course requirements is contrary to the principles and policies of Harvard University.”
THE QUIETER FIGHT
Several students attributed the vigor of the transgender community and its allies to the efforts of Jia Hui Lee ’12, who organized much of the advocacy around ROTC. Lee—the head of the Trans Task Force, a campus group under the Queer Students and Allies’ umbrella—drew up and circulated a petition calling for the administration not to recognize ROTC prior to the University’s announcement that it would do so.
“The trans community has been overlooked. I just want the administration to admit that,” Lee says.
Though the University has yet to release a statement explicitly stating it has violated its non-discrimination policy, several faculty members at the ceremony afterwards recognized concerns and said that they intend to work toward reconciling this issue. And after the ceremony, both Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds and Faust addressed the crowd, informing the demonstrators that the University would put those concerned about trans and intersex exclusion in touch with a staffer in the Department of Defense.
Although the trans community feels overlooked, several queer rights advocates on campus said that they do not feel ignored by the University.
“Let me make this clear,” says QSA Political Chair Sam J. Bakkila ’11-’12. “This wave of activism has not happened because the University has gotten worse in handling LGBTQ issues necessarily. This wave of activism has happened because the University is listening.”
The problem, members of the trans community say, is that they are not listening to everyone equally.
Miguel Garcia ’12, a member of the College’s BGLTQ Working Group, attributed the rise in protests to the Working Group itself. “The Working Group is analyzing LGBTQ life on campus, and students know that now is the time to have their voices heard,” says Garcia. “If they raise issues after the Working Group finishes their recommendations if a few weeks, then it will be too late.”
So the trans community is fighting to make its voices heard.
Lee and the Trans Task Force are currently working with the Office of the Registrar to create a “preferred name” field in school records so that transgender students will be referred to by a name that matches their gender identity. Furthermore, Lee and others will be holding “Trans 101” and “Trans 102” seminars, which aim to inform students, faculty, and staff about trans issues, in the coming month.
Though queer rights activists have been more publicly vocal this year, many said that the queer community and its allies have been striving for queer equality behind-the-scenes for the past several years.
It’s been unique to this year that we’ve seen so many protests, rallies and gatherings,” says QSA Co-Chair Marco Chan ’11. “But even in the past few years which have not seen as many demonstrations we have always been seeking to advance the rights of the queer community. This year our actions have been a bit more public than in years past.”
Sections
You don’t have to venture far from the Yard to find new sources of entertainment.  Here is FM’s list of things to do for those looking to get out within the realm of the bubble.
Culture
The Washington Street Art Center
If you’re looking for something more highbrow this weekend, head down to Union Square. This Saturday, the Washington Street Art Center is debuting a gallery of things that go BOOM! The gallery is open from noon to 4 p.m. There will also be food and live music by James Forrest from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.
321 Washington St., Somerville.
 
Coffee
Bloc 11
For the future criminal mastermind or someone with an affinity for small spaces, check out Bloc 11, a coffee shop that has seating inside of an old bank vault. If you’re starting your weekend early they have an open mic night on Thursday, March 31st—sign-up starts at 6 p.m.
11 Bow St., Somerville.
Cocktails
Bukowski’s Tavern
If you ever dreamed of being on “Wheel of Fortune” but never got the chance, go down to Bukowski’s and spin the beer wheel. Yes, there’s a beer wheel, and you’ll have to head over there to figure out how it works. Rated highly for its pub grub and beer selection, Budowski’s is located just a short walk from Central Square.
1281 Cambridge St., Cambridge.
CDs
Newbury Comics
Yes, CDs still exist. Cozy up, or party it up, with one of this week’s new releases, which include records by Radiohead and Snoop Dogg, unfortunately without Katy Perry.
36 JFK St., Cambridge.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three experts discussed the Muslim Brotherhood’s role in a democratizing Egypt during a panel discussion entitled “Islam and Politics in the New Egypt” at the Harvard Kennedy School yesterday.
The panelists, who included professors and a journalist, offered their opinions and perspectives on the role Islam would play in Egyptian politics.
Tarek Masoud, assistant professor of public policy at the Kennedy School, explained that the desire of some politicians to postpone the upcoming parliamentary elections was driven in part by the fear that the Muslim Brotherhood, the country's most organized political force, would win.
George Washington University Professor Nathan J. Brown, agreeing with Masoud on the strength of Muslim Brotherhood, added that people do not need to be frightened.
“The Brotherhood’s main goal is to ensure Islam’s place in the Egyptian society, not to take over the country. In order to do so, chances are they would move very cautiously not to invest all of their resources into politics,” Brown said. “As of now, the Brotherhood is not actually all that interested in taking all political power, nor are they capable of doing so.”
Charles M. Sennott, co-founder of GlobalPost, said that with the National Democratic Party and the police now gone, only two of Egypt’s previous institutions remain, namely the military and the Muslim Brotherhood. He said that the picture of Egypt’s future is blurry but he nevertheless remains hopeful.
After brief speeches the floor was  opened for audience questions.
Asked if Egypt will move towards democracy or more or less stay in the same position a year from now, Brown said that “democracy is beautiful, democratic politics can sometimes be pretty ugly.”
Nonetheless, he said he thinks that the future looks good long-term.
Masoud, however, offered a gloomier picture of Egypt’s future.
“The constitutional writing process could be very difficult,” Masoud said. “For a country that doesn’t have a lot of experience with democratic elections, I’m nervous about what the future holds.”
Audience members said they found the panel informational.
“It is so interesting to learn about so much first-hand and in-depth knowledge from the speakers,” said Erum K. Sattar, a first-year doctoral student at Harvard Law School. “It is not something you can get by simply reading a post on New York Times. Their distinct perspectives are all very enlightening.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: APRIL 5, 2011
The Mar. 31 article "Egypt Experts Examine Islam's Role" mischaracterized statements by Kennedy School Professor Tarek Masoud about the Muslim Brotherhood, an Egyptian political organization, and their impact on that country's elections.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A burst pipe sent water spewing over the dark-stained wood of the Harvard Faculty Club yesterday, forcing residents to evacuate the building and leaving the club’s elegant carpeting covered in an orange tarp.
The burst occurred at approximately 3:50 p.m and caused the fire alarm to be set off, according to Crista Martin, the director for marketing and communications for Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services.
The Cambridge Fire Department and building restoration workers arrived soon after to assess the situation.
“It just started leaking from the third floor, but it’s too early to tell what the damage will be,” said Gary K. Kassabian, the director of emergency services at Harvard.
Employees and guests were evacuated from the building, located at 20 Quincy St., after the fire alarm sounded. Employees were informed that the situation was not a fire, but instead a pipe burst.
Carolina Fonrodona, banquet manager at the Faculty Club, waited by the door while the building was undergoing its initial assessment.
“The only thing we know is that a pipe broke from cold water in the mechanical room. It’s just water damage, but we’re not sure how much,” Fonrodona said.
The building shut down last night as managers continue to assess the damage. Several events scheduled for the night were cancelled. Guests who had been staying in the bedrooms were given other accommodations, according to Martin.
“We hope to open [today], but we don’t know definitively,” Martin said.
The Harvard Faculty Club facility was created in 1931 on the site of the former home of William and Henry James and is host to a great deal of the wining and dining that takes place at the University.
Since July of 2009, the club has been operated by HUHDS.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an effort to draw together two disciplines that rarely intersect—art and sports—the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations brought together yesterday a baseball park owner, photographer, museum curator, and veteran of the Negro Baseball League to highlight the importance of sports in the evolution of American society.
The discussion—titled “The Color of Baseball: from Birmingham to Boston”—began with a quote from David L. Halberstam ’55, a former Crimson managing editor and Pulitzer prize winner, who was fond of saying that “Behind every great sports story is the story of a nation.”
And Dr. S. Allen Counter, the foundation’s director, said that America’s sometimes troubled history can be seen and understood through its relationship with the national pastime.
Bill Chapman, a veteran sports photographer, displayed photos that aimed to show the diversity of the sport’s fans—black, white, young, old. The integration of friendship, photography, and baseball, he said, provide a display of America at its core.
Panelist and former second-baseman on Negro League team the Indianapolis Clowns Reginald Howard acknowledged the great contributions of African American players like Hank Aaron and Satchel Paige, but they also drew the attention of the crowd to the League as a whole. While many people saw the Negro League as a second-rate, Howard said that it was both organized and competitive—on one Sunday, teams from the league played up to 14 double headers at Yankee Stadium.
“I wasn’t the best player, and I don’t have a problem saying that because I made a heck of a contribution,” Howard said.
David Brewer—the executive director of Rickwood Field in Birmingham, Ala.—shed light on the struggle that the city and the region faced with integrating both the baseball leagues and the crowd itself.
With African Americans restricted to seating in right field, Brewer showed images of Rickwood full of white fans. The integration of teams and stadiums would become a powerful marker of the civil rights movements as black players and fans gained equal rights to play and watch baseball.
“As Americans we relate to [baseball]. I don’t know what it is—it could be the competition—but it does seem to be some kind of unifying force,” Brewer said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students, union members, and Starbucks employees from around the country are planning to protest a lecture by Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz at Harvard Business School on Friday.
Schultz will be speaking to several hundred Business School students on his experiences running a successful business while also be promoting his new book, “Onward.”
Liberté Locke, an organizer of the event, said Starbucks employees are angered by what they deem to be hypocrisy in Schultz’s book, in which he expresses his commitment to his “partners”—as the company calls its workers. Employees of the company, especially union members, feel that Starbucks is one of the least labor friendly companies in America, Locke said. Starbucks has been found guilty by the National Labor Relations Board of violating labor rights, including charges of union busting and wrongful termination.
“For Howie [Schultz] to sit around and claim how much he loves us, it’s just disgusting,” said Locke, a Starbucks barista and Starbucks Workers Union organizer from New York. “Starbucks is one of the biggest union busting corporations in the United States.”
Harvard union representatives said they planned to support Starbucks workers in the protest.
Geoffrey “Geoff” Carens, an assistant librarian and member of the Harvard Union of Technical and Clerical Workers, emphasized what he called the “phoniness” of Schultz’s message.
“Howard Schultz likes to present Starbucks as a socially responsible corporation,” Carens said. “In reality, conditions are really bad and getting worse.”
While Starbucks has garnered criticism for the way it has treated union leaders and organizers, it has presented itself as a progressive member of the Fortune 500, providing health care benefits and stock options to some employees.
Students who plan to attend the event said that they feel it is important to show solidarity with wronged workers in standing up for their rights.
“Everyone deserves a voice on the job,” said Student Labor Action Movement member William P. Whitham ’14. Organizers of the event said that they are eager to send a message both to Schultz and to the Business School students.
“We want him to know that no matter where he goes, he will be held accountable,” said Locke. As for the Business School students, Locke wanted them to know “that union busting is absolutely unacceptable and unethical.”
Locke emphasized that the point of the protest is not to scare students away, but rather to educate them. “We want to prevent [future] employers from becoming like Starbucks,” she said.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be contacted at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three weeks after the March 11 earthquake that devastated Japan, Harvard Square businesses will be teaming up for a bake sale to benefit relief efforts this Saturday at Upstairs on the Square.
The fundraiser is part of a nationwide effort to organize simultaneous bake sales on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Over 40 businesses from across the nation are participating in the hopes of raising $100,000 for Peace Winds Japan, an NGO doing relief work in Japan.
“We’re really happy to be a part of a much larger effort,” said Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association.
According to Dina Sonenshein, finance manager at Upstairs in the Square, the restaurant’s owners learned about the effort after an employee read about it on organizer Samin Nosrat’s blog. Nosrat previously organized a similar bake sale event for relief in Haiti, raising $23,000.
Mary C. Deibel, co-owner of Upstairs on the Square, contacted Nosrat and began organizing the event.
“It was such a quick decision, but it has been marvelous. My email has been inundated with people who want to help,” Sonenshein said.
Members of Harvard for Japan—a  group organized to help coordinate the University’s response to the disaster—will be volunteering at the event and handing out bracelets. The organization is also contributing origami paper, funded by the Reischauer Institute of Japanese Studies.
“We’ve been doing events on campus, but we haven’t outside of campus,” said Hiroko Kumaki ’11, a leader of the organization. “This is more of a national movement, and it’s really good that they started that and Harvard Square is a part of it.”
Asami Tsuda, a Japanese language instructor at Harvard, said she will be teaching origami and its importance to Japanese culture to attendees.
“In Japan, [a] chain of cranes is a good luck charm, and if you make 1,000, your wish will come true,” Tsuda said.
Once completed, the cranes will be given to Nosrat, who will then send them to Japan.
According to employees at several businesses, Harvard Square shops have been in contact to coordinate fundraising efforts for Japan.
“Our office manager was dining with the pastry chef from Upstairs on the Square, and she was the first one to bring [the bake sale] to our attention. When it came up again, we decided to help,” said Peter F. Baker, general manager of Harvest. Baker said his bakery will donate mini loaves of soda bread and triple chocolate chip cookies.
Other contributions to the bake sale will include cupcakes with red sprinkles from Sweet and mudslide cookies from Henrietta’s Table.
Local business Black Ink has created 100 limited edition Japan Relief posters, which will be sold at the bake sale. Black Ink also organized a “Shop for Japan Relief Day” at both its locations and online. Twenty percent of all sales on March 25 were sent to the Japanese Cultural and Community Center of Northern California.
“We sell a lot of Japanese products from Japanese distributors, so we felt like we had to make some sort of gesture,” said owner Susan L. Corcoran, who said the event raised $1,060.
Tsuda and Kumaki said they believe that relief efforts such as these are important in order to remind people about the victims who are still suffering.
“It’s been a while after the earthquake, and the news has been covering the nuclear issues instead of the actual victims,” Kumaki said. “It will help raise awareness.”
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Friendly smiles and businesslike handshakes were the name of the game in Sever Hall yesterday, as Procter & Gamble President and CEO Robert A. “Bob” McDonald spoke about values-based leadership.
McDonald spoke about his 10 values of successful leaders, often using stories from his life experience to illustrate them. Because of the personal nature of his values of leadership, McDonald emphasized the importance of creating your own beliefs as a synthesis of your own experiences, culture, and values.
Approximately 125 people turned out for the event, which was hosted by the Leadership Institute at Harvard College, which promotes collaboration and communication between student leaders at Harvard.
In his talk, McDonald described a lifelong pursuit of helping other people, from his experiences as a Boy Scout, to his enrollment in the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and subsequent army service, to his current job as leader of a multinational corporation.
“Eventually, we [Procter & Gamble] want to get to every person on the planet,” McDonald said. “It’s going to be difficult, it’s going to require a lot of innovation, but if your purpose is to touch and improve lives, why would you stop short of reaching everybody on the planet?”
McDonald added that, especially in this era of constant communication, everyone must decide their own personal goals to prevent others from controlling their lives.
McDonald drew from his experience in the military in his talk, saying that character is one of a leader’s most important features. McDonald said his definition of character rests on the leader putting the needs of the group ahead of their own, a belief that comes from the West Point cadet prayer, wherein they swear to “choose the harder right instead of the easier wrong.”
Audience members said they reacted positively to McDonald’s points.
“I thought it was really interesting how humble he is, how he showed greater interest in people who were asking questions,” Imane Karroumi ’14 said.
Ralphael A. Haro ’14, an organizer of the event who is also a Crimson sports comper, added, “I think the [core values he spoke about] hits people here at Harvard—when you’re so focused on working all the time and you sometimes don’t think about other things in life.”
McDonald said he saw in Harvard students some of the qualities he emphasized in the discussion.
“I think students were trying to do something meaningful with their lives, and I was trying to get in touch with that feeling,” McDonald said. “These students want to make a difference, they really do.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: APRIL 3, 2011
The Mar. 31 article "Procter & Gamble CEO Talks Leadership" misspelled the name of the company. It is Procter & Gamble, not Proctor & Gamble.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten outlined her theory of action for transforming the American school system yesterday evening at the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Reaffirming her organization’s advocacy on behalf of teachers, Weingarten promoted the importance of teachers’ unions at a time when they have come under fire for erecting what some say are institutional barriers to cost-cutting measures. On the contrary, Weingarten said unions ensure a high quality of education in the U.S.
“Our work is informed by the real-life experience at the front line,” she said. “This is remarkable to me: we talk about how important teachers are, and then we turn around and don’t listen to them. This is why teachers need a union.”
Ed School Academic Dean Robert Schwartz, who introduced Weingarten, spoke briefly about the school’s historic connections to teachers’ unions, and called for a greater partnership resembling what exists in nations that outperform the United States.
“For those who think strong teachers’ unions and strong academic performance can’t coexist, think again and look at the international evidence,” Schwartz said.
Weingarten, who is known for her leadership in collectively bargaining on behalf of New York City teachers, emphasized the idea of partnerships between teachers and the community, citing as an example a partnership between Yale University and New Haven Public Schools that aims to make college affordable for qualified students.
“It’s been a model for the Connecticut legislature,” she said.
She added that collective bargaining could be used to form such contracts to effect greater change.
Weingarten continued the discussion by emphasizing the need for collaboration among educators in the United States, citing the example of Singaporean instructors, who she said work with each other at least 20 hours per week to develop curriculum.
Graduate student in international education Amy M. Blakeney, who previously taught social studies in Phoenix and Ghana, said she strongly agreed with Weingarten.
According to Blakeney, although American teachers “work harder when you count the hours they are in direct contact with students,” they barely have time to collaborate with each other as a result.
Weingarten also voiced her support for teacher evaluations in education reform, though she said she felt principals often lack the time to conduct them—or more commonly, don’t know how.
Blakeney agreed, stressing the need to evaluate instructor quality.
“We have to eliminate poor-performing teachers. The era of showing up and showing a video needs to be rectified,” she said.
However, she said she felt Weingarten did not adequately address the current divisive political atmosphere in which teachers find themselves.
“Truthfully, I don’t think the organization is raising the alarm enough about the attack on teachers,” she said. “My greatest concern is that in 25 to 50 years, it was what we did or did not do with education that caused the further decline in this country.”
Blakeney added that she felt recruitment of top graduates from universities into the teaching workforce should also be a priority for education, but that this would take a radical change in public opinion.
Said Weingarten, “All these countries [that outperform the United States] make sure that the stature of teachers is as high as it is low in this country.”
—Staff writer Michelle M. Hu can be reached at michellehu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An all-time low of 6.2 percent of applicants were offered admission to the Harvard College Class of 2015, beating records for the sixth consecutive year in what reflects a trend of increasing selectivity both at Harvard and at other top-tier universities.
Notification letters were mailed yesterday afternoon to 2,158 students, who were selected from a pool of 34,950—the largest number of applicants ever.
“You can’t help but feel optimistic when you look at an applicant pool like ours,” said Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67. “It’s a big sign that American higher education has democratized.”
Next year’s freshman class will have an acceptance rate that’s nearly one percentage point below next year’s senior class, which had a rate of 7.1 percent. Ten years ago, 10.7 percent of applicants—an all-time low at the time—were admitted to that year’s incoming class, the Class of 2005.
Harvard’s admissions rate, down from 6.9 percent last year, is the lowest in the Ivy League, below Columbia’s 6.9 percent rate and Yale’s 7.35.
Those accepted to the Class of 2015 represent an increasingly diverse spectrum of students from around the country and the world: 17.8 percent of the accepted class is Asian-American, 11.8 percent is African-American, 12.1 percent is Latino, 1.9 percent is Native American, and 0.2 percent is Native Hawaiian. Harvard said in a press release that the number of Latino and African-American students in the Class of 2015 will most likely be these groups’ highest representation in any class yet.
“The fact is the demographics of America are changing very rapidly,” Fitzsimmons said of the increased outreach to minority students. “This part of Harvard’s mission to produce future leaders.”
Approximately 20 percent of the admitted students are either foreign citizens, U.S. dual citizens, or U.S. permanent residents. Together, this group represents 85 countries.
“The world’s very best students now feel that it’s possible to be admitted to a school like Harvard,” Fitzsimmons said.
The budget for financial aid increased to more than $160 million for next year, and more than 60 percent of the Class of 2015 is expected to benefit from an average need-based scholarship of more than $40,000. Under the provisions of the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative, students from families with a household income of less than $60,000 are able attend Harvard at no cost.
While Fitzsimmons acknowledged that this year’s class boasts higher test scores than in previous years—3,800 applicants were ranked first in their class—he said that he was impressed by the response of the faculty to supplementary academic materials submitted by applicants.
“The quality [of these submissions] seemed to be different. It seemed to be better,” Fitzsimmons said.
The College did not disclose the number of students placed on Harvard’s waitlist.
While Fitzsimmons said numbers vary from year to year, he said his office generally hopes to accept 50 to 125 students off the list.
The decline in the acceptance rate is consistent with the numbers at peer institutions. The acceptance rate for Princeton University’s Class of 2015 was 8.4 percent, down from 8.8 percent last year. At Stanford University, 7.1 percent of applicants gained acceptance—a slight decrease from 7.2 percent the year before. Columbia University saw the most dramatic drop: 6.9 percent were admitted to the freshman class this year compared to 9.2 the year before.
Admitted students are expected to converge on Cambridge in about two weeks for Visitas, the College’s visiting program for prospective freshmen. Accepted students must notify the College whether they intend to enroll by May 1.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Freshmen criticized the lack of social space and limited alternatives to drinking on campus in responses to a survey conducted in December, touching on two themes that have permeated the broader discussion of social life on campus.
The lack of social space can make weekends stressful, as does the scarcity of free events sponsored by the College, freshmen said.
The survey, which is conducted annually by the Freshman Dean’s Office, allows the office to evaluate the performance of proctors, academic advisers, and peer advising fellows. It received a 90 percent response rate.
In an interview, Dean of Freshman Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said he would like to see more spaces made available to freshmen.
“The interest in social life is not to turn Harvard College into ‘Camp Harvard,’” Dingman said. “But I feel that there are a lot of hard workers in this class who will be more effective with their primary pursuits, which are academics, if they get a break from time to time.”
But Dingman said that the College would be less willing to accommodate complaints that the complete ban of alcohol from all dorms in the Yard was too strict.
“We can’t relax our approach to alcohol,” he said.
“We can’t be a refuge from the laws of the Commonwealth,” he continued.
These responses come at a time when students and administrators alike are debating the merits and faults of the Harvard social scene.
Discussions on social space on campus, including a movement that is critical of the role of final clubs, have gained momentum on campus, and the Undergraduate Council surveyed the student body on social space.
Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds called social space one of her top priorities last summer, and one of the College’s assistant deans of student life is leading an exploratory committee investigating the status of freshman social spaces.
The study also showed that pre-orientation programs, which provide activities for freshmen before they arrive at the College, received highly favorable reviews among freshmen.
Fifty-one percent of students surveyed said that they had participated in a pre-orientation program. Of those students, 69 percent reported feeling nervous about entering the College prior to their program. Only 34 percent said the same afterwards.
According to the results of the survey, 93 percent of freshmen that participated in a program said that the experience helped them feel a part of the Harvard community. Almost three-quarters said that the friendships they developed during pre-orientation were still an essential part of their Harvard experience.
Dingman said that the survey reaffirmed the FDO’s belief that the programs help students feel more at home at Harvard.
“We’re open to the possibility of either adding more slots or possibly considering another program,” Dingman said.
—Monika L.S. Robbins contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ellen C. O’Leary ’14 had just learned the name of her future roommate and was feeling excited for her first year in college at Washington University in Saint Louis.
But on an otherwise ordinary day last June, O’Leary received a phone call informing her that she had just been accepted to Harvard College’s class of 2014.
“I was home alone, and I jumped around in my house by myself,” she recalls.
In the coming days, approximately 2,200 high school seniors will receive a highly coveted large envelope, notifying them of their acceptance to Harvard College. Many thousands more will receive a dreaded rejection letter, crushing what was perhaps a lifelong dream.
However, an undisclosed number of applicants will stay in limbo on the waitlist. Those who choose to remain under consideration may not receive any final word from Harvard until July 1.
Being waitlisted is typically less upsetting than outright rejection for students. But critics say the waitlist process is opaque and uncertain.
THE NUMBERS
The main consideration in placing a student on the waitlist is whether he or she has a realistic chance of gaining admission in later stages of the process, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67. This determination is usually a consensus reached by the committee and does not require a vote, he says.
“If there were no chance you were going to take a person off the waitlist, it would be a disservice to the applicant,” says Fitzsimmons.
While Harvard does not release statistics on the number of students that it waitlists every year, the numbers at peer institutions are often close to or greater than the size of the entire class. This year, Yale and Princeton—both with an average class size of approximately 1,300—waitlisted 996 and 1,248 students, respectively.
In the last four years, between 49 and 228 students have been accepted to the College off the waitlist—numbers comparable to those at peer institutions. Only once in the last decade have no students been admitted to Harvard from the waitlist.
This year, as in years past, Fitzsimmons says his office aims to accept between 50 and 125 additional students into the class of 2015.
College counselors offer a variety of explanations for the large number of students on the waitlist.
According to Michael Goran, director and educational consultant at California college counseling firm IvySelect, the large waitlist is all about “coverage.”
“[They need the long list] to be able to go back and have a body of students that they find interesting and appealing,” he says. “In some cases they’re reevaluating those students all over again.”
Independent Conn. college counselor Gay S. Pepper attributed the large waitlist to the admissions office’s need to have students on the list with interests similar to those of their accepted counterparts, in case those students choose not to attend.
“The role of the admissions office is to bring a class that represents the goals of the college in terms of the kind of student body they want,” Pepper says.
Admissions offices are also unable to predict how many students will actually choose to remain on the waitlist.
According to Fitzsimmons, approximately a third of those who are offered a place on the waitlist take themselves off.
SITTING AND WAITING
While most students see May 1 as the end of the stressful college admissions process, students who decide to remain on the waitlist still have work to do.
Waitlisted students are expected to send in a letter reiterating their interest in the college and sharing any new developments since the submission of their applications in the fall.
“It’s very important that they reflect that its their first choice and [that] if admitted, they will attend,” Goran says, noting that at this stage colleges do not want to risk accepting someone who will not attend.
According to Fitzsimmons, the information a student sends in is often a definitive factor in an admissions waitlist decision.
“Sometimes the [application] you’re looking at in May or June is infinitely better than it was earlier,” he says.
After submitting new information, students are left to wait for an indefinite period of time, though Fitzsimmons says that Harvard aims to make its decisions by July 1.
Although the acceptance rate for waitlisted students is generally low, students who choose to remain on the list typically accept the offers if they receive them, Goran says.
“It’s not that often that students make it off the waitlist,” he says. “But it does happen.”
Still, many students who are waitlisted choose to end the stress of the process rather than hold out hope for a later admission.
“Unless it’s the school of their dreams, often students will let go and say, ‘[I] don’t want to be in limbo. I’m happy with the schools [I’ve] gotten into,’” Goran says.
A COURTESY?
While Harvard insists that the waitlist is a legitimate way to tell students that they will be reconsidered if space in the class becomes available, some with knowledge of the admissions process allege that being waitlisted can serve other purposes.
Some critics allege that highly selective institutions have a “courtesy waitlist” that serves to placate families with close financial ties to the school who would be angry if their child were rejected.
“You would rather let them down gently,” says Goran. “That’s certainly one way to do it rather than offer an outright rejection.”
Fitzsimmons denies that Harvard employs a courtesy waitlist, dismissing the logic behind such a list.
“An unrealistic waitlist decision could actually harm relations between the [high] school and Harvard and the family and Harvard,” he says.
Fitzsimmons does, however, acknowledge that admissions officers sometimes grow attached to applicants and support waitlisting them, rather than rejecting them outright. But, he stresses that applications with unrealistic chances of admission are never waitlisted.
“It’s hard to send a rejection letter to a lot of people who apply to us,” he says. “Sometimes it’s very hard for [admissions officers] to let go.”
Independent college counselor Amy Sack says that some colleges will waitlist the children of legacies and influential donors in order to accept them later on without giving off the appearance that the school accepted a student who is clearly unqualified.
Despite the criticism, admissions counselors also acknowledge other practical purposes to waitlisting certain students.
“I know that admissions officers [can] get extremely nasty calls,” Sack says. “Students feel better if they make it to [the waitlist].”
Fitzsimmons acknowledges the public perception that the waitlist is unlikely to actually result in admission.
“A lot of the public views it as a fruitless exercise,” he says. “But you have to stay on the waitlist in order to get off it.”
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be contacted at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A conference to promote religious social activism slated to kick off at the Harvard Extension School tomorrow includes a set of panelists and speakers that have generated controversy due to the homophobic and anti-Islamic remarks that they have made in the past.
Conference organizers, who declined repeated requests for an interview over the past week, say that the speakers have assured them that they will not make hateful statements.
At least two groups—Join the Impact Massachusetts and Truth Wins Out, which both advocate for gay rights—plan to protest the conference.
According to the conference website, the conference will seek to catalyze a religious re-awakening at Harvard and the greater Boston area.
The conference consists of five sessions with topics ranging from identifying ways to initiate a “social transformation” to helping attendees “test God’s reality.”
The conference features ten panelists—including business leaders, consultants, and motivational speakers—who advocate for faith in business. According to the conference website, the speakers will discuss “how faith-based social transformation efforts can improve and better our society, communities and institutions.”
According to a press release from the Harvard Extension Service & Leadership Society, the organization behind the event, the conference will focus on “social transformation, social entrepreneurship, socially responsible business, faith in the workplace, and about clarifying our mission and purpose in life.”
Gay rights groups have seized on statements made in a YouTube video by conference panelist Laurence Wallnau that decry social conditions in the U.S. that allow for homosexual relationships, abortion, and individuals who practice Islam.
“So you’ve got your homosexual activity, your abortion activity here, Islam coming in, you’ve got a financial collapse—all of this, to those of us who are Christians, is an apocalyptic confirmation that when you remove God from public discourse, when you don’t line up your thinking with kingdom principles, you inevitably hit an iceberg like the Titanic and you go down,” Wallnau said in the video.
Wallnau is an advocate of the “Seven Mountains” movement, founded by fellow conference panelist Os Hillman. According to the group’s website, the movement advocates for Christians to reclaim the “seven mountains of culture”—arts and entertainment, business, education, family, government, media, and religion.
“This is a divisive conference that demonizes and dehumanizes entire groups of people,” Wayne Besen, the founder of Truth Wins Out, said on the organization’s website. “It promotes religion-based bigotry in the guise of improving society.”
HESLS released a statement late last night that called for dialogue between organizers and their critics.
“Harvard’s avowed traditions allow for the fullest expression of vital, vibrant, spiritual, and intellectual voice on its campus, delivered powerfully, justly, with compassion and egalitarianism,” organizers said in the statement.
The press release also said that organizers planned to meet with members of the LGBTQ and Islamic communities on campus, though that could not be independently verified late last night.
But organizers also said in an earlier statement that the conference will avoid more controversial issues.
“We have been assured by our speakers that they have not supported any hatred directed towards any group and that allegations to the contrary are untrue and/or misinterpreted,” a press release from the HESLS stated.
In another press release, the Harvard Extension Students Association, an umbrella group that is not associated with the conference, distanced itself from the conference.
“[HESA] does not endorse the views of any particular club and does not have final authority to approve or restrict student club events,” the organization wrote in a press release.
“We have been assured by the student organizers that this conference is not intended to foster enmity toward any group,” the statement continued.
—Staff writer Benjamin M. Scuderi can be reached at bscuderi@college.harvard.edu
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa society will induct its newest members this month when 24 members of the Class of 2012 join the academic honor society, one of the nation’s oldest.
Elections, conducted by a selection committee under the leadership of History professor Ann M. Blair ’84, wrapped up last week, and the selected students, known as the “Junior 24,” will be inducted at a formal ceremony in Leverett House on April 25.
Representing a wide range of Houses and concentrations, the students were selected based on their grade point averages and recommendations from the various departments. They received an email notification Thursday morning.
“It’s a really nice thing to wake up to,” said Annabel C. Beichman ’12, an Organismic and Evolutionary Biology concentrator in Mather House.
Members of the Class of 2012 who were not selected still have two opportunities to be elected to the society, which will select the Senior 48 in November and another group of around 96 the following May.
“It’s a tremendous honor,” said Alex W. Palmer ’12, a Social Studies concentrator in Quincy House. “And then you realize that there are many people who deserve this, so it’s really humbling as well.”
Fellow Social Studies concentrator Abigail R. Modaff ’12, who is studying abroad in England, received the news while on vacation with her parents in Spain.
“I’m from a middle-class family whose parents met as actors and I went to an inner-city public school,” she said. “My parents were just as surprised as I was that I could go to a place like Harvard and do things like get into PBK.”
New inductees interviewed for this article unanimously praised the various departments for the guidance they’ve received.
“The tutors and administrators are great and very supportive,” Palmer said.
Michael J. Lim ’12, an economics concentrator in Mather House, concurred.
“I’ve received a lot of mentorship and guidance,” he said. “There’s no denying the fact that the Economics department bears the unfortunate reputation of having huge lecture classes, but I’ve found that if students make a genuine effort to get to know their professors and instructors, even in impersonal settings, Harvard professors and TFs respond positively to such initiative.”
Aside from personal effort and departmental support, inductees cited a wide range of factors that contributed to their academic successes.
“I was particularly motivated by watching Simon Gawlik row on the ergometer,” said Michael K. Velchik ’12, a joint concentrator in Philosophy and Classics, referring to a rower who graduated in 2009. “If he could pull that hard on the water, there was no reason I couldn’t do so in the classroom.”
The 24 students inducted into the society yesterday are Aditya Balasubramanian, Annabel C. Beichman, Eva K. Belmont, Peter M. Bozzo, Jane J. Choi, Francis Deng, Danielle N. Drees, Nathaniel E. Hipsman, George X. Huang, Michael J. Lim, Philip Mocz, Abigail R. Modaff, Robert H. Newell, Alex W. Palmer, Antonia M. R. Peacocke, Riva J. Riley, Tyler B. Runge, Madeleine M. Schwartz, Marieke A. Thomas, Matthew G. Tung, Spencer S. Vegosen, Michael K. Velchik, Jennifer A. Xia, and Victor W. K. Yang.
—Staff writer Michelle B. Nguyen can be reached at ngoc.nguyen@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard baseball team (3-16) played its first home game of the season yesterday against Holy Cross (12-10-1). And although O’Donnell Field is the Crimson’s “home sweet home,” the squad suffered a bitter 11-6 loss at the hands of the Crusaders.
Holy Cross wasted no time in the midweek matchup and surged to a lead in the first inning of yesterday’s contest. Harvard’s starting pitcher, freshman right-hander Baron Davis, struck out the Crusaders’ leadoff hitter, sophomore Alex Maldonado, but gave up a single to senior Jack Laurendeau before senior Nick Ciardiello stepped up to the plate. Ciardiello homered off of Davis to center field to quickly put the Crusaders on top,  2-0.
“That kid just crushed that ball in the first inning,” Harvard coach Joe Walsh said. “That was one of the hardest hit balls at O’Donnell Field that I’ve seen in my lifetime.”
But the Crimson rebounded quickly in the bottom of the opening frame. Senior outfielders Dillon O’Neill and Sam Franklin reached base with a single and ground-rule double. Their classmate, shortstop Sean O’Hara, drove in the pair of runs with a single to centerfield and was later driven in by junior Marcus Way. After the first inning, Harvard was up by a run in a game that looked like it might turn into a slugfest.
“[Today’s game] started off like two teams that looked like they were going to swing the bat all day,” Walsh said. “We had three runs in the first inning. It was a great feeling in the dugout.”
After a second inning, in which both teams picked up an unearned run, freshman right-hander Sam Dodge took the mound for the Crimson and pitched a scoreless third inning. His teammates came out in the bottom of the inning and continued their solid offensive play. With two outs, Way and sophomore Danny Moskovits got on base and were brought home by a base-clearing double from freshman Jeff Hajdin.
With Harvard ahead, 6-3, Holy Cross sent sophomore Andrew Boyce to the mound. The 6-foot-2 right-hander stifled the once-hot Crimson offense as he pitched more than four scoreless innings and only surrendered two hits.
“[Boyce] just hung up goose eggs on us,” Walsh said.
The Crusaders’ hitting was sparked in the fourth inning, as the team loaded the bases with just one out against the Crimson’s sophomore pitcher Matt Doyle. Freshman Peter Kaplan was sent in to relieve Doyle, but was unable to prevent Holy Cross’ Laurendeau from driving in three runs to level the score at six apiece. After Laurendeau came Ciardiello, whose single drove in the runner and put the Crusaders on top.
“We battled in the beginning,” said Harvard junior catcher Jon Smart. “But when they keep putting up runs like that, we need to be able to respond. Unfortunately, we weren’t able to do that today.”
The scoring for the game ended in the fifth inning, but not before Holy Cross pulled off another rally. Triggered by a triple from freshman Mike Ahmed, the Crusaders dialed up four runs in the fifth inning off of the Crimson’s pitching staff.
“We have to minimize those big innings,” Walsh said. “They had eight runs in two innings there in the middle, and that was the crushing blow to us.”
But not everything went Holy Cross’ way in the seventh inning of the contest, when the Crusaders’ junior catcher Steve Tkowski and sophomore first baseman Josh Olson collided while attempting to field an O’Hara pop fly. While Olson was able to remain in the game, Tkowski needed assistance getting off of the field after the collision.
But despite the injury scare, Holy Cross held firm possession of the lead, and Harvard was forced to adjust, making frequent changes on the mound.
Walsh wanted to give some of his younger pitchers a chance to gain game experience in the non-conference matchup, and he certainly took advantage of the opportunity, with ten Crimson hurlers making appearances during the game.
“We were trying to get guys some work, as well as win the ball game,” Walsh said. “When you do that, you chance it a little bit. Some guys came in and they struggled throwing strikes.”
Walsh added that the inconsistency within the pitching staff has been an issue for the squad so far this season.
“Each time this year that we get ourselves into trouble it’s been based on walks,” he said. “When you’re walking lead-off guys, those guys are going to come in and score.”
Despite the loss, Smart liked what he saw from his rookie teammates.
“Considering that they haven’t had very much time on the mound this season, I thought they really came into battle,” Smart said. “They came out and went right after it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With springtime approaching, some might think to forego dining hall delicacies to fit the fashions of sunny skies and summer days. Luckily enough for members of both Harvard golf teams, their daily diet of tees and greens has kept them in top shape for the season, setting both squads up for a successful campaign.
“This team actually did more work indoors than any season prior,” women’s coach Kevin Rhoads said. “Golf is a sport that definitely requires a high number of repetitions, and this year’s training has been encouraging.”
This time last year, the Crimson was up to its winning ways: the women kicked off their spring with two wins over Lynn and Central Florida, and the men with a crushing 6-1 victory over Cornell.
But, with what seemed to be the coldest and longest winter in recent memory, the climate has limited much of the team’s training, keeping them indoors, and putting them at a disadvantage against schools with more moderate weather.
“The challenge that we have every year with our particular climate is matching up to all the other schools that play outside longer than we do, and beating them at their game,” Rhoads said.
But, with only half of last year’s men’s roster returning, and an underclassman majority in the women’s team, replicating that success looks to be no walk in the park for hopeful Harvard.
The Crimson went winless in 11 combined fall competitions combined, but both squads finished up the fall with runner-up finishes in their final outings. Still, both coaches and squads remain far from giving up.
“We’re very optimistic going into it,” junior Mark Pollak said. “It’s going to be a shootout since the Ivy League has gotten a lot more competitive, but I feel that we have a very good chance still.”
For the men’s team, which consists of four freshmen, one sophomore, and three juniors, the void in senior leadership has caused many of the younger golfers to step up.
Freshman Theo Lederhausen was Harvard’s most consistent competitor in the fall, constantly leading the team or coming a close second in each of his outings. Fellow rookie Seiji Liu, listed by Golfweek Magazine as one of the 20 Freshmen to Watch this season, has been similarly impressive, going undefeated against Yale and Princeton and leading the team at the Big Five Invitational.
With a preseason under their belt now, the younger players on the team look prepared to step up.
“We have a completely new dynamic,” Pollak said. “They bring in a lot of new ideas, practice techniques, and outlooks that have really done a lot for the team.”
On the women’s side, the Crimson hopes to atone for a slow start to its spring campaign. Having lost to Rollins College by eight strokes, and No. 4 UC-Berkeley by 16, the squad is looking to improve its record sooner rather than later.
“It’s the first season that we’ve struggled in for the last five or six years,” Rhoads said. “It’s a much different situation than we’re used to, but it’s good for our team. I definitely have faith that they can get it together.”
This season has not been without its standouts. Living up to her accolade as one of Golfweek Magazine’s 20 Freshmen to Watch this season, freshman Bonnie Hu’s one under par performance against the Golden Bears tied for the individual medal. Also, junior Jane Lee’s 75 strokes in the match against the Tars was only five short of the medal. Freshman Julie MacDonnell and junior Christine Cho were only two strokes behind her, tying for third.
With this kind of depth, Harvard could very well come back from its disappointing start.
But, in the shadow of last year’s results, and with much different rosters this time around, the test of these Crimson teams will undoubtedly be their ability to measure up to their past, something which neither program has failed to ignore.
“Oddly enough, our scoring averages this past fall were about the same as last year when we were ranked No. 45 nationally, the highest ranking of any Ivy League team ever.” Rhoads said. “But, anybody could win the Ivy League this year; we’ll just have to find out if we’re up to it or if we need to work harder next year.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Along the road that led it to the most successful season in program history, the Harvard men’s basketball team learned a lot about triumph this year.
Next season, the Crimson will be joined by a pair of recruits who have recently done enough winning to make even Charlie Sheen proud.
The incoming freshman class of 2015 is highlighted by a pair of Californians: Wesley Saunders, a 6-foot-6 forward from Los Angeles, and Kenyatta Smith, a 6-foot-8 center from Brea.
Saunders, who turned down offers from USC, San Diego State, and Colorado to come to Harvard, was deemed a four-star prospect and the 80th-best overall recruit in the country by Rivals.com.
After averaging a double-double of 20 points and 10 rebounds per game during the regular season, the high school senior went out on a high note last Saturday, leading his Windward School to a Division IV state basketball championship.
Saunders paced his team with 15 points and nine boards in Windward’s 63-57 upset win over Salesian in the title game. It was the second career state championship for Saunders, who scored 21 points in Windward’s victory in the state’s Division V final as a sophomore.
“Two years ago, Wesley was unstoppable, last season he carried us, and this year he has just blossomed,” Windward coach Miguel Villegas said in his post-game press conference. “Harvard will be very happy to have him next year.”
The championship came shortly after Saunders was deemed the co-Most Valuable Player for his division. This week, Saunders earned an even more prestigious honor, when he was named a third-team All-American by Parade Magazine.
“Wesley is amazing,” Villegas recently told ESPN. “He leads us in every offensive category, every defensive category too. I’m not sure how many players can say they do as much for their team as he does for us.”
“I just want people to remember me by playing hard every time on the court,” Saunders said after the title game. “I try to lead by example.”
His success has been matched by Smith, ranked the No. 18 center in the country by Scout.com. The big man turned down offers from BCS schools Vanderbilt and Northwestern to play for Tommy Amaker.
Like Saunders, Smith ended his senior season on top, leading Flintridge Prep to a 47-44 victory over Muir to win his high school’s first CIF Championship in program history.
The center finished with 15 points, 17 rebounds, and six blocks in a back-and-forth title game.
“We just made history,” Smith said after the contest. “I still can’t believe it, but I’m so happy right now.”
Smith had dominated the tournament up to that point, averaging 20 points per game and shooting 57.4 percent from the field.
This week, Smith gained an elite individual honor of his own, when he was one of seven California players to be selected as John R. Wooden High School Player of the Year.
“I was shocked when I heard,” Smith told the Pasdadena Star News. “I felt really humbled and really blessed. It definitely feels surreal, just realizing the hard work paid off.”
After averaging 19.8 points and 14.8 rebounds per game during the regular season, Smith will be presented with the award—which honors the most outstanding player from each of the six California Interscholastic Federation Southern Section Districts—on April 8. Saunders won the award for Division V in 2010.
“[Smith] is an incredible talent on the court, but he’s also a terrific young man of character and kindness,” Flintridge Prep headmaster Peter Bachmann said in a press release. “We couldn’t be prouder of him.”
Previous recipients of the honor include NBA players Tyson Chandler, Tayshaun Prince, Baron Davis, and Andre Miller.
“It’s actually pretty amazing," Smith told La Canada Flintridge Patch. "Those are some pretty widely known names.”
With state championships and individual honors now in their pasts, Saunders and Smith will join an incoming recruiting class considered to be the most heralded in the Ivy League.
The pair will be accompanied by guard Corbin Miller of Utah and forwards Jonah Travis of Minnesota, Steve Moundou-Missi of Florida, and Max Hooper of New Hampshire.
Though Saunders and Smith are taking in the moment as their high school careers wind down, both are planning on continuing their winning ways when they arrive in college.
“At Harvard, I think I’m going to have the best of both worlds, academically and athletically,” Saunders told ESPN. “It’s the perfect combination for me and I feel like I’m prepared for the next challenge.”
“[Harvard hasn’t] had a lot of history of winning, but that’s what I want to be a part of,” Smith said at the time of his commitment. “I want to start a history of winning, a tradition...It’s coming soon, and I want to be a part of it.”
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What’s more impressive than helping lead the Harvard men’s basketball program to a share of its first-ever Ivy League title?
Doing it with a broken foot—just ask sophomore forward Kyle Casey.
Casey, who missed the early portion of the 2010-11 season after breaking his foot in the preseason, in fact broke the same bone in his right foot again early in the Ivy League season.
While sitting out the remainder of the season was an option, Casey continued to play with the injury.
“It was either sit out for the rest of the season and let the thing heal, or play through the pain and the discomfort and tough it out and take care of it at the end of the season,” Casey said. “I definitely wanted to be on the court with my teammates, and I think my teammates wanted me on the court, so I just tried to man up and play through this injury and do the best I [could].”
Casey underwent surgery yesterday morning at New England Baptist Hospital to have a screw inserted in his right foot that will provide added support to the bone.
“Everything went well,” said Casey as he recovered at University Health Services this afternoon. “Right now I’m on the road to recovery, and I’m just going to rehab really hard until I get back around in mid-summer, get in shape, and get ready for next season.”
Despite the injury, which Casey estimated kept him at 80 percent strength throughout the majority of conference schedule, the 2009-10 Ivy League Rookie of the Year averaged 10.7 points and 6 rebounds per game during his sophomore campaign.
“It really tested my mental strength,” Casey said. “It definitely limited me physically, I think. It was a little more difficult for me to be as explosive as I wanted to.”
“It’s something that I think in the future will just make me a stronger and better person and player,” the forward added. “But going through it was not an easy task.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Admissions officers and student employees in the admissions office form a line to pass along admissions letters to the waiting postal truck. The office sent the big envelope to 2,158 lucky students with the remainder of the nearly 35,000 applicants receiving rejection or waitlist decisions. After sending the letters, admissions officers returned to their office to celebrate with cake and champagne.
Sections
Want to win a 42-inch flat-screen TV? All you need to do is support Harvard teams at home games this spring.
The marketing department of Harvard Athletics created this promotion in order to encourage Harvard undergraduates to attend more spring sports events. Students can enter the raffle for the TV at all six remaining lacrosse games, one baseball game, and one softball game this season.
 
"We purchased the TV with the intent to give it away to students," Marketing Manager Taylor Shea said. "The marketing department was trying to figure out a plan of how to give away the TV pretty much all year."
 
To enter the raffle, students just need to flash their Harvard ID at the Harvard Athletics tent. The more games you attend, the greater your chance of winning is. 
 
"Students will hopefully come out and enjoy the games," Shea said. "The weather starts to get nicer, and we've had some good leverage with getting students outside to enjoy the spring atmosphere."
 
The contest will culminate on April 30 at the men's lacrosse game against Yale. Three lucky students will be notified prior to the game that their names have been drawn from the raffle entrants. At halftime, the chosen students will come to the field. Each will choose one box to unwrap, and one of the packages will contain the grand prize: a Panasonic plasma HDTV.  The other two contestants will receive consolation prizes. 
 
"We want to give the TV away in front of a lot of students, and we want students to participate and come to games so the winner deserves it," Shea said. "It's a really great prize."
Sections
Oh, the irony. Tomorrow, the Drug & Alcohol Peer Advisors (DAPAs) and Office of Alcohol & Other Drug Services (AODS) will give out Camelbak water bottles—some of which will inevitably be used to smuggle alcohol into the Harvard-Yale football game next year.
 
The event runs from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on the fourth floor of the MAC. In exchange for the free water bottles, students must fill out a short survey and sit through a brief interview with a health professional.
 
Every year for the past three years, more students have showed up for the water bottles. Last year, 1200-1300 students braved the pouring rain to get the free gear. "We would love to see 1400 students this year," said Jane E. Alexander '12, the president of DAPA. 
 
"DAPA is all about responsible use," Alexander said. She added that she hopes the event will cause students to reflect on their alcohol use. "Even if they only reflect for five minutes, that is five minutes more than any other Friday."
 
As part of National Alcohol Screening Day, the bottle giveaway aims to get a sense of alcohol use at Harvard. The survey will be completely anonymous, but it may provide data for AODS. 
 
NASD actually occurs on April 7, according to the Screening for Mental Health website. But just as the rest of the world has its majors while Harvard clings to concentrations, we have to do these things our own way.
Sections
Poetry month is in April
So it is time to get playful
Eliot celebrates in style
Let's all be jealous for a while
Spot daily verse on E-Open
Only the best will be chosen
Send ideas by gmail.com
We are sure they will be the bomb
They'll be on napkin dispensers
For all of the HUHDS inspectors
"Eliot Reads" will precede Fete
Bring a friend, recite a duet
Deans and many tutors agreed
All the Eliot stars will read
Poetry will be awesome
And better than this blog poem
