Sections
This year 10 teams fought for culinary glory during a heated Guac Off hosted by The Harvard College Culinary Society, a student group that plans events for Harvard foodies.
"There aren't a lot of places where people can cook on campus," said Rebecca A. Ruskin '13, the Society’s current president. "We wanted to give students a chance to have fun and get an experience outside of the lecture hall."
The Culinary Society provided each team with three avocados, one red onion, one lime, one tomato, one jalepeño, and 15 minutes to prepare their guacamole. Teams were also allowed to bring their own "secret" ingredients, and everything from cilantro to "special sauce" showed up at the competition. As the teams furiously squashed and mixed, other students milled around enjoying free Boloco burritos and salsa while waiting to taste test their peers' creations.
At the end of the competition, the Culinary Society board tasted all of the teams' guacamole and picked the winning team. In the end, Cara S. Guenther '13 and her team were victorious, claiming the Guac Off title and coupons for free Boloco.
Sections
Ever had dreams of competing in a culinary competition? Or do you just have a knack for cooking and want to show off your skills? Starting Monday, HUHDS will be hosting its annual Top Chef competition.
During the competition, each upperclassman House will hold a cook-off for the title of their Houses' top chef, and freshmen will compete in Annenberg for the freshman title. Contestants are allowed one partner and 30 minutes to make an entrée and a dessert using only food that can be found in the dining hall every day. After the first round of preliminary contests, winners from each House and Annenberg will gather in Annenberg on April 13 to compete in the final round. The prize remains "undisclosed" according to Jasmine M. Omeke '14, one of the Food Literacy Project reps for Annenberg.
Each group will be judged based on taste, creativity, sustainability (utilization of local food, environmentally friendly cooking methods, etc.), and presentation from 1 to 10, with 10 being the highest.
The judges will consist of chefs and housemasters from throughout the college's campus.  There will also be special guests including the former Dean of the College, Benedict H. Gross '71.
Students who wish to participate in the competition should contact their designated FLP rep.
"I really encourage people to participate. It's not a big time commitment," said Celia Y. Zhang '13, the Dunster House rep for FLP. "And who knows? Maybe you're the next Top Chef, maybe you'll find your hidden talent."
